06-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Four held with 12 kg heroin worth ₹48 crore||New Delhi: Delhi police on Friday said they seized 12 kilograms of heroin allegedly from four members of an interstate drug syndicate who were arrested in two back-to-back operations carried out on Thursday in west and north Delhi. Police said two of the arrested drug peddlers are from Manipur, while the others are from Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly and Delhi’s Rajapuri.“Their interrogation has once again highlighted the fact that the Golden Triangle -- Lhasa, Thailand and Myanmar -- is emerging as a major suppliers. This route is being used to pump heroin into northeastern states of India from Afghanistan. From there, the heroin is smuggled to Bareilly and further trafficked to Delhi-NCR,” said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav.DCP Yadav said that the special cell sleuths were working on interstate gangs that were using these routes to supply heroin to north India, especially Delhi-NCR. It was learnt that the key suppliers based in Manipur also collected raw materials from two sources – hilly areas along the international border of Manipur and Myanmar, and militancy-affected areas of Manipur such as Saikul and Thobal, where opium is illegally cultivated. Thereafter, the raw materials are processed into pure heroin and transported to Barielly, from where they are moved to other parts of the country, he said.“One such syndicate was led by Mohammad Abdul Razzak from Manipur. We identified some members of his syndicate and mounted surveillance on their activities,” said Yadav.Around 9am on Thursday, the DCP said the team arrested Razzak’s associate, Shahnawaz Hussain, from Manipur and his Delhi counterpart Sachin from Rajapuri, and allegedly recovered 10 kilograms of heroin from them. Their interrogation led to the arrest of Razzak and Mohammad Idrish, a resident of Bareilly, from near Kotwali, where they had come to deliver heroin to their contact. The two allegedly had one kilo of heroin each.“A total of 12 kilograms of heroin worth ₹48 crore in the international market were seized from the arrested men,” said DCP Yadav.Police said Razzak’s interrogation revealed that he had established links with drug suppliers in Myanmar, illegal producers of opium in Manipur and drug peddlers active in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. He allegedly received big consignments of crude heroin from Myanmar through porous borders, processed it into fine quality contraband and supplied them to drug peddlers in UP and Delhi. “Razzak used to travel to UP and Delhi via air to meet his clients. Thereafter, he sent the consignments of heroin from Manipur through carriers. His carriers travel in private cars, trucks and even in public transports like buses and trains. He used to receive money for the drugs through hawala channels,” added the DCP. Police said Hussain, who was a truck driver who allegedly used to carry the drugs, had made a secret cavity beneath the footrest of his truck to hide packets of heroin inside. Idrish and Sachin allegedly received the consignments from Razzak in UP and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhifour-held-with-12-kg-heroin-worth-48-crore-101628274540946.html
06-08-2021||Other||Delhi man, nephew held for bid to extort ₹5 lakh from Ludhiana doctor||An uncle-nephew duo has been arrested for trying to extort ₹5 lakh from a doctor by posing as a gangster.The accused have been identified as Inderpal Singh of New Delhi and Gurcharan, alias Monu, of Jagraon. They were arrested near a sugar mill where they arrived on a motorcycle to collect the money.Dr Amit Chakraborty had filed a complaint with the Jagraon City police after he received extortion calls on July 28 and August 5.In the first instance, the caller had claimed to be gangster Sukha Faridkotia and that he was calling from jail. Threatening Dr Chakraborty, he demanded ₹5 lakh in cash. Through the second call on August 5, the caller asked him hand over the cash at different spots to his aides.However, the doctor approached the police and a trap was laid to arrest the accused.ASI Pritam Masih, who is investigating the case, Inderpal was claiming to be the gangster and calling the doctor from his own number, and his accomplice, Gurcharan, was his nephew. Gurcharan knew the doctor and planned to extort money from him in connivance with his uncle.A case under Sections 384 (extortion) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-man-nephew-held-for-bid-to-extort-5-lakh-from-ludhiana-doctor-101628274540343.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||ICICI Bank robbery: Accused sent to judicial custody; was in debt, say Maharashtra cops||Anilkumar Rajdev Dubey, 36, the accused held for the murder of an assistant ICICI Bank branch manager and injuring a cashier in Virar (East) last month, has been remanded in judicial custody by the Vasai court on Friday.On July 29 around 8pm, after the bank was closed, Dubey – an ex-employee of the bank – allegedly committed a heist worth ₹3.38 crore. Due to the month end, bank manager Yogita Nishant Chowdhary and cashier Shraddha Devrukhkar were tallying the gold and cash reserves to be submitted to the bank’s head office. After the employees left, he went to Chowdhary’s cabin and threatened to put gold worth ₹3.38 crore in a backpack and tried to flee. But she and Devrukhkar resisted and shouted for help. Dubey panicked and whipped out a knife and allegedly stabbed the women. Chowdhary died after her neck was slit, said police.Hearing the commotion, some locals chased Dubey and handed him over to the police. Along with the bag containing the gold, the police also seized the car in which Dubey had come to the bank. Dubey was arrested under sections 397 (robbery and dacoity), 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder) on a complaint filed by ICICI Bank manager Nitin Ambre on July 30. Devrukhkar’s condition continues to remain critical and she is undergoing treatment in Lilavati Hospital, said senior inspector Suresh Warade of Virar police station. The police said Dubey was in a debt of over ₹1 crore and had taken home, personal and car loans. He had also lost around ₹30 lakh in share market and thus planned to commit the heist to clear the arrears, said the official. He is lodged in Thane jail. Dubey did not show any remorse over the murder and refused to meet his wife who stays in Nallasopara with his mother and two children, said the police.Dubey had joined ICICI Bank in 2019 and quit last August 2020 as the branch head. He joined Axis Bank at Naigaon as the branch head in August 2020. Axis bank sacked Dubey with immediate effect after his arrest.According the police, Dubey had also stolen ₹26.84 lakh from Axis Bank. The amount was found to be missing during an audit of cash reserve. A case has been registered for the theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/icici-bank-robbery-accused-sent-to-judicial-custody-was-in-debt-say-maharashtra-cops-101628274481525.html
06-08-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath says social media uncontrolled, being misused by opponents||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said the social media was being misused by opponents to create social tension, caste conflict and lawlessness in the country and the state.Alleging that negative propaganda was being spread against the BJP government on social media platforms by rivals, he said party workers should counter it effectively by highlighting the achievements of the central and state governments. Yogi Adityanath was speaking at a workshop of the BJP’s IT and social media cell at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in Lucknow.“After 2014, when Narendra Modi became Prime Minister, trivial issues are being hyped by opponents on social media platforms. When the central government goes before the people with its major achievement or announcements, it is deliberately targeted,” he said.“Efforts are made to vitiate the atmosphere of the country through the social media when people are to witness a major event launched by the BJP government. A conspiracy is hatched to divert the attention of the people from the main issues,” he said.Terming social media an uncontrolled system, Yogi said it has no “mai baap” (master).“If you are not alert or prepared, you will become the victim of media trial. One cannot disengage from the activities on the social media, it has made an impact on the youths and system. The issues raised on social media platforms are followed by the print and visual media,” he said.When the Monsoon session of Parliament was to commence, the Pegasus issue was raised by some media groups to disrupt the session, he said.“Those who raised the issue have no evidence, but it is being carried in print, visual and social media. The Monsoon session is important. It is being held when the country is fighting the Covid pandemic. Discussion should have been held on the Covid management by the government, internal and external security,” he added.Before the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the Rafale issue was raised on social media platforms, Yogi Adityanath said.“We countered it and the people rejected the rivals’ campaign on the social media,” the chief minister said.Observing that the party’s social media warriors had an important role to play in countering the opponents’ misinformation campaign, he said the BJP’s effort in bringing Kashmir into the national mainstream, ending terrorism and a peaceful solution to the Ram temple issue should be highlighted.“We should not delay or wait for the appropriate moment, but move into action mode immediately. The parties that have no organisation or presence in UP are trying to emerge as opinion makers by increasing their activities on the social media. We should not remain mute spectators,” he said.“If we do not counter the rivals’ campaign by highlighting the facts, they will try to take advantage of it as our weakness. When an incident happens in UP, the trial of the state government starts on the social media. People residing in Mumbai, Hyderabad, Delhi, Bengaluru as well as in the UAE, the UK and the USA start giving their opinion on the issue,” he said.He also said an analysis had revealed that 90% of the tweets were by people who had no connection with UP.They have no interest in the development of the state or welfare of people of UP, he said.Deputy chief ministers Dinesh Sharma and Keshav Prasad Maurya and BJP state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh also expressed their views on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-says-social-media-uncontrolled-being-misused-by-opponents-101628274241442.html
06-08-2021||Other||Punjab DGP on inauguration spree; says 80 new police stations to be functional by October||Jalandhar Punjab director general of police (DGP) said on Friday said 80 new police stations were being constructed across the state and were expected to be functional by October this year.The DGP laid the foundation stone of the police lines project at the Jethu Majara village of SBS Nagar district, and said, “We have invested almost ₹200 crore on the new police stations. I have today laid the foundation stone of the most prestigious and long-awaited project of the district police, almost 26 years after the formation of the district.” He added that the 10-acre facility will be built at a cost of ₹25 crore and will have state-of-the-art facilities. The DGP was accompanied by deputy commissioner Shena Aggarwal, district and sessions judge, Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa, inspector general of police, Ludhiana range, Naunihal Singh and SBS Nagar SSP Alka Meena. The top cop also launched two other major projects of Balachaur and SBS Nagar police stations. He also inaugurated the Mukandpur Police Station building, which is to be built on a four kanal plot at a cost of ₹1.64 crore. He appreciated SSP Meena for her efforts in completion on these projects, she also directed her to install CCTV cameras in the new police station.‘NEW TECHNOLOGIES POSE A DIFFERENT CHALLENGE TO POLICING’The DGP also visited Barnala, where he inaugurated a memorial of 27 policemen, who died during the fight against terrorism in the state. “Punjab is a border state and there are continuing attempts from Pakistan and other countries to promote violence and separatist activities. New technologies like drones are key challenges which make fencing useless on the border,” the DGP added. He also met families of those killed during terrorism and promised to look into all their concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-dgp-on-inauguration-spree-says-80-new-police-stations-to-be-functional-by-october-101628274060612.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: State mulls reopening schools from August 17||The government is mulling reopening schools in the state, even in urban areas, from August 17. The decision is expected to be taken in a meeting scheduled next week, said school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday. Nearly 5,947 schools in rural areas where Covid cases were not detected resumed offline classes for Class 8 to 12 from July 12. “From August 17, the state is considering allowing physical classes in urban areas. We are planning to permit offline classes for Class 8 to 12 students. In rural areas, students from Class 5 to 7 are also likely to be allowed to resume physical classes. We have called a meeting to discuss it next week,” Gaikwad said. “The decision has to be approved by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” she added. Physical classes in schools have been shut since March 2020 when Covid-19 pandemic hit the state. From August 2, the state granted fresh relaxations in the lockdown restrictions in 25 districts where growth and positivity rates are less than the state’s average. It has allowed all essential and non-essential shops to stay open till 10pm, while restaurants are allowed to operate at 50% seating capacity till 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-state-mulls-reopening-schools-from-august-17-101628273940409.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||UP couple wishing for sons kidnaps two brothers from Ludhiana, arrested||Two minor brothers who were kidnapped from the city on July 25 have been rescued from Uttar Pradesh with the arrest of a couple and their daughter.Police said Raja Ram, alias Raju, and his wife, Birja Devi, alias Sunita, kidnapped the children from Ludhiana as they did not have any son.Their daughter, Anjali, alias Punita, alias Puja, was also nabbed for the crime from their house in Bagot village in Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh.According to police, Raja revealed that he had two daughters and no son, so he decided to kidnap male children from the labour quarters in Ludhiana.“The couple and their daughter arrived in Ludhiana with the sole intention of kidnapping boys. Birja and Anjali targeted the family of Ram Bahadur of Bihari Colony, Focal Point, and befriended them,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP, Investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa.Anjali also started giving tuitions to Bahadur’s two sons, Ravi, 6, and Prince, 2.On July 25, Bahadur lodged a kidnapping case at Focal Point police station accusing the family of kidnapping his sons. The DCP said special teams were despatched to Uttar Pradesh and the accused were tracked down on Thursday. The boys were rescued and brought back to Ludhiana on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-couple-wishing-for-sons-kidnaps-two-brothers-from-ludhiana-arrested-101628273820445.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains for all: Aaditya Thackeray hints at relaxations in 2-3 days||As Bharatiya Janata Party leaders held rasta-roko and rail-bharo protests in various parts of Mumbai demanding that general public be allowed to use local train services, state minister Aaditya Thackeray hinted that the state could allow fully vaccinated people to use local trains soon. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in a meeting with representatives of hotel and restaurant owners’ associations, however, said there will be no immediate increase in business hours for eateries and the state would review the situation in areas where relaxations were provided earlier this week, and in districts where the situation is still serious before allowing more operational hours for eateries. The demand to open up local trains in Mumbai has been growing from all quarters, along with demand for more business hours for eateries/restaurants in Mumbai and other areas, additional operational hours to shops and establishments in districts where Covid activity is still high. The state government on August 2 announced relaxations in 25 districts, but kept 11 districts under level three curbs as the weekly positivity and growth rates were higher than the state’s overall averages. In Mumbai, the eateries are allowed to operate till 4pm.Maharashtra, meanwhile, reported 5,539 new Covid-19 infections in the past 24 hours. The state recorded under-6000 cases after a gap of four days. Maharashtra added 187 fresh fatalities, taking the toll to 133,717. The active cases in the state stood at 74,483. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 210,425 samples and had a positivity rate of 2.63%. Mumbai, meanwhile, added 307 fresh cases. The active cases in the city stood at 5,147. Mumbai reported eight deaths, pushing the death toll to 15,937.Reacting to opposition’s protests, Aaditya, who heads the environment and tourism departments, said they “should act responsibly” as the state has to apply caution and make decision as per the situation. “I think one should act in a responsible manner. In other countries where vaccination has been done [to a large extent], like in the US, UK, the cases are rising again. We are concerned about people’s lives. About [restarting] railways, we have been holding deliberations for past few weeks. In the next two-three days, you will know what relaxations can be given for double vaccinated population, not just on trains, but in other activities as well. We are carefully discussing these issues and you will know about it soon,” Aaditya said on Friday.Aaditya further said that the main aim of the state government was to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 infection in Maharashtra. “It is important that we apply caution and not come to a state where hospitals have to be filled up again. With this aim, we have to look at the situation and work... We have increased hospitals, medical facilities and oxygen supply as well but it should be our first responsibility that people don’t get the infection,” he said.People close to chief minister Thackeray said that he could address the state on Sunday to apprise people about government’s decision on further relaxations and to pacify the traders and small business owners. Senior state officials said the government is tilted toward allowing only people who have taken both the jabs as opening up trains for all in February brought in the second wave of Covid-19 infections in the state earlier than expected. The chief minister was wary of reopening local trains but after the Bombay High Court has asked the state to consider allowing fully vaccinated people, the decision-making is gaining pace, senior state officials said. “The recommendation that has gone from the two departments [health and relief and rehabilitation] is to allow only fully vaccinated persons. Trains currently carry about 700,000 passengers daily and we cannot allow everybody to travel as it would increase the risk. If one recalls, the second wave came earlier as trains were opened for all from February. Only double vaccinated people should be allowed. The availability of vaccines is much better now, unlike in June. This decision will give push to people to get vaccinated,” the senior official said requesting anonymity, he added that the CM will make a decision in a couple of days.Another senior official said the state government will hold discussions with railway officials on the move. “We are considering common cards identifying people as fully vaccinated, but the checking will have to done by the railways. As they carry out random checking of passengers for tickets and season passes, they can do it for this as well. There is no foolproof manner to check everybody unfortunately,” the second official said.Thackeray in a the meeting with hotel and restaurant associations said that they have to move ahead with caution as they state wants to keep the possible third wave of Covid infections as low as possible. Representatives from Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (Ahar), Hotel Owners’ Association, National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI) and others met Thackeray at Varsha bungalow, CM’s official residence to demand increase in timings for eateries.A statement from the chief minister’s office quoted Thackeray, “We want to restart everything as it was pre-Covid. Right now, we have provided some relaxation in curbs in the first phase. In that, we have given more relaxation to open areas or outdoor activities. We have to take cautious steps about indoor activities. There was a huge demand of oxygen supply in the second wave, the Centre has already said that the third wave could require more oxygen. We will review situation, including rate of infections and active cases, in areas where relaxations were given.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-for-all-aaditya-thackeray-hints-at-relaxations-in-2-3-days-101628273762039.html
06-08-2021||Ranchi||BJP amps up attack on Hemant Soren govt over employment policy||RANCHI: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday escalated its attacks on Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren government over its new employment policy, insisting that it will hurt the interests of Hindi speaking population and those belonging to the unreserved category in the state.The Hemant Soren cabinet on Thursday cleared decided to amend the eligibility criteria and syllabus for the recruitment examination conducted by the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commmission (JSSC) for subordinate staff in grade 3 and 4.The new policy, which replaces the two-stage JSSC examination with a single examination, mandates that candidates who do not belong to the notified reserved categories should have appeared in the Class 10 and 12 examinations from a school in Jharkhand to be eligible.The new examination pattern also requires candidates to clear a language paper from a list of 12 including tribal languages besides Bangla, Odiya and Urdu. Marks in the regional language paper will be counted to calculate a candidate’s marks; Hindi and English paper would be qualifying papers.Pratul Shahdeo of the BJP said the new policy discriminates against Hindi and people from the Hindi heartland and seeks to appease the minority community and his party will take all steps to block its implementation.“Earlier, subjects like Hindi, Sanskrit and Urdu were also in the list of main language papers. But the new policy has kept Urdu but dropped Hindi and Sanskrit. How is Urdu a regional language but Hindi is not? It smacks of appeasement. By the new policy, the government is discriminating against people living in certain regions of the state,” Shahdeo told reporters at the state unit’s headquarters in state capital Ranchi. “In districts like Palamu and Garhwa many people speak Bhojpuri. Similarly, majority of people in Godda and Sahebganj districts speak Angika. While these languages have not been listed in the regional language, Hindi could have been a common link. But residents of these districts will not be able to appear for these posts,” he added.The provision requiring candidates to have completed Class10 and 12 from the state, the BJP leader said it discriminates against general category students who are natives of Jharkhand. “There are many people whose children may have studied outside the state, but they are original inhabitants (of Jharkhand). Why discriminate against them,” Shahdeo added.Hemant Soren’s Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, however, denied the charges saying the new policy was in the interest of locals including the tribals, dalit, backward classes and the original inhabitants of the state. “There should be no confusion on this,” JMM principal general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya.“Till now there were too many loopholes in the employment policy, which were used by people to challenge it in court. On the language front, instead of appeasement we are assimilating all sections of the society. Urdu was in fact declared second state language by the previous BJP goverment. As far as regional languages are concerned, its importance lies in the fact that they act as a catalyst in governance as common people who interact with grade 3 and 4 category employees are able to express their problems in a better way in their mother tongue,” said Bhattacharya. Domicile has been a controversial issue in Jharkhand’s employment policy ever since the tribal-dominated state was carved out of Bihar in 2000. Bringing an end to the uncertainties over the issue, the previous BJP government led by Raghubar Das fixed 1985 as the base year to decide on the domicile of any resident.The issue continues to be a controversial one and became a major talking point in the 2019 assembly elections when the BJP lost power, with other political parties, especially the JMM and Congress taking a contrary stand and promising to change it.The employment policy notified by the Raghubar Das government also ran into legal trouble after the high court struck down the provision to reserve jobs in 11 scheduled districts to residents of the respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bjp-amps-up-attack-on-hemant-soren-govt-over-employment-policy-101628273760427.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana registers Covid death after 18 days, daily cases climb to 13||After recording no Covid-19 death for 18 straight days, Ludhiana lost a 60-year-old man to the virus on Friday.Also, 13 fresh cases cropped up in the past 24 hours, highest in the past 22 days. It was on July 15 last that 16 cases were recorded in the district, following which the daily count had remained 11 or lower.Over the past three weeks, the daily cases were in double digits only twice, 10 on July 20 and 11 on July 28. On the remaining days, the cases had even dropped to the all-time low of two thrice, on July 26, July 31 and August 3.With the increase in cases, the active cases also shot up to 61, a first in the past 12 days during which the number of infected patients had stayed below 60.The sudden uptick in Ludhiana’s cases comes amid the rising pandemic figures in neighbouring Himachal Pradesh, with no curbs on inter-state movement, and lowering regard for wearing masks and maintaining social distance in public.The latest fatality, a resident of Samrala Chowk, pushed the district’s toll to 2,094, while the caseload reached 87,334.With 85,179 patients getting cured so far, the district’s recovery rate stands at 97.53%.Appealing to residents to adhere to all safety norms, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said 8,296 samples were sent for testing on Friday.Meanwhile, 3,925 beneficiaries were inoculated at the Covid vaccination camps at government and private facilities on Friday. A total of 15,45,078 people have received the vaccine in Ludhiana since the drive was rolled out in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-registers-covid-death-after-18-days-daily-cases-climb-to-13-101628273400305.html
06-08-2021||Other||Bhola drug racket: HC seeks response from Punjab, Centre on plea for making probe reports public||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday sought response from the Centre and the Punjab government on a plea demanding that three crucial reports in Jagdish Bhola drug racket case be made public.One of the report is of the then head of Punjab’s special task force against drugs, HS Sidhu. Another report was prepared by the then assistant director, enforcement directorate, Niranjan Singh; the third report/opinion is that of a committee that the then additional chief secretary (home) headed. All are lying sealed before the high court since 2018.Advocate Navkiran Singh, who was an intervener in a 2013 petition in the Jagdish Bhola drug racket case, has filed the plea. In 2013, a suo motu petition was allowed into the alleged ₹6,000 crore drug racket case and the court is monitoring probe that various agencies are conducting.Jagdish Bhola, a former deputy superintendent of police (DSP) with the Punjab Police, is the alleged mastermind of this international racket and has been convicted in at least three FIRs by a trial court. The Bhola drugs racket case has not been taken up since March 20, 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.In its report, the STF had taken into account a note on the ED probe into the racket, especially on the involvement of some high-profile persons. Subsequently, the STF report was also shared with Niranjan Singh and Punjab government, following which they too had submitted their reports.The plea of Navkiran says that reports need to be opened and specific orders need to be passed as since 2018 no substantial order has been passed.“The matter relates to drug mafia operating in Punjab which has international tentacles and needs to be dealt on an urgent basis, since it affects the life of Punjabi youth,” the petition says.Another application filed by Navkiran pleads that a status report from Centre be sought on pending requests for extradition of 13 of the fugitives involved in drug mafia, hiding abroad. Details of these persons were forward by the Punjab Police to the Centre in 2018. Both governments have to respond by November 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhola-drug-racket-hc-seeks-response-from-punjab-centre-on-plea-for-making-probe-reports-public-101628273341598.html
06-08-2021||Other||Fighting stray bulls trample man to death in Raikot||A 45-year-old man was killed after he was attacked by two stray bulls fighting on a road near the Raikot bus stand on Thursday night. The victim, Mohan Lal, lived in Mohalla Maulviyan, Raikot, and owned a fruit shop near the Raikot bus stand. According to information, two stray bulls had locked horns in the middle of the road, affecting traffic flow. While onlookers stood at a safe distance from the raging bulls, Mohan Lal, who was going home after wrapping up work, tried to sneak past the animals. But the bulls charged at him and tossed him in the air. As he landed on the road, he was trampled under the animals’ hoofs.Onlookers drove the bulls away and rescued Mohan Lal. He was rushed to a hospital, but died during treatment.Shocked by the incident, locals blamed the Raikot municipal council for failing to rein in the stray animal menace on the roads.Regretting the incident, MC president Sudarshan Joshi said the civic body had already started the process to relocate the stray bovines and had sent some to cow shelters. Meanwhile, locals and the traders’ association sought compensation for the family of the victim, who was the lone breadwinner and is survived by a wife and two children.Inspector Ajaib Singh, station house officer (SHO), City Raikot police station, said they had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure after recording the family’s statement.Animals running amokJuly 23: A 12-year-old girl, Kritika, was attacked by stray cattle while riding a cycle outside her house in HE Colony near Ayyappa temple in Jamalpur. A Class 8 student, the child suffered severe injuries on her arms, legs, feet and backFebruary 25, 2020: A bull mauled a 45-year-old photographer to death in MacchiwaraSeptember 28, 2019: Two persons were left injured after a car rammed into a stray cattle near Jeevan Nagar Chowk in Focal PointAugust 18, 2019: A 60-year-old fruit vendor was killed in an attack by a stray bull in KhannaMarch 16, 2019: An elderly woman was seriously injured after a stray bull hit her two-wheeler in Sector 32April 16, 2018: A 40-year-old man died three days after he was hit by a stray bull in Gurugarh village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fighting-stray-bulls-trample-man-to-death-in-raikot-101628273161645.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Corruption probe: ED raids Anil Deshmukh-controlled college in Nagpur||In its pursuit to dig out evidence in an alleged corruption case against former Maharashtra home minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducted fresh raids on an engineering college known to be controlled by him on Friday. Deshmukh, who is now in Delhi, was not available for comments. His personal assistant Yogesh Kothekar confirmed that ED had seized some documents from the college on Friday afternoon. According to the available information, around noon, a team of four ED officers and about 20 armed Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel reached the Nagpur Institute of Technology, Fetri, which is about 15km from Nagpur. The college is run by Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, which is headed by Deshmukh. His wife Aarti is the organisation’s vice-president, while his eldest son and zilla parishad member Salil is its secretary. Deshmukh’s youngest son Hrishikesh is the organisation’s executive committee member. The entire college premise was cordoned by CRPF jawans, and ED officers seized several documents and questioned the institute’s employees. The team left the spot with the seized documents around 3.30pm. People aware of the developments said that no member from the Deshmukh family or his close relatives were present in the college during the ED raid.This is the third ED raid on Deshmukh’s property in Nagpur. Last month, ED had raided Deshmukh’s ancestral houses at Wadvihira and Katol in Nagpur district in connection with the alleged ₹100-crore extortion case. ED also raided his Nagpur residence at Civil Lines in June. Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh had alleged that as the Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh had asked suspended police officer Sachin Vaze – arrested in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder case – and other cops to extort ₹100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Following the allegations, the Bombay high court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary inquiry. The agency registered a first information report (FIR) against Deshmukh in April, after which he stepped down as the minister “on moral grounds”. The ED, which was also invited to join the probe, arrested Deshmukh’s personal assistant Kundan Shinde and personal secretary Sanjeev Palande in June. Shinde is also one of the trustees of Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, along with other members of the Deshmukh family. The trust runs engineering, MBA and polytechnic colleges at Fetri. Upon scrutinising the trust’s bank statements, ED said there are a number of cheque entries in the recent past amounting to approximately ₹4.18 crore, which was received from various Delhi-based companies. It is found that they are paper (bogus) companies and only work for providing transfer entries. ED has stated that it is apparent that Deshmukh, by virtue of his earlier position as Maharashtra home minister, received amounts to the tune of approximately ₹4.70 crore from owners and managers of bars for their “smooth functioning” and the bribe money was apparently used by him through his son Hrishikesh for providing cash to Delhi-based paper companies. After layering the money, it was routed to the trust in the form of donations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/corruption-probe-ed-raids-anil-deshmukh-controlled-college-in-nagpur-101628272201805.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BJP protests at train stations, seeks local trains for all||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held protests at various railway stations and key junctions in Mumbai and Thane on Friday, demanding permission for the general public to commute in local trains. Party leaders staged rasta rook and travelled by train without ticket as part of the protest. A few leaders were fined by the railway authorities while police detained party workers and leaders from blocking roads.Led by state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil, party leaders held protests at Churchagate, Andheri, Sion, Kandivli and Thane. Leader of Opposition Pravin Darekar, who travelled from Churchgate to Charni Road without ticket along with party workers, was fined for travelling without valid permission and ticket. Party legislators Atul Bhatkhalkar, Rahul Narvekar and others were detained by police at Churchagate, Kandivli and others places.“The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has been adamant over giving permission to the general public, who have been facing hardships, to travel by local trains. They have not been able to attend office as travelling in buses and taxis is inconvenient and financially unviable,” Patil said. Party leader Prasad Lad said, “Many citizens in Mumbai have been spending up to ₹15,000 a month for travelling in taxis in the absence of local trains. We will intensify the protest if government does not open locals for all immediately.”In Thane, party workers started protest at the railway platform and moved to trains despite heavy police bandobast. “It takes almost four hours for those staying in Badlapur-Kasara and Vasai-Virar areas to reach Mumbai. They are suffering a lot and have to bear the financial burden of traveling by road to their work places daily. Not everyone can work from home. Instead of understanding these situations, the government has tried all means to stop us from protesting,” said Niranjan Davkhare, MLC from Thane.“Protestors had gathered outside the railways station. Police had formed a human chain for security, but as soon as the train arrived on platform number 1, protesters barged in. While some tried to get into the train, others were stopped,” said a government railway police (GRP) officer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bjp-protests-at-train-stations-seeks-local-trains-for-all-101628272081266.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Sonia Gandhi, Rahul to address rally at Mumbai’s Shivaji Park on Dec 28: Congress||Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former chief Rahul Gandhi will attend the party rally at Shivaji Park in Dadar on December 28, ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls in 2022, party’s Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil said on Friday. The rally has been organised on account of Congress’s 137th foundation day.The Congress held a meeting of its screening committee – appointed for the BMC election that is likely to be held in February next year – at Tilak Bhavan in Dadar. The meeting was attended by senior party leaders, including Nana Patole, Balasaheb Thorat and Ashok Chavan, among others.After the meeting, Patil said that the rally at Shivaji Park will be attended by both the leaders and it will be a massive gathering of workers. Patil said that the party has geared up for BMC election and they discussed the party’s strategy for the forthcoming elections.“We, however, have not discussed on alliance with any party as of now. The decision on it will be taken at an appropriate time and based on the equations at the local level. Local leaders from the respective areas will be taken into confidence. We had a deliberation for more than 50 minutes over various issues related to BMC election. We will have more such meeting to chalk out the strategy for the polls,” he said.Patil also slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government for neglecting the flood-hit Konkan and western Maharashtra by not extending any immediate financial help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sonia-gandhi-rahul-to-address-rally-at-mumbai-s-shivaji-park-on-dec-28-congress-101628271900366.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||First you complained about Taloja jail, now you want to stay: HC to Elgar Parishad accused||The Bombay high court (HC) has refused to grant any interim relief to Elgar Parishad accused Mahesh Raut and some of the other co-accused currently lodged in Taloja jail who sought a stay on the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court order permitting their transfer to Mumbai Central Prison (MCP). Raut and others filed moved HC challenging the order on the grounds that they were not given an opportunity to oppose the transfer. Raut’s application stated that MCP was already overcrowded and as it is far from Taloja jail, he would not able to get medicines which are provided to him by his family who live in Navi Mumbai. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was informed by advocate Vijay Hiremath that the transfer was ordered at the behest of the superintendent of Taloja jail and passed without following due procedure. The petition stated that as per prison and NIA rules, the judge had to ensure that proper procedure for transferring an undertrial prisoner was followed in the form of issuing a notice to the prisoner, giving him a chance to have his say, and then deciding on whether to transfer the prisoner. It added that the judge did not follow any of the procedures, hence his order should be set aside. It further stated that Raut is from Chandrapur and has several health problems for which his sister and brother-in-law, who stay close to Taloja jail, provide him with medicines and other items of necessity which are permitted inside the jail. In view of this, the petition said that if he was shifted to MCP, it would become difficult for his sister to provide the necessary medicines. After hearing Hiremath and perusing the petition, the bench asked, “You have been filing various applications about difficulties in Taloja jail, but now you want to stay there.” As the state and NIA informed the court that they had not received copies of the petition, the court asked Hiremath to provide them with the same and posted hearing to August 11. Hiremath and advocate R Satyanarayanan insisted that some temporary relief be granted till the next date of hearing, the bench refused to pass any orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/first-you-complained-about-taloja-jail-now-you-want-to-stay-hc-to-elgar-parishad-accused-101628271840512.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: BJP’s Chandrakant Patil meets MNS chief Raj Thackeray||Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Chandrakant Patil called on Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray at the latter’s residence in Dadar on Friday morning, fuelling speculations over a BJP-MNS tie up in the civic polls slated to be held early next year. The meeting is seen as the first step towards an alliance between the two parties.After the Shiv Sena snapped ties with the BJP in October 2019 to form the government in Maharashtra with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, the saffron party was left with no major alliance partner. The BJP is in the search of a partner for the local body elections when 22 municipal corporations, 24 district councils and dozens of other local bodies will have elections. The MNS enjoys sizable pockets in cities like Mumbai, Nashik, Kalyan-Dombivli and could help the BJP in garnering votes of Marathi speaking population and denting the vote bank of friend-turned-foe Sena which effectively plays the Marathi manoos card to get votes of Maharashtrians in metropolitan areas of the state. The MNS uses the same sons of the soil plank for elections. The BJP has time and again clarified that it cannot join hands with the MNS unless the latter shreds its regional and linguistic chauvinism and hatred towards outsiders. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis last week said, “We cannot think of an alliance with the MNS unless it adopts inclusive Hindutva and changes its stand towards north Indians. We welcome the MNS’s Hindutva stand of late, but it should be an inclusive Hindutva.”Patil, after meeting Thackeray on Friday, said there was neither a discussion over an alliance nor was there any proposal for it. He said he had a conversation with Thackeray on the issue of migrants and was convinced that the MNS chief does not hate migrants. “It was a courtesy visit after he invited me for tea when we happened to meet each other during our separate tours last week in Nashik. When he casually asked about our stand on alliance with the MNS, I had clarified to him about the perception outsiders have in their minds about him. He sent me a clip of his speech delivery before the gathering of north Indians. I have, after hearing it, no doubt in mind that his stand, being a regional leader, is right. If he says that locals should get 80% of jobs and it should be the policy in any given state, there should not be any problem with it. The only thing he needs to change is the perception, as his stand appears as hatred towards them,” he said.Patil’s meeting assumes significance as it was held a day ahead of meetings with party’s central leadership in Delhi. Patil is expected to discuss the issue with BJP president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah.On the other hand, the MNS too was reportedly positive about an alliance with the BJP for the forthcoming elections. Party leaders have conveyed to the BJP that the MNS no longer attacks north Indians. Senior MNS leader Bala Nandgaonkar said, “Anything can happen in politics. We need to be positive. Raj saheb has not of late criticised North Indians. We have conveyed it to BJP leaders by sending a clip of our party chief’s speech. There is no misconception (about our stand) among the people. Our leader will clarify it at the appropriate time.”MNS workers have been pressuring their top brass to tie up with the BJP. With the Sena in power in the state and Mumbai civic body, MNS workers are feeling the heat. “We will not be in a position to win beyond 10 seats on our own in the forthcoming Mumbai civic polls. Workers are impatient and need influence and power, which only can be achieved with the tie-up,” said a senior MNS leader who refused to come on record. Many feel the BJP needs the MNS more than the other way round. “Many BJP candidates lost in 2017 Mumbai civic polls by a few hundred votes, and this is where the MNS vote bank can come in handy for them,” said another MNS functionary.The BJP, too, is positive about joining hands with MNS. “Especially after it has been clear that re-alliance between Sena and BJP is impossible, we desperately need an alliance partner. Alliance with the MNS will help us strengthen our roots in Marathi pockets and also dent the Sena, which is our enemy number 1 in Maharashtra. But before forging an alliance with the MNS, we want to send a clear message that we are not compromising on the interest of north Indians who are our core vote bank. Our party leadership wants to make Raj Thackeray to come clear on it,” said a BJP leader.Thackeray had become a bitter critic of the BJP prior to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and held several rallies in the state criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government, on issues such as economy, foreign and domestic policies, and welfare schemes for farmers. He had also been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with transactions related to the purchase of Kohinoor Mills land at Dadar in central Mumbai. However, recently, he has refrained from criticising Modi and turned his ire on his cousin and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.In January 2020, he unveiled his party’s new flag which is saffron-coloured, symbolising his party’s drift towards the Hindutva ideology. The MNS has lost political ground over the years. The party had 13 MLAs in the 2009-2014 Maharashtra Assembly, but won only one Assembly seat each in 2014 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-s-chandrakant-patil-meets-mns-chief-raj-thackeray-101628271660290.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Few public vaccination centres in Mumbai to open on Saturday||With limited stock of vaccines available in Mumbai for Saturday’s vaccination drive, only few public vaccination centres will be open across the city on Saturday, according to information from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public health department. The city is expected to receive a fresh stock of vaccines on Saturday.Mumbai received 57,000 Covishield doses and 48,000 Covaxin doses on Tuesday night, which were distributed to vaccine centres on Wednesday. Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of the civic body’s public health department, said, “We have not received stock after Tuesday night. Based on the available stock, vaccination drive will take place at few vaccine centres on Saturday. The complete list will be shared separately on social media.”BMC tweeted Covaxin will be available at 14 vaccination centres and Covishield at 20 centres.On Friday, 432 vaccination centres were operational across the city, of which 295 centres are operated by BMC, 20 by the state, and 117 are privately-operated. A total of 43,231 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the city on Friday, of which 14,392 received their second dose, and 28,839 received the first dose.So far, 1,859,100 beneficiaries have been completely vaccinated in the city, and 5,620,933 have been vaccinated with their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/few-public-vaccination-centres-in-mumbai-to-open-on-saturday-101628271420243.html
06-08-2021||Other||UPEIDA, SIDM ink pact for investment in Defence Industrial Corridor||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) signed an MoU with the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) on Friday for bringing investment in the Defence Industrial Corridor of the state and for creating an ecosystem for developing defence industrial base in UP. “We are looking forward to bringing in thousand crore worth of investments through the SIDM,” said UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi while speaking on the occasion at the Confederation of Indian Industries’ (CII) office. “The Aligarh node of the corridor is expected to be inaugurated by the Prime Minister next month. Around 21 investors have availed benefit of competitive rates of ₹1,000 per sq metre (of land) in the Aligarh node,” he said. Under the MoU, which is for three years initially, a joint UPEIDA-SIDM Defence Industry Forum (Udyog Utkarsh) would be formulated. Other areas of collaboration would include B2G (business to government) meetings facilitation as well as vetting of investments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/upeida-sidm-ink-pact-for-investment-in-defence-industrial-corridor-101628271061523.html
06-08-2021||Other||Tokyo Olympics propels UP’s hockey star into limelight||The Indian men’s hockey team has given the entire country a big reason to rejoice after they clinched bronze medal at Tokyo Olympics after a gap of 41 years. For residents of Prayagraj, especially those residing in Jhunsi area of the city, it is an equally special moment as one of the key members of the winning team has had a very long and strong connection with Sangam city. Assistant coach of the team, Piyush Dubey did his MA in Economics from Allahabad University and after getting diploma from NIS-Patiala, even coached students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, AFS-Manauri besides working as guest lecturer at department of Physical Education, AU.Speaking from Tokyo, Dubey shared many moments that shaped his career and which he would always cherish. “I was quite young when I started working at KV Manauri as a guest coach for training the hockey team of the school in 2004. Hearing that a new coach has come, around 130 students, both boys and girls, came on the field and I suddenly faced the challenge of having to select a final team from so many hopefuls. Although my first salary was around ₹2800 per month at a time when my personal expenses were around ₹15000, but the experience of teaching the basics and the exposure to work independently was far more than any monetary gains,” said Dubey.He then coached AU’s hockey team and later on was again on the grounds of KV Manauri when the then principal Shalini Dikshit selected him to coach the team. School’s team won the nationals in 2004 and 2011. During this period, Dubey did BPEd and MPEd from Barkatullah University, Bhopal. In 2014, Piyush got selected in Sports Authority of India (SAI) and his first appointment was in Sonepat (Haryana). Piyush was also among the selected trainers who were sent by the Government of India to University of Birmingham in England in 2016. There he studied Sports Science and Coaching. More than 75 of his trainees have so far shown their mettle at national and international level tournaments. Piyush’s family is originally from Mathura. His father Kunwar Garvendra Singh Dubey was a wrestler. He got the title of ‘Singh’ only because of his wrestling. “It so happened that my elder brother Shravan was also fond of wrestling and I used to go to the akhara at Jhunsi with him. On the way, a small ground was there where noted coach Prem Shankar Shukla used to teach hockey to kids. One day he handed me the stick and asked me to try my hands. He was very impressed to see my dribbling skills at an early age and asked me to concentrate on hockey only,” shared Dubey over phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tokyo-olympics-propels-up-s-hockey-star-into-limelight-101628271060091.html
06-08-2021||Other||Mayor writes to Tope asking for relaxation of Covid curbs in Pune||PUNE Two days after Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government will reconsider relaxing Covid curbs in Pune if the local authorities recommend so, Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol, on Friday, issued a letter to Tope recommending relaxations for Pune city. In the letter, Mohol has made the case for relief from level 3 restrictions in Pune, pointing to the decreasing positivity rate in the city. He also mentioned that the 4pm deadline under level 3 is proving to be inconvenient to all and hence, the state government should ease some curbs in the city. “On behalf of Pune citizens and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), I am demanding relief from restrictions. I have been demanding the same at the Covid review meeting chaired by guardian minister Ajit Pawar every week. He had expressed positivity, but in reality, Pune didn’t get relaxations,” said Mohol in the letter. He also claimed that the declining positivity rate in Pune indicated that the Covid situation in Pune is under control. “From the second week of July, positivity rate in Pune has dropped to 3.22% from 5%. For the last 16 months, all Punekars have been following the orders of the state government. Now I request you to provide some relief to Pune,” said Mohol. Earlier, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had claimed that the administration would recommend relaxations in PMC and PCMC at the weekly Covid review meeting. The meeting, which was to be held on Saturday, has now been postponed to Sunday. City units of congress and NCP have also taken a pro relaxation stand. The city chiefs of both parties have expressed the view that relaxations can be given in PMC limits as the Covid caseload in the city has decreased. Pune city Congress chief Ramesh Bagwe said that there is no harm in easing some curbs where Covid numbers have reduced. “The matter is not only of traders. It’s about the small business operators who rely on the market economy of the city. We are of the opinion that strict restrictions should be in place where Covid cases are still high. But, like in Pune city, where cases have gone down, timings of shops should be extended. I would request the guardian minister to consider this factor,” said Ramesh Bagwe, president, Pune city-district Congress committee. Earlier, NCP city chief Prashant Jagtap had also backed demands of relief from Covid-induced curbs in Pune. “The daily caseload in Pune city has decreased. As NCP workers we would surely request the guardian minister to give some relaxations to Pune city. The collective Covid numbers in the district are high, but Pune city has been recording fewer numbers. In Mumbai, there is no rural area. Because of the rural parts, collective numbers of Pune districts are higher,” said Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mayor-writes-to-tope-asking-for-relaxation-of-covid-curbs-in-pune-101628270880167.html
06-08-2021||Other||Vaccine shortage: no Covishield at PMC centres until Monday||PUNE The city has been facing an acute shortage of vaccines for the past two days, which has meant that the PMC has to shut down its Covishield vaccinations and only run Covaxin centres. August will now also see a huge demand from those aged 18-plus for their second dose of Covishield. On Thursday and Friday, PMC shut down its centres for Covishield and before that, for four days, from Saturday to Tuesday, Covishield vaccination sites were shut due to a shortage of supply. Dr Suryakant Deokar, immunisation officer, PMC, said, “We are yet to get any Covishield vaccine doses as of Friday evening and even if we get the doses on Saturday, we cannot start the vaccination drive on Sunday, because we have the usual OPDs. On Sunday the Covid-19 immunisation team gets a break. However, if the vaccines come on Saturday or Sunday then we would be able to start the Covishield vaccination drive on Monday. so for over four days we would have not had any Covishield vaccination at the PMC centres. Last week too we could not arrange any Covishield through PMC because we did not have vaccine doses.”This comes two days after state health minister Rajesh Tope announced that districts which report a higher positivity rate will get more vaccines. Such districts which have a higher positivity rate include Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara. However, the shortage of vaccines continues in Pune. While government centres are falling short of vaccine doses, private hospitals got 10,000 doses of covishield on Friday, for the second consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccine-shortage-no-covishield-at-pmc-centres-until-monday-101628270879601.html
06-08-2021||Other||Monsoon on a break till Aug 12 in Pune: IMD||PUNE After a dry spell in July, the southwest monsoon will take a second monsoon break till August 12, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune, said that the dry spell will continue till August 12. “So far, as per the extended range forecast issued by the IMD, the weather systems are not very active over Maharashtra. As a result, the monsoon will take a break for a while. The existing weather systems are active over the eastern part of the country,” said Kashyapi.Till August 12, Pune city will witness very light rainfall and cloudy skies, said Kashyapi.Till Friday, Pune city has reported 359mm rainfall between June 1 and August 6. Whereas, normal rainfall is 352.8 mm. The departure from normal rainfall is just 6.2 mm. As the city experiences less rainfall, Pune city may witness a further deficient rainfall in the next few days.Marathwada, Vidarbha, Madhya Maharashtra and Konkan and Goa will receive light rainfall at isolated places till August 12. Between June 1 and August 6, Maharashtra has reported 15 per cent excess rainfall which falls under the normal rainfall category. As per IMD, the state reported 693.2 mm rainfall against the normal of 603.7 mm during this time.Whereas Madhya Maharashtra, which includes Pune district, has reported 17 per cent excess rainfall with 522.2 mm received. Vidarbha has reported five percent less than normal rainfall, a total of 515.4 mm received so far.Konkan and Goa between June 1 and August 6 reported 28 per cent in excess rainfall, at 2,494.7 mm. Marathwada reported 21 per cent excess rainfall with 426.3 mm rainfall received so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-on-a-break-till-aug-12-in-pune-imd-101628270821387.html
06-08-2021||Other||PMC reports 86 Dengue cases and 73 Chikungunya cases in July||PUNE As per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, the civic body has reported 117 confirmed cases of Dengue and 84 cases of Chikungunya in 2021, of which 86 Dengue cases and 73 Chikungunya cases were reported in July. In view of the Zika virus case being reported in the district, the city health department is focusing on destroying breeding spots for mosquitoes. The civic body has also collected over ₹1 lakh in penalties for the same. The civic body has issued 1,112 notices to residents for creating conditions that allow mosquitoes to breed. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC, said, “There is no different set of action to deal with Dengue, Malaria, Chikungunya or even Zika, since they are all vector-borne disease and spread through mosquitoes. This monsoon we have cracked down on locations which could be possible mosquito breeding sites. In July we have reported the highest number of positive cases of Dengue and Chikungunya, which is because of the monsoon season. In view of the single Zika virus case reported form the district we have cautioned pregnant women to report to us in case they are suffering any symptoms similar to the Zika virus.” The city saw a total of 1,323 suspected cases of Dengue as of August 7. The city saw a nominal number of cases in January, when 22 confirmed Dengue, and three confirmed cases of Chikungunya were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-reports-86-dengue-cases-and-73-chikungunya-cases-in-july-101628270820733.html
06-08-2021||Other||11 districts in Maha highly vulnerable to extreme weather events: study||PUNE As farmers from Maharashtra have been hit by recent floods, a latest study highlights how such extreme weather are more likely the norm, than the exception; cue climate change. As per the study, from 36 districts in Maharashtra, 11 were found highly vulnerable to extreme weather events, droughts and dwindling water security. These districts account for 40% of the farmland across Central Maharashtra. Similarly, 37% of the state’s agricultural area, spread over 14 other districts, is moderately vulnerable, which takes the total tally to three-fourths of Maharashtra’s farmland being impacted by what the report cites as climate change.The study, entitled, ‘Socio-economic vulnerability to climate change – Index development and mapping for districts in Maharashtra’, revealed that extreme climate conditions affect the livelihoods and agrarian economy of Maharashtra. The study was conducted by Chaitanya Adhav at Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR )- National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), Karnal, Haryana, under the guidance of Dr R Sendhil from ICAR-Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research. The study claims that Nandurbar is the most vulnerable district to cyclones, floods, droughts, changing rainfall patterns and extreme temperatures, all affecting crop production. The other highly vulnerable 10 districts include Buldhana, Beed, Jalna, Aurangabad, Hingoli, Parbhani, Nanded, Akola, Amravati, and Washim.The 14 districts listed as moderately vulnerable, includes Dhule, Jalgaon, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Sangli, Solapur, Osmanabad, Latur, Yavatmal, Wardha, Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gondia and Gadchiroli. The dominant crops from these districts that will bear the brunt of the climate changes are jowar, rice, wheat, sugarcane, cotton, ragi, cashew nut, barley, and millets.Explaining it further Adhav said their findings showed that most of the highly vulnerable districts fell under the Central Maharashtra Plateau Zone, which makes up a 22.22 percent share of the total farmed area in Maharashtra. The Central Vidarbha Zone has an additional share of 6.78 percent area as highly vulnerable.The authors explained that to quantify the climate change-induced risk, a socio-economic vulnerability index (SEVI) was calculated using key climatic parameters, such as exposure, sensitivity and adaptive capacity of districts to climate vulnerability.“Mapping of districts shows that there is an instant need for focused policy efforts to address the socio-economic vulnerability in Central Maharashtra Plateau Zone, Scarcity Zone (Dhule, parts of Nandurbar and Aurangabad), and Eastern Vidarbha Zone,” Adhav said.Vijay Anna Borade, agriculture expert & trustee of the Marathwada Sheti Sahayak Mandal (MSSM) said, “While there is a lot of discussion about impact of climate change on agriculture, there is very little on-ground action. What we are witnessing now is concerning, because on one hand the number of rainy days in a year have reduced drastically, while on other hand areas Marathwada, which usually receives very little rainfall, is now being flooded. Keeping in mind the vulnerability of districts, changing crop patterns is a solution, but it’s not going to be such an easy task. Another option is controlled farming which also has financial limitations. Thus, we need a viable and sustainable plan to enable Maharashtra to tackle the impacts of climate change on farming.”Nine districts including Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Nashik, Satara, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Nagpur and Pune were found to be least vulnerable to agricultural distress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-districts-in-maha-highly-vulnerable-to-extreme-weather-events-study-101628270819585.html
06-08-2021||Other||Mall employees stage protest in Kharadi demanding “equal right to work”||PUNE Hundreds of staffers and employees from seven malls in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad protested outside the Amanora Mall and Seasons Mall in Kharadi on Friday.The protesting workers, staffers and even owners of retail shops have urged the state government to give them “equal right to work”.There are approximately 76,000 people working in Pune malls including external agency staff. According to SCAI (Shopping Centres Association Of India) Covid restrictions have resulted into losses of Rs15,000 crore for the industry. Nearly 80 per cent of employees working at retail stores and restaurants belong to an economically weaker section and their livelihood is impacted the most. Most of the employees working in this sector are from other states.“Many employees are jobless without any alternative income source. Without alternative income sources, these staffers and their families will have no means to survive. If the Covid restrictions continue, joblessness is expected to be significantly worse. They are looking up to the mall owners, unfortunately we are helpless. In the current scenario it’s the need of the hour to protect the most vulnerable before it becomes very urgent,” said Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, committee member SCAI and COO, Amanora Mall. Amar Pande, an employee said, “We have a family of five people and I am only bread earner in the family. Till now I have borrowed more than ₹1 lakh from friends and relatives since the pandemic has started, as there was no salary for more than a year. If malls are not opened, then lakhs of people are going to suffer.”Nikit Chawda, a senior manager at one of the malls said, “There are EMIs to pay and many other liabilities in a family. As the malls were closed we were paid half salary. If such a situation continues we will need to either sell our assets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mall-employees-stage-protest-in-kharadi-demanding-equal-right-to-work-101628270820118.html
06-08-2021||Other||Exigencies on active borders have only increased in pandemic: Army chief||PUNE General MM Naravane, chief of the Indian Army said in Pune on Friday that the nation was passing through a challenging period. “Exigencies on our active and unsettled borders both on the West and the North have only increased in times of the pandemic. Indian Army has stood tall and strong in the phase of this pandemic. However, I have always maintained that wars are not between armies, but waged between nations and it requires a national effort. While hard power in our context will always be relevant, equally important is the leveraging of soft power,” he said.The army chief was speaking at the golden jubilee celebrations of TV wing of Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) in Pune.The army chief also said that war movies have always had an endearing impact on people of all ages, especially youth. “These films have immortalised our soldiers in the hearts of every Indian. We have grown up watching these films which have captured the valour and travails of the armed forces. These movies still serve to reinforce the spirit of the supreme sacrifice of soldiers in the nation’s conscience,” he said. Acknowledging the role of the entertainment industry, the army chief pointed out that he found the stereotyping of the Indian officers in films as both amusing and intriguing. He gave the example of a “khadus colonel”, with a shotgun in one hand and a glass of whisky in the other. “Creative licence is understood, but I believe that stereotyping of communities and characters best be avoided,” he said.Travelling down the memory lane, General Naravane said that his visits to Pune are always nostalgic. “My grandfather’s house was on Prabhat road and my maternal grandfather’s house was at Karve road. We used to go from one house to another on foot when we visited Pune the during summer holidays. Travelling on foot is one of the reasons that I was sent to the infantry. While I came visiting the grandparents, I used to go from outside to the FTII, but today I have come to the campus for the first time and feel proud to see the sprawling campus,” he said. Also present on the occasion were noted filmmakers Sai Paranjpe and Jabbar Patel, along with the director Bhupendra Kainthola.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exigencies-on-active-borders-have-only-increased-in-pandemic-army-chief-101628270761693.html
06-08-2021||Other||PMC, ZP teachers to be fined Rs200 if caught spitting in school||PUNE School teachers who spit in the premises of any educational institute will now be fined Rs200 per instance.The state government, on Thursday, issued an order prohibiting spitting in educational institutes, given the current Covid-19 situation. The state government’s School education and sports department issued the order to all corporations and Zilla Parishad schools. The state government’s upper secretary of the School education and sports department, Santosh Gaikwad, stated in the order that coronavirus is spread through the air, apart from infected people. “In theCovid-19 pandemic, it is the duty of the state government to take care of students’ health and to keep the environment clean and healthy. So, the government has taken a decision to prohibit spitting in the school premises,” Gaikwad said.The school principals are to levy the ₹200 fine on any teacher found spitting in the school premises.“If it happens repeatedly, the fine can go up to ₹1,200,” Gaikwad said. Shivaji Daundkar, PMC’s education officer for higher secondary schools said, “It is a welcome move. It is necessary to avoid infectious diseases. This government orders will help us to prevent teachers from chewing tobacco as well. We will put posters up in the school premises and inform teachers, staff members, students, parents and visitors.”Sneha Kamble, primary teacher at a PMC school said, “Teachers should follow the rules for better implementation of the order. After all, teachers are icons of every student.”The PMC education board runs a total of 309 schools, of which 225 are Marathi medium, 34 are Urdu medium, two are Kannada medium and 50 are English medium schools. Of the total manpower of 3,500, 2,500 are teaching staff and 1,000 are non-teaching staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-zp-teachers-to-be-fined-rs200-if-caught-spitting-in-school-101628270760913.html
06-08-2021||Other||Advanced software and a Pak footprint: RPF to hack ticket touts in Pune, Mumbai, Bihar||PUNE As Covid restrictions are easing around the state, but for Pune, once again, passengers travelling by rail have also increased. Coming down heavily on this illegal ticketing touts, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) of the Pune railway division has started procuring advance software to “hack this racket”. RPF claims to have found “footprints from Pakistan” among touts involved in illegal ticket bookings, especially at the Pune, Mumbai and Bihar railway stations.“Applicant needs to book a railway ticket from the IRCTC website, and for each mobile number only one person can login. Also, as per the central government telecom rules, one person can have a maximum of 12 mobile numbers registered on his/her name. Still we have found that these illegal touts book many tickets using advanced software, and all from one mobile number. Our cyber cell of RPF Pune division is constantly monitoring their activities and their footprints have been traced to Pakistan. Most of these hackers and touts are found to be from other countries. They mostly reserve tickets in bulk for trains running from Mumbai, Pune and Bihar railway stations,” said RPF Pune divisional security commissioner Uday Singh Pawar.The Pune RPF division has the country’s first cyber cell under the Indian Railway, which was formed in July 2019, and its operations were kept secret initially for some important investigations. Railway decided to start cyber cells in six different cities. There are various cyber-related investigations undertaken by this cell, which include keeping a watch on illegal online ticketing, social media and various cyber frauds, A dedicate team of eight work in the including cyber experts. “When we started getting the footprints of Pakistani agents and illegal touts doing online ticketing we started focusing on them. These agents are upgrading their modus operandi and using advance softwares to do illegal ticket reservation, so is the RPF cyber cell is now procuring new software to stay one step ahead. Our main focus is to identify these illegal ticketing activities, find the touts and their modus operandi and crack down their racket,” added Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/advanced-software-and-a-pak-footprint-rpf-to-hack-ticket-touts-in-pune-mumbai-bihar-101628270760249.html
06-08-2021||Other||Welcome to Pune RTO: No place to park, test track going to waste, scrap in main building||PUNE The next time you go to the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO), be ready for no place to park your vehicle. Safety and security at the RTO premises have gone for a toss as the front compound wall, and the entry and exit gate are broken down due to ongoing Metro work. On Thursday, August 5, HT visited the Pune RTO office at Sangamwadi and found the main building housing scrap material and old furniture, hurdles for the public to cross while accessing the counters. “There is such a mess here at the RTO office, furniture and scrap lying in the main building. A ramp has been made for the physically disabled, but the wheelchair is kept in a corner, and is full of dust. It needs to be repaired and kept at the entrance. Also, fire-fighting equipment is not there in case of fire emergency,” said Dattatray Ghule, a citizen who regularly comes to the RTO for work. While there are 10 to 12 tourist buses and heavy vehicles parked inside the RTO premises, the parking space of visitors’ vehicles has been encroached upon. Several scrapped autorickshaws and small vehicles are lying on one side of the office premises. Another citizen Kushal Das who had come to do a vehicle registration (RC) said, “There is one help desk cabin inside the main building, but there is no one there to guide people. The RTO is full of agents and a new person gets confused.”The two-wheeler permanent testing track is used for parking the vehicles, due to which applicants have to go all the way to Vishrantwadi for the test. If this testing track is made functional it can be used for the permanent licence test. Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde said, “Despite taking all the precautionary measures and many things gone online, people come here for their work. We are working hard to resolve public issues and give better facilities to the public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/welcome-to-pune-rto-no-place-to-park-test-track-going-to-waste-scrap-in-main-building-101628270759544.html
06-08-2021||Other||Barricades up: Baner-SPPU road manhole covers go missing||PUNE Residents in Baner have complained of manhole covers in the area being continuously stolen on the Baner-SPPU road. Police have yet to find the culprits however, to avoid accidents, the open manholes have now been barricaded.The theft of the steel lid chambers has been happening on the road connecting Sadanand hotel, Baner, to the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) circle.“We have received a complaint regarding theft of the covers, we have started an inquiry. The thefts are happening during the night. As protection we have put up barricades,” said Rajesh Malegave, assistant police inspector, Chatushrungi police station.Durgesh Kakade, a resident of Baner, said, “For one month, many manholes don’t have cover. Barricades are put, but at night it is not easily visible. The civic body should act quickly on the whole issue.”“Baner-Pashan link road also has many open manholes. Now the same issue has popped up on many other roads connecting to Baner. On paper, Baner comes under smart city, but maintenance of roads is not great,” said Kamlesh Apte, another resident.Chatushrungi police will increase night patrols in the area.“Any chambers opened for construction work we covered with lids again,” said Arun Godbole, chief engineer, PSCDCL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barricades-up-baner-sppu-road-manhole-covers-go-missing-101628270700763.html
06-08-2021||Other||Bounced cheque? Pay penalty in next electricity bill||PUNE With the Pune circle of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) witnessing the highest number of cheque-bounce cases in the state, the MSEDCL has decided to charge a penalty of Rs885, including Goods Service Tax (GST), to be included in electricity bills of the subsequent month.According to the MSEDCL, out of the nearly 10,500 cheque-bounce cases reported each month, the Pune circle registers the highest (1,750); followed by the Kalyan (1,700); Bhandup (1,500); Nagpur (1,100); and Baramati circles (900). Despite an “online” payment facility being made available, approximately 4500 million consumers pay electricity bills through cheques, as per MSEDCL statistics. Among all the circles in the state, Pune has the highest number of consumers (108,000) paying bills via cheques; followed by Bhandup (104,000); and Kalyan (73,000). In sharp contrast, only 24 to 29,000 consumers from the Nashik, Kolhapur, Baramati and Nagpur circles pay their electricity bills through cheques.Regarding the decision to impose a penalty, Sachin Talewar, chief engineer of MSEDCL’s Pune circle said, “The number of consumers paying their electricity bills through cheques is more in the Pune circle. Therefore, there are more cheque-bounce cases in Pune. Consumers in the low tension (LT) category tend to pay their bills via cheques unlike those in the high tension (HT) category who prefer the RTGS and NEFT modes of payment. Housing societies too pay bills through cheques as they want the documents as records. With some LT consumers intentionally doing this to delay payment of bills, the MSEDCL has decided to charge a penalty of Rs885 including GST as per the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bounced-cheque-pay-penalty-in-next-electricity-bill-101628270699584.html
06-08-2021||Other||3 held for robbing ST bus passengers of ₹1.12 crore||PUNE The Pune Rural police have arrested three men accused of robbing passengers on an MSRTC bus, in an incident that took place on Tuesday.Within 72 hours of the complaint being registered by one of the victims, Hitendra Balasaheb Jadhav, a resident of Phaltan, the rural police arrested Ramdas Bhausaheb Bhosale (30), a resident of Warud in Shirur, Tushar Baban Tambe (22), a resident of Shirur, and Bharat Shahji Bangar (32), a resident of Khalsa village in Shirur. All the arrests were made at Kharadi on Friday. The men are accused of robbing passengers of cash and jewellery totally worth ₹1.12 crore.As per the complaint, an ST bus on its way from Latur to Mumbai was stopped on the Solapur-Pune highway by the three accused, who claimed to be policemen at the time. They asked four passengers, including Jadhav, to alight from the vehicle and forcibly took away cash and gold from them. On Friday, the rural police received information that the accused were planning to escape the city using the Kharadi bypass.Pune Rural’s superintendent of police (SP) Abhinav Deshmukh said, “Based on the information, we laid a trap and arrested the accused. The cash and stolen valuables were also recovered. Ramdas is Bharat’s brother-in-law, while the other accused is a friend. The accused have confessed to their crime and interrogations are underway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-held-for-robbing-st-bus-passengers-of-rs-1-12-crore-101628270700179.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC reserves order on petition challenging CET for FYJC admissions||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday reserved its order on the petition filed by an ICSE board student, Ananya Patki, who challenged the common entrance test (CET) for admission to first-year junior college (FYJC) scheduled to be held on August 21. The counsel for the petitioner argued that as the questions for CET would be based on state board syllabus, it would prejudice students from other boards, hence the CET should be set aside. Counsels for various boards said as the decision to conduct the CET was taken by the state government, they could not interfere. They, however, said the government should have consulted them before announcing the decision. The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice RI Chagla was informed by advocate Yogesh Patki, the petitioners’ father, that the test was discriminatory as it would be based on SSC board syllabus. He also submitted that as the test would be held in the physical format during Covid, it could pose a threat to the students.Patki questioned the need for the test and citing this year Class 10 and 12 exams did not take place. He further said the July 19 notification announcing the CET was issued in a haphazard manner and did not have any clarity. He added that the time to prepare for the exam was insufficient.The government defended its decision to conduct CET in offline mode for FYJC admission and told the court the test was optional and was being conducted to bring parity among students from various boards. It assured the court that as some boards had conducted exams physically in February without getting any reports of students contracting Covid-19, the state would ensure that all Covid protocols were followed during the two-hour test. It also submitted the CET was aimed at safeguarding the rights of all students, hence contentions of the petitioner, who was not representing students from all non-SSC boards, did not hold ground and should be dismissed. While arguing for one of the boards, senior advocate Mihir Desai said the CET was being conducted as SSC exams had not been conducted by most boards, but IGCSE board had conducted the exams physically in February, hence students from that board would be at a disadvantage. He further said the state had, in the past, tried to introduce procedures to bring SSC board students at par with students from other boards while seeking FYJC and with the exception of best of five, all other procedures introduced by the state were struck down by the HC. He added that as the state had not consulted other boards before announcing the CET, other boards were feeling orphaned. While responding to the concerns raised by the petitioner and the boards, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said as the petition had only sought quashing of the exam and not suggested any alternative remedy to the need to bring parity among students from various boards, the petition should be dismissed. He added that the petitioner was a lone student and was not representing all students from various boards, hence the court should not be taking an adverse decision against the conduct of the CET as nearly 1.075 million students from across boards had registered for the CET. He also said the state had introduced Central Admission Programme (CAP) to ensure that merit and choice of students were given preference and hence the CET had to be conducted to decide merit as different boards had evaluated students differently and no standard evaluation process was adopted. “Golden rule is merit-cum-choice... CET is to determine merit and CAP is to determine choice,” said Kumbhakoni. He concluded his argument saying as seats for select colleges were limited like that of medical courses, CET for FYJC admissions was necessary. After hearing all sides, the court reserved its order and will pronounce it on August 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-reserves-order-on-petition-challenging-cet-for-fyjc-admissions-101628270160212.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Community awareness, empowering healthcare workers can reduce snakebite deaths, says study||A multi-pronged intervention including community awareness, mapping vulnerable populations, empowering healthcare and paramedical staff could result in bringing down snakebite mortality and morbidity, a new study has shown. The model demonstrated in the qualitative study carried out in the Dahanu block of Palghar district is now set to be replicated in two other blocks in Gadchiroli and Thane. Snakebite is a neglected public health issue, largely affecting the poor. Experts say that there are no accurate estimates of snakebite incidents and deaths in Maharashtra. India has recorded an estimated 1.2 million deaths due to snake bites between 2000 to 2019. In 2013, the researchers of the study had set out to understand the burden of snakebites in the Dahanu block and investigate the problems at the community level, as well as the healthcare level. They found that there was inadequate knowledge about venomous snakes in the community, healthcare workers lacked the confidence to administer the anti-snake venom (ASV) and most patients were referred to higher centres. “The rate of deaths was higher as the patients lost the golden hour of treatment,” said Dr Himmatrao Bawakasar, an expert on snake and scorpion bites and a contributing author of the study published in the PLOS One journal on Thursday. The study was carried out by the National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (NIRRH) in partnership with the government of Maharashtra. It was funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research’s Tribal Health Research Forum. According to the study, nearly 50% of medical officers in the Dahanu block lacked accurate knowledge about Krait (a species of highly venomous snake) bite symptoms or the renal complications due to the bite of a Russell viper. Nurses and Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers were found to have more knowledge about identifying venomous snake bites and ASV, while a majority of auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and multi-purpose workers lacked most of this knowledge. In the community, most people preferred herbal medicines and traditional faith healers over a government health facility. “A lot of doctors feared administering the ASV as they were not confident to deal with anaphylaxis (a severe allergic reaction) that may follow after the administering the ASV,” said Bawakasar. The incidence of snakebites in the Dahanu block was 216 per lakh population in 2013. It went up to 264 in 2014 and 338 in 2015. The case fatality rate was around 4.4% (as recorded in 2014). Based on the initial findings, the team of researchers developed an exhaustive model which involved training doctors, Asha workers, anganwadi workers and creating awareness and busting myths among the locals about snake bites. The team conducted 18 focus group discussions for six months in 2017 to initiate discussions about snake bites, prevention and first aid. “Our interventions began in 2016, and by 2017 we were able to bring down the case fatality rate of snakebite to 0.4%,” said Dr Rahul Gajbhiye, principal investigator and corresponding author of the study. “The number of snakebite incidents in 2017 was 304 per lakh population,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/community-awareness-empowering-healthcare-workers-can-reduce-snakebite-deaths-says-study-101628269980352.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra commission makes way for caste-based census||The Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC) has cleared the decks for a Socio Economic and Caste Census in Maharashtra covering the entire population of the state, almost a century after it was last undertaken. Although it is being conducted to collect empirical data and restore political reservations for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in local self-government body elections, activists and observers claim the results may shake up the established socio-political order. The Maharashtra Assembly has approved a resolution seeking a caste-based census. However, the Centre has refused to enumerate caste-wise population other than Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) in the 2021 Census. The MSCBC has now recommended census by the state government. Though Marathas dominate Maharashtra’s politics, the OBCs, who are spread across religion, classes and castes, are considered to be the largest social bloc at over 52% of the population. However, this figure in the BP Mandal Commission report is based on the 1931 data and there is no scientific measurement of their numbers. The National Sample Survey Organization (NSSO) has estimated this at a lower 41%. With people voting their caste, accurate data about the OBC population may sharpen their class identity and pit them against dominant sections like the Marathas. The Supreme Court (SC) has scrapped the state’s quota for Marathas in jobs and education, leading to Maratha groups seeking inclusion in the OBC category. This demand is resented by OBCs. In March, the SC struck down the state’s 27% quota for OBCs in local bodies due to lack of empirical data about their backwardness. It said the state government can give these reservations after setting up a backward class commission to conduct an empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of their backwardness. This has created a crisis for the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) regime, with the OBCs getting restive due to the impending loss of political reservations in municipal corporations, councils, zilla parishads and gram panchayats. As such, moves are afoot in the ruling coalition to begin the process to restore political reservation for OBCs. Caste-based census could help the same. Hari Narke, former member of the MSCBC, said in the Indra Sawhney (1992) case, the SC had ruled that an expert commission be set up to identify backward communities. The MSCBC had been established in Maharashtra according to it. “After the Central government refused to part with the 2011 Socio Economic and Caste Census (SECC) data, 12 states including BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh have taken a position for a caste census in their states, which will begin soon.... States like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have already completed this survey, while Odisha has launched it,” he explained. MSCBC member and lawyer BL Sagar Killarikar said while this census would be conducted by the state, the commission would decide the format and details to be collected and also analyse these datasets Killarikar said depending on the Covid situation and if the state deputed one enumerator per 100 households, data collection would be completed within three months, after which the commission could begin the analysis. “A caste census will affect the traditional model of Maratha dominance of politics,” said Shravan Deore of the OBC Seva Sangh, adding that OBC numbers could be higher than 52%. He added that while the Marathas were said to be 31.5 per cent, it also included the OBC Kunbis, who formed substantial numbers in Vidarbha and Konkan. “The census will lead to a new wave of awareness and unification among the OBCs, who will demand their share of power and resources,” said former Lok Sabha MP and Shiv Sena leader Haribhau Rathod. He supported the mandate of the G Rohini Commission that is looking at an equitable distribution of the OBC quota. Pravin Gaikwad of the Maratha organization Sambhaji Brigade said: “A census to determine the number of OBCs may certainly affect the dominance of Marathas over Maharashtra’s politics.” Gaikwad pointed to how the Mandal report led to the gradual development of the OBC identity in the 1990s. This, and anger over the dynastic politics of established families in the Congress, led to a chunk of the backward vote migrating to the Shiv Sena and BJP. Writer and activist Sanjay Sonawani raised questions about the likelihood of “misreporting by respondents and the misunderstanding of data collectors.” He pointed to how some Mahadeo Koli tribals in Ahmednagar had identified themselves as Kunbis in the census conducted in the 1870s, while the Dhangars in Baramati claimed to be ‘Sagar Rajputs.’ “While communities were then trying to Sanskritise themselves, now they may try to regress in the caste ladder for quota benefits. How will the authenticity of these claims be checked,” he asked. Shabbir Ahmed Ansari of the All India Muslim OBC Organisation, called for the Central Government to undertake a comprehensive caste-census. Prakash Pawar, professor of political science at the Shivaji University, Kolhapur, said the census results could affect the political framework. Considering the substantial in-migration of non-Marathi speakers who were OBCs or SCs from other states, the politics of linguistic polarisation in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and urban centres like Pune and Nagpur, could also change. Similarly, the tensions between the OBCs and those from the open category like Marathas, Brahmins, Lingayats and Jains could also rise. Vijay Wadettiwar, minister, OBC and VJNT welfare, said the survey was meant to collect empirical data and added the state government would provide all necessary support to the Commission to undertake this. The terms of reference (TOR) will be finalised by the commission, he added. PREVIOUS CENSUS IN 1931 The last caste census was conducted in 1931 during the British rule in India Only data about SCs and STs is collected in the census OBCs are expected to be around 53% of Maharashtra’s population (43.70% Hindus and 8.40% non-Hindus). OBCs in Maharashtra are divided in the OBC category with around 350 Hindu and non-Hindu classes (19% reservations) and Vimukta Jati and Nomadic Tribes (VJ&NT), which covers about 50 groups (11% quotas). However, this exercise, which will map the contours of the nature of backwardness of the OBCs, is being internally referred to as survey as conducting a census is the prerogative of the Centre. The references to a caste census are found in the Rigveda and Kautilya Arthashastra. Emperor Akbar’s minister Abul Fazal mentions a comprehensive caste-based census. The SC’s decision to scrap political reservations for OBCs will affect 57,000 seats in local self-government bodies reserved for them. The elections to 18 municipal corporations including Mumbai are scheduled next year, while the term of three corporations has already ended. polls to138 municipal councils also due in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-commission-makes-way-for-caste-based-census-101628269680370.html
06-08-2021||Other||2 more attempts for KGMU students unable to clear MBBS in 10 yrs||LUCKNOW Students at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) unable to clear MBBS since over a decade will be given two more mercy attempts to clear their exams and supported with extra classes, stated the executive council of the university.“If students have spent more than 10 years here, have failed more than four times in one exam and despite two more mercy attempts with extra classes, if they don’t clear the exam, they need to change course in life,” said Lt Gen (Dr) Bipin Puri, vice-chancellor, KGMU. At present, there are 20 such students in the university who have been unable to clear exams despite repeated attempts, said officials. Among these are a 1994 batch and a 1997 batch student while the others are those of batches between 2000 and 2013. The executive council of the KGMU approved the recommendations from the committee set up to evaluate the situation of such students and suggest measures for them. Majority of such students are unable to clear clinical department exams. In two cases, the students are still doing MBBS while their children have cleared their medical examinations. Ten of them failed in the 4th year (final professional), eight are in first year (first professional) while two are failing in 2nd and 3rd year MBBS. The issue of these students was raised after the National Medical Commission laid down the new policy for MBBS students in 2019. According to new rules, an MBBS student must clear all the exams within 10 years and only four mercy attempts would be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kgmu-2-more-attempts-for-students-unable-to-clear-mbbs-in-10-yrs-101628269260220.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Aaditya Thackeray inaugurates Mithi river clean-up pilot project||Tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray on Friday inaugurated the pilot project for the clean-up of the Mithi river, which aims to improve its water quality. The pilot project has begun from Vakola nullah in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) and the entire project will be completed in 18 months. Here the main function would be collect the floating materials and recycle it. Thackeray said, “This pilot project is the first-of-its-kind in India and will transform the Mithi river. Evaluating the trial run, we aim to extend this further to the other rivers in the city.” He recalled how Mithi had turned into nullah and its effects were felt in the 2006 deluge. “The waste in the rivers is thrown by us and we need to take steps like not disposing waste in them,” he added. According to the press release issued by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the floating matter collection and segregation will first be observed for the first three months. After this, it will segregated and analysis done by scientific means. This segregated matter will be sent for pyrolysis or recycling in phases. They will also spread awareness among the people who tend to dispose their waste in Mithi. This project is the part of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by MMRDA and Marine Debris Partnership on September 3, last year. Marine Debris Partnership is a partnership between the United Nations Technology Innovation Labs (UNTIL), the VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, RiverRecycle Oy of Finland and Earth5R Environmental Services Private Limited. In the past few months, Earth5R has trained about 5,000 families on organic waste processing, compost making, and segregation of dry and recyclable waste in and around Kurla, Sion and Dharavi along Mithi River. This has helped in reduction of carbon footprint in these locations. Saurabh Gupta, founder, Earth5R, said they aimed to make it a role model in sustainable river cleaning. “Entire equipment is solar powered and we are using bio toilets, solar lamps and we want to make it a leading example in the world in sustainable river cleaning examples,” said Gupta. The 17.84-km Mithi river falls under the jurisdiction of both, BMC and MMRDA. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) in 2018 had conducted a water quality assessment of eight major state rivers in the state. It stated that Mithi river was Maharashtra’s most polluted river and contained human and animal excreta almost 15 times than the safe limit. Project: Mithi River Clean-up projectObjective: To collect floating matter on the river, and to recycle itTimeline*The project was inaugurated at the hands of Aaditya Thackeray, Minister, Environment and Climate Change, Tourism, and Guardian Minister, Mumbai Suburban District on Friday*River cleaning work will now begin*The equipment has already been installed in Mithi River near the Vakola Bridge. This site was chosen after conducting on-site trials and analysing the collected data*October 2020: Floating matter collection equipment consisting of boom, concentrator and recovery unit were designed and made at Helsinki, Finland by RiverRecycle and were dispatched*January 2021: The equipment reached IndiaMethod:*The boom will collect the floating waste*the Concentrator, using the flow of the river water, will guide the waste into the recovery unit through a conveyor belt, thus removing the floating wastes from the water*from the Recovery Unit, the waste will enter the segregation area via a transfer conveyor belt.*In the Segregation Area, the waste will move through a segregation conveyor belt and the different types of waste will be segregated*The process will use solar power with backup of battery charged by solar energy*It will be done in 3 shifts and the conveyor belts have infinite capacity to collect the floating wastesKey points:*Initial estimates indicate a daily collection of 5 tons of floating waste from single point. Gradually the capacity will be increased to 50 tons per day.*The floating matter collection and segregation will be observed over the next three months. Collected waste will be segregated, analysed and recycled*The team will examine other parameters like lifestyle changes and types of waste generated, to help in awareness campaignsDeadline: 18 monthsFirst six months: Signing of MoU between MMRDA and The Marine Debris Partnership; awareness programs across Mumbai, 100 Kg plastic waste collection and znalysis, installation of river cleaning machinery7th to 18th month: One-year operation of the river cleaning machinery with capacity to collect 50 ton of floating material per day, and analysis of the data on the contents of the waste collected from the riverCost: ₹5 croreWho is doing it:*MMRDA, which is the facilitator of the project, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Marine Debris Partnership on September 3 last year for Mithi River Clean-Up Project.*Marine Debris Partnership is a partnership between the United Nations Technology Innovation Labs (UNTIL), the VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, RiverRecycle Oy of Finland, and Earth5R Environmental Services Private Limited, Mumbai*Huhtamaki, a Finnish consumer packaging company is funding the project*UNTIL is the Project Manager for the partnership*VTT is the Fund Manager of the partnership*RiverRecycle is providing the technology for the cleaning of the Mithi River to stop plastic and floating debris from being carried into the sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiaaditya-thackeray-inaugurates-mithi-river-clean-up-pilot-project-101628269200780.html
06-08-2021||Other||Day after protest, 900 Powercom workers booked for suicide bid||Patiala A day after contractual employees of Powercom protested near the residence of Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, district police have booked 900 of them, including nine by name, on Friday. Two of the protesters had climbed atop a streetlight pole, along with a child, over their demand of regularisation of jobs. The child could be brought down only after great difficulty. Civil lines station house officer (SHO) Gurpreet Singh Bhindar said the protesters threatened to jump from streetlight poles, if their demands were not met. “We have named nine protesters in the FIR, while 900 unidentified persons have also been booked,” he added.Balihar Singh, state president of Powercom and Transco contractual employees union, claimed, “On Thursday, police resorted to lathi-charge for no reason as we were holding a peaceful march towards the residence of the chief minister.” “We were protesting along with our families and children. The government had failed to listen our demands, following which two of the protestors climbed atop a street-light, with a child,” he said.Police have registered a case under Sections 309 (attempt to suicide) and Section 387 (Putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt to commit extortion), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public function) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-protest-900-powercom-workers-booked-for-suicide-bid-101628269080172.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: IIT-B makes gender awareness course must for students||Students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) will now have to take a compulsory course in gender awareness. The course is aimed at sensitising students about gender discrimination and inequality. For the first time in the institute’s history of 63 years, a compulsory, zero credit gender awareness course will be offered to students at all levels. The institute’s senate passed the course in a meeting held last week. While many institutes offer gender sensitisation workshops for students, this is likely the first time that an IIT has instituted a mandatory course for the same. Last year, IIT-B renamed its women’s cell – meant for handling sexual harassment complaints – to the gender cell. It is this cell that has designed the course, said director Subhasis Chaudhuri.In a joint statement to HT, Rowena Robinson, convenor of the Gender Cell and Sahana Murthy, co-convenor, said, “In accordance with the law (Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Act, 2013) and IIT-B policy against sexual harassment, the institute, through its Gender Cell, aims to ensure gender awareness and sensitisation for all students and employees. The new course ‘Gender in the workplace’ rolling out for students soon, and subsequently for all staff and faculty, is in online mode in both English and Hindi and its objective is to sensitise individuals about broader issues of gender discrimination and inequality.” IITs have traditionally had very few women students apply for their courses. To address this lack of visibility of women, IITs have now introduced supernumerary seats to increase the number of women students to 20%. While these steps have improved the number of women studying Science, data shows that not many are retained in the field thereafter. According to a 2020 report by the United Nations, 43% of all graduates in STEM fields in India are women—the highest in the world. However, the report also found that only 14% of 2.8 lakh scientists, engineers and technologists employed in research institutions in the country are women. Robinson, professor in the department of humanities and social sciences, and Murthy, professor in the interdisciplinary program in education technology, said, “We believe it’s the first time that an online course of this nature is being initiated for all members of the institute. Students at all levels will be expected to complete this course. We are not aware of an instance like this. However, some IITs do conduct workshops and orientations on gender issues.”They said that the course— a pass/ no pass self-study one— will talk about how sexual harassment is a blatant form of gender inequality. “While it focuses on how the institute exercises its responsibility in dealing with this issue, it also emphasizes that it needs to be addressed collectively and that each member of the institute has an important role to play. The course lays out the systemic issues of patriarchy and power and associated gender stereotypes that underlie gender discrimination and sexual harassment. It emphasises that it is important to understand this social and cultural context to bring about a change in attitudes and tackle gender inequalities and sexual harassment seriously,” said Robinson and Murthy.Chaudhuri said, “Preponderance of a specific gender in classrooms, which is quite prevalent in technical universities, may lead to the unwanted asymmetrisation in behavioural traits of students in their formative years, apart from the undesirable stereotyping of the opposite sex. We hope that such mandatory training will make our students more appreciative and respectful to the other gender(s), thus making the IIT-B experience an enjoyable one to all students.” Robinson and Murthy said that the course is likely to be made available online for other educational institutions to train their students and faculty. “Gender Cell understands that gender sensitivity and awareness in the modern, global corporate workplace is no longer merely an issue of compliance with the law but is a competence that is highly valued. Hence, it is important for us to train and enhance the knowledge and capacities of our students to fit seamlessly and contribute more effectively in gender-diverse teams, offices and workplaces anywhere in the world,” they said.Currently women constitute less than 20% of the total undergraduate student population. Prajval Shastri, astrophysicist retired from the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, Bengaluru, who advocates intersectional feminism in academic spaces, said, “Better late than never! The HSS department and the lead faculty for the course must be congratulated on this amazing achievement. This means that finally there is acknowledgement from the management of an institute of higher education that gender inequity is systemic, rooted in patriarchy of mindsets perforce creeping into academic and campus life - a phenomenon that would be obvious to a social scientist but not commonly accepted by our science leaders so far. Presumably the design of the course tests for significant mindset shifts as a result of the course. I hope the hands of the lead faculty are strengthened by making the course mandatory for all institute faculty and staff including senior management, which will elevate it to being a valued course. It is most commendable and appropriate that the course from this public institution will be made widely available, which is bound to have far-reaching impact.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-iit-b-makes-gender-awareness-course-must-for-students-101628268841260.html
06-08-2021||Ranchi||JMM minister urges CM to include Bhojpuri, Magahi in JSSC examinations||Water resources minister and JMM leader Mithilesh Thakur on Friday urged chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren to include Bhojpuri and Magahi in the list of regional language papers. The minister met the CM on Friday and submitted a memorandum to that effect. In a social media post, the minister said the CM has assured to look into the demand.In his memorandum to the CM, Thakur underlined that people in the three districts in Palamu division and Chatra district in North Chhotangpur speak Bhojpuri and Magahi and if these languages are not included in the regional language options, candidates from these districts would not be able to apply for job examinations organised by the JSSC. The minister further said that these two languages are also prevalent in several north Chhottanagpur districts, including Hazaribag, Koderma, Dhanbad and Bokaro..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jmm-minister-urges-cm-to-include-bhojpuri-magahi-in-jssc-examinations-101628268480091.html
06-08-2021||Ranchi||BJP says Soren govt’s new employment policy discriminatory; JMM calls decision historic||In another round of controversy surrounding the employment policy in Jharkhand, the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday accused the Hemant Soren government of coming up with a “discriminatory policy” in terms of language and region, saying it was detrimental for Hindi speaking population and those belonging to the unreserved category in the state. The development comes a day after the Hemant Soren cabinet on Thursday cleared proposals amending the employment eligibility and syllabus for the examinations conducted by the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC) for grade III and IV government jobs.The new policy replaced the two-stage examination conducted by the JSSC with a single-stage competition. It also made it mandatory that anyone who does not belong to the reserved categories notified in the state must have passed Class 10 and 12 from any Jharkhand school to apply for a job offered by the JSSC.While the exact syllabus for the new exam pattern was yet to be published by the commission, the new examination pattern made it mandatory to clear a language paper from a given list of 12 regional languages, including tribal languages. Hindi and English exams will be the qualifying papers and the marks obtained in opted regional language exam will be added to the merit list.Addressing reporters at the party headquarters here Friday, Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said that the new policy approved by the state government was discriminatory against the official language Hindi, besides being an attempt to appease the minority community. The party would take all measures, political as well as legal, to ensure that the new policy is not implemented.“Earlier, subjects like Hindi, Sanskrit and Urdu were also in the list of main language papers. But the new policy has kept Urdu but dropped Hindi and Sanskrit out of it. By the new policy, the government is discriminating against people living in certain regions of the state,” said Shahdeo. “In districts like Palamu and Garhwa, many people speak Bhojpuri. Similarly, a majority of people in the Godda and Sahebganj districts speak Angika. While these languages have not been listed in the regional language, Hindi could have been a common link. But residents of these districts would not be able to appear for these posts,” he added.On the new rule of passing out Class 10 and 12 from a school in the state, Shahdeo said that it discriminates against the general category students who are Moolvasis (original inhabitants) of Jharkhand. However, the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) denied the charges saying the new policy was in the interest of the locals, including the tribals, Dalit, backward classes and the Moolvasis of the state. “There should be no confusion on this. Everyone whose umbilical cord is attached to the state would benefit from this policy, which is historic. Till now, there were too many loopholes in the employment policy that were used by people to challenge it in court. On the language front, instead of appeasement, we are assimilating all sections of society. Urdu was declared the second state language by the previous BJP government. As far as regional language is concerned, its importance lies in the fact that they act as a catalyst in governance as common people who interact with grade 3 and 4 category employees can express their problems properly in their mother tongue,” said JMM principal general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. Domicile and employment policy in Jharkhand has been a controversial issue and a hot potato for all political parties ever since this tribal-dominated state was carved out of Bihar in 2000. Bringing an end to the uncertainties over the issue, the previous BJP government led by Raghubar Das had fixed 1985 as the base year for deciding on the domicile of any citizen in the state.The issue continued to be a controversy and became a major talking point in the 2019 Assembly election when the BJP lost power, with other political parties, especially the JMM and the Congress, taking a contrary stand and promising to change it. However, the JMM-Congress-RJD combined government was yet to come up with a new proposal on the issue.The employment policy notified by the Raghubar Das government also turned into a controversy as the high court had struck down its policy to reserve jobs offered by the JSSC in 11 scheduled districts -- as per Schedule V of the Constitution -- only for the locals from those respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bjp-says-soren-govt-s-new-employment-policy-discriminatory-jmm-calls-decision-historic-101628268301321.html
06-08-2021||Patna||JD (U) will become number one in state: Lalan Singh||On his maiden visit to the state after assuming the post of JD(U) national president, Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh assured the party men that he will work hard to make the party number one in Bihar. Speaking at a felicitation ceremony organised at the party office on Friday, Singh thanked the workers and leaders associated with the party. “I will honestly discharge the responsibility entrusted to me by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar,” he said.“The job of the president is to protect the honour of the workers associated with the party and listen to them as they are the backbone of the party. The job of the president is to take everyone along,” said the Munger MP and asked the workers to pull their socks to take the work of Nitish Kumar to every house of the state.An analysis of the party’s poor performance during the 2020 assembly elections was the failure of the rank and file to properly propagate the works of chief minister Nitish Kumar, which revealed the party sources. On the other hand, the BJP effectively propagated the PM’s work and schemes.The party’s endeavour to become number one in Bihar is borne by the fact that JD (U) which had 89 MLAs in 2005 and was the single largest party increased its tally to 115 in 2010 and retained its number one position. However, it slipped to the second position in the 2015 assembly polls with 71 seats which it contested in alliance with the RJD which became the number one party with 80 seats. And in the 2020 assembly polls, JD (U) slipped further with just 43 seats while RJD retained the number one slot with 75 seats and the BJP becoming number two with 74 seats. Singh, who belongs to the Bhumihar community, was accorded a rousing welcome in the state capital. “I promise that I will stand shoulder to shoulder. Whenever I stay in Patna, I will be there for the workers in the office from noon. During this, I will leave the office in the evening after listening to each of the workers. I am grateful for the way I have been welcomed today,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jd-u-will-become-number-one-in-state-lalan-singh-101628268120256.html
06-08-2021||Other||Mob attacks police after 20-yr-old’s death||Several policemen were injured after being attacked by a mob protesting the killing of a 20-year-old man at Abhuar village under Kishanpur police station of Supaul district on Friday.Police had to fire rubber bullets to disperse the mob pelting stones on them, said superintendent of police Manoj Kumar. According to police, Sonu Kumar was shot dead following a heated argument with his friend Heera Kumar Jha, who has since gone absconding.Soon after the incident, hundreds of people blocked NH 327 (A) near Gol Chowk. Supaul district magistrate Mahendra Kumar and SP Manoj Kumar reached the spot, after which the mob went on a rampage. “An FIR has been lodged against the accused. Legal action will be taken against the accused and those indulged in stone-pelting,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mob-attacks-police-after-20-yr-old-s-death-101628267941258.html
06-08-2021||Other||Three minor girls drown||Three minor girls were drowned in a pond at a village under Jitna police station limits in East Champaran on Friday afternoon, said the police.The incident happened when one out of four girls fell into the pond while catching fish. The other two girls went to her rescue but fell into the pond too. The fourth girl immediately rushed to the village to inform others.“Their bodies were recovered from the pond and sent for autopsy,” said Anil Kumar, station house officer (SHO) Jitna police station..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-minor-girls-drown-101628267640178.html
06-08-2021||Patna||Siwan shooting: No arrest yet, locals protest||The Siwan police on Friday were yet to make a breakthrough in the case in which two persons riding a motorcycle went on a shooting spree at Maharajganj on Thursday, killing two on the spot and leaving two others seriously injured.Siwan’s superintendent of police Abhinav Kumar said the police were yet to reach any conclusion. “We are probing all angles, including revenge or old enmity. Several teams are working on the case. We hope to crack it soon,” he said.Meanwhile, local residents on Friday blockaded roads and shouted slogans against the police and forced a shutdown in Maharajganj market. Councillor Chandrika Ram said people cannot be forced to live in constant fear. “Four people getting shot is a reflection of law and order in the area,” he said. Family members of Sudama Yadav, who died on the spot after being shot, put his body on road near Rajendra Chowk and disrupted vehicular traffic. They were demanding an ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh and a government job for his next of kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/siwan-shooting-no-arrest-yet-locals-protest-101628267039976.html
06-08-2021||Patna||Patna mayor faces no-trust vote today, her third so far||A no-confidence motion against Patna mayor Sita Sahu, moved by a group of 29 corporators on August 3, will be put to vote in the 74-member Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday, officials said. This is the third no-confidence motion against Sahu, a BJP leader, during her five-year term that ends in April next year.The last was in June 2019, which she defeated as a majority of her opponents failed to turn up for voting. The first was in June 2018, which too was defeated. Patna municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma on Friday reviewed security arrangements around the Bankipore circle of PMC, where the corporators are likely to discuss the motion and cast their votes. Vinay Kumar Pappu, a corporator opposed to the mayor who chaired the meeting of the rival camp, alleged that most of the members who brought in the motion actually belonged to Sahu’s camp and sought immediate intervention of the state government to dislodge her. Last week, deputy mayor Meena Devi was unseated after she lost the no-confidence vote. Officials said the election for her successor would be notified once the mayor’s issue is resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-mayor-faces-no-trust-vote-today-her-third-so-far-101628266740033.html
06-08-2021||Other||Stray dogs kill 12-year-oldboy in Saharanpur village||MEERUT A pack of stray dogs mauled a 12-year-boy to death inside an orchard in Padligrut village under Mirzapur police station limits in Saharanpur district on Friday. Terming it an unfortunate incident, police station in charge Bhanu Pratap Singh said that the family of the victim refused post-mortem examination of the body. The incident occurred on Friday morning inside a village orchard where the boy Aamir and a few other children were playing. A pack of stray dogs were also resting inside the orchard, and they suddenly attacked the children. The terrified children shouted for help and ran towards the village to protect themselves.. While other children managed to escape, the dogs caught Aamir and mauled him to death. The other children informed Aamir’s family and villagers who rushed to the spot and drove the dogs away to extricate mutilated body of the boy. The incident sent a shock wave in the village and people voiced their anger on increasing incidents of stray dog attacks on children in the district. In similar incidents, stray dogs mauled to death two infants in Dayalpur village in Behat area of the district in June 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stray-dogs-kill-12-year-oldboy-in-saharanpur-village-101628266440974.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to reopen schools from August 17, announces education minister||Maharashtra on Friday became the latest state to announce reopening of schools as state education minister Varsha Gaikwad said schools in both rural and urban areas will reopen on August 17. "Offline classes will commence in rural areas for students from class 5-8, while those in cities will be for students from class 8-12 following Covid-19 protocols," Gaikwad said, according to news agency ANI.We will reopen schools for students from class 5 to 8 in rural areas from August 17. In cities, we'll reopen class 8 to 12 while following #COVID19 protocol: Maharashtra Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad pic.twitter.com/lHmtVZS1qqThe announcement by the Maharashtra education minister came on a day when two other states, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, also laid out plans for the reopening of schools in the respective states. In Karnataka, schools will reopen for students from class 9-12 from August 23, while in Tamil Nadu offline classes will begin from September 1.Also Read | Maharashtra announces new set of Covid-19 relaxationsEarlier, on July 12, 5947 schools in rural areas in Maharashtra resumed offline classes for standards 8-12 in rural areas where Covid-19 cases were not being detected. Also, in recent days, schools in several other states, including Punjab, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, reopened after being closed due to the devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. In Uttar Pradesh, on campus classes will resume on August 16 for majority of schools for standards 9-12.Also Read | Most UP schools to reopen on Aug 16In terms of new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra logged more than 6000 fresh infections each day between August 3 and 5, while on August 2, the daily caseload stood at 4869, according to government data. The western state's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally is at 6,336,220 including 6,124,278 recoveries from the viral disease and 133,530 deaths due to it, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/schools-in-maharashtra-to-reopen-from-august-17-announces-state-education-minister-101628262378304.html
06-08-2021||Other||UP BEd entrance test heldunder strict vigil, 90% attendance recorded||Lucknow: Over five lakh students across the state appeared in the Uttar Pradesh BEd entrance exam held at 1476 centres in 75 districts on Friday, amidst Covid-19 pandemic. The exam recorded over 90% attendance, according to information provided by the exam management committee. While the arrangements were in place inside exam halls as per Covid-19 protocols, the candidates flouted social distancing norms outside the centres. Large crowds were seen outside the exam venues in the morning in most districts. “The BEd exam was held successfully across the state with no untoward incident being reported. We used latest technologies to ensure that the exam was held in a fair manner,” said state coordinator Amita Bajpai. “Further process, including results and counselling will also be done in a fair manner,” she added. The exam was held in two shifts of three hours each. The first shift was between 9 am to 12 pm while the second shift was held between 2pm to 5pm. The paper included multiple choice questions which were to be answered on an optimal mark reader paper. The question paper in both shifts comprised 100 questions each. A total of 5.91 lakh students registered for the exam of which 5.3 lakh appeared in the exam. Of these, 28141 students took the exam in the state capital. All the candidates appearing in the exam were provided a Covid-19 protective kit comprising masks, face shield and sanitiser. To avoid use of unfair means, the management used artificial intelligence-based technology. “We have identified some suspected candidates. Their mark sheets will be scrutinised carefully before releasing the result,” said Bajpai. The management committee also kept biometric and video data of the candidates which will be preserved securely for over two years. As per schedule, the results of the exam will be declared on August 27 and online counselling will be held from September 1. Chandan Kumar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-bed-entrance-test-heldunder-strict-vigil-90-attendance-recorded-101628264400186.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Agriculture in 25 districts of Maharashtra vulnerable to climate changes, says study||A new study by researchers from two Central government institutes — both under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) — has found that just over two-thirds of arable land in Maharashtra is vulnerable to climate change-related impacts, such as drought, floods, and diminishing water security.Of the state’s 36 districts, 11 were found to be highly vulnerable to climate-related agricultural distress (making up 40% of cropped land), while another 14 districts (making up 37% of the state’s agricultural land) were found to be moderately vulnerable to climate change. These districts are all spread out over eastern Vidarbha and central Maharashtra.The study, titled ‘Socio-economic vulnerability to climate change – Index development and mapping for districts in Maharashtra’, was led by researchers Chaitanya Adhav (from the ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute in Karnal, Haryana) and Dr R Sendhil (from ICAR-Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research in Karnal).Adhav, who is originally from Ahmednagar district in Maharashtra, clarified that his paper (available as a pre-print on the Social Science Research Network) is currently awaiting peer review, and has been submitted to an internal environmental journal for publication. Mumbai city and suburban districts have been excluded from the scope of the study.“Maharashtra has been selected purposively for this study as the state is severely facing rainfall and temperature anomalies along with persistent droughts and many climatic factors impacting agriculture and allied activities,” the authors have noted in their paper. Citing the example of water scarcity during the Kharif season (June to October) of 2018-19, which affected 151 talukas (blocks) across 26 districts, the authors note that such incidents “signify a key threat to communities that depend on agriculture for food and livelihoods”.To quantify the risk faced by 34 of the state’s districts, Adhav and his team developed a “climate change-induced socioeconomic vulnerability index (SeVI) comprising various socio-economic as well as crop and dairy indicators” using a methodology prescribed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to assess regional-level climate vulnerability. IPCC’s model categorises various indicators into three categories: exposure, sensitivity and adaptability.For the study, a total of 44 indicators were selected after expert consultations and literature reviews. Under the exposure vertical of the IPCC’s assessment, for example, indicators include trends in temperature for summer, Kharif and rabi crop season, along with trends in humidity and meteorological drought. Under the sensitivity vertical, indicators include data on population density, irrigation capabilities, size of operational holdings for small and marginal farmers, groundwater availability, and farmer suicides among others. Finally, under the adaptivity vertical, data on literacy rate, human development index (HDI), several fair price shops in the district, crop diversity and subsidised food grain distribution were considered.After assigning an index value to each district, under each of these verticals, a composite socio-economic index value was computed to assess the district’s overall risk and preparedness to deal with climate-related distress. The Socioeconomic Vulnerability Index was highest in Nandurbar, the authors have noted. Other districts categorised as ‘highly vulnerable’ include Buldhana, Beed, Jalna, Aurangabad, Hingoli, Parbhani, Nanded, Akola, Amravati and Washim.Another 14 districts were categorised as ‘moderately vulnerable’, including Dhule, Jalgaon, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Sangli, Solapur, Osmanabad, Latur, Yavatmal, Wardha, Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gondia and Gadchiroli. Across both degrees of vulnerability, the main cash crops which are likely to bear the brunt of changing climate trends include jowar, rice, wheat, sugarcane, cotton, ragi, cashew nut, barley, and millets, the authors have cautioned. Meanwhile, nine districts including Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Nashik, Satara, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar, Nagpur and Pune were found to be least vulnerable to climate agricultural distress.Expressing concern over these findings, Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD student at University of Reading in England, said, “The last decade alone has shown us severe droughts in 2014, 2015 and 2018, massive hailstorms in 2014 and 2015, and excess rainfall in 2016, 2019 and 2021 that led to significant flooding in western parts of the state. In the absence of proper irrigation in Marathwada and Vidarbha, fluctuations in the monsoon rainfall will affect sowing and crop growth, resulting in a high vulnerability to crop yield. Even this year, districts across northern Maharashtra such as Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Nashik and parts of western Vidarbha have witnessed a very low number of monsoon rainfall days, impacting Kharif sowing. Proper and lucid advisories could have prevented farmers from sowing in June, which would have mitigated the resultant financial stress.”Vijay Anna Borade, trustee, Marathwada Sheti Sahayak Mandal (MSSM), also agreed with Adhav’s analysis. “What we are witnessing now is a concern because, on one hand, the number of rainy days in a year has reduced drastically while on the other hand areas in Marathwada, which usually receive very little rainfall, are now being flooded. Changing crop patterns is a solution but we also need to create parallel programs to tackle the lack of drainage, irrigation and facilitate efficient crop rotation to ensure stable incomes and productivity. There is a lot of discussion on climate change and agriculture, but it is very little on-ground action.”Speaking to HT over the phone, Adhav expressed particular worry for districts that scored low on the adaptivity index in his analysis. “Some of the districts which were found to be the least adaptable, like Beed, have already seen extremely high numbers of farmer suicides. Our analysis is a reflection of trends which have already been established or are just beginning to emerge.” Hindustan Times reached out to Aditi Tatkare, minister of state for horticulture and Dheeraj Kumar, commissioner, agriculture department for a comment but has not received a response yet. Despite attempts, HT was unable to contact Dadaji Bhuse, minister of state for agriculture, on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/agriculture-in-24-districts-of-maharashtra-vulnerable-to-climate-changes-says-study-101628263799852.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||CBI seeks Rana Kapoor’s custody in Avantha case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday sought a production warrant for Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor in connection with the Avantha case. However, Kapoor has raised objections against CBI’s plea. CBI has alleged that Kapoor and his wife bought a bungalow from Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar at a much lower price than its valuation. In the past, Thapar had mortgaged the bungalow for a corporate loan of ₹600 crore, but he sold it for ₹380 crore to Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd, in which Kapoor’s wife was a director at the time.Kapoor is currently in judicial custody after being arrested in March 2019 in connection with the Yes Bank fraud case.The CBI on Friday approached the special CBI court for a production warrant to interrogate Kapoor. Kapoor’s lawyer Pranav Badheka, in response, moved a plea questioning the maintainability of CBI’s plea for production warrant. He pleaded with the court to hear the objections before passing any order.Special judge SU Wadgaonkar, who is scheduled to hear the plea on Saturday, said that the prayers and the objection to maintainability on behalf of the accused also needs to be considered.The special CBI court had in September last year rejected Kapoor’s plea for anticipatory bail in this case. Besides, Thapar has been recently arrested by Enforcement Directorate in Delhi in connection with money laundering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-seeks-rana-kapoor-s-custody-in-avantha-case-101628262839138.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 44 fresh Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths; positivity rate dips to 0.06%||The national capital recorded 44 fresh COVID-19 cases and five deaths due to the disease on Friday, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.06 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here.The coronavirus death toll in the city now stands at 25,065, it showed.On Thursday, Delhi recorded 61 cases with a positivity rate of 0.08 per cent and two fatalities, as per the bulletin.On Friday, 44 cases and five deaths were reported, while the positivity rate slipped to 0.06 per cent, it stated.No death due to COVID-19 was recorded in Delhi on Wednesday, while 67 cases of the infection were detected with a positivity rate of 0.09 per cent.This was the fifth time since the beginning of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital when zero deaths had been logged in a day.Before this, the daily COVID-19 fatality count was zero on July 18, July 24, July 29 and August 2, as per official data.The second wave swept through the city during April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-44-fresh-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-positivity-rate-dips-to-006-101628262546700.html
06-08-2021||Other||Stadium to be built, named after women hockey team member||Amritsar To honour Indian Olympic women hockey team player, Gurjit Kaur, of Miadi Kalan, 10km from the India-Pakistan International border, the foundation stone of a stadium was laid in her village on Friday. Gurjit scored two goals in the bronze medal against Great Britain at the Tokyo Olympics on Friday.Amritsar zila parishad chairman Dilraj Singh Sarkaria, sarpanch Dilbag Singh, the player’s father Satnam Singh and other prominent persons were present at the stone-laying ceremony.Gurjit and her sister Pardeep Kaur, a hockey coach at Sansarpur, negotiated several hardships in pursuit of their goal of sporting glory, villagers mention.Gurjit’s father, Satnam, said, “There is no stadium or playground or any other sports facility in this border area. A stadium here will be a huge blessing for all.”“Irrespective of the match result, Gurjit gave a remarkable performance. She had to sit out for a few minutes, this made the difference,” he added.Her cousin Gurcharan Singh, “We accept the defeat in the match. My sister, however, has helped India finish 4th at the Olympics, a creditable feat. We will accord her a warm welcome on her return.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stadium-to-be-built-named-after-women-hockey-team-member-101628262479710.html
06-08-2021||Other||Sukhbir deputes five-member delegation to MP to assist Sikligars||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday deputed a five-member party delegation to visit Madhya Pradesh to assist the Sikligar community, which has alleged undue harassment by the police of the Central Indian state. They also allege that they are being forced to leave their homes and take refuge in forests. Sukhbir said Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa is heading this delegation. Over 35,000 Sikligars live in Madhya Pradesh along the Narmada River. Members of the community claim that they have been ignored for decades and even implicated in false criminal cases. “We will pursue a package to bring them back into the national mainstream,” Sukhbir said. Sirsa added that the community had helped the Sikh Guru Sahiban in the war against Mughals by making Kirpans and other weapons, and later they made such kind of ammunition for the Indian freedom struggle. “It is shocking to see their current state, where police officials are torturing them and forcing them to flee to nearby jungles. Many of them have been arrested and jailed,” Sirsa added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sukhbir-deputes-five-member-delegation-to-mp-to-assist-sikligars-101628261759595.html
06-08-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh rains: IMD issues orange alert for 5 districts, yellow alert for 12||At a time when several areas of Madhya Pradesh are facing flood-like situation, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued orange and yellow alerts for 17 districts of the central state. While an orange alert forecasts "very heavy to heavy rain," a yellow alert is for "heavy rainfall."Also Read | MP floods: 2 dead, PM Modi reviews situation with CM ChouhanThe orange alert is for five districts, and has projected rainfall measuring between 64.5 mm and 204 mm. These districts are: Vidisha, Raisen, Rajgarh, Guna and Ashok Nagar. Meanwhile, the yellow alert, forecasting rainfall measuring between 64.5 mm to 115 mm, is for the following 12 districts: Sehore, Shajapur, Agar-Malwa, Neemuch, Mandsaur, Shivpuri, Datia, Sheopur, Seoni, Sagar, Tikamgarh and Niwari. Both alerts are valid till Saturday morning.Also Read | Over 30,000 people stranded in MP floods rescued in 5 days: OfficialAdditionally, the weather department has projected showers or thundershowers at most places falling under nine divisions, including those in the state's Capital city of Bhopal."A lower pressure area is lying over central parts of north Madhya Pradesh. Almost all of Madhya Pradesh received intermittent rainfall in the last 24 hours. Guna district in the Gwalior division was lashed by rainfall measuring 156 mm, between 8:30 am to 2:30 pm on Friday," PK Saha, a senior meteorologist at the IMD's Bhopal office, said.Meanwhile, speaking on the flood situation in Ashok Nagar, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted he spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah to send a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) for rescue operations. "Helicopters of the Indian Air Force are not being able to take off due to heavy rains. Teams of the NDRF and the Army will soon arrive to rescue those stranded. Two additional teams of the State Disaster Response Force, too, have been sent to Ashok Nagar," Chouhan tweeted.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-rains-imd-issues-orange-alert-for-5-districts-yellow-alert-for-12-101628258414120.html
06-08-2021||Other||Covid screening to be intensified atLucknow hospitals||LUCKNOW Additional teams will be deployed at OPDs of hospitals in Lucknow from Monday to intensify sample collection for Covid tests. The teams will be present at Balrampur, Civil, Lok Bandhu, Rani Laxmi Bai, Jhalkaribai (women) Dufferin (women) hospitals between 8am and 2pm. Rapid response teams equipped with RT-PCR and antigen test kits will screen people for SARI (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and all such patients will be tested. Those who undergo antigen test will get their report immediately and those screened via RT-PCR method will get the report within 24 hours, said officials. “As people with health problems come to the OPDs, there is more focus on hospital OPDs to screen suspected Covid cases,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow. The health department is already screening passengers for Covid at the airport, railway station, bus station and also toll gates on highway. “OPD is one place where suspected Covid patients can be identified immediately, as those ill come to see a doctor. It is also easy to get details of people they have met (contact tracing) in the past few days,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-screening-to-be-intensified-atlucknow-hospitals-101628259899710.html
06-08-2021||Other||CBI registers FIR against former CoE of UPPSC||PRAYAGRAJ The CBI registered an FIR against the former controller of examination (CoE) of Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC), Prabhunath, for alleged irregularities in the conduct of additional private secretary recruitment exam-2010, said officials of the investigation agency on Friday. A preliminary inquiry related to the exam was registered at the Delhi branch of the CBI against unknown officers of the UPPSC and other unknown persons in pursuance of an order of the UP government (dated September 4, 2018) and a corresponding notification (dated January 15, 2019) by the central government for conducting probe into the alleged irregularities in the recruitment exam, the officials said. “Prima facie, criminality has been found against Prabhunath, other UPPSC officials and some unknown persons. Prabhunath and other officials entered into criminal conspiracy with each other to extend undue benefit to some of the undeserving candidates for their selection as additional private secretary through the APS exam-2010 conducted by UPPSC. They selected some undeserving candidates,” the officials said. It was decided by the UPPSC that the candidates who had applied for the post of additional private secretary would have to appear and qualify General Hindi, Hindi Short Hand test.The Hindi Short Hand test was of 135 marks and candidates had to obtain minimum 125 to qualify after relaxation of 5% errors, as per rule. It was decided that if the number of candidates who had obtained minimum 125 (or committed mistakes below 5%) and marks were not available then, in such circumstances, the commission could apply its discretionary power (further relaxation of extra 3% and total up to 8% errors). And such candidates who obtained minimum 119 marks (or committed mistakes up to 8% marks) could also be considered as qualified for the third phase of examination i.e. computer knowledge test, the FIR pointed out. The CBI probe found that 913 qualified candidates out of 1,244 were such candidates who had obtained minimum 125 marks (committed mistakes up to 5%) and 331 candidates had obtained marks between 119-124 (committed mistakes up to 8%) in Hindi Short Hand test. In such circumstances, as per approval of the commission, when sufficient number of candidates were available for final selection then there was no need to give 3% extra relaxation in errors and they should have not been qualified for 3rd phase of examination, stated the complaint. Further as per rule and decision of the commission, only 913 candidates should have been considered qualified for computer knowledge test, but the same decision was violated by Prabhunath along with other officials to give undue favour to some non-deserving candidates and allowed to qualify total 1,244 candidates, the CBI FIR stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-registers-fir-against-former-coe-of-uppsc-101628256659486.html
06-08-2021||Other||Punjabi varsity SDO facing recovery case of ₹2.7 cr overpayment resigns||Patiala Eight months after the Punjab higher education department directed Punjabi University, Patiala, to recover ₹2.7 crore from three of its employees who overpaid this amount to the contractor for construction projects in 2010, a sub-divisional officer (SDO), SS Cheema, named in the order has resigned. The SDO did not inform any of the varsity authorities, except his immediate superior, an executive engineer. The higher education department had acted on the basis of a state vigilance report. The overpayment was made during the tenure of former vice-chancellor Jaspal Singh, with the vigilance naming three officers, one of whom has died. The projects were the construction of the Masters of Business Administration (MBA) building, the University College of Engineering, renovation of hostels and the teaching block.“The SDO concerned has already stopped attending office. He only intimated his reporting manager, who is the executive engineer, that he is resigning,” an official said.Executive engineer Manjeet Singh Sidhu confirmed that Cheema has tendered his resignation. “I am not aware of any pending inquiry against him,” he added.Vice-chancellor Arvind said Cheema had approached his office for taking Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS), but his file was not processed as he has a pending recovery case against him. “There is a process in place for tendering resignation, and for its acceptance,” the V-C said, adding that the varsity has sought legal advise on how to apportion the division of recovery amount among those named in the vigilance report. “The university will recover the required amount, once the report is in,” he said.“Even if Cheema has resigned, the university can recover its money from the financial benefits due to him for his services,” said a varsity official, not wanting to be named. Cheema could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.The vigilance had investigated the construction projects on an anonymous complaint it had received in 2017. An audit report, prepared separately, had also expressed concern over siphoning of sand worth ₹36 lakh during the construction of the basement of the engineering department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabi-varsity-sdo-facing-recovery-case-of-rs-2-7-cr-overpayment-resigns-101628256239838.html
06-08-2021||Patna||Nalanda land dispute killings: Bihar Police suspends cop for dereliction of duty||The Bihar Police on Friday suspended an officer in Nalanda for dereliction of duty in connection with the killing of five people in a land dispute at Lodipur village,18km from Rajgir sub-division, a couple of days ago. The incident took place on Wednesday. The five slain persons are Jaddu Yadav (60) and his two sons Madhesh Yadav (35) and Pintu Yadav (30), Dhirendra Yadav (55) and his brother Shivendra Yadav alias Shibal Gope (30), all natives of Lodipur. The injured were identified as Parsuram Yadav, Mantu Yadav, Shambhu Yadav, Binda Yadav and Atul Prabhakar. Binda Yadav and Atul Prabhakar said to be battling for their lives at PMC Hospital. When Sanjay Singh, inspector general of police (central range), visited the spot and inquired about the incident, the victims’ family members alleged that the incident took place due to the failure of the Rajgir sub-division police, who did not act on time. Singh ordered the deployment of additional forces in the village to prevent another incident. Also Read | Six of family shot dead over land dispute in NalandaNalanda SP Hariprasath S said, “Chhabilapur SHO Binod Kumar failed to perform his duty efficiently, so he has been suspended. We have also initiated a departmental inquiry against him. Two persons, including prime accused Mahendra Yadav, and Ashok Yadav were arrested till Friday morning in connection with the case.” Police also recovered four firearms from some of the assailants’ houses. A case has been lodged against 16 named and 20 unknown persons on the basis of the statement of one Krishna Deo Yadav. “Seized weapons used in the killings will be sent to FSL for ballistic examination. Continuous raids are being carried out to nab other accused persons who areon the run,” the IG added.At least five members of a family were shot dead and five others injured over a dispute relating to ancestral land at a village in Nalanda district on Wednesday, police said.Following the incident in Lodipur village under Chhabilapur police station limits, a large police contingent was deployed in the area to prevent any escalation. According to police, there was a dispute over 25 bighas (a local land measurement unit) of land in the village between two related families, which are already in court for title suit settlement. In April this year, the two sides has even signed a pledge at the police station to maintain peace.According to police, the incident occurred when members of one family on Wednesday went to plough the land. “Heated arguments between the two families led to a fight. The situation took an ugly turn when gunshots were fired,” said Singh.In the ensuing violence, four people were shot dead on the spot while one more died later, the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nalanda-land-dispute-killings-bihar-police-suspends-cop-for-dereliction-of-duty-101628254200449.html
06-08-2021||Other||Covid patient succumbs to injuries from fall in Odisha hospital||Two days after a 73-year-old Covid patient died in the toilet of government-run SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack, Odisha, another Covid patient undergoing treatment at the same hospital succumbed to his injuries on Thursday after falling off the fourth floor.The 25-year-old man from Mayurbhanj was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday after testing positive for Covid-19. Officials said the same day, he fell from a window of the 4th floor and sustained serious injuries on his head. Though he was immediately rushed to the casualty wing, he succumbed to his injuries on Thursday.Emergency officer of SCB Medical College and Hospital, Dr Bhubanananda Maharana said the man had a record of mental health issues and had seizures before he was diagnosed with Covid. Also Read | In Odisha, kin of hockey Olympians overjoyed after bronze medal win“His brother, who brought him from Mayurbhanj, said he suffered from seizures in the past. Soon after he was admitted to the Covid ward, he became violent and started hitting his brother and other nurses. He was pacified, but again became violent. Around 4pm on Wednesday, he jumped out of a window in his ward. He was admitted to casualty wing where he succumbed to his injuries today,” said Dr Maharana. On Tuesday, a 73-year-old Covid patient had collapsed in the toilet of the hospital, triggering allegations of negligence. Dhruba Charan Behera of Cuttack was admitted to the Covid ward on Monday and was on oxygen support. On Tuesday evening, his son tried to contact him over phone but could not do so. Then he called up the attendant of another patient in the same ward who told him that his father was not on his bed.Following this, Behera’s son and daughter rushed to the hospital and started a search only to find their father lying in the toilet of the ward. Behera’s son lodged an FIR with local police alleging that even though his father was on oxygen support, no one from the medical staff attended to him. However, Dr B Maharana said Behera most likely suffered a cardiac arrest while he was in the toilet. A senior doctor who was in charge of one of the Covid wards has been asked to inquire into the incident, he said.Police officials in Mangalabag police station said they are still investigating the case.Odisha health minister Naba Das has sought a report following the allegations.The SCB Medical College and hospital is bearing the burden of Covid cases after the state government closed most of its dedicated Covid hospitals. The Cuttack district administration has closed 10 Covid hospitals. With the number of daily positive cases continuing to remain around 200 in Cuttack, the number of critical patients at SCB is yet to come down. There are around 250 patients undergoing treatment at SCB Covid hospital and all the 107 ICU beds are occupied by critical patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patient-succumbs-to-injuries-from-fall-in-odisha-hospital-101628254139349.html
06-08-2021||Other||UP ATS nabs key member of human trafficking racket from Hyderabad||LUCKNOW The UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Thursday arrested another key member of the racket claimed to be involved in trafficking Rohingya women and children from their countries into India, said police officials on Friday. The accused Mohd Ismail, of Myanmar, was arrested from Hyderabad and being brought to Lucknow on transit remand for interrogation, said Prashant Kumar, ADG, law and order, UP Police.Ismail’s name surfaced during the interrogation of three accused, including a Bangladeshi national Noor Mohammed and two others – Rehmatullah and Shabi-ur-Rehman from Myanmar, who were arrested from the Delhi-bound Brahmputra train at Ghaziabad on July 27. The police had also rescued two women, aged 16 and 18, from Myanmar, whom the accused intended to take to Delhi, he said.Another police official said Mohd Ismail was the main person who arranged illegal stay of women trafficked from Bangladesh-based refugee camps and later sold them to different gangs for prostitution. He said crucial details about this international trafficking racket were extracted from Ismail. “Some of the women are also suspected to be sent to countries like Malaysia for flesh trade,” he added. The official said these gangs brought Rohingyas into the country through the Indo-Bangladesh or Indo-Myanmar border in Tripura. The UP ATS lodged an FIR under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the arrested people and applied for their custody remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-ats-nabs-key-member-of-human-trafficking-racket-from-hyderabad-101628254081093.html
06-08-2021||Other||Former official alleges PF fraud in Gonda civic body||LUCKNOW Former chairman of Gonda municipal council, Rupesh Srivastava, on Friday alleged that the current authorities of the municipal corporation were involved in misappropriation of sanitation workers’ provident fund.This was done by transferring the monthly PF amount to forged accounts opened in the name of sanitary workers and by preparing forged balance sheets, said Srivastava at a press conference in Lucknow. He demanded immediately inquiry into the matter by the state government orders. He alleged that the present office-bearers and the authorities of the Gonda municipal council were involved in this fraud going on since 2017. Srivastava said he had been trying to expose this fraud, but the council authorities were not taking action despite directives from the Gonda district magistrate for inquiry in the matter.The former chairman said the council’s executive officer had lodged an FIR against a clerk, accusing him of not providing documents related to the PF of sanitary workers, but no action was taken in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-official-alleges-pf-fraud-in-gonda-civic-body-101628253239139.html
06-08-2021||Patna||All Bihar district hospitals to be made feeding bottle-free by end of 2022||All district hospitals across Bihar will be milk bottle-free by December 2022. As of now, 12 district hospitals have been declared milk bottle-free.The state health society, department of health and family welfare, has been working with the technical support of the UNICEF, Bihar, to encourage breastfeeding and end bottle feeding. To achieve the target of completely eliminating bottle feeding from all district hospitals by the end of 2022, a special awareness drive has been planned. The Infant and Young Child Feeding (IYCF) counsellors at hospitals will make the hospital staff aware about the adverse impacts of bottle feeding. They would also be asked to ensure breastfeeding within an hour of birth. Besides, special breastfeeding rooms will be developed at all the health institutions to promote this practice.  “For the last two-three years we have been trying to make district hospitals bottle-free. We have been able to achieve this target in 12 district hospitals: Arwal, Bhagalpur, Gaya, Jehanabad, Khagaria, Muzaffarpur, Purnea, Samastipur, Saran, Sheikhpura, and Sitamarhi. Now there’s the target to make all district hospitals milk bottle-free by the end of 2022,” Dr Vijay Prakash Rai, programme officer, child health at the State Health Society, said. Also Read | Bihar human rights panel team visits Bettiah jail over prisoner complaintsFocus is on the effective implementation of the Infant Milk Substitutes (Feeding Bottles and Infant Foods) Act. Activities like promotion of milk substitute or feeding bottles would be banned on the hospital premises. The Act, further amended in 2003, bans all forms of promotion of foods marketed to children up to two years of age. However, Nipurn Gupta, communication expert, Unicef, Bihar, said the concept of bottle-free hospitals is to ensure breastfeeding. But in case a mother has a lactation problem, counsellors help her in identifying the problem, she said. “This kind of problem is mainly related to mental health of the mother. So the effort is made to sort out the issue through counselling and emotional support. In case there’s a need of medical treatment, that too is made available,” she said.Sometimes, the newborn is too weak to suckle. In that case, hospital staff try to collect mother’s milk and feed the baby with a spoon, she added.Dr Shivani Dar, nutrition expert from Unicef, Bihar, said bottle feeding is unsafe and should never be encouraged. “Most of the serious infections in newborn are through feeding bottles. Even among children in the age groups of three months to two years, problems such as diarrhoea or malnutrition are caused by feeding bottles ,” she said. Bimalesh Sinha, deputy director, child health, state health society, said,“Some basic infrastructure is required for this practice... Breastfeeding rooms will be provided at all the hospitals.” All ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activists) workers, ANM (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife) and the anganbadi women have been asked to visit door-to-door to identify pregnant women and make them aware about breastfeeding, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/all-bihar-district-hospitals-to-be-made-feeding-bottle-free-by-end-of-2022-101628252999059.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: The Maverick Kapoor||Perhaps Aditya Raj Kapoor’s personal journey is even more remarkable than his round-the-world trip, undertaken alone on a motorcycle at 61. The son of two stars of the Indian film industry — late Geeta Bali and Shammi Kapoor, it could be said that on his birth, Aditya or Mickey’s future had been cut out for him, as well fitting as a suit from Mumbai’s famous Kachins Tailors: after his schooling he’d work as an AD at RK Studios, while simultaneously being groomed by his family’s ecosystem into a shining star who’d soon climb the ladder of fame, fortune and unbridled fandom. Who is not familiar with the Kapoor story? A legendary patriarch with his brood of swashbuckling actor-sons, each an icon in his own right; a life of endless glamor and glitz; of parties, previews and premieres; and of course, those famous Holi bashes where Sitara Devi had danced, and Raj Kapoor had played his dholak… Except, this Kapoor’s life hadn’t followed the conventional formulae or screenplay; in fact, there had been a sudden veering away from the script, quite early on. As he tells it, his mother’s sudden and tragic death when he was nine had resulted in a troubled childhood and a lost young man; the saving grace had been that through it all his stepmother Neela Devi’s steadfast love and support had resulted in Kapoor living a life completely unlike that of his clan. “I was never a biker. Biking was never in my vision. I was about 56 when I bought my first bike and past 60 when I finished my round the world trip,” says Kapoor, about his journey which he embarked on in June 2017 in Mumbai and which had seen him ride through 15 countries including Russia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, France, England, America, Indonesia Thailand and Myanmar — a journey that had taken 315 days and covered a staggering 35,000 kms. But remarkable as it is, a journey perhaps not as extraordinary as the one he’d embarked on as a young man. *****************************************Speaking to Aditya, one realises that his epic journey had begun much earlier, when he’d been introduced at 17 by his stepmother to her guru, an enigmatic spiritual master called Bholey Baba of Haidakhan, Uttarakhand. This was when on the verge of a promising debut as a film star, on the single sentence of his guru, Kapoor had upset the apple cart and overnight turned his back on the film industry, to dedicate himself to a life of considerable hardship and devotion in his ashram. “There I was, a star son, brought up in Malabar Hill. And life at the ashram was completely alien to anything I’d known,” he says. “We had to rise at 3.30am to bathe in the river then perform a havan followed by an arti by 8am. Then the day’s hard labour began — carrying rocks for construction of a bridge, sweeping the ashram, settling footwear or preparing meals and collecting buckets of water and carrying them up 108 steps…” On the wishes of his guru who, he says, had revealed his entire future to him one day while sitting on a riverbank, Kapoor had married Priti, a fellow devotee and had become a businessman. Eschewing the glamorous life of his family and rarely being seen in public, he’d lived and worked away from the public eye in the Middle East with his devoted wife and their two kids. Upon retirement, he’d returned to India and that’s when he’d bought his first bike, on the prompting of his son, himself a biker. So, had his guru predicted his trip? “A guru doesn’t hand you a typed statement. Mostly he communicates in shrouded meanings, parables and poems,” says Kapoor, adding, “Once, a devotee had given Babaji a watch as a gift, which he’d promptly fastened around my wrist saying, “This watch will go around the world!” When I planned my world trip, I knew I would complete it, because of that.” *****************************************It is difficult to even imagine the profound courage it must have taken Kapoor to embark on a world trip, all alone, riding in unfamiliar terrain and unpredictable situations. According to him, he’d inherited this courage from his late mother. “She was extraordinarily courageous,” he says. “Her father had been a revered philosopher and at a very young age she’d travelled extensively by ship with him on his preaching pilgrimages, and very early on, she had decided to become the breadwinner for her family, defying all convention and patriarchal norms, even running away from Amritsar to Lahore for a radio singing assignment. Once, after their marriage, when my parents were out on shikar, my father said that she had been so fascinated by a tiger that she’d got out of the car and sat on the bonnet to admire it fearlessly.” Kapoor says, “She must have put all that into me.” *****************************************To understand what it was like to be alone on his Triumph Bonneville circumnavigating the globe, one must read Kapoor’s recently published Quest — a meticulous diary, replete with colourful insights, anecdotes and photographs of the innumerable exhilarating experiences he’d encountered along the way, including traversing the challenging Trans-Siberian Highway, bedding down in various idiosyncratic AirBnBs and roadside dhaaba meals that had sustained him. Above all, it is a chronicle of the warm, vibrant people he’d met on the journey, many of them devotees of his Guru, at ashrams across the four corners of the world. “I had made up my mind to visit people and not monuments,” he says. “And I met all of them. Strangers who helped me with directions, some who gave me free food or shelter. One who even danced with me!” he says, adding, “No one discussed politics or the state of the world or their country, or mine. There is goodness in all people. You must reach out, or you will miss out on the best creation of God.” So now that he has a solo world trip under his belt, what’s next for this free spirited, maverick Kapoor? Having recently moved with his wife to Goa and enrolled in a course in philosophy, Kapoor has developed two new interests: a website he has launched to assist others in their spiritual development and composing music — a passion he shared with his father. “My wife presented me with a keyboard and my daughter Tulsi, who is a musician, helps. When I told her I could not read music, she said: “Neither could Michael Jackson.” So, I put my fingers on the keys and played!” he laughs. See what I meant about this Kapoor not following the conventional formulae and veering away from the script?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-the-maverick-kapoor-101628252160862.html
06-08-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: August 6 to August 13, 2021||Get the noodle on how to doodle A four-day online workshop, where you will learn how to doodle human faces, shapes, features, hairstyles, accessories, different body shapes, body postures, hand gestures, and how to doodle a picture or photograph.To register go to https://www.instagram.com/doodlesaurusWhen: August 6-8, 4 pmWhere: OnlineWebinar on film directionMirage Film Institute provides students an all-around filmmaking experience necessary to make their own films. The focus is hands-on experience. Learn pre-production, production, post-production, distribution, directing of narrative films, documentary films and ad films.To register call 9940392520When: August 6; 6.30pm to 8pmWhere: OnlineMind and meditation Motivate yourself to be more self-aware and make the best use of your potential skills. Madita Dickhut has been has been leading trainings and workshops in meditation all over the world for many years. Dickhut has studied psychology and is trained in is a certified trainer of NLP. Her goal is to support healing, transformation and spirituality.Cost: ₹3,500 per headTo register call +91 8758337744/ 8758633222 When: August 6-8; 7.30 pmWhere: OnlineOnline Macramé workshopMacramé is a form of textile produced using knotting (rather than weaving or knitting) techniques. Macramé is a beautiful way to unleash your creativity and engage your brain. Begin with just your hands and some cord!To register call 8080652100When: August 7, 8; 4pm to 6pm Where: OnlineEco-friendly Ganesh idols Welcome Ganesh Chaturthi by creating a clay Ganesh idol. Of all the materials, clay is considered closely representing the earth, governed by lord Ganesha. Locally known as shadu matti, it is an eco-friendly and auspicious medium for the idol. Learn the art of sculpture with clay.To register call 097305 57776; open to all age groupsWhen: August 8, 1:30pm to 5:30pmWhere: Urja Art Studio, WakadCelebrating TagoreOn the occasion of Rabindranath Tagore’s 80th death anniversary, a special programme called “Shrutimadhur “, a virtual event of music and dance is presented by Swaranjali, New Delhi and the Pracheen Kala Kendra.When: Aug 8; 9pmWhere: Online https://www.youtube.com/c/SwaranjaliDelhi/videos and https://www.facebook.com/officialpkkVocal powerThis workshop is designed to improve balance and help you find your natural voice. The workshop will start on a relaxing note involving Tibetan bowls and nature sounds. It will progress into yoga and vocal exercises to boost your confidence and creativity through the power of your voice.To register call 8875789987When: August 8; 7pm-8pm Where: Online Blood donation driveA blood donation drive is being organised by Jnana Prabhodini, following all the norms of social distancing. To register call Varun 9420656290 or Soham 7410756855When: August 8; 9am to 5pmWhere: Jnana Prabhodhini Prashala, Sadashiv pethCopperplate calligraphy workshopCopperplate is a form of calligraphy done with a pointed metal calligraphy nib. The style is primarily used in English and American calligraphic traditions. The style originated in the 16th and 17th centuries as a quill-written cursive script often called “roundhand”. The application of the script is, nowadays, wider; for example, titles of movies and book covers. To register go to @avinash_calligraphy or call +91 95525 22019When: August 13, 14, 15; 10am to 1pmWhere: Online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-august-6-to-august-13-2021-101628247299590.html
06-08-2021||Other||Global Village Idiot: An Olympic vision for a culture of sports is how India must play it||It seems we won more medals than we did at the last Olympics. Personally, I was thrilled with how our sports people competed in different disciplines - win or lose - because it takes a tremendous amount of courage and resilience to perform at the top level, especially when you don’t come from a nation where sports is a culture, and where performance is not an everyday attitude. Each performance was creditable, and each medal was a triumph against very difficult odds.Sports could lift many out of poverty and propel many others into the next level of economic existence, but the odds are heavily stacked against that in the absence of a significant and consistent investment at various levels of society, facilitated by a government spending on infrastructure. For a government to prioritise sports spending requires sustained demand from the media and citizens.I have lived in Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. Growing up, I spent three years (Grades 8-10) at the Union Academy School in Delhi in the 1980s and the biggest differentiator for a kid living in Delhi is the sports infrastructure and sports culture. And that infrastructure and culture starts with the school’s coach and the physical training team. In those three years, I won a gold medal and certificate as part of the school’s football team that won the Zonal U-16 football trophy. I also won silver and bronze medals at the Delhi interschool athletics and went up to the quarters and semis in consequent sub-junior national tournaments in table-tennis. My greatest pride came in cheering from the stands whenever our school’s hockey team took the field. Our school was (and still is) famous for its outstanding hockey team, having produced several players who went on to play for the India men’s team, as also players who became sports administrators and coaches. We had a city rivalry with Modern School Barakhamba road and DPS RK Puram. Our sports days used to be held at Shivaji Stadium in Connaught Place, which we considered our home ground, given our hockey credentials. Talkatora Stadium and pool was a venue frequented for the many interschool tournaments - my most memorable table-tennis matches were at Talkatora. My elder cousin was part of the Delhi U-19 cricket team, which meant we occasionally got to watch Test matches at Ferozshah Kotla. Visits to play and watch football games at Ambedkar Stadium were par for the course. Our school team qualified for the Subroto Cup one of those years, and though I was on the bench through all our draws and defeats, it was a great experience being run ragged by Madhyamgram High School (West Bengal) and a Russian school team.The city newspapers were of importance to school students because reporters regularly covered these tournaments and reported on local champions, competitive rivalries and school records. Not just as a tiny mention, but proper reports. They ran extensive articles asking questions on coaching and infrastructure. Their opinion mattered and influenced sports performance. After high school, I moved back to Mumbai where serious sports is more at club-level than school, but reasonably big on the college circuit. Again, local newspapers covered educational and club sports, though selectively, but the association with clubs kept the interest and performance going. Mumbai was geared to a professional career and enthusiasm for sports eventually used to wear down to a hobby, since infrastructure was not that great and when it was, it wasn’t as easily accessible as in Delhi. Coaches were even harder to come by unless you were playing cricket.When I landed in Pune in 1996, I was struck by the local sports culture at the school level, including the availability of coaches and considerable coverage by all local newspapers. And after the 2008 Youth Commonwealth Games, Balewadi stadium added the much-needed upgrade to facilities. Pune had a vibrant sports culture across many sports, mainly tennis, swimming, football, badminton and athletics. But, specially swimming.In the past decade, many schools have come up with really good sports infrastructure and with a globalisation of the curriculum, more schools talk sports and talk the importance of holistic education and organise their own sporting events.I am a parent, still very enthusiastic about playing and propagating sports. Our eldest swims and competes at the inter-school and district level tournaments, trying to improve his timings and has the advantage of a peer group at his swimming club. The younger ones are finding their sports.I can quite honestly say that it’s an uphill task if left to the schools. Schools don’t seem particularly interested in developing sporting talent, as much as they are in selling the idea that they have sports integrated into their curriculum. A lot of this comes from the fact that they are addressing their market, parents. And the bulk of the parents in any given school like their children playing, but come Grade 5, their focus shifts to academics. And that’s what schools are focused on. Every school has a handful of parents who are focused on sports and who want their children to have the option of a sporting career, if talent indicates so. These are a minority. I remember groups of parents from different international schools who, not only took a keen interest, but also joined the parent committees to drive the school management to really walk the talk beyond infrastructure. All of them eventually gave up because they realised that schools don’t listen to minority voices.Nations that do well consistently have multiple athletes in different sports capable of making the qualifying mark and most of them have a career in sports, with achievements going back to school days. The pressure of performance is shared by a peer group and it leads to healthy competition, unlike in developing nations where the pressure is usually on a handful of sports persons, who are built up by the media and then dropped till the next Olympics.I always used to wonder what happens to the great players and swimmers and athletes I used to see at the school level. I guess they all got caught up in the need to make a living and decided that sports wouldn’t make them a living.Nowadays, I wonder, what is the point of schools having the physical infrastructure, but lacking the vision and desire to use it to develop talent that comes through to them.There is a great hope. The archers, and shooters, and athletes, will have their day… one day. Of all the medals we won, Sindhu’s badminton bronze and the hockey bronze have sustainability significance because they represent a coming together of infrastructure, government support, individual performance and coaching excellence over decades. If more states adopted specific sports to develop like Odisha has stood by hockey, and if more schools across the country make sports a matter of achievement, a legacy would fall into place. And then, maybe, more parents would believe in the talent their children have, and a better sports culture will evolve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-an-olympic-vision-for-a-culture-of-sports-is-how-india-must-play-it-101628246939290.html
06-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan medical college prof arrested for allegedly harassing student||A professor of Bhilwara medical college has been arrested for allegedly harassing and teasing a first-year student and fudging her mark sheet in order to fail her in one paper, police said. A First Information Report against the professor was filed by the girl last month with Subhash Nagar police station and he was arrested from Bharatpur on Thursday night, said Ayub Khan, police sub-inspector. “The woman alleged that the professor stalked and teased her. Once he clicked her photo during the examination and sent it on her mobile phone. In order to harass her, he also allegedly reduced her marks due to which she failed in one paper,” said Khan.Also Read | Fined ₹40L by khap panchayat for not giving land to inlaws: Rajasthan womanThe professor was arrested under appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code including 354-D (stalking) and 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating). The college principal said that the student had complained against the professor in May this year. Following the complaint, a five-member committee was constituted to look into her charges. “The final tabulation sheet is signed by six examiners. One of the internal examiners produced a rough sheet with some numbers crossed...it appeared that some marks had intentionally been deducted,” he said. On the student being failed deliberately, the principal said all the reports and related papers were set to Rajasthan University of Health Sciences but they will continue with the previous result as it was signed by all the six invigilators. The student is reappearing for the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-medical-college-prof-arrested-for-allegedly-harassing-student-101628241958743.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local: BJP holds protest; fully vaccinated people likely to be allowed soon||Several BJP leaders were arrested and penalised for protesting and forcibly travelling in Mumbai local trains, as part of their pre-decided protest, on Friday. Protests were held at Sion, Dahisar, Kandivali and Andheri. BJP leader Pravin Darekar was penalised for travelling from Churchgate to Charni Road without any ticket. Mumbai local trains, the lifeline of Mumbai and suburb's transport, is not open for the general public a long-standing demand of the daily passengers, which has now become a political issue.The Maharashtra government has indicated that it will soon take a decision on allowing fully vaccinated people to travel by Mumbai locals.Minister Aaditya Thackeray said the decision will be made public in a few days as the government has been holding a series of consultations with experts. "I think one should act in a responsible manner [in giving relaxations]. In other countries where vaccination has been done [to a large extent], like in the US, UK, the cases are rising again. We are concerned about people's lives. About [restarting] railways, we have been holding deliberations for the past few weeks. In the next two, three days, you will know what relaxations can be given for the double vaccinated population, not just in trains but in other activities as well. We are carefully discussing these issues and you will know about it soon," the minister said.Mumbai local was opened for the general public with some time restrictions in February just ahead of the arrival of the second wave. As of now, only specific categories of travellers related to essential and emergency services are allowed to travel in Mumbai local trains.Resentment has been growing against the government's decision to keep local services restricted as lawyers too have moved the court demanding that they should be allowed to travel in Mumbai local trains. The Bombay high court on Monday urged the state to consider forming an expert panel to look into the woes of the commuters.Travelling by train in Mumbai is essential for people..bus charges are very high. These are important issues which touch the livelihood of people… so if the administrative machinery is geared up to look into these issues, everything would be fine," Justice Kulkarni said.(With inputs from Swapnil Rawal and Surendra P Gangan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-bjp-holds-protest-fully-vaccinated-people-likely-to-be-allowed-soon-101628237910500.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi preparing for 3rd wave, setting up 37,000 Covid beds: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday informed that Delhi will opt for a lockdown if the positivity rate in the city goes up to 5 per cent to combat the likely third wave of Covid-19. Keeping in view of the likely situation, Delhi is ramping up its facilities by building over 37,000 beds in the city.Currently, the positivity rate in Delhi is at 0.08 per cent with 61 fresh Covid-19 cases and two fatalities, as per the Delhi health bulletin yesterday.The Health Minister addressed a virtual session organised by ASSOCHAM wherein he was the chief guest. The topic for the session was Delhi Healthcare System: Preparedness to combat the third wave of Covid-19 and was attended by several senior doctors.The distinguished panelists gave their valuable opinions on the matter and even asked the Health Minister regarding Delhi's preparation for a possible third wave of Covid-19."All necessary measures are being taken and health infrastructure is being ramped up to unprecedented levels with more than 37,000 Covid-19 dedicated beds being built for the fight against the likely third wave of Covid-19," the Health Minister said.He also informed about the various subsidy schemes of the Delhi Government that have been launched to facilitate the building of Pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants and liquid medical oxygen (LMO) facilities.The Minister emphasised being vigilant and following COVID-19 appropriate behavior which is crucial in tackling the spread. "We have made our public aware about what our response would be, earlier, in case the third wave strikes. If the positivity rate goes up to 5 per cent, then we will opt for an immediate lockdown without delay," Satyendar Jain said.While addressing the questions about the second wave, he said, "We were caught off guard because of oxygen shortage and the logistical issues of procuring it. But now, over 50 oxygen plants, have already been built and more are in line so that such a problem doesn't arise again." He also shared the experiences of field hospitals or makeshift hospitals which were made during the second wave.The Health Minister said, "Makeshift hospitals created in Chattarpur, Sant Nirankari Colony, Ramleela Maidan are now being ramped up with ICU beds and ventilators, which are more than 1200 in number. Further, the Delhi Government is also training more medical staff and doctors belonging to different streams."While answering the question on the vaccination drive, the Minister said, "Delhi has the capacity of administering 3 to 4 lakh doses every day, provided we get adequate supplies. As of now, nearly one crore doses have already been administered in Delhi."The Minister, through the forum, also asked people to stay vigilant as the virus is still very much present in society. "The cases are increasing again in the UK and the US. Thus, we must not drop our guard at this point. All possible efforts are being made to ensure that a third wave doesn't strike the national capital. However, if at all it comes, we have to prepared for the worst," he added.The Delhi Government is not leaving any stone unturned in its effort towards saving precious lives from Covid-19. "75,000 tests are still being carried out every day and aggressive contact tracing is still on to ensure that the situation remains under control," the Health Minister said.On this occasion, the Health Minister also expressed gratitude to everyone from the industry and civil society members who helped the government in fighting the deadly second wave."Convened a virtual session with @ASSOCHAM4India & discussed Delhi Govt's preparedness to combat 3rd wave of #COVID19. We'll be proactive in our response. We're preparing for the worst-case scenario and are preparing 37k beds dedicated to Covid," tweeted Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-preparing-for-3rd-wave-setting-up-37-000-covid-beds-satyendar-jain-101628237010695.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro's Pink Line is now the single, longest corridor: Details here||A segment of Delhi Metro's Pink Line was launched on Friday, making it the longest operational corridor of the network. The 59-km-long Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar corridor or the Pink Line, which covers 38 stations, has now been fully linked. Passenger services on the line is slated to begin from 3pm onwards on Friday."With the opening of this important connection, the 59 km long Pink Line becomes the longest line of the Delhi Metro network. Passenger services on this section will begin at 3pm today," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation(DMRC) tweeted.Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal jointly inaugurated the section between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations virtually.Delhi Metro's Pink Line has now become its longest operational corridor and it will also connect important landmarks of the city, such as the Anand Vihar Railway station, Anand Vihar ISBT, Nizamuddin Railway station, markets in South Extension, INA and Lajpat Nagar, officials said, reports news agency PTI.The linking of the Pink Line will also benefit the residents of east Delhi or people travelling to that region. DMRC officials said that with this connectivity, commuters will also save time and money.The Pink Line of Delhi Metro was opened in multiple phases in 2018. But, a small portion in east Delhi's Trilokpuri area had become a blockage and due to which the line remained disjointed there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-pink-line-is-now-the-single-longest-corridor-details-here-101628232693298.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Missing link on Delhi Metro's Pink Line plugged||In a major boost for Delhi Metro, a small segment of its Pink Line at Trilokpuri, which had proved a bottleneck for the DMRC authorities for a long time, was inaugurated on Friday, making it the longest operational corridor of the network.With this, the 59-km-long Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar corridor or the Pink Line, which spans 38 stations, has been fully linked for the first time.Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal jointly inaugurated the section of about 289 metre between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations, via video-conferencing.The Pink Line was opened in multiple phases in 2018.However, a small portion in east Delhi's Trilokpuri area had become a bottleneck, due to which the line remained disjointed there.Now, with the missing link plugged after much delay, Delhi Metro's Pink Line has become its longest operational corridor.And, it will also connect important landmarks of the city, such as the Anand Vihar Railway station, Anand Vihar ISBT, Nizamuddin Railway station, markets in South Extension, INA and Lajpat Nagar, officials said.The end-to-end linking of the Pink Line will also immensely benefit residents of east Delhi or people travelling to that region, as the gap at Trilokpuri was causing the corridor to be operated in two separate segments.The gap in the line was expected to be plugged by September 2020, but it was delayed due to repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic, sources had said early October.The bottleneck near Trilokpuri station had risen due to multiple issues, including land acquisition, resulting in a portion of the metro segment, then about a few kilometres, remaining incomplete, rendering the Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake station a terminus.Passenger services on the line is slated to begin from 3 pm onwards on Friday.DMRC authorities said with this seamless connectivity, commuters will also save time and money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/missing-link-on-delhi-metro-s-pink-line-plugged-101628226803603.html
06-08-2021||Patna||Bihar human rights panel team visits Bettiah jail over prisoner complaints||Taking cognisance of a complaint by 100-odd prisoners to the human rights commission last year, a two-member team of the state human rights commission visited Bihar’s Bettiah jail this Wednesday.Shailendra Kumar Singh, registrar of human rights commission, Bihar, said about 100 prisoners lodged in the jail made allegations against then jail deputy superintendent Sanjay Gupta. “We took statements of at least ten prisoners and the report would be submitted shortly,” Singh said. The team comprised Singh and superintendent of police Wakil Ahmed. Also Read | Bihar education department issues guidelines for opening institutionsIn their complaint in May 2020, 100 prisoners accused then deputy superintendent and wardens of extorting money from the prisoners and allowing objectionable items inside by accepting bribes. “Only a handful of complainants were in the jail as majority of them have already moved,” said one of the panel members. Sanjay Gupta, then superintendent of jail, trashed the allegations against him. “Few inmates ganged up against me when I came down heavily on them after the complaints of extorting money from other prisoners came to my notice,” he said. Gupta was transferred to Danapur jail last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-human-rights-panel-team-visits-bettiah-jail-over-prisoner-complaints-101628226357478.html
06-08-2021||Patna||Bihar education department issues guidelines for opening institutions||After the Bihar government’s announcement of further relaxation in the lockdown, the state education department has announced detailed guidelines for educational institutions, including coaching institutes. From August 7, all schools will open for class 9 onwards, while class 1-8 will open from August 16, but the 50% attendance. Students will attend school on alternate days. For primary schools, the mid-day meal scheme will remain suspended as of now. A letter issued by additional chief secretary, education department, Sanjay Kumar to all the vice chancellors, district magistrates and district education officer has advocated online classes. “Before opening schools, thorough cleaning and sanitisation of institutions, especially washrooms, must be ensured. The headmasters have to ensure that only vaccinated teachers and staff are involved with teaching work. The schools must ensure proper washing and screening facility with digital thermometers and if anyone is found having above normal temperature, Covid test should be immediately conducted not only for that person, but all the students of the class he might be associated with,” he said.Also Read | CBSE Class 10 results: Students, parents in Bihar protest over low marksMeanwhile, all training institutions will also run with 50% attendance. Residential schools and hostels, viz. Kasturba Gandhi girls residential school, SC/ST residential school and Karpoori hostel, have been allowed to function. Coaching institutions mentoring students of Class 10 and higher are allowed to run with 50% attendance, but the staff must be vaccinated and the details of their vaccination must be submitted to the local police station. The department has asked all the institutions to form task force comprising students, teachers and members of the school management committee to monitor sanitisation, cleanliness, compulsory masking and social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-education-department-issues-guidelines-for-opening-institutions-101628223716953.html
06-08-2021||Kolkata||TMC delegation to meet state poll officer in Bengal today; seek early bypolls||A delegation of the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal is likely to meet the state’s chief electoral officer today with the plea to hold bypolls in the state at the earliest. Elections in two assembly seats are pending, and so are bypolls in five assembly constituencies, including Bhabanipur in south Kolkata from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is expected to contest. “A team of TMC leaders will meet the election commission officials in the state on holding elections and bypolls, which are pending,” said Partha Chatterjee, state minister and TMC’s secretary general. Even though the TMC returned to power for the third consecutive term, Banerjee was defeated in Nandigram by her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of BJP. Banerjee took oath as the chief minister on May 5 and will now have to get elected within six months from May to continue on the post. The TMC-delegation comprising parliamentarians met the full bench of the Election Commission of India on July 15, seeking bypolls at the earliest. Also Watch | ‘Save us’: Mamata to PM Modi on Covid, slams vaccine policyElections in two seats in Murshidabad were cancelled when the candidates died of Covid-19 in April. Later, two BJP MPs, Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, who won the assembly polls resigned. Two other TMC legislators died after contracting Covid-19 infection, while TMC MLA from Bhabanipur, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, resigned so that Banerjee could contest from the seat in the bypolls. “By-elections should be held as early as possible. The Covid-19 situation is under control.If the third wave comes then you can’t do anything. A week’s time for election campaigning would be enough,” Mamata Banerjee had told the media a few days ago. The state is reporting around 700-800 new Covid cases every day. The daily count crossed the 20,000-mark in mid-May soon after the assembly polls in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-delegation-to-meet-state-poll-officer-in-bengal-today-seek-early-bypolls-101628223057027.html
06-08-2021||Lucknow||Bihar-based parties set to try luck in 2022 UP assembly elections||The 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are going to see an array of Bihar-based political parties flexing their muscles, and the preparations are already afoot with these parties activating their organisation and cadre in the state.Leaders of the Janata Dal (United), the Rashtriya Janta Dal (RJD), the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) are holding meetings in various regions of Uttar Pradesh to mobilise the party workers for the assembly election due early next year. LJP MP from Jamui in Bihar Chirag Paswan, who is locked in a tussle with uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras over party control, will launch a road show, Ashirwad Yatra, across Uttar Pradesh after August 15 to mobilise the party workers.The yatra is along the lines of a similar roadshow Paswan is holding in Bihar.He will meet Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow during the yatra. The LJP had earlier contested assembly elections in UP in 2007 and 2012 under the leadership of party founder Ram Vilas Paswan.In the first phase, the Ashirwad Yatra will be organised in Ballia, Azamgarh, Gorakhpur, Bhadohi, Mirzapur, Lucknow, Shahjhanpur, Bareilly, Moradabad, Saharanpur, Meerut and Ghaziabad, LJP’s Uttar Pradesh unit president Mani Shankar Pandey said.Paswan launched the Ashirwad Yatra at Vaishali in Bihar on July 5 to mark the birth anniversary of his father late Ram Vilas Paswan.The JD(U) that is running the government in Bihar in alliance with the BJP has announced it will field candidates on 200 seats in the 2022 UP assembly election. JD (U) state president said the party had decided to contest the assembly election on its own strength. “The district unit presidents have been directed to strengthen the organisation and hold a membership drive across UP,” he said. Meanwhile HAM(S) leader Santosh Suman Manjhi, who is a minister in the Bihar government, met chief minister Yogi Adityanath this Monday. “The Hindustani Awam Morcha (S) has decided to contest assembly elections in UP in alliance with the BJP. My party enjoys influence over the Manjhi, Machua and Kewat communities settled in eastern UP,” he said.The VIP, led by Bihar animal husbandry minister Mukesh Sahani, sought to make its presence felt in Uttar Pradesh by organising programmes in various districts to mark the death anniversary of bandit-turned politician Phoolan Devi on July 25. Sahani said VIP will field candidates on various seats in the coming assembly election and “fight for the rights of and justice to the suppressed communities”.RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav’s meeting with SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav in Delhi on Monday has set off a buzz about their alliance for the coming assembly elections. The RJD supported the SP in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Leader of Opposition in the Bihar assembly and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav will campaign in support of the SP in the assembly election, said an RJD leader who did not wish to be named.Political observer SK Singh said the BJP and SP are working to build an alliance of the smaller political parties that have an influence over various communities in the run-up to the assembly election.“Caste is an important factor in the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Political parties are wooing the caste leaders to win the support of various communities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/biharbased-parties-set-to-try-luck-in-2022-up-assembly-elections-101628220176519.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with a chance of light rain today||Delhi is likely to witness a cloudy sky with the possibility of light rain on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The weather office has predicted “light to very light” rainfall over the next few days with “break monsoon-like conditions” likely to set in from mid-next week.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 27 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 34°C. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 26.5°C and the maximum temperature was 35.3°C.Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 92. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 99 in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the satisfactory category as forecasted. Scattered rainfall activity is likely in the Delhi region. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and be in the satisfactory to the moderate category for next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-cloudy-sky-with-a-chance-of-light-rain-today-101628217296883.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC to hear ex-AAP councillor Tahir Hussain's bail plea in riots case||The Delhi high court will on Friday hear former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain's fresh bail plea in northeast Delhi riots of 2020. The court on July 29 sought a response from the Delhi Police on bail application moved by Hussain in the case. Justice Mukta Gupta issued a notice and directed that the bail application be listed before Justice Yogesh Khanna, who is hearing applications moved by Hussain, reports news agency PTI.Senior Advocate Mohit Mathur, appearing for Hussain, informed the high court that apart from the FIR in the present case, other FIRs have also been registered against the accused by police station Dayalpur. Mathur urged that this bail application be also tagged along with the pleas already pending before Justice Khanna. “Bail pleas under FIR 91/2020 and 92/2020 had gone to Justice Yogesh Khanna and notice was issued for August 6,” Mathur said.The present FIR is related to the alleged commission of offences of rioting and destruction of public property by Hussain in Delhi's Dayalpur area. The other two cases are related to the injuries suffered by two people as a mob pelted stones, threw petrol bombs and fired gunshots from the terrace of Hussain's house. The other is related to the alleged commission of offences of an attempt to murder and rioting and violation of the arms act.The Delhi Police has lodged first information reports (FIRs) against various accused, including Hussain, under sections 147/148/149/436/427/34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 3/4 of the Prevention of Damage To Public Property Act at Dayalpur Police Station.Communal clashes erupted in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters went out of control. At least 53 people died and around 700 were injured in the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-ex-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-s-bail-plea-in-riots-case-101628210276622.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro's Pink Line segment to be opened today||The Delhi Metro's missing link of the Pink Line, connecting Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and Trilokpuri, will be inaugurated by Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday.The Pink Line is all set to become Delhi Metro Rail Corporation's (DMRC's) longest operational corridor from Friday onwards which would also save time and money for passengers. The Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar corridor of the Pink Line spreads across 38 stations.A small portion of east Delhi's Trilokpuri area had turned to be a restriction for the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), due to which the line remained disjointed for some distance there. Now, the opening of the Trilokpuri section between the Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations will entirely link the Pink Line.The Pink Line will also connect important landmarks of the national capital - the Anand Vihar Railway station, Anand Vihar ISBT, Nizamuddin Railway station, markets in South Extension, INA and Lajpat Nagar, officials said, reports news agency PTI.DMRC officials also said there will be a reduction of about 20 minutes of travel time, from HUDA City Centre in Gurgaon to Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake and vice versa, as after opening of this section, there will be only one interchange station i.e. Delhi Haat-INA instead of two interchange stations as of now."Reduction in fare by ₹20 will be in 38 sections (to and fro) and important key locations like Lajpat Nagar, NOIDA City Centre, Botanical Garden, Mohan Estate to Trilokpuri or vice versa; reduction in fare by ₹10 will be in 524 sections (to and fro)," DMRC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-pink-line-segment-to-be-opened-today-101628207344004.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||First half of August likely to be dry: Met department||The first fortnight of August is likely to remain largely dry with experts from the weather office predicting “light to very light” rainfall over the next few days and “break monsoon-like conditions” likely to set in from mid next week.Records from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) show that the first week of August has so far remained dry with most parts of the city receiving trace rainfall.On Thursday, the IMD revised its forecast, saying that light rain and thundershowers are likely over the next three days. Earlier, it had issued an orange alert with heavy rainfall expected in parts of Delhi for August 6.“The forecast was revised as the low-pressure system over Madhya Pradesh started gradually weakening from August 5. There is no intense pressure system that can trigger rainfall. The monsoon trough is expected to shift to the Himalayan foothills by August 10, which will result in break monsoon-like conditions in Delhi and adjoining areas,” said a senior IMD official.Independent forecasters too said Delhi is likely to receive patchy rainfall from August 6-9. “From August 10-11, break monsoon conditions may persist, as the trough is likely to move far to the Himalayan foothills, which means westerly winds will start blowing over Delhi. The break may last for five to six days. Monsoon is expected to revive from August 16-17. Delhi and neighbouring areas may then receive good spells,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president of Skymet, a private forecaster.According to weather data available with the IMD, the maximum temperature on Thursday was 35.3°C, a notch above the season’s normal and the minimum was 26.5°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/first-half-of-august-likely-to-be-dry-met-department-101628203271734.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meet the blushing trees||Do trees blush like we, humans, do? When the face turns red out of intense shyness? Well, these days some of Delhi’s trees, the pilkhans, are in full blush. Like this one, in Deer Park. The tree is densely leaved—from a distance, its canopy looks like a luxuriant wig. Its green is partly splattered with red, as if a painter had wanted to depict a New York autumn, but had changed course midway.The leaves are in their rusty-red phase.Actually, this colouration happens in a more memorable way earlier in the year. Pilkhan’s aged leaves begin to drop during the end of Delhi winters, by mid-February. New leaves take birth during the first days of March. Their infant shade shows up in dusty purple, changing to red, and then into tints of russets and bronzes. This is when clickbait-greedy Instagrammers become aware of the tree’s existence, and briefly turn the lens of their mobiles to pilkhans.As days pass, the leaves become green. The magic show ends by the middle of April, after which the tree looks beautiful in an ordinary way. The coloured phase is triggered afresh by the monsoon rains. The July-August red is no way comparable to March lush. But this restrained ostentatiousness makes the sight more heartfelt—as if a middle-aged person were trying to relive their youthful prime, when one believed one would never grow old.The pilkhan is spread across the Delhi region, generously sprinkled in Zakir Hussain Marg, Dalhousie Marg, Niti and Nyaya Marg. Sadly, a glorious pilkhan in Jor Bagh market seems to have missed its date with red this rains.In Gurugram, a gorgeous pilkhan stands near the Jama Masjid in Sadar Bazar. A pair draws attention on Golf Course Road, beside a tea shack. Another impressive pilkhan is near the HUDA Gymkhana Club in Sector 4.In Ghaziabad, a pilkhan near Vasundhara Valley Apartments, in Sector 6, Vasundhara, is unevenly smeared in coppery red.To appreciate the blush like a pilkhan connoisseur, all you have to do is bring your gaze from the entire tree to a single leaf. The rusty red reveals itself to be almost pink. The veins that spread across the leaf are watery green. The leaf looks unreal, like a leaf-shaped metal beaten by a dogged blacksmith, until it starts to glow faintly and gets too hot to touch. But this leaf is, of course, cold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-meet-the-blushing-trees-101628202666283.html
06-08-2021||Bhopal||MP floods: 2 dead, PM Modi reviews situation with CM Chouhan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday spoke to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and assured all possible help to Madhya Pradesh where at least two persons have been killed and more than 1,000 villages have been affected due to incessant rains across several districts.The India Meteorological Department has issued an ‘orange’ alert forecasting ‘heavy to very heavy’ rainfall in Rajgarh, Shajapur, Agar-Malwa, Mandsaur, Guna and Ashok Nagar districts of the state. The weather body also issued a ‘yellow alert’ forecasting ‘heavy’ rainfall in 17 other districts.According to a home department official, more than 1,100 people were rescued from flood-affected villages on Thursday. As per the state government, it has so far recorded two rain-related deaths, one each in Shivpuri and Sheopur districts, PTI reported.Chouhan announced to give houses, clothes and 50 kg ration free of cost to each affected family.The government has also ordered a probe into the collapse of six bridges in two days in Gwalior and Chambal divisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-floods-2-dead-pm-modi-reviews-situation-with-cm-chouhan-101628195759969.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cops cane-charge protesting PSPCL, PSTCL contractual staff near CM’s Patiala residence||Contractual employees of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and the Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL) were lathi-charged on Thursday by police near chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence in Patiala. The police resorted to the use of force when hundreds of protesting employees demanding regularisation of their jobs marched towards the CM’s house. Nearly 50 protesters were detained, officials said. Earlier, the employees gathered at the PSPCL headquarters with their children and other family members and raised slogans against the corporation for not meeting their demands.Balihar Singh, an employee union leader, said both the state government and the PSPCL management were hell-bent on promoting privatisation in the power utility.“The PSPCL has already threatened the livelihoods of employees by shutting down public thermal plants. Moreover, instead of regularising the services of contractual employees, it is hiring employees through outsourcing,” he said.The protesters claimed that the contractual workers were not paid on ‘equal pay, equal work’ basis and their salaries have not been revised since January 2016.They also asked the corporation to give jobs on compassionate grounds to the families members of those who died on duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cops-cane-charge-protesting-pspcl-pstcl-contractual-staff-near-cm-s-patiala-residence-101628195395635.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks report on Jalandhar panchayat with no revenue record||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought a report of a Punjab government probe into a Jalandhar village which reportedly does not exist in revenue records but was getting grants for developmental works. The court acted on the plea of Puran Singh who had alleged that a fake gram panchayats named Divya Gram was created to siphon off funds granted by the 14th Finance Commission and the local area development funds and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA). The rural development and panchayat also received grant from the board. The department constituted a gram Sabha for a non-existing village and took development grants, advocate Baltej Singh Sidhu told the court, adding that a legal notice was sent to the state for conducting a probe but no action was taken. Sidhu further told the court that the voter list for Divya Gram was prepared in 2018 and subsequently a sarpanch was elected. Information was procured under the Right yo Information (RTI) according to which no electricity connection was running in the name of any person in the village and no transformer was installed as only high-tension connection in the name of the Divya Jyoti Jagriti Sansthan was running, he had told the court. The state government’s counsel informed the court that an inquiry into the entire matter is being held which is likely to be concluded in the near future. Issuing a notice of motion, the bench of Justice Anil Kshetarpal asked the state’s counsel that the inquiry be concluded by the next date of hearing and a report be placed on record on adjourned date of September 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-report-on-jalandhar-panchayat-with-no-revenue-record-101628195099486.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis plundered Punjab of natural resources, says Navjot Sidhu||Newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday accused the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government of plundering Punjab of its natural resources, saying Sukhbir Singh Badal’s 13-point agenda is a new ‘lollipop’ ahead of the assembly elections. Addressing party workers’ meetings in Faridkot and Moga, Sidhu said Punjab needs the “state income agenda” and not false promises. He said, “(SAD chief) Sukhbir Badal should make it clear where would the resources come from to make the agenda a reality. The promises made by the SAD and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to provide free electricity are nothing but a lie. Punjab is a welfare state, but the SAD-BJP government plunged it into a debt of ₹1.5 lakh crore.” He said that the previous government plundered the natural resources of Punjab. “Telangana is earning ₹4,000 crore from mining every year due to their policy. But in their 10-year rule, the SAD-BJP government put only ₹400 crore in the exchequer as sand revenue, which was now being increased by ₹300 crore a year by the Congress regime. I assure you I will increase it to ₹1,000 crore a year. Punjab was dominated by the cable, sand, and transport mafias besides others,” he added.Also, the previous government entered into power pacts keeping their vested interests in mind, the Congress leader said. “Due to these pacts, the state is purchasing electricity at higher rates. I assure you that we will cancel the power purchase agreements (PPAs) and provide electricity to industry at ₹5 per unit and residential units at ₹3 per unit,” he added. Also, the three agriculture laws introduced by the Union government are a clumsy ploy to break the backbone of Punjab’s economy, he said. “The PPAs and three black farm laws would be repealed in the next assembly session. Targeting the AAP, Sidhu said Punjab did not need the Delhi model and that there was no factionalism in the Punjab Congress now. The state Congress chief announced that he would start constituency-wise rallies after August 15. Congress MLAs Harjot Kamal, Sukhjit Singh Kaka Lohgarh, Darshan Singh Brar and MLA Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon were present. State Congress acting president Pawan Goyal accompanied Sidhu. Covid-19 norms were violated during the meetings addressed by Sidhu as more than 1,000 people each had gathered at both the venues. Shown black flags at Moga Farmer unions and contractual employees showed black flags to Sidhu when he arrived in Moga. The farmers also raised slogans against Sidhu for his “the thirsty walks to the well” remark made during his installation ceremony at Chandigarh. The contractual employees protested demanding regularisation of their jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akalis-plundered-punjab-of-natural-resources-says-navjot-sidhu-101628195098270.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Festive mood in four Amritsar villages as Indian hockey team wins Olympic bronze||A festive mood was in the air in four villages of Amritsar districts that have four of their sons in the Indian men’s hockey contingent which defeated Germany to win the bronze medal to end the country’s 41-year wait for an Olympic medal in the national game. The proud families of the players — Shamsher Singh (24) of Attari, Dilpreet Singh (20) of Butala, Gurjant Singh (26) of Khaliara and Harmandeep Singh (26) of Timmowal village — dedicated the win to every Indian. Residents of these villages were seen bursting crackers and distributing sweets. Also, politicians queued up to the players’ houses to congratulate their families. Barring Dilpreet, whose father is a hockey coach who played in the nationals from 1990 to 1996, all three are sons of farmers. Shamsher, a graduate, started playing hockey when he was only 10. “He was inclined towards hockey since his childhood. He used to play on the local ground with other children of the village. His interest in the game increased as he grew up,” said Samsher’s father Hardev Singh said. Shamsher’s mother Harpeet Kaur is a housewife. Gurjant, also a graduate, was inspired by his uncle (mother’s brother) Hardev Singh Chahal who was a hockey player. He started playing hockey when he was studying in class 5. “It was my son’s dream to do something for the country,” said his father Balvir Singh. Gurjant’s mother is a housewife and he has two sisters. Harmandeep’s father Sarabjit Singh, a farmer and a former kabbaddi player, said, “I congratulate all members of the Indian hockey team. My son worked hard and made it to the national team.” Dilpreet, who is pursuing his graduation from a Jalandhar-based private university, was inspired none other than his father Balwinder Singh. “He was nearly 5-year-old when I started training him. He has fulfilled my dream. The entire village is celebrating the win. There is a wedding-like scene at our home,” said Balwinder. Dilpreet’s mother Sukhwant Kaur is also a housewife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/festive-mood-in-four-amritsar-villages-as-indian-hockey-team-wins-olympic-bronze-101628194917228.html
06-08-2021||Lucknow||Tokyo Olympics: Seeds of India’s success in hockey sown at 2016 Junior World Cup in Lucknow||India’s historic bronze medal win in men’s hockey at the Tokyo Olympics on Thursday seems to have been the result of hard work and planning by many, including former India coach Harendra Singh, whose “junoon” (obsession) guided India to win their maiden Junior Men’s World Cup in Lucknow in 2016.A member of the silver-medal winning Indian team at the 1990 Beijing Asian Games, Harendra, who is now teaching the finer points of the game to the United States team, made a major contribution in building this “new and energetic side”. Eight members of the current squad, including captain Manpreet Singh, were part of the gold-medal winning side in 2016. They were coached by Harendra then.“Many don’t understand my madness and obsession for the game as even in my dreams I care for hockey, but it makes no difference to me. I know that such passion is required to build the future of Indian hockey,”he had said soon after India’s thrilling 2-1 win against Belgium in the Junior World Cup final.Harendra’s comment is still relevant now that India have ended their 41-year-old medal drought at the Olympics. The passion for a podium finish was at its highest among the Indian side though Harendra was removed in 2019 following a disappointing 2018 season.Harendra was given charge of the senior side after India’s medal-less showing at the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in 2018, but was unable to change the team’s fortunes. India were also below-par in the 2018 Asian Games in Indonesia, settling for a bronze after going into the tournament as the defending champions. They ended the year with a quarterfinal loss in the World Cup in Bhubaneswar.“...what a incredible journey of these players A big big salute to boys in blue!” one of his tweets on Thursday read.In fact, Singh broke down after watching the historic win and didn’t hide his emotions. “I am so excited that from 10 scorers for India, nine are from the 2016 core group. What more as a coach can I ask for?” Besides Manpreet, players like Harmanpreet Singh, Varun Kumar, Nilakanta Sharma, Sumit, Gurjant Singh, Mandeep Singh and Simranjeet Singh were part of the 2016 World-Cup winning junior squad.He also said India’s investment in junior programmes paid rich dividends. “I salute (chief coach) Graham Reid. I always said invest in youngsters and you will get the medal and he invested in youngsters and today we are on the podium.”Terming the bronze medal win as one of the best moments in Indian hockey, he said the feat will inspire the new generation to pick up hockey sticks. “The journey has just started. It is just an appetizer, the main course is yet to come. It’s just the beginning, many more to come. We need to be patient, give time to players and coaches. It’s a process and needs time to produce results,” he said.Hockey India’s high performance and development committee chairman RP Singh too praised contributions by everyone, including the present and former coaches of both the junior and senior sides, for the team’s bronze-medal win at the Tokyo Olympics.“Be it administrators, selectors, coaches, technical officials and many others, everyone is responsible for India’s success at the Games, and I believe that real process for the better development of Indian hockey was re-started when Hockey India came into existence in 2009,” said RP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tokyo-olympics-seeds-of-india-s-success-in-hockey-sown-at-2016-junior-world-cup-in-lucknow-101628194074963.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Apprise court on when all police posts will have CCTV coverage: HC to Haryana||The high court has asked Haryana government to apprise the court by when police posts across the state will be covered under closed-circuit television (CCTV) coverage.The additional chief secretary (home) has been directed to file an affidavit as to by when all entry and exit points of all police posts will be covered by CCTV footage. This court will not expect a long time frame, keeping in view the fact that, to repeat, illegal detention of any person hits at a citizens’ basic fundamental right, the court added.The bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh also directed the additional chief secretary to ensure that instructions be issued that upon any warrant officer being appointed by the court to visit a police station/police post/CIA premises etc., a DDR entry, whether written in a register or allegedly entered online, will be immediately handed over to the visiting warrant officer, failing which, naturally, adverse inference can be taken by the court, that actually no such DDR entry at the relevant time was actually made.The directions were issued in a habeas corpus matter from a Panchkula resident who had alleged that his son was illegally picked up by the police and kept in detention for almost four days even as he was a minor. During the hearing, it had come to light that the police station in question, Sector-14 in Panchkula, had CCTVs but not the police post under this police station. It had also come before court that when court-appointed warrant officer visited the police, the minor boy was found in detention and the warrant officer was not provided the DDR entry of boy’s arrest, which, police claimed, that was made on the day, the warrant officer visited the police station. The court expressed its surprise that the Sector 16 police post was not equipped with CCTV cameras, despite an, affidavit given in a petition about 2 to 3 years ago, that all police stations/CIA staff in the state had been equipped with the CCTV camaras. “Obviously this court not having issued a specific direction that even police posts be so equipped, was taken unnecessary advantage of by the officers of the state, to not install such camaras at police posts, which are equally important as regards determining as to whether somebody had been illegally detained in a police post or not, with that issue ‘hitting’ at the very root of a persons’ right to liberty as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apprise-court-on-when-all-police-posts-will-have-cctv-coverage-hc-to-haryana-101628193474939.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Indoor wrestling stadium to come up at wrestler Ravi Dahiya’s village: Khattar||Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday announced to construct an indoor wrestling stadium with modern and world-class facilities at the native village of Ravi Dahiya, who has won the silver medal in the 57kg freestyle wrestling in Tokyo Olympics. Congratulating Dahiya, a resident of Sonepat district, Khattar announced that the wrestler will be given a cash award of ₹4 crore for winning a silver medal in the Olympics. He will also be appointed to the post of Class-I officer, apart from the state government giving a plot at concessional rates to Dahiya. Similarly, the two bronze winning hockey team players from Haryana will be given ₹2.5 crore each cash award, besides job in the sports department and a plot on concessional rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indoor-wrestling-stadium-to-come-up-at-wrestler-ravi-dahiya-s-village-khattar-101628192948942.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Olympics 2021: Hockey players from Ludhiana hope for revival of lost glory following Tokyo thriller||It was an emotional yet exciting moment for veteran hockey players in the city, as the Indian men’s team defeated Germany in a thrilling match to win the bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics on Thursday. This is India’s first Olympic medal in hockey since they won gold in 1980. The players, who have seen the sport in all its glory and also the decline of its popularity, said they hope that the historic win encourages more players will take up the sport.Many hockey lovers also honoured former Olympian Hardeep Singh Grewal at Sarabha Nagar. Meanwhile, Punjab Basketball Association general secretary Teja Singh Dhaliwal organised a special event to celebrate the occasion.Grewal said, “Many young players who used to play hockey shifted towards other sports amid decline of its popularity in the country. With this win, we hope to there is a wind of change and revival of the game. But, it is important to conserve the talent and provide state-of-the-art infrastructure.”Veteran hockey player Jagbir Grewal said, “These players are going to inspire children to take up the game. This will create a pyramid of young talent, who will compete at the grassroots level. This has given us a glimpse of better future for hockey and we do not have to look back from here on.”Former national-level player Satnam Singh, said, “It is heartening to see Indian hockey moving towards regaining its lost glory. This victory is no less than gold. One medal will prove to be catalyst of change and usher in fresh talent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/olympics-2021-hockey-players-from-ludhiana-hope-for-revival-of-lost-glory-following-tokyo-thriller-101628192947923.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC team to study waste mgmt model in Prayagraj||After studying solid waste management models in Chennai, Okhla (Delhi) and Chandigarh recently, a 10-member committee of municipal corporation (MC) councillors and officials left for Prayagraj (Allahabad) on Thursday to study the “waste to energy” plant being operated by a private firm there. Councillors Gurmail Jajji, Umesh Sharma, Kuldeep Singh Panesar, Baljinder Bunty, Pankaj Sharma and Gurpreet Gopi and officials including secretary Jasdev Sekhon, executive engineer (O and M cell) Ranbir Singh, project engineer Harpal Aujla and sanitary inspector Pawan Sharma are part of the committee. Sekhon said that the official visit has been sponsored by the private firm which is operating the plant in Prayagraj, wherein biofuel is being produced out of the waste. The committee will return on Tuesday, following which a report will be submitted with the mayor Balkar Sandhu. Sandhu said that MC is studying different models to deal with the solid waste, and soon, tenders will be floated to hire contractors for the work. Earlier, the MC committee had gone to study solid waste management in Vellore (Tamil Nadu) in 2019 and Indore in 2020, but no concrete steps towards improvement have been taken. Recently, the Punjab Pollution Control Board had imposed a penalty of ₹1.8 crore on MC for its failure to dispose off over 1,100 metric tonnes of waste generated in the city everyday. Over 16 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste has been accumulated at the main dump site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-team-to-study-waste-mgmt-model-in-prayagraj-101628192944482.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Assault on Dalit family in Ludhiana: Protest held against police over ‘inaction’||Members of at least 10 Dalit and religious organisations on Thursday staged a protest for about two hours at Jamalpur Chowk on Chandigarh Road here against police ‘inaction’ in a case of assault on a Dalit family. Battling rain, the protesters also demanded action against Jamalpur station house officer SHO. However, commuters were a harried a lot as the traffic movement was disrupted. The agitators lifted the protest after additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) (City 4) Rupinder Kaur Sra assured to arrest the accused in two days and added more sections to the FIR for sexually assaulting a woman and hurting religious sentiments. The protesters claimed that if the police would not arrest the accused, they would intensify the stir.According to them, a local man, Ajay Tiwari, had along with his aides trespassed on the residential property of a Dalit family. The accused thrashed the victim and pulled his beard. They had also molested his daughter and fled after vandalising the house. When they went to the police station to lodge an FIR, cops booked them in a fake case, the agitators claimed.Later, the police registered a case of assault against Tiwari and his aides. Father of the woman said the SHO “deliberately delayed the matter and the department should suspend him immediately effect”.The ADCP said the police have added more sections of the IPC and SC/ST Act to the FIR lodged against the accused. The police will arrest the accused very soon, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/assault-on-dalit-family-in-ludhiana-protest-held-against-police-over-inaction-101628192887691.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC to conduct micro survey of door-to-door waste collection||To chalk out a solid waste management plan and stop open dumping of garbage, the municipal corporation (MC) will be conducting a micro survey of door-to-door collection of waste by visiting properties across the city .The decision was taken during a capacity building workshop organised under Swachh Bharat Mission at MC headquarters (Zone-A office) on Wednesday evening. It was conducted by mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal. State project director of Swachh Bharat Mission, Puran Singh, was also present.The survey is being conducted to check whether garbage is being collected from every household/property in the city, so that dumping of waste in open plots and Buddha Nullah can be stopped. MC health branch officials have been directed to complete it in a month. With reference to 2011 census data, MC officials said there were around 3.5 lakh properties in the city at that time and the civic body does not have figures on the present number. During the survey, information regarding the number of houses, shops, labour quarters (vehras), hotels and restaurants will also be gathered and list of garbage collectors working in the informal sector will be prepared. As per officials, the higher authorities are contemplating adoption of Chandigarh model of door-to-door collection by involving informal garbage collectors with MC.Further, the survey staff will list out the number of kitchens in the houses to get a rough idea of the waste generated by the owner and whether waste is being segregated or not. An official, requesting anonymity, said that door-to-door collection of waste is mostly being carried out by the informal sector and many residents do not give waste to them to save monthly fee. The MC has also been facing the heat of National Green Tribunal (NGT) over its failure in taking up solid waste management properly. Puran Singh visited a few areas in the city on Wednesday morning and found gaps.He said that the survey is being done to create a proper system of door-to-door collection in the city. If properties are found, from where the waste is not being collected, then the garbage collectors working in the informal sector will be told to collect from them.MC commissioner Sabharwal said that directions have been issued to complete the survey in a month, following which further steps will be taken for improvement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-to-conduct-micro-survey-of-door-to-door-waste-collection-101628192885331.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||SAD demands CBI probe into leasing out shamlat land to health minister’s trust||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the prime shamlat land worth ₹100 crore leased to health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in the name of a trust headed by him. Seeking immediate cancellation of the trust deed, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia demanded the probe into the allotment of the prime land in Balongi area of Mohali to the trust by rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. “It is condemnable that even though the panchayats department had allowed the lease of 10.4 acres for the Bal Gopal Gau Basera society headed by Sidhu ostensibly for running a “gaushala”, it also sanctioned construction of a banquet hall and a diagnostic centre on the same piece of land,” he claimed in a statement. The Akali leader alleged that the entire process smelled of a scam and the government should register a case of cheating against the health minister and members of the Trust as well as officials of the panchayats department responsible for this illegality. Asserting that the SAD would move the court in case the government did not cancel the lease deed, Majithia alleged that due process was not followed in allowing the use of land at a throwaway lease price of ₹25,000 per acre. “This has been done despite the fact that the land is not suitable for establishment of a ‘gaushala’ which villagers felt should be closer to the village,” he added. Majithia also said that the SAD would not allow this takeover of public property for personal profit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-demands-cbi-probe-into-leasing-out-shamlat-land-to-health-minister-s-trust-101628192874877.html
06-08-2021||Other||INSO celebrates 19th foundation day amid sloganeering by farmers||Indian National Students Organisation (INSO), the student wing of Jannayak Janata Party, observed its 19th foundation day at Rohtak’s Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) on Thursday amid protests by farmers agitating against the agricultural reforms. Security was beefed up on all roads leading to the varsity.Hundreds of farmers gathered outside MDU and raised slogans against JJP’s national president Ajay Chautala and his younger son Digvijay Chautala, who had come to take part in the programme. The protesters also tore JJP leaders’ posters but no untoward incident was reported.Pradeep Deswal elected INSO’s national chiefJJP national president Ajay Chautala announced that Pradeep Deswal will take over as the national president of INSO, in place of Digvijay Chautala, who was elected JJP’s general secretary earlier this year. Chautala said the decision to hand over the charge to Deswal was taken after discussions with senior party leaders. “Pradeep has been working with INSO for many years. It is now his duty to strengthen the party and reach out to students across the country,” he added.Deswal, who is pursuing PhD from the MDU, had fought the 2019 Lok Sabha election from the Rohtak parliamentary constituency in which he lost his security deposit.Deswal said filling in Digvijay’s shoes will be a tough task.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/inso-celebrates-19th-foundation-day-amid-sloganeering-by-farmers-101628192754824.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chhabra to get notice from Chandigarh Congress for anti-party utterances||Meeting for the first time after its constitution, the new executive of the faction-riddled Chandigarh Congress, on Thursday, recommended strict action against the rebel party leaders. This will involve a show-cause notice to former city president Pardeep Chhabra for his “anti-party” activities. The party has already written to the high command against him. “The party took a strong note of the recent actions of former Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee president Pardeep Chhabra, who has been openly criticising the party leadership and thus damaging the party’s image and its prospects. It was unanimously decided to condemn such anti-party activities and issue a show-cause notice to him,” said HS Lucky, chief party spokesperson.Former MP and party’s national treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal, city party chief Subhash Chawla and the newly appointed office-bearers were present in the meeting. Chhabra, who was also invited by Chawla to the meeting, didn’t attend it citing personal reasons. The notice against Chhabra comes close on the heels of seven party leaders, including a former general secretary, former district general secretaries, presidents and vice-presidents, resigning from the primary membership of the party. Earlier on Thursday, in a message addressed to Chawla, Chhabra stated, “I am fighting to get justice for the loyal party workers. I can expose all the party leaders, but it will harm only the party and the leaders, not their sycophants.” On the notice, he said, “I have not received anything. I will respond to it only after know the contents of the letter. I am a dedicated and loyal worker of the party for over three decades.” Six months on, internal feud rages on For the last six months since Chawla replaced Chhabra as the city president, the party has been struggling to control internal feuds. Targeting Bansal and Chawla, Chhabra has alleged that the incumbent party leadership had ignored party loyalists with more than 30 years’ service. The matter came to a head when the Congress high command recently gave its nod to the appointment of the new executive comprising 133 members. Chhabra alleged that money, power and sycophancy, and not merit, decided the selection of the members. A day after Chhabra’s allegations, his close aide and former general secretary Sandeep Bhardwaj resigned from the party. Bhardwaj blamed Bansal for his resignation. Six more resignations, by those considered loyalists of Chhabra, followed soon after. The allegation has been strongly refuted by Chawla, who has maintained that he has retained nearly 99% of Chhabra’s team in the new committee. The factionalism within the party has erupted amid its preparations for the MC elections later this year, where the party is looking to improve its current tally of five councillors in the MC House of 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chhabra-to-get-notice-from-chandigarh-congress-for-anti-party-utterances-101628192516204.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Languishing hockey infrastructure in Ludhiana impeding budding talent||While the country soaks up the lustre of the men hockey team’s hard-earned bronze medal during the Tokyo Olympics, the local hockey stadium with its slippery turf, overgrown vegetation, and crumbling infrastructure stands in stark contrast and speaks of the authorities’ indifference to the sport. Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU’s) hockey stadium, which has been named after the “king of short corner” Prithipal Singh, in its present dilapidated state does the legendary Olympian a great disservice as it can no longer facilitate budding hockey players in the region. The AstroTurf, which was recently laid, is slippery at many places, the goalposts are missing in the practice arena and the ground is uneven. The wildly growing vegetation around the stadium gives the venue a rather gloomy look. The stench emanating from the bathrooms have rendered them unfit for use and the main office doubles as a store with gunny bags containing cement stored there. Many windows are broken, adding to the shabbiness of the building. Former hockey coach HS Bhullar said, “The stadium stands as a testimony of sports authorities’ indifference and neglect. We have been urging authorities to repair the stadium for a long time, to no avail.” “Is this the way to treat our national sport?” asks Olympian Hardeep Singh Grewal, while lamenting over the sad state of the hockey stadium stated. “That the talented youth of our country has managed to create history despite the sad state of hockey infrastructure is an absolute miracle,” he said. “We need more coaches and well-maintained infrastructure. Toilet hygiene is a far cry when there is no potable water. We do not give the players any facilities, but expect them to bag medals for the nation. How is this fair?” he asked. Veteran hockey player Jagbir Singh Grewal also shared the same grouse. “For three years, players have been running pillar to post over maintenance of the hockey stadium. However, the Indian hockey teams historic win has given us an opportunity to highlight the sorry state of the hockey infrastructure.” Despite repeated attempts, PAU dean student welfare (DSW) Ravinder Kaur Dhaliwal remained unavailable for comment.District sport officer (DSO) Ravinder Singh, however, says the turf is in good condition. “The hockey academy was closed due to the pandemic. Now, with resumption of classroom teaching, the academy will also be resumed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/languishing-hockey-infrastructure-in-ludhiana-impeding-budding-talent-101628192514936.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate polls: GMCH doctor among winners from staff of technical, professional colleges||From the constituency of staff of technical and professional colleges of Panjab University (PU) senate, three members were declared winners after the counting of votes on Thursday.Among the winners is former senator Neeru Malik, assistant professor at Dev Samaj College of Education, Chandigarh, who took the lead with 216 votes. The polling for the constituency was held on August 3 in Chandigarh and Punjab and four candidates were in fray. Former senator Gurmit Singh, who is an assistant professor at Malwa Central College of Education for Women, Ludhiana, secured 150 votes while Suresh Kumar, a professor at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, got 138 votes.Neeru Malik, who has remained a senator from the same constituency in the last term, said, “I will contribute towards the upliftment of the university and better coordination between colleges, teachers and varsity.”“Speedy redressal of grievances of teachers and colleges related issues will be a priority,” said Gurmit Singh.Suresh Kumar said, “I will participate constructively in the PU senate for the improvement of our institutions.”Result of principals’ constituency not declaredThe results of constituency of principals of technical and professional colleges was not declared on Thursday. As there was an issue over the inclusion of one vote to the voters’ list, the result will be produced in a sealed cover in Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday. While five candidates are in fray from this constituency, three members will be elected to PU senate. Now, the voting for the constituencies of professors and associate/assistant professors of the university teaching departments will take place on August 10.The senate, which is PU’s apex governing body, comprises 91 members, 47 of whom are elected from eight constituencies. The remaining ones are either nominated or are ex-officio members. Since the four-year term of the previous senate had ended on October 31, 2020, PU had been functioning without a governing body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-polls-gmch-doctor-among-winners-from-staff-of-technical-professional-colleges-101628192456113.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 40 Covid fresh cases||The Covid-19 infection tally in Punjab on Thursday rose to 5,99,304 with 40 fresh cases, according to a medical bulletin.No Covid-related death was reported on Thursday.The death toll, which stands at 16,301, includes two fatalities which were not reported earlier, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases stands at 464, it said.Fazilka, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana reported five cases each, followed by four each in Amritsar and Mohali.With 45 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured people reached 5,82,539, it said.Civil surgeons to ensure Covid surveillance in schools: Health minister In view of re-opening of schools after the second coronavirus wave, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Thursday directed all civil surgeons to ensure Covid surveillance in schools as per the standard operating procedures recommended by the committee of experts. The health minister said to prevent any major outbreak of Covid-19 among children in schools, instructions have been issued to all the civil surgeons to prepare a micro plan, which provides data of suspected cases and tests to be conducted in their respective districts. “It is the responsibility of schools management to educate their teachers, staff and students on Covid-19 prevention measures,” he said in a statement. He said schools must develop a schedule for daily cleaning and disinfection of the premises, facilities and frequently touched surfaces, and ensure availability of hand hygiene. “Schools should enforce the policy of staying home if unwell and also ensure students or staff who have been in contact with a Covid positive person to stay home for 14 days,” he added. Also, physical distancing of at least six feet between individuals can be maintained by spacing of desks, staging recesses, breaks and lunch breaks; limiting the mixing of classes and of age groups; considering smaller classes or alternating attendance schedules, and ensuring good ventilation in classrooms, frequent hand and respiratory hygiene, and environmental cleaning measures should be in place to limit exposure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-40-covid-fresh-cases-101628192277112.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Assets case: Mohali court issues notice to govt on Saini’s bail plea||The additional district and sessions judge, Mohali, on Thursday issued a notice to the Punjab government following an anticipatory bail filed by former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and six others in case filed by the Punjab vigilance and anti-corruption bureau in a disproportionate assets case and Prevention of Corruption Act on August 2. The next day of hearing has been fixed for Friday (August 6). Saini’s counsel HS Dhanoa filed the anticipatory bail on Thursday. Hearing the case, the additional district and sessions judge issued the notice to the state government for August 6 and directed it to present complete record with regard to the FIR. On August 2, the Punjab vigilance bureau registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and conspiracy against former Saini and with six others, including public works department executive engineer Nimratdeep Singh and his father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal, Ajay Kaushal, Parduman Singh, Paramjit Singh and Amit Singla. The agency is probing Saini’s role in a fraudulent deal involving fake documents and questionable financial transactions linked to a house in Sector 20, Chandigarh. The FIR lodged by vigilance additional director Varinder Singh Brar was based on an inquiry which established that Saini paid ₹2.5 lakh rent for the first floor of the house to an excise officer’s family, besides paying ₹6.4 crore since October 2018. Last year, the Mohali police booked Saini for the alleged disappearance and murder of Balwant Singh Multani. A special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police is also examining his role in the 2015 Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing cases when he was the DGP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/assets-case-mohali-court-issues-notice-to-govt-on-saini-s-bail-plea-101628192154752.html
06-08-2021||Other||UPEIDA CEO reviews progress of B’khand e-way; 69% work done||Lucknow: Around 69% physical work of Bundelkhand expressway has been completed and 687 structures out of 818 along the expressway have already been constructed. Presiding over virtual meeting of the Bundelkhand Expressway Awanish Awasthi, CEO,UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), on Thursday instructed officials to expedite construction work of Toll Plaza and toilet boxes along the expressway. During the meeting, officials also informed that out of 296.07 km of the expressway around 213.03 km of the road has been constructed. During the meeting, officials apprised the CEO, UPEIDA, that construction work of all 14 long bridges on the expressway and four railway-over-bridges was progressing as per the schedule. Officials also apprised the CEO about progress of 18 flyovers. The Bundelkhand Expressway has its origin at Bharatkoop in Chitrakoot district and merging with Agra – Lucknow Expressway at Kudrail village in Etawah district and traversing through Chitrakoot, Banda, Hemirpur, Mahoba, Jalaun, Oraiya and Etawah. This expressway would provide faster connectivity with Agra, National Capital Region (NCR), Delhi.UPEIDA signs MOU with BDLLucknow: The Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL), a government of India enterprise under Ministry of Defence, signed an MOU with the Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) on Thursday for setting up a manufacturing unit in Jhansi by investing ₹400 crore. The BDL will manufacture propulsion systems which will be used for various types of missiles manufactured by it. The MOU was signed between N P Diwakar, director (technical), BDL, and Awanish Kumar Awasthi, CEO, UPEIDA, in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath . This will be the BDL’s investment in phase one of the project in Uttar Pradesh’s defence corridor. It is part of the BDL’s diversification and expansion plan. The BDL is a mini-ratna category-1 company having its registered office in Hyderabad. It is the only public sector company in the defence sector in the country that manufactures missiles and underwater weapons for the armed forces. According to the MOU, the BDL will acquire 250 hectares land in Jhansi under a lease agreement for an initial period of 30 years, which will be extendable up to 90 years. Also present on this occasion, Commodore Siddharth Mishra (retd), CMD, BDL, said that a new facility would be set up at this location to manufacture propulsion systems which will be used for various types of missiles manufactured by the company. The upcoming facility at Jhansi will be the BDL’s sixth unit and the first in northern India. He added that the BDL was planning to commence operations at this facility by 2023, which would generate employment opportunities in the area. It was expected that MSMEs would also be established as ancillary units, once BDL unit was set up, Mishra added. The BDL is also planning to establish a facility in the defence corridor for testing requirements under ‘defence testing infrastructure scheme’ of the Ministry of Defence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/upeida-ceo-reviews-progress-of-b-khand-e-way-69-work-done-101628192035560.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Drag-flicker Rupinder’s family rejoices in pride as India win bronze in hockey||The family of 30-year-old drag flick specialist, Rupinder Pal Singh, who scored a goal from a penalty stroke, was on cloud nine as the Indian men’s hockey team clinched an Olympic bronze medal. Rupinder’s family members along with neighbours gathered at his house in Faridkot to watch the match. The moment India won the match, it was an emotional moment for his family, especially for his mother Sukhwinder Kaur. They celebrated the proud moment by distributing “laddoos”. Rupinder comes from a humble background. His family owns a small house, while his younger brother Amarbir Singh runs a small business in the city. Rupinder’s father Harinder Singh said his son has brought laurels to the country. “Rupinder was just six when he started playing hockey and never looked back. I always knew that one day he will do us and the nation proud, said the elated father. Amarbir said the financial condition of their family was not good. “Despite this, my father always supported Rupinder for the game,” he said. Rupinder’s mother said: “Kids have done a lot of hard work to achieve this, but I am thankful to God with whose blessings they were able to pull this,” she added.Later, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu visited Rupinder’s house to congratulate the family . “Proud of the Indian hockey team. Rupinder scored a goal to confirm bronze for India and to achieve a long-awaited victory,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dragflicker-rupinder-s-family-rejoices-in-pride-as-india-win-bronze-in-hockey-101628191977216.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC adjourns hearing challenging Chandigarh power depts’ privatisation||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday adjourned the hearing on a plea wherein UT’s move to privatise the power department has been challenged. It was listed for hearing before Chief Justice RS Jha and Justice Arun Palli, who adjourned it for final disposal. The court is yet to put out a date for the next hearing.During the hearing on Thursday, the UT had told the court that plea was premature, a submission countered from the petitioner’s side. UT also informed the court that process is on, and it will take another two to three months to pick a company.On Wednesday Kolkata-based industrial and services conglomerate RP-Sanjiv Goenka (RPSG) Group quoted the highest bid for the department and is set to take over the department. It quoted ₹871 crore against the reserve price of ₹175 crore. EED was one of the seven companies in the race for taking over the department.The matter has been taken to the court by UT Powermen Union and the HC stayed the process on two occasions. But the Supreme Court intervened and, on both occasions, stay was vacated. The union is of the view that the administration is selling 100% stake of the government in the absence of such a provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.Another argument of the union is that the department is running into profits and its revenue has been surplus for the past three years, still it is being privatised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-adjourns-hearing-challenging-chandigarh-power-depts-privatisation-101628191975847.html
06-08-2021||Other||BSEH Class-12 results out: 100% pass||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) on Thursday announced the results of Class-12 open board exam. Interacting with mediapersons, board chairman Jagbir Singh said the pass percentage stood at 100% and former Haryana chief minister OP Chautala was among the 39,000 students who passed the exam. “We have given 33% marks to all students. We have put Chautala and six other students’ results on hold. Chautala’s result could not be declared as he remained absent in the English exam in Class 10, which he had passed from the Central Board of Secondary Education. If he wants to take admission in the undergraduate level, he will have to pass the English exam in Class 10, else he will be considered a Class 12 passout,” the board chairman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bseh-class-12-results-out-100-pass-101628191974827.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Miffed over her love affair, Ambala man murders cousin||A 30-year-old man allegedly bludgeoned his cousin to death with an iron rod at Lalpur village in Ambala’s Naraingarh sub-division on Wednesday.The accused, Praveen, was arrested on Thursday.According to police, Praveen murdered Komal, 26, as he did not approve of her relationship with a man from another village. “Komal wanted to marry a man named Sahil, who lives 2km away from them in Taprian village. Praveen believed their relationship will bring shame to the family as their social status was different,” said sub-inspector (SI), Dhoom Singh, station in-charge, Naraingarh police station.The victim’s brother Sanjeev Kumar told the police their family was aware of Komal’s relationship and her intention to marry Sahil since June. The information had also reached his paternal uncle Ram Pal and his son Praveen, who was against the alliance.“On Wednesday, my relatives and friends gathered at my house to persuade Praveen, but he didn’t budge. Later we left for a brick kiln, 2km away from our house, where we also invited Sahil’s paternal uncle to discuss the matter. But Praveen didn’t accompany us,” Sanjeev said.Later, they got the news that Komal was found murdered at her house. When they rushed back, they found injury marks on her head. Sanjeev alerted the police and accused Praveen of the murder in his complaint.SI Dhoom Singh, who is the investigating officer in the case, said the accused used an iron rod to kill the woman. He has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and will be presented in a court on Friday.The victim is survived by four younger siblings. Their parents had died six years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/miffed-over-her-love-affair-ambala-man-murders-cousin-101628191914692.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Prashant Kishor quits as Punjab CM’s principal adviser||Amid talk of his likely induction into the Congress at the national level, poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Thursday resigned as Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s principal adviser, saying that he was taking a “temporary break” from active role in public life.The chief minister has accepted Kishor’s resignation.The political strategist’s move, which came just six months before the state assembly polls, is on expected lines. He had announced his retirement from election management on May 2, the day the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress whose election work he was handling scored a resounding victory in West Bengal.In a letter to the chief minister, Kishor said he has not been able to take over the responsibilities as his principal adviser in view of his decision to take a temporary break from active role in public life. “Since I am yet to decide on my future course of action, I write to request you to kindly relieve me from this responsibility. I take this opportunity to thank you for considering me for this position,” he wrote even as political circles in Delhi are abuzz with talk of his induction into the Congress with a senior leadership role.Kishor, or “PK” as he is often called in political circles, had worked with the Congress in Punjab in the 2017 assembly polls with Amarinder as the state unit president, who wanted him to again manage the party’s campaign in next year’s assembly elections. Amarinder, who first spoke to the election consultant about it more than a year ago, inducted him in the chief minister’s office (CMO) as the principal adviser in the rank and status of a cabinet minister on March 1. He was paid a token honorarium of ₹1 per month, but was entitled to a fully-furnished government residence and camp office, executive class travel, official vehicle, medical facilities and secretarial staff as admissible to a cabinet minister.Kishor held meetings with the party’s first-time MLAs and top officials of the state government to gather feedback on the ground realities before getting busy with the West Bengal elections. In May, Kishor announced his retirement from election management work, telling reporters that he had done enough and wanted to quit this space.On his appointment in Punjab, he said, “If you help someone win an election, it is nothing if they offer you principal adviser or adviser’s post. They always like you to be by their side because it suits them. It is for me to decide whether I want to do that or not. I am telling you that I am not doing this work for anybody anymore.” Though his statement signalled his disinterest in continuing in the principal adviser’s position, he took time to send his resignation.The poll strategist was seen as the brain behind the “Coffee with Captain” and “Punjab da Captain” that had worked well for the party and the CM-face in 2017. “PK & his team and their work were absolutely critical to our victory in Punjab!” Amarinder had tweeted after the party’s victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prashant-kishor-quits-as-punjab-cm-s-principal-adviser-says-taking-temporary-break-101628191794731.html
06-08-2021||Other||Mortal remains of BSF jawan killed in Tripura consigned to flames in Panipat||The mortal remains of Border Security Force (BSF) sub-inspector Bhuru Singh Khainchi, who was killed in a militant ambush in Tripura on August 3, were consigned to flames with full state honours at his native village, Ahar, in Panipat district on Thursday.Hundreds of village residents, along with administration officials, reached to pay respects to the 56-year-old jawan. He is survived by his two sons. Khainchi’s wife had passed away earlier while his younger son, Sumit, and daughter-in-law are also in the BSF.His elder son, Ravinder, who works in a private company, said he had spoken to his father six days before the fateful day.Khainchi and another BSF jawan were on patrolling duty when NLFT militants had ambushed them along the India-Bangladesh international border in Tripura in August 3.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also expressed condolences to the family members in a tweet.“My humble tributes to martyr BSF sub-inspector Bhuru Singh Khainchi ji, who was martyred in a terrorist attack while defending the country on the Indo-Bangladesh border in Tripura. The nation will always remember his sacrifice,” the chief minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mortal-remains-of-bsf-jawan-killed-in-tripura-consigned-to-flames-in-panipat-101628191734727.html
06-08-2021||Lucknow||Varanasi’s Lalit keeps his promise as India win bronze in men’s hockey at Tokyo Olympics||“I will come back with a medal for sure.”This was the promise ace midfielder Lalit Kumar Upadhyay made to his father Satish Kumar Upadhyay and coach Parmanand Mishra before India won a historic medal in hockey after 41 years at the Tokyo Olympics on Thursday, defeating Germany 5-4 in the bronze medal match.The promise didn’t make the two relax at all. They couldn’t sleep properly till the start of the match for the bronze medal at the Oi Hockey Stadium on Thursday morning. There were altogether different scenes at Lalit’s home at the Shivpur bypass in Varanasi and coach Mishra’s house in Sarnath, located 10 km northeast of Varanasi.People from Lalit’s village gathered at his house to watch the match live with his parents and his elder brother, whereas Mishra chose to watch it alone as he didn’t want to be disturbed. “I watched the match all alone as I didn’t want any disturbance. I even kept my family out of my room during the 60-minute clash. I couldn’t pick my phone for a few minutes even after India’s win as it was an emotional moment for me. I couldn’t believe that my trainee Lalit kept his promise of a medal to me,” said Mishra who trained Lalit at the Udai Pratap College in Varanasi under the Sports Authority of India’s scheme.“This means a lot to me as well as to Varanasi, which has produced some great hockey players for India in the past like Mohd Shahid and Vivek Singh. India’s success in hockey at the Tokyo Games is a great gift to Varanasi and it’s a special occasion to celebrate in the month of Sawan as we all worship Lord Shiva,” said Mishra, adding, “Lalit was one of the amazing kids we had in the lot of 10-11 boys under training. He (Lalit) never disobeyed my orders on the ground and was always disciplined.”“I never found him missing his training sessions. His ability to bounce back, especially when he was trapped in a selection controversy, helped him a lot. Lalit’s achievement will help attract many more Varanasi kids to hockey in the near future,” said Mishra, 62.Lalit’s father Satish, 61, too sounded emotional on his son’s success. “I told him to stay focused even after India lost to Belgium in the semi-final. It was heartbreaking for all of us but I kept my cool and didn’t let my son know my emotions,” said the senior Upadhyay, still a private employee of a nationalised bank in Varanasi.“We celebrated all the goals scored by India today and my heart was almost in my mouth when Germany got a penalty corner in the last few seconds of the game. I still feel the goosebumps as controlling emotions at that time was quite difficult,” he said.In Tokyo, the situation was no different for Lalit who was watching the match while sitting in the stands of the Oi Hockey Stadium after being injured in the previous match.“It’s an emotional moment... can’t understand what to say (after a pause). The way we played today was unique. It’s a moment to celebrate, congratulate everyone,” said Lalit on Thursday. “I came to Tokyo with Baba Bholenath’s blessings, and was sure of winning a medal here as I had (made) this promise to my family and my coach in Varanasi. In today’s game, our strong defence stopped the Germans. The last four minutes were heart-stopping as the opponents were scoring penalty corners one after the other. My heart came to a standstill for a while when Germany got a penalty corner in the last six seconds, but Anna (PR Sreejesh) stood like a rock at the goalpost and defended us.” “This medal will act as a tonic for Indian hockey. After a long gap, this medal has increased our stature at the international level. The popularity of hockey will increase once again . A plan should be made to take this game to the villages.”(With inputs from Sudhir Kumar in Varanasi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasis-lalit-keeps-his-promise-as-india-win-bronze-in-men-s-hockey-at-tokyo-olympics-101628191675983.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two from UP held with 2.7kg opium in Ludhiana||Division Number 1 police arrested two men for drug peddling and recovered 2.7kg opium from their possession on Wednesday, while the kingpin of the gang managed to escape. The accused are related to each other and used to smuggle opium from Hapur, Uttar Pradesh and supply it in different parts of Punjab.The arrested accused have been identified as Harjinder Singh alias Jindu, 40, of Hapur and Jagtar Singh, 26, of Amritsariyan Di Dhani of Amroha village. The kingpin of the drug supply chain is Dalwinder Singh of Amroha of Uttar Pradesh.Dalwinder is brother-in-law (sister’s husband) of Jagtar Singh, while Harjinder Singh is his uncle.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) (City 1) Pragya Jain said the police arrested the accused from the Clock Tower when they were coming from Domoria Bridge in a Ford Endeavour SUV. “The police stopped them for checking. On searching, the police recovered opium from a bag hidden in the gearbox of the SUV,” he added.“During questioning, the accused told the police that only Dalwinder knows where to deliver the consignment. He had promised to give them ₹30,000 for bringing the opium to Ludhiana from Hapur,” said the ADCP.“Dalwinder had alighted from the vehicle near Khanna stating that he would come to Ludhiana in a passenger bus and asked them to meet near the railway station. The arrested accused also told the police that Dalwinder used to procure opium and smuggle it further. They work as a courier for him,” added the ADCP. Division Number 1 station house officer sub-inspector Harjit Singh said a case under sections 18C, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the trio.Harjinder owns a dhaba in Hapur, while Jagtar is a truck driver. The SUV belongs to Harjinder. A hunt is on to nab Dalwinder.The police are also investigating the previous criminal record of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-from-up-held-with-2-7kg-opium-in-ludhiana-101628191615417.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana proposes to exempt development projects from social impact assessment||The Haryana cabinet on Tuesday gave its nod for amendments in the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, a central law. An amendment Bill will be tabled in the assembly and when passed, will require the assent of the President. An official spokesperson said the amendments have been proposed to ensure that infrastructure projects get completed and do not suffer. The proposed amendments, the spokesperson said, aimed to create a fine balance between the goals of development and rights of the individuals. Thus, it has been proposed to amend some provisions and insert new provisions in the central law, keeping in mind the state- specific circumstances. The proposed amendments The cabinet approved that Section 2 of the Act be amended and a new Section 10A be inserted to exempt certain development projects, rural infrastructure, affordable housing, industrial corridors, health and education and urban metro rail projects from the ambit of social impact assessment study and provision to safeguard food security. A new Section 23-A is proposed to be inserted in case there is an agreement in writing with the persons interested and making an award. Besides this, it is proposed to insert Section 31-A, pertaining to payment of lump sum amount in lieu of rehabilitation and resettlement costs for projects linear in nature, with a lump sum amount of 50% of compensation determined to the affected family. Further, to facilitate urgent acquisition of land in certain cases, under Section 40 of the principal Act, it is proposed to substitute the words “approval of Parliament”, with “the direction given by the state legislature to the state government”. The proposed legislation intends to simplify and speed up the acquisition of land in larger public interest. The amendments proposed are broadly in tune with the amendments carried out by Gujarat in 2016. The spokesperson said serious land acquisition issues were being faced by the state government in completing the existing essential infrastructure projects. These included projects vital to national security, rural infrastructure, including electrification affordable housing and housing for poor people. Industrial corridors where the land may be acquired up to two kilometres on both sides of designated railway lines or roads for such industrial corridor, infrastructure projects such as health, education and projects under public private partnership where the ownership of land continues to vest with the state government and urban metro rail and rapid rail projects were also facing land acquisition impediments. Creation of HR dept under chief secretaryThe cabinet also approved the creation of Human Resources (HR) department under the chief secretary. An official spokesperson said the HR department has been created to ensure that standards and norms laid by it are followed in the recruitment, regulation of service conditions, posting or transfers, deputation. It would also ensure a unified administrative control over all the employees of Group A, B, C & D, including Haryana Civil Services (HCS), to ensure maintenance of common cadres through a single department and maintenance of integrity of the public services and eradication of corruption. The spokesperson said it will also ensure transparency in recruitment through Common Eligibility Test. Amendment in HCS (executive branch) rulesThe cabinet also approved amendment in Haryana Civil Service (Executive Branch) Rules, 2008. An official spokesperson said as per the amendment, there are only two levels to pass the departmental examinations- with credit (75% marks) and pass (50% marks). Thus, there is no level of higher standard to pass the departmental examination for extra assistant commissioners. Affordable housing schemesThe Cabinet accorded approval to five affordable rental housing policies. These are policy for planned development of retirement housing, affordable rental housing, policy for planned development of student rental housing, policy for planned development of medico assisted living facilities and policy for planned development of working women’s hostel. An official spokesperson said these policies have been formulated through grant of change of land use (CLU) permission under Haryana Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Act, 1963 and through the grant of license under Act Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975. Remission of stamp duty on agri landIn a bid to reduce the financial burden on farmers in transactions in respect of exchange of cultivable agriculture land, the cabinet on Thursday approved a proposal for consideration of remission of stamp duty. As per the cabinet decision, only a nominal duty at the rate of ₹5,000 per deed of registration will be chargeable under Article 31 of Schedule 1-A of the Indian Stamp Act. Amendment in teacher transfer policyThe cabinet gave a major relief to the teachers, clerks, assistants and lab attendants suffering from various disabilities by amending 2016 teacher transfer policy. An official spokesperson said the amendment would ensure equitable, demand-based deployment of teachers in a fair and transparent manner. Service extension in view of pandemic The cabinet on Thursday gave ex-post facto approval to a proposal to grant one-month extension in service to employees of four departments who were going to retire on April 30. The extension was given emergent situation arising out of pandemic. The cabinet on Thursday approved creation of land bank for departments, boards and corporations. Land bank for government departmentsAn official spokesperson said a policy for creating land bank for the government departments for development projects would entail constitution of three committees - land and rate scrutiny committee, land bank committee and a high-powered land bank committee. The state government has been experiencing difficulties in making land available to the various departments in providing land for essential services that is waterworks, power sub-stations, colleges and other specialised institutions of higher learning including universities, medical colleges and other hospitals and polytechnics etc. The unutilised land of various departments, boards and corporations shall be clubbed at one place under the Revenue department. An official spokesperson said as per the policy, the farmers can also submit a proposal to the government for buying land and can also advise the government for selecting a particular site for the development project. CRID nodal dept for marriage registrationThe cabinet approved a proposal regarding transferring of the administration of the Haryana Compulsory Marriage Registration Act, 2008, to Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID). An official spokesperson said CRID is the nodal department for handling of all citizen resources information. Since marriage constituted a key element of the family structure information, it has been decided that the nodal department for the administration of the Haryana Compulsory Registration of Marriages Act, 2008 be CRID. This is being done by making amendments in the Business of the Haryana Government (Allocation) Rules, 1974. Hisar Airport rechristened as Maharaja Agrasen AirportThe cabinet accorded approval for designating the existing Hisar Airport as Maharaja Agrasen Airport, Hisar. An official spokesperson said phase-I of the project has already been completed with the procurement of aerodrome license for the airport in 2018-19 and the start of the flight operation from Hisar Airport under RCS UDAN scheme. Under Phase-11 of the project, work on extension of the airstrip from its existing length of 4,000 feet to 10,000 feet is already being undertaken. Revision of vehicles’ ageThe cabinet granted approval for amendment in the Haryana Motor Vehicles Rules, 1993, revising the age of operation of various types of transport vehicles under different permits in the state. This is in line with the Supreme Court orders which said the operation of diesel and petrol- driven vehicles which have attained the age of 10 and 15 respectively has been prohibited in the national capital region (NCR). Further, with the introduction of clean fuel technologies like electric vehicles, LNG, CNG, a need was felt to amend the rules to provide for enhanced age for such vehicles. An official spokesperson said this amendment will also remove an anomaly by fixing the age of stage carriage buses at par with private service vehicles and education institutional vehicles. This has been a long-pending demand of the stage carriage permit holders and will augment the transport services being provided by Haryana roadways as well as private operators, in addition to bringing savings to the public exchequer. The age of vehicles with tourist permits remains unchanged in line with rule 82 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-proposes-to-exempt-development-projects-from-social-impact-assessment-101628191434808.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board rakes in ₹9.8 crore from sale of 12 freehold flats||The auction of 12 freehold residential units fetched the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) ₹9.8 crore on Thursday. Three of these flats went for more than ₹1 crore each. A three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 was sold for ₹1.07 crore against a reserve price of ₹1 crore. An MIG flat in Sector 51, with a reserve price of ₹90 lakh, brought in ₹1.07 crore. In Sector 49, a two-bedroom flat earned ₹1.01 crore against the reserve price of ₹1 crore. The other nine flats raked in anywhere between ₹24.65 lakh and ₹95.63 lakh (see box). “Even after considerable increase in the reserve price of some of the dwelling units, CHB received bids nearly 6.5% above the reserve price. However, if the highest bid amount is compared with the reserve prices as per the earlier e-tenders, then the board has received 17.59% above the previous reserve prices,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB. The board had invited e-tenders for the sale of 46 built-up dwelling units on freehold basis. Among these, 12 units were included for the first time, while the rest were those that could not be sold in the last three auctions. The units were available in Sectors 38 (West), 49, 51 and 63. The last date for submission of e-bids was August 4 and the bids were opened on Thursday. A total of 30 e-bids were received for the 12 dwelling units sold.Properties worth ₹71 crore sold in last four months In December 2019, CHB had offered 212 properties, but found no taker due to high reserve prices. This year, during the pandemic, the board decreased the reserve price to attract more buyers. After getting good response to its auction, it increased the reserve price of several freehold properties and held more auctions. Notably, while a major chunk of its freehold residential properties have been sold off, it has not received great response to its leasehold properties – both commercial and residential. During the last four months, the board has conducted four e-auctions for 121 freehold residential properties and 87 properties have been auctioned for ₹70.59 crore.On the contrary, only nine commercial leasehold properties have been sold for ₹4.73 crore and two leasehold residential units for ₹1.74 crore.Garg said a number of initiatives helped CHB turn around its fortunes in the auctions this year, compared to those held in 2019. “Cleaning and repair of units, personal inspection of the premises, change of mode of disposal from e-auction to e-tender, helpdesk to assist in submission of e-bids, answers to queries and reaching to the public through various modes of mass communication seem to have elicited better response this time around,” said Garg. Kamal Gupta, president, Chandigarh Property Consultants’ Association, said, “In 2019 there was recession in the property market. But now, as substantiated by CHB auctions, there is an upswing in city’s realty sector.” Properties still up for grabsBids can be placed for 151 commercial units and 38 residential units, all leasehold, till 10am on August 10. The unsuccessful bidders of Thursday’s e-tender may participate in these e-tenders. However, for the remaining 34 freehold residential units the next e-tender may be invited after a fortnight. E-bid submission can be made on www.etenders.chd.nic.in. Every bidder is required to get registered on the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-rakes-in-9-8-crore-from-sale-of-12-freehold-flats-101628191375843.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sees 5 new Covid cases||Five fresh cases of the coronavirus were reported in the district on Thursday, taking the total case count to 87,321. However, no death was reported. The active case count stands at 54.Meanwhile, the district health department inoculated 774 pregnant women and 651 lactating mothers in the special vaccination camps.The camps were set up at 78 sites. Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said that 339 pregnant women were vaccinated in urban areas, while 435 got the jab in rural areas. Similarly, 265 lactating mothers were administered the vaccine in rural areas and 386 in urban areas. Ahluwalia said many pregnant women had got infected during the second wave, of which some had succumbed to the disease. More such camps will be organised in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sees-5-new-covid-cases-101628191374695.html
06-08-2021||Other||Most UP schools to reopen on Aug 16||LUCKNOW Majority of schools in Uttar Pradesh had decided to go offline, while some would follow hybrid (both offline and online classes) and some others would continue only with online education , claimed Anil Agarwal, president of the Unaided Private Schools Association Uttar Pradesh (UPSA). The decision regarding reopening of schools for Classes 9-12 from August 16 was taken at a meeting of the general body of the Unaided Private Schools Association Uttar Pradesh (UPSA) of which more than 1,000 schools across the state are members. The state government has allowed secondary schools in Uttar Pradesh (classes 9 to 12) to resume offline teaching from August 16. The physical classes in schools were discontinued since April following the second Covid wave. In a Covid review meeting held on Monday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath instructed officials to begin preparations for the commencement of the new session of all educational institutes in view of Covid-19 being under control in the state. In a meeting of school associations held on Thursday, it was decided that all government standard operating procedures (SOPs) would be followed. Large schools would run in shifts and the smaller ones in single shifts as per the government order. Schools will celebrate Independence Day with selected number of students, following all Covid protocols. President of UPSA, Anil Agarwal convened the meeting and Geetika Kapoor, principal of St Teresa School, Aashiana moderated it. The schools were all positive about reopening and the meeting was adjourned. The member schools thanked the UP government and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma for the initiative taken for reopening of schools. This online meeting was attended by Aashrita Dass, Brijendra Singh, Reeta Khanna, Richa Khanna, Rachit Manas, Jeevan Khanna, Jai Singh, Peter Fanthome and many others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/most-up-schools-to-reopen-on-aug-16-101628191315454.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Duo held for defrauding people through online rental property advts||Two Kharar men, who used to dupe people after offering properties on rent through online advertisements, have landed in police net.The accused, Karan Brahmi, 29, and Arvinder Singh, 30, were arrested by the cyber crime investigation cell (CCIC) of Chandigarh Police following several complaints of fraud.In one such complaint, Mamta of Sector 51 told the police that she had come across an online advertisement while looking for a room on rent on OLX and 99acres.com. The advertiser shared some pictures of the room when she contacted him and asked her to book the room soon with an advance payment. To avoid losing the accommodation to another tenant, she paid ₹13,500 in different accounts provided by the advertiser. But he went off the grid soon after.On her complaint, a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 49 police station on November 7, 2020.The accused were arrested following a tip-off on Wednesday. A local court sent them to one-day police custody on Thursday. According to police, both accused are drug addicts. Arvinder was discharged from a drug rehabilitation centre about 20 days ago, while Karan was still undergoing treatment for his addiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/duo-held-for-defrauding-people-through-online-rental-property-advts-101628191134695.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali woman’s gold chain snatched while riding scooter||Two motorcycle-borne men snatched a woman’s gold chain while she was on the move on her scooter in TDI City, Sector 116, on Thursday.The victim, Pooja Sharma, told the police that she was returning from Phase 3B2 to her house in TDI City, Sector 116. As she reached her neighbourhood, two men on a Hero Splendor snatched her gold chain and drove off. Sharma lost her balance and suffered injuries after falling on the ground. She was taken to the Phase-6 Civil Hospital for treatment.On her complaint, police registered a case under Section 379B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Balongi police station. “We are checking the CCTV footage of nearby areas and are hopeful of catching the snatchers soon,” said Rajpal Singh Gill, station house officer (SHO), Balongi.76-yr-old falls prey to snatchers in Sector 15In a similar incident on Wednesday, a 76-year-old woman lost her gold chain to two motorcycle-borne snatchers in Sector 15, Chandigarh.Bhagwati, a resident of Sector 15, told the police that she was out for a walk near her house when a man and a woman on a motorcycle stopped near her, snatched her chain and sped away. She raised the alarm, but in vain. A case under Section 379A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 11 police station on her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-woman-s-gold-chain-snatched-while-riding-scooter-101628191014601.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Khanna man booked for raping cousin’s wife, blackmailing her||Khanna police are on the lookout for a man who allegedly raped his cousin’s wife after blackmailing her with her nude pictures.The woman told the police that the accused, a resident of Rajewal village, visited their house regularly. During one such visit in 2019, he clicked her pictures and filmed her while taking a bath.Using these images and videos, he blackmailed her for ₹50,000. When she filed a police complaint, he apologised, so she dropped the matter.However, on July 5 this year, while she was alone at home, the accused turned up there and raped her after blackmailing her again.Sub-inspector Kiranpreet Kaur, who is investigating the case, said they had lodged an FIR under Section 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused, who will be arrested soon. Sections of the Information and Technology Act will be added to the FIR after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khanna-man-booked-for-raping-cousin-s-wife-blackmailing-her-101628190955565.html
06-08-2021||Other||Prayagraj Municipal Corporation in UP floats tender to check stray dog menace||To check stray dog menace in the city, Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) has floated a tender for sterilisation of stray dogs. Following which, the population of stray dogs would come down steadily in the city and so would be the nuisance caused by them, claim officials. The idea of sterilising the stray dogs in the city has been taken up after over a decade. The responsibility to do this would rest with the private agency which gets selected after the bidding, they added. The livestock department of the PMC has floated the tender for the deployment of the agency. The purpose of sterilisation is to stop increasing number of stray dogs in the city which as per some approximation has surpassed 20,000, said officials. As per the plan of the PMC, dangerous dogs in each locality of the city would be identified and sterilized by the agency. The corporators of each of 80 wards of the city would help in identifying such dogs in their respective wards which often run behind vehicles and bite people. Numerous accidents have happened in different localities of the city wherein people have fallen from their bikes or cycles after being chased by the stray dogs, claim officials. To execute the work, the agency would capture the dog with utmost care so that the dog is not hurt in the process. Once captured, the dog would be sterilised and would be looked after for a couple of days to ensure that he has healed. The dogs will then be released in the same locality, the officials explained. Public relation officer of PMC, PK Mishra said, “Before giving the work to the agency, every aspect will be examined which are necessary for sterilisation of the dogs while taking proper care of the dogs”. PMC would carefully look into the credentials of the agency especially in terms of professionalism, he added. Over a decade ago, the exercise to control the increasing numbers of stray dogs was taken up and dozens of stray dogs were sterilised with the help of an organisation. However, after the death of some of the dogs after sterilisation, various animal rights and other organisations had protested, and the process was stopped midway. PHOTO CAPTION: Stray dogs in Prayagraj. (HT)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-municipal-corporation-in-up-floats-tender-to-check-stray-dog-menace-101628190955052.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Teachers training institute proposes expansion of wet waste processing in Chandigarh||The National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR) has submitted a proposal for expanding the wet waste processing capacity of the Chandigarh municipal corporation.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “We have received their proposal for setting up a plant for improving the capacity of wet waste processing.”The MC has asked IIT Ropar to prepare a detailed project report and request for proposal (RFP) for upgrading the solid waste processing plant in Sector 25. IIT Ropar will also prepare a plan for wet and horticulture waste processing.“We will depend on the IIT-Ropar report, and at this stage, NITTTR’s proposal has been put on the back burner. We will ask them to give their inputs to IIT Ropar on the issue,” said a MC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teachers-training-institute-proposes-expansion-of-wet-waste-processing-in-chandigarh-101628190774873.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali DC marks inquiry to find source of chemical discharge in Dhakoli rivulet||Taking stern action against the violators of environmental rules, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Thursday ordered immediate inquiry into the incident of suspected chemical factory discharge, which turned the seasonal rivulet’s water red in Dhakoli. The chemical factory discharge has been flowing into the rivulet for the last three days.Dayalan said the executive engineer of the environment department will conduct a thorough probe of the incident and sampling will be done so that the source of the chemical discharge could be found and appropriate action could be taken.The DC said that prima facie facts showed that the chemical belonged to a factory of a neighbouring state. Dayalan also informed that teams had already deputed at the site to find the actual source of the chemical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-dc-marks-inquiry-to-find-source-of-chemical-discharge-in-dhakoli-rivulet-101628190655919.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Armed robbery bid in Chandigarh: Eight months on, prime suspect held||Almost eight months after an armed robbery bid at a goldsmith’s shop in Sector 23, the police brought the prime suspect on production warrants from Patiala jail.The accused, identified as Pargat Singh, 29, of Dhaliwal village, Patiala, was brought from Patiala jail where he was lodged in connection to the murder of his accomplice. He was produced before a court here and remanded to two-day police custody.The police are yet to arrest his accomplice Lovepreet of Tarn Taran.Arrested by Mohali police for carjacking, murder The Mohali police had arrested Pargat in July this year, along with one Lucky of Patiala and Satwant, alias Bittu, in connection with robbery of a luxury vehicle at gunpoint. Nine more vehicles were recovered from their possession, the police had said.With his arrest, the police had claimed to solve the murder of Jaspreet Singh, alias Billa, of Indira Colony, Manimajra, who had accompanied the accused in an armed robbery bid in Sector 23. Hours later, Jaspreet was shot dead by Pargat and Lovepreet at Nanu Majra village in Sector 82, Mohali.The accused had killed Jaspreet fearing that he had been identified by the police via CCTV footage. A case was registered against Pargat, Lovepreet and one Navdeep Singh of Patiala with whom the duo had fled after murder.Accused had entered shop on pretext of selling goldAccording to the police, accused Pargat Singh and Lovepreet had asked Jaspreet to sell gold who in turn had contacted Panchkula resident Rohit, who worked in a jewellery shop in Sector 15, Chandigarh.On December 9, 2020, Rohit had come on an Activa scooter and met the others at Shri Gold Testing Lab in Sector 23, Chandigarh. On entering the shop, the accused had initially told lab owner Sanjay Devgun that they wanted to sell the gold, but later Pargat and Lovpreet had fired gunshots leaving Sanjay injured. The accused had later fled in a car. A case was registered.Jaspreet before dying had made a last call to his mother and told her that he had gone to the gold lab with the accused where they had opened fire. He had also told her that he was unaware of the plan and was innocent.Even Rohit, who was detained soon after the firing in Sector 23, had told the police that he was tricked by the accused on the pretext of selling gold and was unaware about his plans of robbery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/armed-robbery-bid-in-chandigarh-eight-months-on-prime-suspect-held-101628190654704.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders probe after MP flags ‘real estate mafia’ in Mohali district||Acting on the letter received from Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari regarding non-provision of facilities to people as promised by real estate developers in Mohali, Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a probe.The principal secretary of the housing and urban development department will conduct the probe and will submit the report in two weeks.Tewari in his letter to the CM had stated that real estate developers in Mohali, Kharar, Kurali, and New Chandigarh had not fulfilled their obligations after selling plots and flats to people who had invested their hard-earned savings on them.The residents of these societies were facing harassment at the hands of real estate developers including lack of basic amenities, the letter had stated.Last month, after registering cases against 48 builders for raising illegal colonies in Kharar and Balongi areas, Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh had constituted a special investigating team (SIT) under the superintendent of police (SP, rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal.On July 11, Tewari had raised the issue of “real estate mafia” in the district and assured that he would take up the matter with the CM, following which the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had swung into action and asked the SSP of police to register FIRs against erring builders. On July 15, the police had registered a case against 48 builders, who had developed unauthorised residential colonies at Jhampur, Badmajra and Behlolpur villages of Kharar area. The case was registered under Section 36(1) of the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA). There are around 20 illegal colonies that have come up without the permission of GMADA. No change of land use (CLU) was done either. Most of the colonies have come up on agricultural land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-orders-probe-after-mp-flags-real-estate-mafia-in-mohali-district-101628190595105.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||Newborn girl found dead in garbage dump in Ludhiana||The dead body of a newborn girl was found in a garbage dump in a vacant plot behind Swarn Palace in Sherpur area on Wednesday. The complainant, Suresh Kumar of Muslim Colony of Sherpur Kalan, came upon the dead newborn while he was inspecting the plot and raised the alarm. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Mewa Ram, who is investigating the case, said the girl had died two hours before her body was found. The body has been sent to the civil hospital for postmortem.“The body was not wrapped in cloth. The newborn child was abandoned soon after birth and may have died due to starvation or due to the rain. It is possible that an unwed mother attempted to abort the child to escape social stigma, or it may be a case of female foeticide. We are checking records at hospitals, nursing homes and with midwives to identify the newborn child’s mother,” he said. A case under Section 316 (causing death of an unborn child by act amounting to culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Moti Nagar Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/newborn-girl-found-dead-in-garbage-dump-in-ludhiana-101628190534582.html
06-08-2021||Other||Charuni leads farmers’ convoy from Kaithal to Singhu border||In an attempt to garner support for the ongoing agitation against agriculture reforms, farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni on Thursday led a convoy of farmers from Kaithal district to Singhu border.The farmers from different parts of the district reached Kaithal and left for Delhi. Charuni slammed the government for ignoring the farmers even after 600 protesting farmers lost their lives in the past eight months.“The government was not ready to hear farmers. The next decision about the agitation will be taken by the Morcha leaders jointly,” he said, adding that people are suffering because of their wrong choice of representatives during elections.Charuni, who had to face a week’s suspension from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farm unions, for suggesting that the farmer leaders from Punjab should contest the upcoming assembly polls, said that he will continue his support to the agitation and lead more such convoys in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charuni-leads-farmers-convoy-from-kaithal-to-singhu-border-101628190414849.html
06-08-2021||Chandigarh||With 3rd wave looming, Ludhiana gets 10 new O2 plants||With the spectre of a third wave looming large and haunting images of patients gasping for rapidly running out oxygen still fresh in memory, the district administration is doing its best to get ahead of another potential Covid crisis, while the cases are still in control. Thanks to the concerted efforts of industries, district authorities and non-governmental organisations, hospitals and health centres across Ludhiana have received 10 new oxygen plants, which will boost the medical health infrastructure of the state. An oxygen plant with a capacity of 1,000 LPM (litres per minute) is being installed at the ESI Hospital and will cost ₹1.7 crore. This oxygen plant, which is nearing completion, has been funded by HITES (HLL Infra Tech Services Ltd) under the ministry of health and family welfare. A 1,000 LPM oxygen plant has been installed at the Ludhiana Civil Hospital by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) under PM-Cares Fund in collaboration with the state government, while the state government has installed another 700-LPM capacity plant. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said, “Now, hospitals will be able to generate on-site medical oxygen in a cost-effective manner rather than sourcing it from other places. Raikot sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Gupta, who is also the nodal officer for the project, said oxygen generation plants have been installed using medical oxygen plant (MOP) technology, which can produce a 93% concentration, that can be directly supplied to hospital beds or be used to fill medical oxygen cylinders. “All these 10 plants, which include six in Ludhiana city, have been set up in the last two months. There can be no question of oxygen shortage now in case of an emergency,” he said. Private groups under their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) have also contributed oxygen plants. A plant of 250 LPM capacity, which cost ₹70 lakh, has been installed by Nabha Power at the Sub-Divisional Hospital (SDH), Raikot. At the Urban Health Centre, Jawaddi, the ADAMA group in collaboration with the Punjab government has also set up an oxygen generation plant of 165 LPM capacity that cost ₹65 lakh under the CSR initiative. At SDH, Khanna, ICICI bank in collaboration with the state has set up a plant of 300-LPM capacity, which cost 70 lakhs. Similarly, ACT (an NGO) pitched in for an oxygen plant of 500 LPM capacity at Sant Baba Isher Singh Memorial Hospital, Rara Sahib, which cost ₹65 lakh. The NGO also donated a 500 LPM capacity plant at GTB Hospital, which cost ₹50 lakh. At CMC Hospital, Ludhiana, an oxygen generation plant of 500 LPM capacity that cost ₹1.2 crore is being set up by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and CMC Hospital. The project is expected to be completed by October this year. An oxygen plant of 500-LPM capacity has already been completed at Urban Health Centre, Vardhman. “The deadly Covid surge has put enormous pressure on healthcare facilities in India. For those suffering from severe Covid symptoms, getting oxygen support well in time can save their lives,” said the deputy commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-3rd-wave-looming-ludhiana-gets-10-new-o2-plants-101628189395496.html
06-08-2021||Other||Ganga, Yamuna in spate, river water enters Bade Hanuman temple in Prayagraj||Thousands gathered at the Bade Hanumanji temple at Sangam area to watch the annual ritual of Ganga waters entering the temple premises on Thursday. This happens each year due to increase in river water levels and on Thursday the nearly 2-meter rise in Ganga and Yamuna levels over the past 24 hours led to familiar flooding of the temple as Ganga water submerged the temple. Devotees who consider this as an auspicious event and who had gathered in large numbers, started chanting slogans in praise of the Gods and the Ganga river. Head priest of the Bade Hanumanji temple, Mahant Narendra Giri, said, “We performed Ganga Aarti followed by “Abhishek” (a religious ritual) of both mother Ganga and lord Hanuman. After this, we took a small idol of Hanuman and touched it with larger idol and then placed it above the temple. Now, till the flood water recedes, all daily religious rituals would be performed before this small idol.” Meanwhile, the release of water from the Dholpur barrage from Chambal river in Rajasthan is likely to further worsen the flood situation in the Sangam city as the water released from Dholpur barrage is expected to enter Prayagraj by Saturday. The Ganga water levels at Phaphamau have increased by 1.77 meters since Wednesday, 4 pm and stood at 81.96mts on Thursday. At Chhatnag, the river water levels increased by 1.84mts and were recorded at 81.20mts on Thursday’s 4 pm. Officials said the Yamuna river level had increased by around 2 meters in the past 24 hours. Water level of Yamuna, (as recorded at Naini), was 81.74mts whereas it was 79.79mts at 4pm on Wednesday. An alert has been issued as administration fears that the water level of Ganga-Yamuna could be higher than in 2019 when both the rivers had crossed 85 meters. Divisional Commissioner Sanjay Goyal has ordered the officials of the district administration to remain vigilant. ADM MP Singh said that the NDRF team will be deployed in the coastal areas of both the rivers from August 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ganga-yamuna-in-spate-river-water-enters-bade-hanuman-temple-in-prayagraj-101628189274892.html
06-08-2021||Bhopal||Over 30,000 people stranded in MP floods rescued in 5 days: Official||BHOPAL: More than 1,100 people were rescued on Thursday from flood-affected villages of Madhya Pradesh, a home department official said.As many as 25 villages have been submerged fully while 68 were partially underwater due to the release of water from the Kota barrage in the Chambal river on Thursday. The situation is still tense in the Chambal division as the river is still flowing five metres above of danger mark, the official said.More than 70 teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indian Army and Indian Air Force helicopters are carrying out rescue operations for the past three days. In the past five days, more than 55,000 people living in 493 villages of Gwalior, Sheopur, Shivpuri, Bhind and Morena have been affected. More than 31,000 people have been rescued and as many as 16,000 shifted to 126 relief camps in Gwalior and Chambal division.But there are many still living in submerged villages; some of them sent SOS messages on social media. Priyanka Goyal, who said she was a resident of Madwari village of Bhind, posted a video on her Facebook account seeking help for 300 villagers who were stranded. After the video, a rescue team successfully shifted all the villagers to the relief camp.In another incident, two villagers of Kundarayan village of Gwalior saved the lives of 27 people, who were stuck in the village for the past 36 hours. The villagers, Chhotelal Singh and Guddu Kumar swam 200 metres to inform authorities about those stranded.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan who inspected the flood-affected areas and announced clothes and 50 kg ration to every affected family.“The revenue department is evaluating the loss of property and the agriculture department has been asked to evaluate the loss of crop and animal husbandry department of livestock in every district,” said Chouhan.The opposition said not enough was being done. Congress MLA Lakhan Singh protested in front of Shivraj Singh Chouhan in Bhitarwar, one of the flood-affected areas in Gwalior. Chouhan told him this wasn’t the time or place for politics. “Come to the assembly for politics. This is not the right place to do politics,” said Chouhan. Lakhan Singh did wrap up but not before responding to the barb. “People are facing problems and officers are not doing anything for them. I sat on a protest to support the locals, not to do any politics.” BJP lawmaker Rameshwar Sharma blamed the Congress for the flood, saying the floods happened in the Chambal region because the Congress government didn’t act on the river interlinking project floated by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.”Congress MLA Kunal Chaudhary, however, asked why he was absolving his party’s government at the Centre. “For the past six years, BJP is in power so why did they delay the project. BJP leaders have made it a habit to blame the Congress for everything... and now for a natural calamity and mismanagement of state government too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/over-30-000-people-stranded-in-mp-floods-rescued-in-5-daysofficial-101628189154620.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Dalit girl’s alleged rape, murder: Suspects may be asked to take polygraph test||A day after the investigation into the alleged rape and murder of a minor Dalit girl at a southwest Delhi crematorium was transferred to crime branch, the new team on Thursday visited the crime scene at Purani Nangal village and said that they will seek the remand of the four arrested suspects to question them and get their consent to undergo a polygraph test.Investigators on Friday said the suspects will be confronted with the evidence collected so far, and the allegations that the victim’s family members and villagers have made.“The arrested men can either agree to take the lie-detector test or refuse it. The refusal is generally considered a ploy that the suspect is using to avoid telling the truth. We will have to wait and see what the four arrested men in this case opt for. As far as the investigation is concerned, we are depending on the DNA profiling of the arrested persons and other scientific evidence collected or is being collected in the case,” said a senior crime branch officer, who asked not to be named.A polygraph or a lie detector test is a procedure to record physiological indicators like blood pressure, pulse, respiration, and skin conductivity while a person is asked a series of questions.On Sunday around 5.30 pm, the nine-year-old girl went to fetch water from a water cooler installed inside the crematorium. Half an hour later, the 55-year-old priest, Radhe Shyam and the three others, Mohammad Salim,55, Laxmi Narayan,49, and Kuldeep,63 called the girl’s mother and showed her the child’s body. Though the accused said the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from the cooler, her family alleged that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after frightening the family off from informing the police about her death.According to the police, when the girl’s parents informed the villagers, they rushed to the crematorium, doused the pyre and removed charred remains of the child’s body, before allegedly assaulting the four men and handing them over to the police.Since the girl’s clothes that she was wearing at the time of the crime were burnt along with her body during the cremation, the police only have her charred remains for investigation. The three-doctor board that conducted an autopsy on the charred remains of the child has informally told the police that they cannot reach any conclusion by examining the remains, senior police officers said.On Thursday, the crime branch team visited the crematorium along with forensic experts and collected fresh evidence. The local police with the help of forensic experts have already collected the undergarments of the arrested persons, lifted fingerprints, and other necessary evidence from the crematorium. The water cooler was also seized for examination.“The electrical experts are examining the cooler to ascertain if electric current was leaking through it, or if there was a technical fault. However, it will be difficult to establish that the girl was electrocuted to death after coming into contact with the appliance,” the officer added.Protest continuesLate on Wednesday night, the police cleared one carriageway of the Pankha Road, where the girl’s family members, villagers, and political activists have been protesting since Sunday night, demanding speedy justice for the girl, and death penalty for the four suspects, who were arrested and sent to jail on Monday.Vehicular movement was restored on one carriageway going towards Janakpuri from Delhi cantonment, while the opposite carriageway has been occupied by the protesters, right outside the main entrance of Purani Nangal village, where the victim’s family lives in a rented room.According to the police, the protesters agreed to clear one carriageway after the Indian Army establishment at Delhi cantonment served a notice to the organiser of the agitation as well as the local police, asking them to vacate the area citing security concerns and inconvenience caused to the military personnel and vehicles in the run-up to their preparedness for the Independence Day.On Thursday, Asha Devi, mother of the December 16,2012 gang rape case victim, also visited the protest site and met the child’s mother.“Having gone through a similar tragedy in my life, I could feel the pain that the child’s mother is going through. That’s the reason I went there and spoke to the mother in detail about the crime. I stand in solidarity with the victim’s family members and will extend my support in their fight in whatever way possible,” said Devi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dalit-girl-s-alleged-rape-and-murder-suspects-may-be-asked-to-take-polygraph-test-101628189094628.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid curbs: Maharashtra mulls options for local trains for all; CM Uddhav Thackeray appeals for restraint||In view of the growing resentment among restaurant owners and shopkeepers from those select districts where Maharashtra has not relaxed the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has appealed to them to exercise restraint. He also said the government is considering various options over resuming local train travel for the general public. This was against the backdrop of Maharashtra on Thursday recording 6,695 new cases, along with 120 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 6,336,220.Thackeray said that all decisions will be made with the intention to safeguard people’s lives due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Thackeray stressed that the Covid-19 situation across the state has not fully improved as some districts are still showing large number of cases.Speaking at the inauguration of a municipal ward office in Bandra, Thackeray said, “The lockdown isn’t permanent. When will the local [trains] start? We are considering the options. Like we have given relaxation for shops and establishments, other districts will also get them. But we will keep our responsibilities [towards people] in mind and then provide the relaxations.” Thackeray said that he could address the state through social media on these issues soon.The demand to allow general people, who are fully vaccinated to use Mumbai suburban train services, have been coming from citizens, passenger organisations, political parties. However, the state has not issued any order regarding it. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in its order on August 2, did not make any mention of reopening train services for all.The state government in its order issued on August 2 has not given relaxation in curbs in 11 districts, including Pune, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Ahmednagar, Beed, Raigad and Palghar, as the weekly growth rate and positivity rate in these districts is higher than the state’s overall average.Locals, including traders, hoteliers, shop-owners, among others in Pune, Palghar, Kolhapur, among other districts have been defying the state’s orders and keeping their shops open beyond the permitted operational hours. They held protests, demanding further relaxations on the lines of other districts.Thackeray said, “Wherever we could provide relaxations we have given, but where we could not, it was out of no choice.” He further added, “I appeal to the people and traders where we have not able to ease the curbs to keep their restraint. It is not that wherever relaxations are given, they are dear to us and others are not. We have to make these decisions, keeping the lives of people in mind.”Mumbai on Saturday recorded 327 new cases with nine deaths, with its toll reaching 15,929.There were 217,905 tests done on Thursday, while the number of recoveries clocked 7,120.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 74,995, while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 133,530.There are currently 74,995 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 14,974 patients, followed by Sangli with 7,863 active patients and Satara with 7,516.The death toll has now reached 133,530 with Pune leading with 18,580 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,929 and Thane with 11,066.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-curbs-maharashtra-mulls-options-for-local-trains-for-all-cm-uddhav-thackeray-appeals-for-restraint-101628189034555.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Sports University should be built visualising a sportsperson’s life: Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday reviewed the construction of the upcoming Sports University in the capital and instructed officials to build it after visualising the day-to-day life of a sportsperson so that they can “relish their training” at the varsity.Outlining the priorities for the construction of the campus, Sisodia said, “The university should be constructed keeping in mind the daily life routine of 10 top sportspersons of the world. For sportspersons, the stadium is their world and they thoroughly relish the training facilities that will enhance their performance. They lead a highly disciplined ascetic life. Such a routine is essential for any sportsperson to win medals at the highest levels of competition, including the Olympics.”“Our objective is to create a university which can make the nation proud by producing medal-winning athletes, by providing advanced training facilities and sports infrastructure,” he said.The state cabinet in October 2019 approved the setting up of the university in outer Delhi’s Mundka. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said the university will offer field-specific degrees that will be on a par with those offered in other courses at the graduate, postgraduate and doctoral levels.The government in the same month allocated the university a 90 acres plot in Mundka. However, construction work was disrupted by the pandemic and has not started yet. Weightlifting champion Karnam Malleswari was named the varsity vice-chancellor on June 24.The Delhi Sports University is expected to start admitting students from class 6 onwards beginning April next year. HT last month reported that due to a delay in construction of the campus in Mundka, the Sports University will begin its operations from a government school building and sports complex in Civil Lines.Delhi public works minister Satyendra Jain, who also attended the review meeting on Thursday, said, “The Delhi Sports University will be a world-class institution on a par with other world-class sports universities. It will leave no stone unturned in accomplishing this feat. The university will be equipped with the latest technology and equipment for enhancing the performance and overall well-being of athletes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sports-university-should-be-built-visualising-a-sportsperson-s-life-sisodia-101628188975429.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||HC seeks response from LG, Delhi govt on panel probing O2 deaths||The Delhi high court on Thursday sought the response of the Lieutenant Governor (LG) and the city government on a plea seeking to operationalise the six-member high powered committee to probe into deaths caused by oxygen shortage.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the authorities on the plea by Riti Singh Verma, whose 34-year-old husband died of Covid-19 at a private hospital on May 14, seeking that all Covid-19 deaths be probed by the expert committee, the functioning of which was stayed by the L-G.Verma, through senior advocate Manish Vashisht, contended that the death summary of her husband issued by the hospital is “doubtful”.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said the executive took a decision and constituted the committee on May 27. However, the order was stayed by the LG citing that the matter is pending before the Supreme Court.In her plea, the woman claimed her husband was admitted in a not very severe condition and was a healthy 34-year-old with no comorbidities, who died due to a cardiac arrest as per the discharge summary.“The discharge summary appears to be copy paste job on the part of the hospital as the deceased was a male and referred as lady. In the manner in which the petitioner’s husband’s case was handled casts a doubt on the hospital dealing with the Covid -19 patients and also the death summary not mentioning if the oxygen was administered at any point of time when the condition started deteriorating,” the plea said.It contended that her husband’s death is a fit case to be probed by the high powered committee. She pleaded that she has two small children to look after along with the parents and the untimely death of her husband has caused great financial hardship.The court, while granting time to the city government to file its response, asked it to see whether ₹50,000 ex-gratia--the government promised to family members of those people who died of Covid-19--could be given to the woman, whose husband, the only earning member in the family, died at a young age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-response-from-lg-delhi-govt-on-panel-probing-o2-deaths-101628188973950.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||SDMC seeks fresh report on number of registered mobile towers||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Thursday asked its officials to submit a fresh report on the number of towers registered with the civic body by August 31. Also, he asked officials to recover pending dues from telecom operators, civic officials said.According to municipal officials, these directions were issued in a special House meeting called to deliberate on the issues related to installation of mobile towers under the jurisdiction of the SDMC.SDMC Mayor Mukesh Suryan said that he has asked officials to prepare a fresh report so that all councillors know how many towers are registered in their particular ward. “This will help us keep a regular check on the towers registered and the status of fee collected as well as on the fact if they have followed the norms,” said Suryan.As per the last available report, there are a total of 5189 towers, of which 3995 are registered, 1194 are in the process of completing formalities while 281 are sealed.SDMC officials said that the exercise will not only regulate installation and operation of mobile towers in the jurisdiction of the south corporation but also boost municipality’s revenue.“There are many mobile operators, which have not paid the dues over the years. The officials have been asked the collect the dues with penalties, “ said Suryan.The special House where fraternity from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) was also invited was convened to discuss the issue of radiation from towers and how to address such complaints from residential areas.The mayor said that Thursday’s deliberations also included suggestions from Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) and other social groups about issues concerning radiation emerging from mobile towers and mushrooming of illegal mobile towers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sdmc-seeks-fresh-report-on-number-of-registered-mobile-towers-101628188914518.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi working to set up over 37k Covid-19 beds for next wave of infections: Jain||The national capital will have over 37,000 dedicated beds in hospitals, makeshift facilities, and Covid Care Centres (CCC) for Covid-19 patients in the event of another wave of the infection, state health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday, as he outlined the Delhi government’s plans to scuttle any further outbreak of the disease, and warned that the city will be put under lockdown if the test positivity rate crosses 5%.Speaking at a virtual discussion organised by ASSOCHAM on preparations for the third wave of the infection — which would be Delhi’s fifth, Jain said the state is conducting 75,000 Covid-19 tests a day and ‘aggressively’ tracing contacts to keep another outbreak at bay.“All measures necessary are being taken, and health infrastructure is being ramped up to unprecedented levels, with more than 37,000 dedicated beds being built for the fight against Covid-19,” said Jain. Makeshift hospitals have been set up in Chhattarpur, Sant Nirankari Colony, and Ram Leela Maidan, which will add more than 1,200 intensive care unit beds, with and without ventilators.In documents submitted to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal in the third week of June, officials of the Delhi government reassessed their projections for potential infections during the next possible wave of Covid-19, and divided the outbreak into two scenarios —between 37,000 and 45,000 new infections in the city every day.Since then, the state government has also outlined a colour-coded graded response action plan, which sets clear thresholds for curbs that kick in from a test positivity rate as low as 0.5% in order to thwart an outbreak.The plan harks back to a similar mechanism to fight air pollution during pre-winter months and classifies outbreak severity into four bands – yellow, amber, orange and red – with each representing a more severe outbreak and, thus, stricter curbs than the one preceding it.The government is also taking measures to ensure that there is no shortfall in oxygen, and said the state is building and supporting infrastructure such as pressure swing adsorption (PSA) and other oxygen plants in Delhi hospitals, Jain said during the discussion on Thursday.He said that the Delhi government is providing subsidies to build oxygen plants and facilities to store liquid medicine oxygen.Speaking about the second wave, he said, “We were caught off guard because of oxygen shortages and logistical issues of procuring it. But now, over 50 oxygen plants have already been built and more are coming up so that such a problem doesn’t rise again.”He said, “In Delhi, 75,000 tests are still being carried out every day and aggressive contact tracing is still on to ensure that the situation remains under control. We have made public what our response will be. If the positivity rate now goes up to 5%, then we will go for an immediate lockdown without delay,” said Jain.To be sure, the test positivity rate in Delhi has been below 5% for 77 days, going back to May 20, when the city’s fourth wave of infections began to ebb, and cases began to fall.Experts regard the test positivity as an essential statistic to gauge the spread of an infection in a region, and the trajectory of this number can indicate if cases will rise or fall in the future.“Cases are increasing again in the United States, so we must not drop our guard at this point. All possible efforts are being made to ensure that a third wave doesn’t come and if at all it comes, we are to be prepared for the worst,” Jain added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-working-to-set-up-over-37k-covid-19-beds-for-next-wave-of-infections-satyendar-jain-101628188913924.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Won’t act against those who helped Covid-19 patients, provided oxygen: Govt||The Delhi government on Thursday told the high court that it has proposed to take a “sympathetic view” by not initiating any action against any individual, organisation involved in the distribution of oxygen to the needy patients during the second wave of Covid-19 during April-May this year.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government’s Drug Control Department, informed a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh that the department intends to withdraw the prosecution against the individuals and organizations that were involved in the free distribution of medical oxygen, without any intention of commercial gains and whose action has not resulted in hindrance in regular supply of medical oxygen.The government’s submission came on a petition by Deepak Gupta, represented by advocate Virag Gupta, who demanded lodging of an FIR over allegations that some politicians procured Covid-19 medicines in huge quantities and distributed them even as patients were running from pillar to post to buy them.An application was also filed by advocate Vedansh Anand in the pending petition, alleging similar charges against AAP MLAs Praveen Kumar and Preeti Tomar.During the last hearing on July 29, the court cautioned the drug control department against prosecuting the people who acted as good Samaritans and distributed oxygen cylinders during the second Covid-19 wave.In a status report on July 8, the department told the court that it has initiated prosecution against MLA Praveen Kumar after he was found allegedly hoarding oxygen cylinders. The report also said that prosecution has been launched against BJP MP Gautam Gambhir’s Foundation (GGF), and AAP MLA Imran Hussain for alleged “unauthorised purchase/procurement, stocking and distribution of medicine and medical oxygen”.On July 29, the bench slammed the department for initiating action against MLA Praveen Kumar, who represents Jangpura constituency, and said it was trying to target a particular political party. The bench said if the department starts prosecuting people like this, it will have to initiate action against “half the city”.“How can you prosecute him (Kumar)? The State, both Centre and Delhi government, failed in providing sufficient oxygen to people in Delhi. There were some Samaritans who provided oxygen. You can’t prosecute them…. You’re very consciously targeting political parties. It’s very unfortunate. We will not permit this,” the bench said.Earlier, on May 31, the court accepted the clean chit to MLA Tomar, but slammed the drug controller for giving a clean chit to Gambhir. The court had said that its faith was completely “shaken” on the “trash” findings of the drug controller. Gambhir distributed a Covid-19 drug, Fabiflu, through his foundation to the people in east Delhi free of cost. On June 3, the drug controller told the court that the foundation has violated the provisions of the Drug and Cosmetics Act as he did not have any licence to procure stock and distribute drugs and oxygen.In the last hearing, the bench said that even though action against Gambhir was justified because he acted “irresponsibly” by hoarding medicines, action could not be taken against Kumar and others who distributed oxygen cylinders.During the last hearing, senior advocate Kailash Vasdev, appearing for Gambhir, urged the high court to grant him a hearing as he wished to make certain clarifications and also requested the court to clarify in its order that the adverse observations made against him will not be used against the BJP MP before the trial court where prosecution has been initiated against him. The high court made it clear that the observations made by it earlier in these hearings will not come in the way of proceedings in the trial court.Allegations were also made against AAP MLA Imran Hussain that he was hoarding oxygen for distributing free in his constituency. The court on May 13 dismissed the plea against Hussain taking note of the amicus curiae’s submission that there was no illegality in the purchase and distribution of medical oxygen by the MLA from Ballimaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wont-act-against-those-who-helped-covid-19-patients-provided-oxygen-delhi-govt-101628188853980.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||16 of 32 Delhi excise zones auctioned to retail licensees||The Delhi government on Thursday held a draw of lots to appoint liquor retail licensees in each of its newly demarcated 32 excise zones in the national capital. By the time the draw was adjourned at 7.40pm, 16 of the 32 zones were auctioned off with the highest bid for a single zone going up to ₹315 crore, about 45% higher than the reserve price set by the state excise department.The Delhi government, on June 28, floated tenders for appointing new licensees for the retail sale of liquor in the national capital. Following the tendering process, on Thursday, all 32 zones were put up for auction for the first time. Twelve zones were cancelled or disqualified from the auction process as they had just one or no bidder. The remaining four zones will be auctioned on Friday as the process could not be completed on Thursday, despite the auctioning starting around 11am and continuing till 7.40pm.Under the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021, the city has been divided into 32 zones and allotment of licences is now being done on a zonal basis. Those who won a zone on Thursday will now be given L-7Z or L-7V licences which are meant for retail sale of Indian and foreign liquor (except country liquor) in Delhi.Zone 31, which is the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and Delhi Cantonment area, garnered the highest price of ₹315 crore, against a reserve price was ₹217 crore. However, this was not the zone which earned the government the highest profit. That was Zone 32, or the airport zone, which went for ₹235 crore against a reserve price of ₹105 crore — about 124% higher than the reserve price.Zone 19 — covering Daryaganj, Swarup Nagar, GTB Nagar, Gopal Nagar, Chhatarpur, Chittaranjan (CR) Park, Snagam Vihar, Chandni Chowk and Nand Nagri — was sold for ₹313 crore, while its reserve price was ₹225 crore. Zone 29 — covering Safdarjung Enclave, Hauz Khaz, Kotla Mubarakpur, Ashok Nagar, Rohtash Nagar, Kirari Wazirpur and so on— was auctioned for ₹301 crore, against the reserve price of ₹225 crore.The zones which saw the lowest bids, against their reserve price included Zone 13 at ₹236 crore (Malviya Nagar, Karol Bagh, Delhi Gate); Zone 27 at ₹235 crore (Tilak Nagar, Karampura, Karawal Nagar East, Khanjawla); and Zone 23 at ₹234 crore (Uttam Nagar, Mayur Vihar Phase 1, Rohini-C, Vishwas Nagar). It is to be noted that all figures given in this report have been rounded off.By appointing new retail licensees, the Delhi government is trying to pave the way for a range of sweeping reforms to boost the city-state’s revenue, to crack down on the liquor mafia and improve user experience under the new excise policy.The zones for which the draw will be held on Friday include Zone 20 (Rajinder Nagar, Model Town, Rajouri Garden), Zone 4 (Greater Kailash, Malka Ganj, Aman Vihar), Zone 26 (Dilshad Colony, Shahdara, Kalkaji) and Zone 17 (Bijwasan, Adarsh Nagar, Rohini-F).The 12 zones that were disqualified due to lack of bidders include Zone 2, Zone 3, Zone 9, Zone 16 and so on. These zones will have to be re-tendered now, senior excise officials said.Under the new policy, business hours have been fixed as from 10am to 10pm, while those at the airport may open round-the-clock. This development is significant because as per the new excise policy, the Delhi government will completely exit the retail sale of liquor. So, all existing retail licences — L6, L6FG, L6FE — will not be renewed after September 30, unless extended further, as these were meant for government liquor vends. However, country liquor vends will operate till the new country liquor policy is framed.Naresh Goyal, a liquor trader and president of Delhi liquor traders association said the most of companies that won the bids are names that are unheard of in the liquor business in Delhi. “There were several pharmaceutical companies and agro-based companies that won the bids today. But, a large chunk of the zones got cancelled because there were few bidders. The reason for the tepid response is the high earnest money deposit (EMD) that the government is asking for. Fresh tenders will have to be floated for the cancelled zones now,” he said.Bidders have to pay a non-refundable fee of ₹10 lakh and an EMD of ₹30 crore, if applying for a single zone; and ₹60 crore as EMD, if bidding for two or more zones. Until now, the EMD was ₹8 lakh only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/16-of-32-delhi-excise-zones-auctioned-to-retail-licensees-zone-31-gets-highest-bid-of-315-cr-101628188806083.html
06-08-2021||Other||IMD predicts light rain in Delhi over next 3 days||The first fortnight of August is likely to remain largely dry with experts from the weather office predicting ‘light to very light’ rainfall over the next few days with ‘break monsoon- like conditions’ likely to set in from mid next week. Records from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) show that the first week of August has so far remained dry with most parts of the city receiving trace rainfall. On Thursday, the IMD revised its forecast where it said that light rain and thundershowers are likely over the next three days. Earlier, it issued an orange alert with heavy rainfall expected in parts of Delhi for August 6.“The forecast had to be revised, as the low-pressure system over Madhya Pradesh started gradually weakening from August 5. There is no intense pressure system that can trigger rainfall. The monsoon trough is expected to gradually shift to the Himalayan foothills by August 10, which will result in break monsoon-like conditions in Delhi and adjoining areas,” said a senior IMD official. The monsoon arrived in Delhi on July 13, at least 16 days behind schedule. Back in June, the IMD predicted that monsoon will arrive in the Capital by June 15. However, it revised its predictions for the arrival of monsoon saying that break monsoon conditions developed, which delayed its onset.Independent forecasters too said Delhi is likely to receive patchy rainfall from August 6-9. “From August 10-11, break monsoon conditions may persist, as the trough is likely to move far to the Himalayan foothills, which means westerly winds will start blowing over Delhi. The break may last for five to six days. Monsoon is expected to revive thereafter from August 16-17. Delhi and the neighbouring areas may then receive good spells,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president of Skymet, a private forecaster.According to weather data available with the IMD, the maximum temperature on Thursday was 35.3 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season’s normal and the minimum was 26.5°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/imd-predicts-light-rain-in-delhi-over-next-3-days-101628188793936.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||SDMC launches a virtual tour of Delhi’s heritage||At a time when most interactions from meetings to classes and even religious worship have gone virtual on account of the pandemic, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has come up with a virtual tour of Delhi’s heritage. All one has to do is get on to the SDMC website, click on a link and then sit back to enjoy the beauty of the colonial style Daryaganj police station and the old library in Mehrauli.The civic body on Thursday launched an e-book titled ”Glorious Heritage of Delhi”. The e-book, which has photographs along with a small description and history of the site, was launched by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal via video conferencing on Thursday.South corporation mayor Mukesh Suryan said the step was taken to ensure better conservation of heritage sites, many of which have been lying abandoned for years.The civic body’s Heitage Conservation Cell has identified a total of 475 heritage sites under the corporation’s jurisdiction. “The first volume of the e-book is a compilation of 108 such sites, including monuments, heritage buildings and memorials. The rest of the identified sites will be compiled under two more volumes,” said Suryan.According to a senior SDMC official, the sites identified for compilation are those that have been notified as heritage structures by the central government’s heritage conservation committee in 2010 and 2016, respectively. “Some of the sites that find place in the e-book date back to 1132 AD. For instance Anangtal, an ancient water body that is now dried up, behind the Yogmaya temple, finds a mention in Budh Sridhar’s book in 1132 AD,” said the official, who asked not to be named.Most of these sites are maintained by trusts and conservation agencies. Baijal said the civic body must tie up with private agencies and work towards conservation of abandoned structures on public-private partnership mode. “The municipal corporation must conserve these structures in association with private agencies,” said Baijal.SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti said the heritage conservation cell is working towards creating larger awareness for the conservation of Delhi’s built up heritage. “Through the e-book, people can access information about the sites just by visiting the website,” said Bharti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-launches-a-virtual-tour-of-delhi-s-heritage-101628188734670.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Couldn’t find source of Tanha’s statement leak, police tells HC||The city police on Thursday told the Delhi high court that it questioned several officers and journalists but was unable to establish the source of the leak of Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha’s alleged confessional statement which was part of a sheet filed in connection to the northeast Delhi riots. Police further said that they are issuing directions to ensure such issues are “not repeated in the future”.In a status report filed before justice Mukta Gupta, Delhi Police said , “The enquiry officer could not establish the officers/office from where the details of investigation were shared with the media… during the present enquiry the enquiry officer has examined various media personnel who refused to share the details of their source from where they had accessed the investigation related documents.”Advocate Rajat Nair, appearing for the police, further said that no leaks have been made by the police.Tanha, who is accused in the larger conspiracy of hatching the riots in February last year, had moved the high court last year, alleging misconduct by police officials in leaking his alleged disclosure statement in the main charge sheet, which was recorded by the probe agency during the investigation, to the media. He is currently out on bail.On the last date of hearing on July 6, the court had admonished the police for the delay in concluding its enquiry.Pursuant to this, on Thursday, the police informed the court that directions are being issued to officers to handle case files with utmost alacrity, and that the charge sheets also be filed strictly following the due process. “It must also ensure that such issues raised in the present matter are not repeated in future,” the police said, adding that no prejudice has been caused to Tanha in his exercise of the right to a free and fair trial.The court, noting the submissions, put the matter for further hearing on August 11.Tanha, who was arrested in May 2020, was recently released from jail after the high court granted him bail in the riots case on a larger conspiracy.The police had said that Tanha, a resident of Abul Fazal Enclave in Shaheen Bagh, was a member of the Students Islamic Organisation and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee which spearheaded protests against the new citizenship law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-riots-couldn-t-find-source-of-tanha-s-statement-leak-police-tells-hc-101628188735273.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||FIR against Delhi police sub-inspector for raping colleague||An FIR has been registered against a Delhi Police sub inspector for allegedly raping a female colleague after drugging her in South Delhi. Police are on the lookout for the suspect who is posted with the Delhi Police’s special cell.The woman told police in her statement that on the night of August 3, after her shift got over, the SI, who is posted with the special cell, allegedly took her to his room in South Delhi where he served her a drink laced with sedatives.The woman said that as she fell unconscious, the SI allegedly sexually assaulted her and also took her photographs which were then used to blackmail her.Police have registered an FIR at the Hauz Khas police station under sections of rape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/firagainst-delhi-police-sub-inspector-for-raping-colleague-101628188733938.html
06-08-2021||Other||Long queues outside Metro stations to continue as DMRC says need to ensure distancing inside||New Delhi: Long queues outside some Metro stations may continue for a while as the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday clarified that it can’t open more number of gates in order to ensure social distancing inside stations.In a statement on Thursday, DMRC said that its entire fleet of about 2,000 coaches, with a seating capacity of 1 lakh, is currently operational. Last month, the government allowed 100% seating in Metro trains, revising its earlier limit of only allowing 50% seating in trains.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “More than two lakh passengers come to the Metro stations daily during peak hours. Since the number of available seating space is not enough to permit entry to all two lakh passengers, they are required to be regulated…This will obviously lead to a large number of passengers having to wait outside the stations.”While there is demand for the opening of more gates at stations, DMRC officials said that it will become difficult to regulate the crowd and ensure social distancing if more gates are opened.DMRC officials said that there have been incidents of impatient passengers trying to barge into Metro stations by forcibly opening and damaging the gates, and manhandling the DMRC and CISF personnel on duty. “Such acts not only cause law and order issues but also put lives of co-passengers and Metro officials at risk, besides increasing the risk of Covid spread,” said Dayal. DMRC has urged people to travel during peak hours only if it is absolutely essential.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/long-queues-outside-metro-stations-to-continue-as-dmrc-says-need-to-ensure-distancing-inside-101628188677273.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||DU to reopen for final-year science students from August 16||The Delhi University (DU) on Thursday said it will resume in-person classes and practical work for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate science students from August 16, observing all Covid-19 protocols.In a notification issued on Thursday, DU registrar Vikas Gupta said, “Taking note of the decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, it has been decided that classes and practical/ project work etc. in respect of postgraduate and undergraduate students in science courses in the university and its colleges shall be conducted in physical mode with effect from 16.08.2021 observing necessary protocols to prevent the spread of Covid-19.”After remaining shut for over eight months on account of the pandemic, DU allowed MPhil and PhD students to resume their research work last November, following directions from the University Grants Commission (UGC). In February this year, the university allowed colleges and departments to start calling final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students to campus but in small batches. However, the varsity again closed after the second wave of pandemic swept through the country in April.The classes for students enrolled in the first- and second-year of undergraduate courses and first-year of postgraduate courses will continue in the online mode.The university also asked colleges and hostels to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour while providing accommodation to outstation students. “Ensure strict adherence to all guidelines while providing accommodation to eligible outstation students in consultation with dean of student welfare and proctor of the university,” Gupta said in the notification.The DU teachers’ association (DUTA), however, raised concerns over the decision to partially reopen campuses. “It is easy to write that all protocols should be followed but how will one ensure that they are followed or can be followed? In both undergraduate colleges and science departments, classrooms and labs are crowded. Also, can the university expect students to return to Delhi and find accommodation within 10 days? The notification declares that Covid cases are decreasing even as there are reports that a third wave will be building up anytime now,” said DUTA member Abha Dev Habib.Responding to these concerns, a senior DU official said, “A detailed notification will be issued mentioning all the covid-appropriate guidelines in line with those already recommended by the UGC and the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-to-reopen-for-final-year-science-students-from-august-16-101628188676685.html
06-08-2021||Other||Congress keen on fielding Pratibha Singh from Mandi||A month after the Congress lost its Himachal face, six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh, the party is planning to field his wife, Pratibha Singh, from Mandi parliamentary seat, which fell vacant on March 17 after the demise of member of Parliament Ram Swaroop Sharma.The plan to field Pratibha Singh from the seat, which she had won in 2004 and again in 2013, was discussed during a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party at the Vidhan Sabha premises on Thursday morning.Congress had formed a panel comprising senior legislators Mukesh Agnihotri, Shillai MLA Harshwardhan Chauhan, Rampur MLA Nand Lal, Naina Devi MLA Ram Lal Thakur, Kinnaur MLA Jagat Singh Negi and other, to decide on the seat. Mandi has remained Virbhadra’s turf for long. After making it to the Lok Sabha for the first time after winning the Mahasu Parliamentary seat in 1962 and then again in 1967, Virbhadra had switched to the Mandi in 1971 and registered a win. He, however, lost from the seat in 1977 but was again elected from the constituency in 1980 and later in 2009.After Virbhadra’s death on July 8 due to post-Covid complications, the Congress had invited to Pratibha to contest from Arki, the assembly constituency which he represented. Pratibha had neither given her assent nor refused the offer as the family was still weighing the options. Party reviews preparations in ArkiMeanwhile, All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Sanjay Dutt held a review meeting with block Congress office-bearers and workers in Arki on Thursday to review the party’s preparations for the byelections. He exhorted the party workers to work in unity to ensure the victory of the Congress candidate, and said, “Virbhadra Singh played an important part in the development of the state, which can never be forgotten. We have to uphold the work done by him. This will be our true tribute to the Congress and the people of this region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-keen-on-fielding-pratibha-singh-from-mandi-101628188676225.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Did not leak Disha Ravi’s info to media, Delhi Police tell Delhi HC||The city police on Thursday told the Delhi high court that it has not leaked any information to the media in connection to its probe in the case against climate activist Disha Ravi for her alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing the ongoing farmers’ protest.Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea by Ravi to restrain the police from leaking to the media any probe material in relation to the FIR lodged against her, was informed by advocate Rajat Nair, for the police, that the leak did not happen from its end.In an affidavit filed by Anyesh Roy, deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell unit) of Special Cell, police have said no information or document forming part of the case file, including the subject chats, were shared by the police with any media house or individuals, except the information communicated officially through press briefing or broadcast, which is a matter of record.Ravi was arrested by Delhi Police on February 13 for allegedly being involved in sharing on social media a “toolkit” related to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new agricultural laws, and was granted bail by a trial court on February 23.In her plea, Ravi said she is “severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the respondent 1 (police) and several media houses”.The Centre also informed the court that Ravi had highlighted her grievances against the “parallel media”, namely digital and print media, social media (micro blogging sites etc) and YouTube channels, in addition to ‘over the top’ platforms. However, Central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul told the court that in the absence of any complaint, it cannot take action against channels under the Cable TV Regulation Act as Ravi had not approached them.He also submitted that the issue of correct interpretation as to which broadcast is violative of the programme code enumerated under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act 1995, along with the Code of Ethics and News Broadcasting Standards Regulations, is pending consideration before the Supreme Court, adding that it should wait or dispose the plea.Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate Akhil Sibal said that some protection or guidelines need to be ensured to protect the privacy of individuals, considering media will not reveal its sources and the police are denying the leaks.The court noted that the petition raises an important question of public importance, and listed the petition for arguments on September 27In her petition before the high court, she also sought to restrain the media from publishing the content or extract of any of her private chats, including those on WhatsApp.The high court, in an earlier order, had asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and had directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand that it has not leaked nor intends to leak any probe details to the press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/did-not-leak-disha-ravi-s-info-to-media-delhi-police-tell-delhi-hc-101628188675004.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||DU advises students to fill applications with caution||The Delhi University (DU) on Thursday advised candidates seeking admission to various undergraduate courses to fill online application forms with utmost caution as they will not be allowed to edit it after submission.The university, which started the online registration process for admission to various undergraduate courses across its 63 colleges from Monday, received over one lakh application for the available 70,000 seats till Thursday evening. The last date of registration is August 31.During its first virtual open house session, meant to field admission related queries of candidates, on Thursday, DU officials cautioned students and asked them to re-check everything before submitting the forms. The University completely shifted its admission process since last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.“It won’t be possible for the University to provide the editing option after submission of form to students since we are on a very tight schedule. After closing the registration on August 31, we need to give the data of applicants to the National Testing Agency (NTA) that will conduct entrance exams for admission to some undergraduate courses in September. So we need to give that data at least 15 days before the exam. That’s why the edit option is not there,” said Sanjeev Singh, director of the University’s computer department.Admissions to all undergraduate courses – barring 15 courses – are conducted on the basis of merit and scores in the previous qualifying examination. Admission to postgraduate, MPhil-PhD courses, and the 15 undergraduate courses including journalism, finance, and music, will be done through DU entrance tests (DUET) conducted by the NTA in the last week of September this year.Advising students not to fill the forms in one go, Singh said, “We have already asked the students to fill the form properly, and check and recheck everything before finally submitting it. There is enough time for them to go through everything. They should not rush to pay the registration fee and submit the form. The last date for confirming registration and payment of fees is August 31.”Asked about differing theory and practical components among CBSE and their counterparts in state boards during the virtual open house session, DU officials clarified: “The theory and practical component will be automatically converted into a 70:30 ratio by the software on DU admission portal. Students need not be worried about it.”Officials said the varsity will soon upload examples of such score conversion on its website.“Students should wait for it rather than filling wrong information in the form,” said Suman Kumar, a member of the DU admission committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-edit-option-after-submitting-ug-forms-this-year-du-advises-students-to-fill-applications-with-caution-101628188673902.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||No unjust riches: CBSE objects to demand for exam fee refund||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday told the Supreme Court that it will not charge any extra fees from students choosing to take improvement examination, but the board rejected suggestions that it should return the board exam fees since the tests were not conducted this year.The CBSE and the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) unanimously objected to a petition by Association of Private Schools of Uttar Pradesh which sought refund of exam fees besides raising other issues. The two boards said they were “self-financing” bodies receiving no grant from the government. In separate affidavits filed before the court, the boards said examination fees of ₹1,500 per student is the only means to pay their staff and finance the expenses for the examinations.The petitioner association argued that when examinations stood cancelled, there was no question of collecting examination fee. Advocate Ravi Prakash Gupta representing the association said, “As per our estimates, the CBSE has saved ₹200 crore by not holding physical examination. This money can be either refunded or be used to finance mobile phones for poor students.”A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna said, “We don’t need your suggestions. Tell us if you have a legal right to get refund.” The judges agreed with the boards that the decision to cancel examinations was taken at the last minute by when all preparations for examinations (question papers, answer books) got over.In an affidavit, CBSE Controller of Examinations, Sanyam Bhardwaj said, “The respondent CBSE has not unjustly enriched itself by collecting examination fees which has and is being utilised by it for the purpose of conducting examination and also for the purpose of rendering various services (mark sheet, pass certificate) to students.”The results committee – comprising five members (for Class 12) and seven members (for Class 10) – set up this year for tabulating marks through internal assessment , required CBSE to spend around ₹40 crore for paying honorarium to the committee members, CBSE informed the Court.CBSE had enrolled nearly 1.45 million students for Class 12 this year as compared to CISCE with over 100,000 students. After the government decided to cancel the examinations this year, the board came out with an evaluation scheme by which Class 12 students were to be assessed based on a 30:30:40 formula, which took the best of three subject marks of Class 10 boards (30%), annual results of Class 11 (30%) and pre-boards or internal assessment conducted during Class 12 (40%).The court was informed by CBSE that all schools affiliated with it will publish detailed results of the Class 12 and 10 students, comprising of their internal assessment marks, highest average of the school in the preceding three years, and the final allocation of marks by the Results Committee, in order to enable students to decide on giving the improvement exams, to be held between August 25 and September 15.The CBSE told the court that it soon will send a circular in this regard to schools. The board also informed the court that the results of the improvement examination will be declared by September 30, while the CISCE plans to release the same tentatively around September 20.The petitioner had sought specific dates on holding of the improvement examination and declaration of results.The association told the court that most students who performed well in their internal exams were surprised to find their final scores to be less. According to petitioners, this was due to the rationalisation policy prescribed by CBSE which required the results committee to moderate marks in terms of the school’s best performance in the past three years. The association argued that students need to be told how much marks were reduced as a result of the moderation exercise.The bench remarked, “Going by the newspaper reports, everybody has scored very high marks.” However, since this data will be readily available with schools, the court agreed to grant this request. CBSE agreed to issue a circular in this regard. The court said, “On instructions, CBSE has submitted that it will issue directions to all the schools registered under that Board to notify the internal assessment marks, highest average in the preceding three years and the marks assigned by the Result Committee on case-to-case basis. That shall be the responsibility of the concerned school(s) where the students are pursuing studies.”Both the examination boards – CBSE and the CISCE responded to the suggestions put forth by the association and submitted a tentative schedule for the improvement exams. CBSE counsel Rupesh Kumar informed the court that examination will be conducted for three category of students – those who apply for correction of results through dispute resolution mechanism, compartment candidates, and private/Patrachar/second chance compartment candidates. The option to register for the physical examination may be made available by August 10, he added.The association demanded that the two boards should consider announcing the results by September 20 due to college admissions and entrance examinations such as JEE, NEET, etc. This court accepted the schedules provided by the two boards, and refused to pre-pone the dates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-unjust-riches-cbse-objects-to-demand-for-exam-fee-refund-101628188615112.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||2 women, part of an interstate smuggling racket, held with 2 kilos of heroin in Dwarka||Two women from west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar, who are part of a racket smuggling heroin from the national capital to Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, were arrested from Dwarka with around two kilograms of heroin.The crime branch said the women – Caroline Phocum (56) and Madhu (40) -- were on their way to Punjab in a cab with the drug consignment when they were arrested on July 28. Police said they are in the process of unearthing the others involved in the racket.Joint commissioner of police (crime) Alok Kumar said police had received information about a drugs syndicate run by a Nigerian national. “We learnt that the syndicate is involved in drug trafficking from Delhi to Punjab, Haryana, UP, Mumbai and Kolkata after procuring it from Afghanistan. The informer revealed that two women drug handlers would go to Punjab to delivery a huge consignment of heroin in a cab on July 28. We laid a trap and arrested the two women near Dwarka Mod, while they were on their way to Punjab in a cab. We recovered two kilograms of fine quality heroin,” Kumar said.During interrogation, the two women -- Phocum hailed from West Bengal and Madhu belonged to Punjab --confessed that they had left their families and were living together in Uttam Nagar. The two women told police that they had met in Tihar Jail in 2013, when Phocum was arrested in a drug trafficking case by the Narcotics Control Bureau and Madhu was already inside in a cheating case.“They met in jail and became good friends. In jail, they came in contact with a Nigerian national named Henry, who too was behind bars for drug trafficking. He recruited them. When the two women came out on bail, they joined the drug trafficking gang and proved quite useful, as police do not usually suspect middle-age women,” said Joint CP Kumar.Police said the two women have been supplying large quantities of drugs to various cities of Punjab, Haryana, Bareilly, Mumbai and Kolkata for the past two years. “They revealed that the heroin comes from Afghanistan and Pakistan. They got ₹1 lakh each for every trip they made out of Delhi. Investigation of the case is in progress and raids are being conducted to unearth the drug syndicate,” added Joint CP Kumar.Meanwhile, in another operation, police arrested a man from Bihar for smuggling around 20kg marijuana from Bihar into the Capital, for distribution in parts of northwest Delhi.The suspect, Vikas Kumar (27) told police that he worked at a shop selling electrical items in Shaheen Bagh but had lost his job during the second lockdown due to Covid-19 and turned to drug smuggling to make money.Police said they are questioning Kumar to trace his accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-women-part-of-an-interstate-smuggling-racket-held-with-two-kilos-of-heroin-in-dwarka-101628188613908.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Waterlogging: Delhi govt tells departments to take quick action||Delhi urban development minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday directed officials in public works and the flood and irrigation departments to take all necessary measures to tackle waterlogging in the Capital.“Be it maintenance, cleanliness, desilting or even building new drains if required, it should be done as soon as possible... so that the people of Delhi don’t face any problems due to waterlogging,” said Jain, who holds the public works and flood and irrigation portfolios, in a statement issued by his office after chairing a review meeting with senior officials in both departments.It further said, “The minister further asked the officials to stay alert and active in responding to any complaints of waterlogging coming from any part of Delhi. The foremost responsibility of a responsible government is to not take any problem being faced by the people lightly... The ministry has throughout the monsoon season been proactive in holding meetings of officials across concerned departments to ensure that Delhi doesn’t face any problems because of waterlogging. In a meeting held last month, the minister had directed the officials to use pumps and refurbish roads quickly wherever waterlogging...has caused damage.”Officials said that in the meeting Jain specifically took stock of the situation in Narela Industrial Area which witnesses waterlogging because of low capacity of existing drains in the area.In the last two weeks, as Delhi witnessed moderate to heavy rains, several areas witnessed heavy waterlogging, including Yamuna Bazar, parts of Connaught Place, stretches near the Barapullah flyover, Ashram, Anand Vihar, Sarita Vihar, ITO, Pragati Maidan, Alaknanda, Palam, Moti Nagar and large parts of Delhi Cantonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/waterlogging-delhi-govt-tells-departments-to-take-quick-action-101628188555583.html
06-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh shares nation’s joy as India end hockey Olympic medal drought, bag bronze||An air of festivity was palpable as Uttar Pradesh shared the nation’s joy on India ending its medal drought in hockey after 41 years at the Tokyo Olympics on Thursday.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath congratulated the Manpreet Singh-led men’s hockey team on winning bronze and Uttar Pradesh Sports Directorate announced a ₹1 crore purse for the team’s midfielder Lalit Kumar Upadhyay, who hails from Varanasi. “Today, the Indian men’s hockey team won the bronze medal in the Tokyo Olympics with a historic performance. Today’s success has added a golden chapter in the history of Indian Hockey. The whole nation is proud of this unforgettable achievement of Team India,” Yogi Adityanath tweeted soon after India’s thrilling 5-4 win against Germany at the Oi Hockey Stadium in Tokyo.While announcing ₹1 crore for Lalit on behalf of the state government, UP’s director sports RP Singh said the prize was according to the government’s scheme for such achievements.“It’s a historic win and we were all waiting this to happen since 1980 when India won a gold medal in hockey at the Moscow Olympics,” he said.“The government has already announced ₹12 lakh for all 10 Uttar Pradesh athletes who have gone to represent India at the Summer Olympics. If anyone wins gold, silver or bronze in an individual event, he or she will get ₹6 crore, ₹4 crore and ₹2 crore respectively,” he added. Hockey Olympians like Devesh Chauhan, Rahul Singh, Sujit Kumar, Ali Saeed, Danish Mujtaba, Shakeel Ahmed Khan, Syed Ali Zafar Iqbal, Mohinder Pal Singh, Jagbir Singh and other hockey greats like Rajneesh Mishra, Arf Mohd Khan, Sanjay Bisht and Atif Idrish also praised the team. Zafar Iqbal, a key member of India’s last Olympic gold medal winning team in the 1980 Moscow Games, said he had his heart in his mouth in the final few minutes of the match when Germany were attacking in search of the equaliser.“History has been made. We have broken the jinx. It’s a miracle. It’s going to have a big impact on the game. It will revive the sport in the country. It’s a new beginning, a new dawn,” he said.“Since my childhood, I have been hearing that India won gold medals at the Olympics eight times, but never got to see such an occasion in my lifetime. But today, it’s like a dream come true and now I can say that I have seen India winning medals at the Olympics,” former Indian hockey captain Rajneesh Mishra said. Former Junior India star Vijay Singh, senior coach SK Lahiri, Kanpur Hockey secretary TP Singh and UP Olympic Association secretary Anandeshwar Pandey too admired India’s podium finish at the Games. “I watched the match and I can feel the joy that comes when your country wins after 40 years,” Pandey said over the phone from Tokyo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-shares-nation-s-joy-as-india-end-hockey-olympic-medal-drought-bag-bronze-101628188554590.html
06-08-2021||Other||Himachal govt changed chief secretary ahead of bypolls||In a swift move the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government changed the chief Secretary in an unexpected bureaucratic reshuffle carried out in the midst of the monsoon session of Vidhan Sabha.Ram Subagh Singh, 1987 batch IAS officer, was appointed as the new chief secretary replacing 1986-batch’s Anil Khachi on Thursday. Earlier, in a notification on Thursday, the state government had appointed Khachi as the state election commissioner with immediate effect.Khachi was appointed as the chief secretary in 2019. Ram Subhag, who was serving as the additional chief secretary industries, transport and labour and employment, has been appointed the new chief secretary.Khachi known for his tough stance and impeccable integrity resigned from the IAS post to take up his new assignment as the state election commissioner.Ram Subagh is the sixth chief secretary replaced during the BJP tenure. VC Pharkha, who had remained chief secretary from June 1, 2016 was replaced by Vineet Chawdhry to remained in office till September 2017.BK Aggarwal succeeded Chaudhary in 2018 after his superannuation. He proceeded on central deputation while Shrikant Baldi took over as chief secretary in September 2019. On his superannuation, Baldi was appointed as chairman of the Real Estate Regulatory Authority. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur tipped Khachi as chief secretary on January 2020.Ram Subhag assumed the office of chief secretary of Himachal Pradesh on Thursday. A Himachal cadre IAS officer, Ram Subhag has held many important assignments within and out of state and was instrumental for various innovations. Born on 31 July, 1963, Ram Subhag has a vast administrative experience of 34 years.After assuming office, he expressed gratitude towards CM Jai Ram Thakur for the responsibility and said while working as the chief secretary, his priority will be to take the flagship programmes of the government to people.He said he will ensure that the commitment and responsiveness of the state government towards people reaches the common man and pace of developmental works was accelerated.He said it will be his foremost responsibility to comply with the orders of the CM and keep him apprised of the feedback from time-to-time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-govt-changed-chief-secretary-ahead-of-bypolls-101628188494574.html
06-08-2021||Other||Pune RTO staffers show up late, servers constantly down leaving public waiting for hours||PUNE It’s a daily issue for public coming to the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) – a long wait to get any work done. Staffer and officials are not in their seats on time. On the other hand, the computer server is frequently down stopping all biometric registration.Working hours start from 10 am for both transport and non-transport departments. The learning license department starts from 7.30 am.On Thursday, when HT visited the Pune RTO office at Sangamwadi, many RTO staffers and officers were not present at 10 am. Just 30 per cent of the staff was present there on time, none of them senior RTO officials or inspectors. “I came to the RTO office for a transfer. When I visited the transport section there was only one staffer and she told me to wait till the concerned officer comes in. I had to wait till 11.30 am, when the officer came and my work was completed,” said Kedar Mane. It is the same situation at the learning licence section. Applicants who were given an appointment were waiting because the server was down. To get a learning licence, an applicant has to go through document verification and biometrics, and finally appear for an online test. The server was down for an hour. “When my number came for document verification for a learning licence I was told to wait as the server was down. This is not expected from the RTO department, as we are risking our lives to come to such a crowded place and then we have to wait for a long time because of technical issues,” said Shreya Kajale, an applicant. Though the state transport department has started learning licence test online and one can get it processed at home, many still prefer to come to the RTO. A few years ago, RTO agents were moved out from office premises and now those agents are working from outside the compound. People stand on the boundary walls of the RTO office and from the other side agents take documents and other necessary items to complete the licences. Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde said, “We are taking all the necessary safety precautions within the office and staff has been instructed to come on time to work efficiently. The technical issues are solved immediately by our technical team and there won’t be any complaint in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-rto-staffers-show-up-late-servers-constantly-down-leaving-public-waiting-for-hours-101628188435903.html
06-08-2021||Other||Bank employee conned by fake email request transfers Rs4 lakh||PUNE In a second such case in Pune city, a bank employee was cheated into transferring funds from a customer’s account to another account, on pursuance of an unidentified email sender, who posed as a customer. This case has been registered at Shivajinagar, while one such case is already registered at Kondhwa police station.In this case, the bank employee transferred ₹4 lakh into an account after the email sender claimed that he is the owner of a corporate account with a local company.The man sent an email to the bank employee that he has a medical emergency for which he required funds from the company account. The accused was communicating from an email ID very similar to that of the original account holder.The 55-year-old complainant then used RTGS to transfer ₹4 lakh from the company account to the account details that the fraudster had provided.A senior police officer of the cyber-crime cell has confirmed that more such complaints have been made. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act has been registered at Shivajinagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bank-employee-conned-by-fake-email-request-transfers-rs4-lakh-101628188374444.html
06-08-2021||Other||Woman dies by suicide; husband, suspected girlfriend booked for abetment||PUNE: A schoolteacher’s husband and his alleged girlfriend have been booked for driving her to commit suicide by creating fake profiles in her name and verbally asking her to kill herself. While the 34-year-old woman committed suicide in her house on September 17, 2020, her 62-year-old father, a retired police officer, lodged a complaint at the Yerawada police station only on Wednesday.The now-deceased woman and the accused man were married since 2018, according to the police. The man and his suspected girlfriend created fake profiles on social media and posted derogatory comments of relatives to defame the woman. “The couple had a love marriage. Her father, a retired police officer, lodged the complaint. They also have two daughters; one, an eight-year-old and the other, a four-year-old. Further investigation will be conducted by a senior officer,” said S Litte, sub-inspector of Yerawada police station who registered the case.A case under sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with section 66(c) of the Information Technology Act was registered at the Yerawada police station. Vijaysinh Chouhan, police inspector (crime) of the Yerawada police station, will carry on further investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-dies-by-suicide-husband-suspected-girlfriend-booked-for-abetment-101628188373902.html
06-08-2021||Other||HC asks all parties for written statement on DP for merged villages||The Bombay High Court has asked all parties to submit a written statement over the proposed development plan (DP) for 23 villages merged into the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) limits. High Court justice Girish Kulkarni heard petitioners and asked all sides to file a written say within a month. The High Court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by BJP leaders Ujwal Keskar and Suhas Joshi, through their counsels, advocates Sanjeev Gorwadkar and Ritvik Joshi, challenging the July 19 decision by the state government instructing the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) to created the development plan for the merged villages. The state government decision is being opposed by BJP based on the contention that the 23 villages have been merged in PMC, which is now responsible for carrying out development in these areas. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol had earlier said, “Since these parts (23 villages) are under PMC limits, PMRDA does not have legal rights to carry out planning for this area”. Keskar said, “The High Court heard our objections on Thursday. Some citizens from the 23 villages have also filed a petition demanding that Development Plan be prepared by PMRDA. By considering all these points, the court has instructed all parties to submit a written say.” Ganesh Bidkar, BJP’s leader of the house in the PMC said, “There have been two PILs filed on DP issue. In the first PIL, BJP members have challenged the metropolitan committee formed by state government for which the HC has given a stay. The second PIL is about the DP in 23 villages challenging government’s decision.” According to Bidkar in the second PIL, BJP has taken a stand that PMRDA cannot prepare the DP for the areas which are now part of PMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-all-parties-for-written-statement-on-dp-for-merged-villages-101628188317108.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi journalist allegedly involved in Chinese spy racket got Hawala money||Alleged Chinese spies paid journalist Rajeev Sharma through Hawala transactions in exchange for sensitive information, four protected witnesses identified in the police charge sheet as W, X, Y and Z have told the court in their statements, officials privy to the investigation in the case said.The four witnesses, who claimed to have interacted with Sharma until his arrest in September last year, recorded their statements before a judge under Code of Criminal Procedure 164 in November 2020. Their statements, attached to the charge sheet, are admissible evidence during trial.Sharma, a freelance journalist, was arrested on September 14, 2020 by Delhi police’s special cell for passing on classified information to Chinese intelligence agencies. Along with Sharma, the police also arrested a Chinese woman named Qing Shi and a Nepalese man Sher Singh alias Sher Bahadur. Sharma and Qing, police said, ran shell companies through which they received money from Chinese agencies. The Enforcement Directorate that is carrying out a parallel investigation against Sharma in a money laundering case against him, arrested the freelance scribe last month.The police filed the charge sheet in the case on April 2021. It is on the basis of this charge sheet and evidence submitted in court by police that ED registered a case against Sharma.In the charge sheet, witness Y said he collected money from a Chinese national and handed it to Sharma as remuneration for passing the information. Another person identified as Z said he received over $5000 from a foreign account in his bank account for Sharma. Z said Sharma requested him to collect money on his behalf.Another person, who is not a protected witness, told the police that he used to manage Sharma’s YouTube account and that the journalist asked him to collect money from the Chinese on his behalf. His statement is also a part of the charge sheet.Two other protected witnesses, X and W, in their statements said that they supplied Hawala money to Qing Shi in Yuan. They also alleged that Qing asked them to exchange the Chinese currency in Indian rupees several times.Police have said Sharma was in contact with a Chinese intelligence official, identified only as Michael, since 2016, and with another Chinese person identified as George, since 2019. Police have also named a third Chinese intelligence official Xao, who is invovled in the case.Sharma allegedly sent Michael classified information related to Indian army deployment on the China-Bhutan-India tri-junction, including Doklam. Police in the charge sheet have also attached a report from the Director General of Military Intelligence confirming that the documents police recovered from Sharma’s house were classified. It also mentioned that Sharma passed on information related to Tibetan spiritual leader, Dalai Lama and Indo-China relations. The papers that police seized have been submitted to the court in a sealed cover.Police are still probing how Sharma managed to get hold of the sensitive documents. Police have mentioned in the charge sheet that “despite sincere efforts” there were unable to trace Sharma’s source who provided him the classified documents.“His handler George used to send the money to him through India-based shell companies MZ Mall and MZ Pharmacy situated at Mahipalpur, being run by Chinese nationals Zhang Zheng, Zhang Lixia and Qing Shing. Zhang Zheng and Zhang Lixia left for China and could not return due to the Covid-19 situation. The companies were being run by Qing,” police said in the charge sheet adding that Qing, and the third accused Sher Singh were named as directors of these shell companies.As evidence, police have also attached a Kotak Mahindra bank account linked to MZ Mall, which showed transactions of around ₹2 crore. Police also attached Sharma’s travel record to China and Maldives and added that during these visits Sharma was meeting Chinese intelligence officers George and Michael.Sharma’s counsel Amish Aggarwala dismissed the allegations as false, and said they will approach the high court for quashing of charges.“These are false charges. Police filed charge sheet without recording any statement u/s 164 or 161 CrPC, of any official of ministry of defence or the armed forces claiming that any secret/ classified document was missing or stolen or handed over to my client. In case, any such document was stolen/ removed, then these matter would have reported to high ups and the Police, which was not done here,” Aggarwala said.He also said that because no case was made out from the charge sheet, the court has not taken cognizance. “I requested court even today to take cognizance but it has been posted for November 15, 2021. The charge sheet also does not proved that he was working for any Chinese agent. We are going to file case in the Delhi high court for quashing charges. Also, if the documents were supplied to my client, then police should investigate, who supplied it. Police are silent on this. My client can’t manufacture the classified/ secret documents. On the contrary, the charge sheet include a letter from the air force that the seized documents are not secret/classified,” Aggarwala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-journalist-allegedly-involved-in-chinese-spy-racket-got-hawala-money-say-witnesses-in-the-case-101628188316571.html
06-08-2021||Other||Two sub-registrars suspended for violation of rules||PUNE The inspector general of registration (IGR) has ordered suspension of two sub-registrars in the city on charges of violation of the codes of registration. IGR Shravan Hardikar has charged the two sub-registrars for carrying out registration in contravention of rules namely, registering property documents without MAHARERA registration and handing over office operations to a private person. Pune city has 27 registration offices where property documents are registered by citizens following verification of documents, legalities and payment of stamp duty. The IGR action comes following complaints that registration was being carried out in violation of the law at some of the property registration offices in the Pune region.According to a state government-appointed inquiry committee, large-scale violations were reported at Haveli registration office number 14 where 195 documents were found to be registered without a MAHARERA registration number. Upon visiting the office, a high-level team of state government officials found alleged losses to the tune of Rs20 lakh.The team also visited Haveli sub-registration office number 22 and found anomalies such as staff coming late to the office, private persons carrying out official work inside the office, government OTPs being shared with private persons, and absence of professional scanning of documents. The team documented its findings and submitted a report to the government after which action was taken by IGR Hardikar. The action came after Mantralaya received complaints of illegal registrations being carried out in the city in connivance with concerned officials. It is part of an in-depth investigation into doubtful cases of property registration of unauthorised constructions and illegal plotting initiated by the Maharashtra government. As part of this probe, as many as 300,000 documents registered at 27 sub-registrars’ offices over the past three years have been searched and verified.IGR Hardikar could not be reached for comment and a message sent to him went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-sub-registrars-suspended-for-violation-of-rules-101628188313907.html
06-08-2021||Pune||World Owl Awareness Day: 40% of respondents still afraid of owls, says survey||Even as “World Owl Awareness Day” was recently celebrated on August 4, an ongoing research paper to be published on how people perceive the owl by Dr Satish Pande, honorary wildlife warden of the Ela Foundation, has found that 40% of people are still afraid of owls and believe that they are a bad omen.“It is indeed shocking to know that even in this era, people still have mixed perceptions about this bird which is also looked upon as the vehicle of Goddess Laxmi. Some are extremely afraid while some harbour superstitions about the owl, whether they are educated or otherwise. We have surveyed people from all strata: farmers, shepherds, professionals, teachers and students,” Dr Pande said. “It is very important to be more sensitive towards owls and get rid of superstitious beliefs about them. There have been stray incidents of owl trapping that were addressed immediately,” he added.Dr Pande has spent several years studying the mysterious bird. “Under the Ela Foundation, we conduct studies and long-term surveys of owls in western Maharashtra using the ‘nearest neighbour distance method’ confirmed by G-statistics. There are four species found in western Maharashtra that are often seen in the Purandar area. As per our surveys, the population density of the Indian Eagle Owl is one pair in every 4.5 to 6kilometre of suitable habitat; that of the Motted Wood Owl is one pair for every 5.5 to 8kilometre; and that of the Spotted Owlet is one pair in every 2.5 to 4.5kilometre. The oft-seen species is the Barn Owl; these birds are common in human-occupied urban and rural areas and their population is higher, proportional to the availability of garbage, open drains and litter frequented by rats and bandicoots,” Dr Pande informed. Pune constitutes a suitable habitat for every species of owl that is closer to urban and human-occupied areas, he said. The Indian Eagle Owl is found in open, hilly areas; the Brown Fish Owl near permanent water bodies; the Motted Wood Owl on cropped land; the Spotted Owlet in deciduous forests and fringe areas habituated by humans; while the Brown Wood Owl is found in evergreen forests, he added.Apart from the species of owl found in the state and their habitat, Dr Pande raised concerns over the increasing number of owls being found morbid or dead due to consumption of rodents that have ingested pesticides and reduction in the owl population due to their territories including fallow lands, croplands and hills being diverted for urbanisation. Several previously occupied owl habitats are now sadly empty, he pointed out. “Owls are nocturnal and are facing serious problems mainly due to human intervention in their habitats, chemicals, electrocutions and road accidents. Due to road accidents having drastically reduced during the lockdown period and human exclusion from the environment, owl sightings had become more frequent,” he said. During the lockdown, the elusive Brown Fish Owl was spotted in Purandar taluka while Brown Wood Owls were seen on several occasions in the western ghats around Pune, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/40-of-respondents-still-afraid-of-owls-survey-101628188254554.html
06-08-2021||Other||PMC’s mosquito repellent drive hit by staff shortage||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Thursday, claimed that due to “non-availability of staff”, it has been unable to undertake any drives to repel mosquitoes in the city.Given that the monsoon has more than made its presence felt in the city, the “mosquito season” is on in full swing. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator Ashwini Kadam has written a letter to the municipal commissioner demanding staff be deputed to tackle the mosquito menace.Kadam said, “Many citizens and housing societies are filing complaints about the mosquito issue. The officials claim to no have manpower. It is found that the manpower is being used for Covid work.”Kadam added, “As the Zika virus has been found in Pune district citizens are a little worried. PMC must start spraying repellents and do fogging to control mosquito breeding.”Rupesh Vaidya a resident of Sahakarnagar said, “We are taking all the efforts within our home to control mosquitoes. Every year, PMC used to visit the area and spray mosquito repellents. This year, nothing has happened.”Baner resident Ramesh Jadhav said, “ As mosquitos increase, we are taking extra precautions at home to protect children. The civic body must act otherwise along with Covid, patients with other infections will increase in the city.”PMC health department chief Ashish Bharti declined comment on the issue. A ward officer, on condition of anonymity, said, “It is true that complaints from citizens have increased. Complaints are coming from housing societies. We don’t have the manpower to address the complaints.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmcs-mosquito-repellent-drive-hit-by-staff-shortage-101628188255079.html
06-08-2021||Other||Covid vax drive on the wane in Pune district||PUNE To keep a third wave of Covid-19 infections at bay, vaccination is a must, as per experts in the city, state and country. However, due to a limited stock of vaccines available, the district’s vaccination drive has been on the wane. On August 1, total vaccinations were as low as 7,800 for the day. The total daily vaccination count in the district has not crossed the 50,000 mark in August, so far, while that number was at 80,000 on some days in July. Private centres in the city are also reporting fewer vaccinations as unvaccinated beneficiaries prefer to wait for free vaccines to be available at the government centres.On Thursday, only Covaxin was available in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) area, as Covishield was out of stock. On Thursday, seven vaccination centres were administering Covaxin in the city limits.(UPDATE FROM PMC WILL BE ADDED)Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (medical), Pune circle, said vaccine stock is expected on August 6.“All the vaccines have been distributed to the district health department. We received the last stock of Covishield and Covaxin on August 3. The next batch is due on August 6,” said Dr Deshmukh.He added that there are around 12 private hospitals that were supplied vaccine doses through the health department.“As these hospitals have smaller demands they register through the Cowin application and we supply them the doses. Private hospitals with larger demands buy the vaccine directly from the manufacturer,” said Dr Deshmukh.Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital said that the response so far from beneficiaries has been good.“We are inoculating at least 200 to 300 first-dose beneficiaries each day. And we have a stock of 30,000 vaccines. The second dose will start from August 15 for beneficiaries who have taken the first jab with us,” said Dr Kelkar.So far, a total of 6,365,390 beneficiaries have received the vaccine. Of these, across all age groups, 3,837,176 have received a first dose and 2,528,214 have received the second dose of the vaccine in Pune district. Total vaccination in Pune district so far, is at 74 per cent. In PMC, total inoculation is at 93 per cent, while in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) total inoculation is at 51 per cent. In Pune rural, total inoculation is at 65 per cent, as per authorities.August 4Total vaccinations in Pune district – 49,022Covishield—39,321Covaxin—8,808Sputnik V--893Vaccinations at government sites—39,635Vaccinations at private sites—9,387August 3Total vaccinations in Pune district—19,693Covishield—14,578Covaxin—4,240Sputnik V--875Vaccination at government sites—11,563Vaccination at private sites—8,130August 2Total vaccinations in Pune district—29,081Covishield—23,618Covaxin—4,541Sputnik V--922Vaccinations at government sites—19,175Vaccinations at private sites—9,906August 1Total vaccinations in Pune district—7,800Covishield—6,063Covaxin—1,174Sputnik V--563Vaccinations at government sites—2,595Vaccinations at private sites—5,205Source: District Health Department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-vax-drive-on-the-wane-in-pune-district-101628188253898.html
06-08-2021||Patna||Nitish seeks PM’s time for meeting on caste census||Sticking to his demand for a caste-based census, chief minister Nitish Kumar Thursday said he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard and sought his time for a meeting with an all-party delegation on the issue.Kumar was talking to media persons after conducting an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in the state.Earlier on Monday, a delegation of JD (U) led by party national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh met Union home minister Amit Shah to press for a caste-based census.Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav has asked the Nitish Kumar government to conduct the exercise “on its own” if the Centre refuses to budge from its stand. Yadav also announced that his party will organise a dharna across the state to press for this demand on August 7. On the last day of the Monsoon session of Bihar assembly July 30, Yadav also met the CM on this issue.The last caste-based census was conducted and released in 1931, while in 1941, the data was collected but not made public. In 2011, a socio-economic caste census was carried out but the data was again not made public on grounds of “discrepancies”.Meanwhile, after conducting aerial survey of Nalanda, Gaya, Jehanabad and Patna districts, Kumar said the situation was “not very good”. “We need to be alert. If the water level of the Ganges rises further, problem may increase as there will be no option of drainage. The floodwaters have affected crops. Proper compensation will also be given after assessing farmers’ losses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-seeks-pm-s-time-for-meeting-on-caste-census-101628181474139.html
06-08-2021||Mumbai||Corruption probe: HC pulls up senior Maharashtra cop as state denies documents to CBI||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday issued a notice to the additional chief secretary (home) after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) informed that an assistant commissioner of police was issuing threats to them and refusing to hand over documents pertaining to the report of former state intelligence commissioner Rashmi Shukla about corruption in transfers and postings of police officers. CBI submitted that despite the court’s July 22 order asking the agency to continue its investigation into the allegations of corruption made by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh against ex-state home minister Anil Deshmukh, the Maharashtra government was not parting with the documents. The plea filed by CBI, complaining about the state not complying with court orders and directions, will be heard on August 11. During the course of hearing, the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was informed by additional solicitor general Anil Singh that following the July 22 HC order, the central agency had sought documents pertaining to the allegations made by Singh in his letter to the chief minister on March 20. Additional general solicitor Anil Singh, appearing for CBI, submitted that during the pendency of the petition filed by the state government for deletion of two unnumbered paragraphs from the first information report (FIR) against Deshmukh on April 21, the agency had not sought the documents pertaining to two contentious issues – Shukla’s report and ex-cop Sachin Vaze’s reinstatement in service. Singh said after HC decided on the state’s petition and permitted CBI to continue its investigation, the agency had written to the state intelligence department, seeking documents pertaining to Shukla’s report. But the officer concerned at the state intelligence department refused to share the documents claiming that they were part of an ongoing probe by the government. Singh submitted that the tenor of letter hinted at a threat by the officer and when approached, the DG (director general) said that a state direction was awaited to hand over the documents. Aggrieved by the refusal, CBI had approached the court. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “Some ACP is threatening CBI officers. Please find out what is the situation. Please do not create an unfair situation that we have to take them to task.” The court, thereafter, issued notice to the state and the additional chief secretary of the home department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/corruption-probe-hc-pulls-up-senior-maharashtra-cop-as-state-denies-documents-to-cbi-101628164913216.html
06-08-2021||Delhi||National Handloom Day: Revive the weave||It was a sight to behold when women in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s council of ministers wore beautiful handloom sarees during the cabinet expansion ceremony in July. The seven-yard wonder stood for elegance, unity, tradition and also power dressing. Brands that support the weavers’ community from across India applauded the move, saying it could go a long way in reviving the declining craft.August 7th is celebrated as the National Handloom Day and in the run up, we look at how brands are keeping up the dying art. “Varanasi has been famous for its Banarasi silk sarees. The art of handloom is dying as machines have taken over hands, compelling artisan to resort to other vocations. Every weaver in Banaras is an artist and they need patrons to appreciate their art. We are trying to keep the heritage alive, providing handpicked assortments of hand-woven pure silk Banarasi sarees. If our cabinet ministers who are idealized by youngsters wear handwoven silk saree, it is definitely going to promote the art of Varanasi,” says Shruti Shah from Sacred Weaves.The weavers in Banaras have also mastered zari work. The intricate weave, Persian motifs and gleaming gold embroidery is one example of the expertise weavers possess. “We worked on projects to revive the art. Uchin work is one such old technique similar to Paithani. While Paithanis are woven on thicker silk, Uchin saris are woven on thinner silk. We are developing saris with a modern touch, with the same technique used for shwetambari and neelambari. Almost 40 rolls of thread are used to weave one line of weft in these shwetambari inspired saris,” says Khushi Shah from Shanti Banaras.Age-old crafts such as the Adai technique, Jaala and Petni are also being revived. “We are also working on ‘Ayyampet’ showcasing a lost craft of ikat mushru. Bopari pallu, another long lost art of double sided ajrakh printed pallu has been revived through a collection. In Udupi clusters of Karnataka where the weaving of coarse cotton sarees is almost extinct, we are helping veteran weavers of Udupi bring out the best of the sarees,” says Anindita Sardar, Design Head and Curation, Taneira.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/national-handloom-day-revive-the-weave-101628148052662.html
