07-08-2021||Mumbai||BJP mulls reshuffle in its Maharashtra unit||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is gearing up for ‘mini Assembly elections’ in Maharashtra. There are talks that the party is considering an organisational reshuffle in the state unit. Party top brass is mulling whether they need to put an aggressive Maratha or Other Backward Classes (OBC) face at the top in the state. Meanwhile, speculations are also on over BJP joining hands with the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS). On Friday, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil called on Thackeray at his residence in Dadar, fuelling speculations over a BJP-MNS tie-up in the civic polls, slated to be held early next year. The meeting is seen as the first step towards an alliance between the two parties. More than 15 municipal corporations (including Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane), 29 of the 36 district councils and over 90 municipal councils will go for polls over the next 18 months. Elections will be held for local bodies across the state, because of which it is also being touted as mini Assembly polls. As such, the polls are crucial for both the ruling three-party coalition as well as the Opposition BJP. On Saturday, Patil reached Delhi along with a group of state BJP leaders to meet Union home minister and senior party leader Amit Shah. A few days ago, Shah also met leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and former state minister Ashish Shelar, separately. Both Patil and Shelar are considered close to Shah. Significantly, Shelar has been touring the state and meeting local party leaders. According to the BJP insiders, if the party decides to replace Patil with a new state unit chief, Shelar and former state minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule would be the frontrunners. Shelar, who is from the Maratha community, is known for his aggressive style of functioning, while Bawankule is a known OBC face. Considered close to Union minister Nitin Gadkari, Bawankule was denied a party ticket in the 2019 Assembly elections. He could be back in contention now as the party is looking for an OBC face, especially when state Congress president Nana Patole has turned aggressive, particularly in the Vidarbha region where BJP has a traditional base among voters, prominently the OBCs. However, Fadnavis said there will be no be changes in the organisational set up. “No organisational changes are going to take place in the state. There was a cabinet reshuffle, and leaders are going to Delhi to meet and greet the new ministers in the ministerial council and also to discuss issues that are related to Maharashtra,” Fadnavis told mediapersons on Saturday. “There is also no discussion on in the party over changing the state BJP president. Existing chief Chandrakant Patil is performing very well. The party and the high command are standing along with him,” he added.Patil, who was in Delhi on Saturday said, no political discussion took place in the meeting between Shah and Fadnavis. “I am expecting to meet Amit bhai and will brief him about discussions held with Raj Thackeray. Ultimately the decision has to be taken by them as it may impact national politics,” he said. While BJP is keen on forging an alliance with MNS, its senior leaders are wary of the reaction of north Indian voters who were at the receiving end of Raj Thackeray’s anti-migrant stand. BJP has clarified that it cannot join hands with MNS unless the latter shreds its regional and linguistic chauvinism and hatred towards outsiders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-mulls-reshuffle-in-its-maharashtra-unit-101628360886506.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay records 68.5% jump in intellectual property filings||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) recorded a 68.5% jump in its applications for intellectual property in 2020-21, even as the Covid-19 pandemic shut down the institute and affected grants. The total intellectual property filings, including patents and trademarks, grew from 156 last year to 263 this year. The institute also saw a 45% increase in the number of Indian patents filed this year compared to last year. Researchers in the institute filed almost three times the number of patent applications in the United States compared to last year.In 2020-21, the institute filed for 141 Indian patents and 17 US patents. Of these, 110 Indian and eight US patents have been granted. In comparison, 97 Indian and six US patent applications were filed in the previous year.This increase in the number of patent applications is despite the Covid-19 pandemic shutting the campus down and affecting regular research work. In the past year, the premiere institute also saw a significant drop in research funds, according to data revealed by Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of IIT-B, during the 59th annual convocation held on Saturday. For the second consecutive year, the annual convocation was held in a virtual reality mode with virtual avatars of students receiving degrees from virtual avatars of Chaudhuri and chief guest Geoffrey Hinton, Emeritus Professor at University of Toronto, chief scientific advisor of Vector Institute and vice-president and engineering fellow at Google.The institute shut down its campus completely on March 28 last year as the Covid-19 pandemic raged in the city. An early summer vacation was announced on April 1. However, on June 25, the institute declared that the entire autumn semester will be conducted online to ensure students’ safety. The new batch of engineering students was inducted online. Since then, almost all teaching and academic activities, barring research work, are held online. The pandemic also affected the institute’s receipt in research grants, which fell by almost 14% from ₹331.24 crore in 2019-20 to ₹285 crore in 2020-21.“Despite the pandemic, research and development activities at the institute kept a brisk pace,” said Chaudhuri, who presented a report on the institute’s achievements through the year.“We are happy to note that despite the pandemic, our students did not have to suffer academically. The training that our students received will definitely see them taking up leadership roles, as always, in the academic and corporate world, thus contributing to the needs of our country,” he added. A total of 2,501 degrees were awarded to 2,289 students, apart from 378 PhD degrees. The virtual event was attended by Pawan Goenka, retired managing director and chief executive officer of Mahindra Group and chairperson of the board of governors of IIT-B.“Can no longer assume fascism is a thing of the past”Chief guest at the ceremony, Geoffrey Hinton, emeritus professor at University of Toronto, chief scientific advisor of Vector Institute and vice-president and engineering fellow at Google, asked the students to stand up to truth in the face of political attempts to suppress it.Hinton, who delivered the keynote speech, said, “The amazing technology we have today is the result of curiosity-driven research unfettered by religious or ideological constraints. My generation just assumed that this is how things should be and that humanity would never go back to allowing religious authority or political expediency to dominate scientific discovery, but I now think we cannot take this for granted just as we can no longer assume that fascism is a thing of the past.”He added, “I believe that highly selective and extremely well educated students like yourselves have a moral duty to stand up to the truth in the face of political attempts to suppress it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-records-68-5-jump-in-intellectual-property-filings-101628360769177.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||94% population in Chandigarh has received first Covid vaccine jab||Medical experts are optimistic that coronavirus transmission in the Union Territory will remain in check as 94% of the eligible residents have received the first dose of the vaccine, and 30% of the population has been fully inoculated. As per the latest electoral list, around 7,29,822 people in Chandigarh are over the age of 18 and are eligible to take the vaccine. Till Saturday, 6,86,082 people ( 94.01%) had received their first shot, while 2,17,801 (29.84%) had received both the jabs.Though the 18-45 age bracket was the last to be covered under the drive, as many as 3,56,873 people have received the first dose, as compared to 2,57,876 in the 45-plus group.However, the UT health department aims to vaccinate the remaining 43,740 eligible people with the first dose before August 15 to achieve a 100% vaccination target (with the first dose). The health department had also set a target of vaccinating 27,373 healthcare workers, of which 97.44% have received their first dose. As many as 44,660 frontline workers have received the first jab, against a target of 24,396.Chandigarh director health services Dr Amandeep Kang says, “Vaccinating 45,000 people in eight days is an achievable target as the door-to-door vaccination drive is already underway. In most of the UT’s urban and rural areas, health teams are being sent to inoculate the elderly, and those who are bed-ridden or disabled.”“In the coming days, more people will become eligible to get their second jab, which will further check the spread of the virus. However, people still need to wear face masks and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to avoid getting infected.”Health officials say the first dose of the vaccine helps build antibodies, but without a booster dose the antibodies will not be able to fight off the virus, especially with the emergence of deadlier variants.Dr Kang said UT adviser Dharam Pal has written to the central government asking them to update the eligible population from 15 lakh to 7.2 lakh. “The Centre will soon update the figure and Chandigarh will be first among states and UTs to have inoculated over 94% of its population with the first dose,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/94-population-in-chandigarh-has-received-first-covid-vaccine-jab-101628360768061.html
07-08-2021||Other||BJP minister, MLAs to meet CM for name-change of more dists, towns||Lucknow: A number of BJP leaders, including a minister and legislators, propose to meet chief minister Yogi Adityanath again to press their demands for changing names of districts, cities or towns soon amid exchange of political fire over renaming of Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Awards. Firozabad district panchayat’s resolution demanding renaming of Firozabad district as Chandra Nagar has apparently triggered such demands, with more BJP leaders bringing them into focus ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Minister of state for secondary education Gulab Devi proposes to meet Yogi soon to press the demand of renaming her home district Sambhal as Prithviraj Nagar or Kalki Nagar. “Yes, a demand for renaming Sambhal is being raised in different areas in the district. A large number of people came to meet me and I have assured them to convey their demand to chief minister Yogi Adityanath. I propose to meet the chief minister on August 12 and convey the feelings of the people,” said Gulab Devi, who represents Chandausi assembly seat of Sambhal. BJP MLA Devmani Dwivedi said there was a demand to rename Sultanpur. “I have already raised the demand to rename Sultanpur as Kushbhawanpur in the state assembly earlier. This city was founded by Lord Ram’s son Kush. I have requested the chief minister for an early appointment to enable me to place the demand before him,” said Dwivedi who represents Lambhua assembly constituency of Sultanpur. Sultanpur district’s official website also supports Dwivedi’s claims. It reads “The original town was situated on the left bank of the Gomti. It is said to have been founded by Kush, son of Ram, and to have been named after him Kushpur or Kushazbhawanpur. This ancient city has been identified by General Cunnigham with the Kushpur mentioned by Hiuentsang, the Chinese traveller.” Brijesh, BJP MLA from Deoband assembly seat of Saharanpur, said he had consistently raised the demand to rename Deoband as Devvrand. Deoband is known for the seat of Islamic seminary Darul Uloom. He said the place had been referred to as Devvrand in ancient Hindu scriptures. “I will meet the chief minister during the monsoon session of state legislature commencing on August 17. I have met the CM in the past and he has given me an assurance about renaming Deoband,” he said. A demonstration was held in Shahjahanpur on November 20, 2019 to demand its renaming as Shahjipur after name of Bhamashah, a close aide of Maharana Pratap. “I raised the demand before chief minister when he visited Bareilly about a year ago. No further action has been taken,” said Manvendra Singh, BJP MLA from Dadraul assembly constituency of Shahjahanpur. Another BJP MLA from Shahjahanpur Vir Vikram Singh ‘Prince’ said he had raised the demand to rename Khudaganj block of his district. He said the process to rename the block had already begun. “I met chief minister Yogi Adityanath recently and demanded that Khudaganj should be renamed after freedom fighter Thakur Roshan Singh who along with Ram Prasad ‘Bismil’ was hanged for his involvement in the Kakori bank dacoity case,” said Singh, who represents Katra assembly constituency of Shahjahanpur. Renaming of Ghazipur as Gadhipuri has also been demanded, on the ground that it was the capital of Maharishi Vishwamitra’s father king Gadhi in ancient India and renamed after an aide of Mohammad Bin Tughlaq. “We will meet chief minister soon to request change of name. We will also push for change of name of Muhammadabad assembly constituency as Dhara Nagar, as the area is mentioned in ancient scriptures,” said Alka Rai, BJP MLA from Muhammadabad assembly constituency of Ghazipur. A demand to rename Muzaffarnagar as Laxmi Nagar has also been made. “Some people have even begun writing Laxmi Nagar in place of Muzaffarnagar. But nothing concrete has been done,” said Kamesh Tyagi, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar. Kapildev Agarwal, minister of state (independent charge) for vocational education and local MLA refused to comment. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s move for changing the name of Rajiv Khel Ratna Awards has evoked mixed reactions. “We can understand change of name of Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Awards after Major Dhayn Chand, as late Rajiv Gandhi was not a sportsperson. This is acceptable. But in other cases, name changes appear to be the outcome of electoral politics and should not be encouraged,” said professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University. “There should be no politics in sports. If the PM wanted to do something for sports he should have announced more facilities for sportspersons,” said senior Congress leader Pankaj Malik. The BSP has attacked the Samajwadi Party for changing names in the past. BSP chief Mayawati said in a post on social media early this week that the BSP government had made the park in Lucknow that SP named after socialist ideologue Janeshwar Mishra. She said the SP government changed its name like changes made in the name of new districts. Besides renaming Allahabad and Faizabad as Prayagraj and Ayodhya respectively, the state government has indulged in a number of name changes in the past. It recently recommended changing the name of Jhansi railway station after Rani Laxmi Bai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-minister-mlas-to-meet-cm-for-name-change-of-more-dists-towns-101628360526690.html
07-08-2021||Other||Two members of a gang held for 12 robbery, snatching cases||Gururgam: Gurugram police on Friday night arrested two men in connection with at least 12 robbery cases in the city and Sohna. One scooter and ₹17,000 cash were recovered from them, said police. Police said they had received at least 12 complaints in the last 20 days about people being robbed at gunpoint in Sohna while on their way to and from banks. The suspects -- identified them as Aakash Singh and Sunny of Sohna -- would allegedly target victims who took a route frequented by few people and assaulted those who raised an alarm.Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan pointed to an incident on July 28 when Delhi resident and bank employee Mohammad Ishtekhar was targeted on the Sohna-Damdama road. Ishtekhar had told police that he was returning with cash he had collected from two families to be deposited at the Sohna branch of the bank. Near Damdama lake, two men on a motorcycle allegedly waylaid him and snatched his bag. “When I raised an alarm, they started hitting me and fled with my scooter that was later recovered after they had abandoned it some distance away,” he said. Sangwan said the other complaints were similar. “The scooter and motorcycle used in crime had no number plate. They had covered their face with a cloth. They mostly targeted route going towards Khedla village in Sohna as there are multiple isolated spots,” he said. Police said they formed teams and patrolled the area in plain clothes. On Friday evening, the teams saw two men on a scooter taking multiple rounds on the same stretch. Their suspicions aroused, the team tracked them and managed to intercept them.Upon questioning them further police found out that the duo were the ones who had been robbing people for the last four months, said Sangwan. They were booked under sections robbery, snatching and theft. Sangwan said they were produced before the court and taken on one-day police remand on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-members-of-a-gang-held-for-12-robbery-snatching-cases-101628360285372.html
07-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man assaulted over alleged mobile theft||Three men allegedly abducted a 25-year-old man from his home in Gurugram’s Sector 86 on Friday, accused him of stealing mobile phones and assaulted him. The victim, Suraj Kumar, managed to escape his captors the same night and lodged a complaint with the police.Kumar, in his complaint to the police, said that at about 9.30pm, a grey Maruti Swift Dzire stopped outside his home and a man emerged accusing him of stealing his phone. The man identified himself as Manender from Joniyawas village, the complaint read. Manender allegedly hurled abuses at Kumar and tried to drag him out, but Kumar’s family and neighbours came to his rescue and Manender left the area. But, 15 minutes later, Manender allegedly arrived with two unknown men who managed to drag Kumar into the car and flee before anyone could come to his aid. The suspects allegedly too him to a vacant plot near Seven Lamps Society in Sector 84. “They thrashed me and kept forcing me confess to crime that I didn’t commit. I pleaded with them to leave me and that they mistook me for someone else,” said Kumar. Kumar said he took advantage of a momentary distraction to escape. “I ran towards my home and found my father and uncle along with a policeman,” he said. Commissioner of police KK Rao said that the victim’s family had alerted the police soon after the alleged abduction. “A team from Kherki Daula police station was conducting a search operation when he reached his home. A probe is underway and the suspects will be arrested soon,” he said. Based on the complaint a case was registered under section 323 (causing hurt), 365 (kidnapping) and section 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Kherki Daula police station on Friday. The police are scanning the CCTV footage of the area to identify the suspects and nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-man-assaulted-over-alleged-mobile-theft-101628360166011.html
07-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Income, caste verification of 350k families begins||The Gurugram administration has begun the verification of the income and caste documents of almost 350,000 families that had registered for the Haryana government’s Parivar Pehchan Patra, or Family ID card scheme, said an official familiar with the development. At least 14 teams have been formed to cover the families in August in a phased manner, they added. The scheme was introduced in 2019 to create a database of Haryana’s domicile population and link it to over 500 government benefits, including those of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram. In December 2020, the Haryana government issued a gazette notification that made the scheme mandatory to avail any government service in the state, including caste-specific and income-specific services, water and sewer connections, town planning schemes, arms licence, tenant and domestic help verification, among others.“Verification is the second stage of the process. The teams first spoke to them over telephone and will now visit them in-person to cross-check their documents. Social workers, volunteers and students have been deployed to conduct the verification,” said a senior district administration official who preferred not to be named. The state administration first collected the details of government employees and then reached out to Below Poverty Line (BPL) population who are already availing many of these benefits. In the first phase of the verification process, around 21,000 families will be covered within a week, while the rest will be covered in the second phase, said the official quoted above. The official added that the family ID cards will be first be issued to 100,000 BPL families. Earlier this week, the Gurugram deputy commissioner had directed officials to finish the verification of about 21, 285 families by the end of the week. According to government estimates, about 450,000 are expected to qualify for the scheme. But the district administration has been facing problems in reaching out to people living in condominiums and gated societies. “Despite several meetings with the RWAs to hold registration camps within societies, there hasn’t been any fruitful response,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-income-caste-verification-of-350k-families-begins-101628360105407.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||One dead, three hurt after house collapses in north-east Delhi||A 60-year-old man died and three others were injured after a building collapsed in north-east Delhi’s Nand Nagri area on Saturday afternoon, after a short spell of rain in the morning. Police identified the deceased man as 60-year-old Kanti Lal. His body was buried deep in the debris, and it took rescue teams over three hours to recover his body.The fire department said six fire tenders reached Nand Nagri’s Block E soon after the Delhi Police informed them about the collapse around 1.30pm on Saturday.Three people — Dhani Ram (65), Anaro Devi (65) and Raj Kumar (64) — were rescued from the wreckage and taken to the nearby Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, where they are being treated for their injuries. Devi was rescued by local residents before the police and fire teams reached the spot.Residents of the area told the rescue team that Lal, who lived in an apartment a few buildings away from the one that collapsed, was still missing. His family told police that Lal would often chat with Dhani Ram and other locals at a designated spot below the building. Around 5.30pm, Lal was pulled out from the debris and rushed to the hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.During the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted that he was monitoring the situation through the district administration. “All possible help is being provided for relief and rescue. I myself have been continuously monitoring the incident through the district administration,” he tweeted.The police said they have launched an inquiry into the incident, and are investigating what led to the collapse.Locals have told police that the building was constructed 15-20 years ago. “The construction of buildings in these areas is poor. It was in a dilapidated condition. The morning rains could have led to the collapse,” said an investigating officer. “The house is owned by one Dhani Ram who lived with his family members there. It was a two-storey building with shops in the ground floor. At the time of the collapse, he was inside with the other victims who are his relatives. In all, four people were trapped in the collapse out of which three survived. We are probing what led to the collapse,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-dead-three-hurt-after-house-collapses-in-north-east-delhi-101628359986764.html
07-08-2021||Gurugram||Speeding vehicle mows down constable dies of on Gurugram-Delhi expressway||A 35-year-old constable of the Uttarakhand Police died on Friday late night in a hit-and-run case on Shankar Chowk flyover, said police. Police said that a speeding unidentified vehicle allegedly rammed into a Honda City car in which the dead man, Narender Singh Negi from Rishikesh, was travelling in near the defunct Sirhaul toll Plaza. Negi was travelling to Delhi from Gurugram when the accident took place, they added. According to the police, the impact of the accident was such that door of the car flung open and Negi was thrown out. Udyog Vihar station house officer (SHO) Satbir Singh said that they had received a call from the police control room informing them of the incident. “A team sent to the spot found the man in police uniform lying on the roadside,” he said. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital where doctors pronounced him “brought dead”, he said. “The identity card found on his person helped establish the identity.” Police said a team visited the scene of crime and took samples from the spot to identify the other vehicle involved in the accident that had allegedly fled from the scene soon after the incident. A case under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Udyog Vihar police station on Saturday against an unidentified person. Police said the dead body was handed over to the family members after the autopsy on Saturday and the car was removed from the spot with the help of a crane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/speeding-vehicle-mows-down-constable-dies-of-on-gurugram-delhi-expressway-101628359985398.html
07-08-2021||Noida||Noida: Woman duped of ₹1.8 crore on pretext of investment in car rental company, 2 held||Two persons were arrested on Saturday for allegedly duping a 36-year-old woman of around ₹1.80 crore on the pretext of making an investment in a car rental company for which they promised her high returns. Police said that the suspects and the complainant lived in the same society in Greater Noida.The suspects were identified as Deepak Chaudhury, 32, and his business partner Vipin Tomar, 30, residents of Stellar MI Cityhomes. Both are natives of Baraut in Uttar Pradesh, police said.According to police, on Friday, Ritu Chaudhury, who runs a boutique, filed a complaint at Phase 3 police station alleging that Deepak and his five family members cheated her on pretext of investment in a car rental service.In her complaint, Ritu stated that Deepak’s mother Pushpa first befriended her and then introduced her to Deepak and his wife Ruhi. “In September 2020, she (Pushpa) informed me that Deepak has got a contract of providing 100 cars on rent to government offices in Uttar Pradesh. She also said that another contract of providing 400 cars will be granted soon,” she said.Ritu’s husband Nitin Kumar said that later his wife was introduced to SK Malik, Deepak’s father-in-law, who is said to be a senior officer in the department of animal husbandry. “Malik convinced us that the contract was genuine and we should invest,” he said.Ankur Agarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that Deepak told Ritu to invest in the car rental company and promised assured returns. “Deepak demanded ₹3 lakh for each car and promised the ₹25,000 monthly return. He also floated a fictitious car rental company -- Car Yatra Services -- in Noida Sector 63 and made Tomar his partner,” Agarwal said. According to police, the complainant initially invested ₹12 lakh and also got returns for a few months. Later, the suspects told her they have got a contract to rent cars for economic offence wing of the Meerut police and needed money else they will lose the contract. Police investigations showed that the government had not given any such contract to the company.The complainant claimed that she and some of her relatives invested a total of ₹2 crore and got ₹23 lakh as return from September 2020 to March 2021. However, the suspects locked their flat and left the society in April, police said, adding that when the complainant contacted them over phone recently, they refused to return the rest of the amount. She then approached police and filed a complaint.A case was registered against Deepak, his wife Ruhi, mother Pushpa, father-in-law SK Malik, cousin Vasu, and a person named Komal under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 467 (forgery), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.The additional DCP said that Tomar was arrested because he was a partner in the company. “We are investigating the roles of other suspects. We have seized a Tata Harrier and an i-Phone from their possession,” he said. Despite repeated attempts, Pushpa could not be contacted for a comment.Police said the suspects had cheated around 100 people in this way. The two suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-woman-duped-of-1-8-crore-on-pretext-of-investment-in-car-rental-company-2-held-101628359925910.html
07-08-2021||Noida||Light rainfall after 3 warm days brings respite to city||The city saw light drizzle on Saturday that brought the maximum temperature down by three degrees over the past 24 hours with weather experts expecting the day time temperatures to remain below the season’s average for a few more days before it starts rising again later next week. The city received 1mm rainfall on Saturday after a span of three days. Officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said drizzling might continue till Monday before the “break monsoon” or “weak monsoon” conditions sets in around Tuesday. No major traffic snarls were reported by the traffic police.According to weather analysts, the monsoon trough line, a low pressure line that oscillates north to south and brings rains along with it, is currently passing through parts of Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh, creating a low pressure area over Delhi and leading to patchy rainfall. “There are chances that the rainfall in some parts of the city may continue for another two days. The overcast sky and drizzle will keep the mercury levels low. However, the monsoon trough will soon move towards the Himalayan foothills, that will deprive the region of rainfall from August 10 onwards leading to a break monsoon or weak monsoon. The mercury will rise thereafter,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. On Saturday, the IMD recorded a maximum temperature of 32.3 degrees Celsius in Noida and a minimum of 27.7°C, against 35.6°C and 27°C recorded the previous day.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered to be representative of the National Capital Region (NCR), the maximum temperature recorded was 33.2°C, four degrees below the season’s average, and a minimum of 27.3°C. The humidity oscillated between 72 to 94%. “The city may see maximum and minimum temperatures of 33°C and 26°C on Sunday. There are chances of light to moderate rains,” said an IMD official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/light-rainfall-after-3-warm-days-brings-respite-to-city-101628359925299.html
07-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to rope in e-vehicles for waste collection||In order to reduce the dependency on diesel fuel and also cut down operational cost, the Ghaziabad municipal corporation has embarked on a pilot project of roping in e-vehicles for door-to-door collection of solid waste, that will be implemented in wards of the Vasundhara zone within a month. Currently, the city generates about 850 metric tonnes of solid waste daily, which is collected and transported by 579 vehicles, a majority of which run on diesel.The city has 100 residential wards, from where waste is collected from every household on a daily basis.“We have been directed to carry out a pilot project, as part of which we will hire an agency that will bring in e-vehicles for door-to-door waste collection. We have decided that the project will be rolled out in wards of the Vasundhara zone. Currently, we spend around ₹40 crore annually for the operation of the diesel vehicles. We will soon float a request for proposal to select an agency,” said municipal commissioner M S Tanwar. The Vasundhara zone comprise residential areas of Vasundhara, Indirapuram, Vaishali and Kaushambi, among other residential localities. The officials said the selected agency will bring in e-vehicles, deploy their own drivers to run the vehicles and chalk out the route for collection and transportation of solid waste. besides managing the work through a control room. “This model is expected to cut down our cost by almost half and do away with our dependency on diesel, which is a polluting fuel. We have also got the funds sanctioned from the 15th Finance Commission and an escrow account will also be created. We have been directed by the state administration to start the pilot project with 100 e-vehicles. Later, the project can be rolled out in the four other corporation zones,” said Tanwar adding with the help of the initiative, he plans to make the corporation as the first agency to operate fully on e-vehicles. Ghaziabad is one of the 16 non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh having high levels of air pollution. Cities are declared non-attainment if over a five-year period, they consistently do not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for PM 10 (particulate matter that is 10 microns or less in diameter) or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) Officials said the decision has been taken to cut down the ‘leakages’ in the operation of the 579 vehicles. In order to cut down its mammoth consumption of diesel, the corporation got GPS devices installed in waste collection vehicles, that has helped bring down the usage of fuel.Officials familiar with the development said the monthly fuel consumption in January, February and March was 4.17 lakh litres, 3.58 lakh litres and 3.73 lakh litres, respectively, which dropped to 2.81 lakh litres, 2.87 lakh litres and 2.85 lakh litres in April, May and June, respectively. Councillor Rajendra Tyagi said that ‘leakage’ in fuel usage has plagued the corporation for long. “The leakages have been plugged ever since the GPS devices were installed. However, the agency must change its working with changing times. Roping in e-vehicles will be nature friendly and also help reduce costs. There will be opposition when e-vehicles come in, but the project must proceed,” he added. Environmentalists said e-vehicles will help reduce pollution and also pave way for bringing in more such vehicles in the city. “If a government agency is taking initiative, it will set an example for other departments too. It will also help the civic body comply with the legal directions regarding phasing out of diesel vehicles. The corporation should initiate the project as early as possible and introduce it in other zones too,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-to-rope-in-e-vehicles-for-waste-collection-101628359866648.html
07-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Vehicle-lifters’ gang busted with arrest of three||Gurugram Police on Sunday said they had busted a gang of robbers and vehicle-lifters and arrested three persons the previous day. Police added that they recovered three Honda City and Verna cars from their possession. Police said that the suspects were involved in multiple cases of car snatching and theft. They visited Gurugram twice a week for the last several months, robbed the cars and sold them in Meerut. Police identified the suspects as Deepak alias Peelia of Etah and Atul Kumar of Bulandshahar in Uttar Pradesh, and Rahul alias Ravi from Haryana’s Palwal. According to police, the suspects were arrested based on tip. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said that the suspects were linked to around 20 vehicle lifting cases in the city. “We had been receiving regular complaints of vehicles being stolen from residential areas at night. We scanned CCTV footage from several places and identified routes the suspects used to reach Gurugram,” he said. Police said they noticed the stolen vehicles moved towards Delhi using the Dwarka Expressway and via Basai road regularly. With this information, police teams were sent to patrol the route and tapped into their network of informants, said Sangwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-vehicle-lifters-gang-busted-with-arrest-of-three-101628359867276.html
07-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar: Three authorities yet to implement tobacco vendors’ licensing policy||The three development authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar -- Noida authority, Greater Noida authority and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) -- are yet to implement the tobacco vendors’ licensing policy in the district, despite being authorised for the same by the district magistrate almost two months ago.On June 14 this year, the Uttar Pradesh government ordered all district chief medical officers and district magistrates to implement the system of vendor licensing under the provisions of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) in their respective municipal areas.Subsequently, on June 18, GB Nagar DM Suhas LY issued an order authorising all the three industrial development authorities in the district to implement the policy.“Since the municipal functions in GB Nagar are carried out by the development authorities, they have been authorised to start the implementation process of the licensing policy for tobacco vendors,” said Suhas.As per Dr Shweta, consultant of the district tobacco control cell, the district health department is now facing a challenge to implement the policy in GB Nagar. “It is easier to implement the policy for districts where municipal bodies already exist. But in GB Nagar, the process is more complicated as it requires coordination of different authority bodies with the district health department. We will soon be holding a meeting with all the three authorities to start drafting the bylaws for the licensing of the tobacco vendors,” said Shweta, who uses a single name.An official from the Noida authority said that the implementation process is underway. “We have provided a list of registered vendors to the district health department. We will work in coordination with them to implement the regulations.”Narendra Bhooshan, CEO of Greater Noida authority, said, “We will be providing full cooperation to the district health department for the implementation of the regulations.”Yeida officials could not be contacted for a comment.The licensing system will regulate the sale of tobacco products in the district, said Shweta. “Regulation of access to tobacco products is vital to protect people from getting addicted to tobacco products. Currently, there is no regulation of tobacco products’ sale. Many vendors flout the guidelines of COTPA,” she said.Binoy Mathew, manager (communications) at the Voluntary Health Association of India said that the body has welcomed the move.“UP will be the first state in the country to implement the tobacco vendors’ licensing rule and it is remarkable step towards tobacco control. The licensing will ensure better implementation of COPTA regulations as there are provisions for fines and revoking of licence in case of violations,” he said.The licensing system was implemented in Lucknow in 2018 after the district’s municipal corporation framed bylaws for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-three-authorities-yet-to-implement-tobacco-vendors-licensing-policy-101628359745357.html
07-08-2021||Noida||Olympian Satish Kumar gets hero’s welcome at his apartment in G Noida||With drumbeats reverberating in the air and laurels pouring in, boxer Satish Kumar was given a hero’s welcome at his residential apartment in Greater Noida west on Friday afternoon.The Apartment Owners’s Association of Arihant Arden organized a felicitation programme for Kumar, who has become India’s first super heavyweight (+91kg) boxer to compete in the Olympics.“It was an honour for us to host a reception for Kumar, who has made the whole nation proud. On Friday afternoon, residents welcomed him with loud applause and dhol beats to celebrate his performance at the Tokyo Olympics,” said Nishith Chaturvedi, a member of the Apartment Owners’s Association.Kumar, a native of Pachauta village in Bulandshahr, has been staying in Arihant Arden housing society in Greater Noida West’s Sector 1 for the past five years with his wife and two children. He landed in India on Thursday night. As he entered the housing society on Friday, there was a queue of people waiting to click selfies with him and congratulate him for putting up the incredible fight at the Olympics. “A felicitation event was held in the club of the society, where residents of the housing complex as well as some of his fans from around the society turned up. A cake-cutting ceremony was also held. All the children were excited to meet Kumar. He gave a motivational speech to all the children and urged them to play a sport all their life, whichever one they like,” said Bharti Jaiswal, another member of the association.On July 29, Kumar entered the quarter finals after beating Jamaica’s Ricardo Brown but sustained injuries on his brow and chin. On August 1, he faced World and Asian champion Bakhodir Jalolov of Uzbekistan with 13 stitches on his face. Though Kumar lost the bout 0-5, his brave performance was commended by all.“I did not imagine that I will be showered with so much love after coming back to India. I am touched by the gesture of the residents of Arihant Arden, who gave me such a grand reception. They made me feel that I have won something even though I didn’t bring a medal,” said Kumar, who is currently in his native hometown--Bulandshahr-- to seek his parents’ blessings.Talking about last Sunday’s match, Kumar, who has been serving the Indian Army as a subedar major since 2008, said, “I was in a dilemma as my wife did not want me to go ahead with the quarter finals because of the stitches on my brow and chin. However on the day of the match, I received a video message from my father and brothers who said in order to make the country proud, I should not back out and should go ahead with the match. Moreover, being from the Indian Army, we have been taught to never quit”. Kumar now has now set his sights on Paris Olympics, that is scheduled to be held in 2024. “I will look back at my performance at the Tokyo Olympics and learn from the mistakes I made. My rigorous training will continue under my coach’s guidance and I hope I can get a medal for the country in the Paris Olympics 2024,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/olympian-satish-kumar-gets-hero-s-welcome-at-his-apartment-in-g-noida-101628359686453.html
07-08-2021||Other||Rising Ganga causes reverse flow in Varuna, floods low lying areas in UP’s Varanasi||Rising water level in Ganga has led to reverse flow in Varuna river-- a minor tributary of the national river-- leading to flooding in low lying areas of the temple city, said administrative officials. According to Central Water Commission, Ganga was flowing at 70.42m mark in Varanasi a few notches above the warning level of 70.262m following which all 84 ghats of the city were flooded.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has also been put on alert mode, said district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma on Saturday.The district administration has set up a flood control room and issued a helpline number --0542-2502562, he said.Sharma also held a meeting with officials and asked them to ensure proper arrangements at flood relief camps. “Flood outposts have already been activated. Sub divisional magistrates have been instructed to monitor flood situation in their respective area and extend relief, “ said the DM. The DM also inspected Dhelwaria relief camp and provided relief material to 32 affected families. He also asked municipal commissioner Pranav Singh to deploy sanitation workers to ensure proper cleanliness at the camp. 
07-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh may get its official state song soon||Uttar Pradesh may soon get its official “state song” to be sung or played during important functions and in schools, people aware of the matter said. The Yogi Adityanath government that also started the practice of celebrating the state’s foundation day as UP Diwas three years ago on January 24, 2018 is working on various options for the lyrics before the most appropriate composition is adopted as the state song. “The government has decided to designate one of the compositions as the state song very soon and the departments concerned are already working in this regard,” Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari confirmed when contacted. Uttar Pradesh, unlike most other states including Uttarakhand that was carved out of it in November 2000, does not have an official state song of its own.Earlier known as the United Provinces, Uttar Pradesh got its current name through a legislation on January 24, 1950, after two years of acrimonious debates and discussions over around 20 suggestions for the new name such as Aryavarta, Avadh, Bharat Khand, Brahmadesh, Hindustan, Ram Krishna Prant and Uttara Khand. Not only is the state information department believed to be working on some lyrics, but the culture department is also gearing up to enlist public participation in composing songs, the best of which could be designated as the official state song by the government. The state government, according to an official, is all set to organise an online competition for people to pen songs as part of ongoing curtain raiser activities under the Bharat Ka Amrut Mahotsav that PM Narendra Modi launched on March 12 this year and will culminate on August 15, 2023, after India celebrates the 75th anniversary of its Independence on August 15, 2022. “After the week-long activities planned under the Bharat Ka Amrut Mahotsav between August 9 and 16 are over, we will launch a competition for people to compose a state song. We will shortlist the best entries out of which the government may pick the best lyric and designate the same as the official state song,” a culture department official said. Some other states that have an official state song include Andhra Pradesh (Maa Telugu Thalliki-To Our Motherland Telugu), Bihar (Mere Bharat Ke Kanth Haar-the Garland of My India), Gujarat (Jai Jai Garavi Gujarat-Victory to Proud Gujarat) and Madhya Pradesh (Mera Madhya Pradesh-My Madhya Pradesh). Some other states have unofficial but traditional and popular state songs played out on different occasions. “A state song instills a sense of pride in people about their state exactly as playing of the national anthem infuses a sense of patriotism in people and makes them proud of their country but it is surprising that Uttar Pradesh has not been able to have its official song yet,” the official observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-may-get-its-official-state-song-soon-101628358065843.html
07-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh records 28 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deaths||Uttar Pradesh reported 28 coronavirus cases and two new deaths on Saturday, taking the total number of infections and fatalities in the state to 17,08,716 and 22,773 respectively.One death each has been reported from Rae Bareli and Gonda, a health department bulletin said.Of the 27 fresh Covid-19 cases, three each were reported from Lucknow, Mathura, Prayagraj and Bulandshahr, among others, the bulletin said.In the past 24 hours, patients recovered from the virus, taking the total number of Covid-19 patients to 16,85,357. The recovery rate of the state stood at 98.6 per centThe count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 586, the bulletin said.In the past 24 hours, more than 2.54 lakh samples were tested in the state, while so far, over 6.72 crore samples have been tested, it added.Earlier on Saturday, in a meeting with senior officials, the Chief Minister directed that the meeting of the advisory committee of health experts be convened on Monday to decide the guidelines regarding the time period of educational institutions and the compliance of Covid protocols in educational institutions.High School and intermediate classes in Uttar Pradesh will resume on August 16, but with 50 per cent attendance while following the Covid protocol.Apart from this, instructions have also been issued for commencement of classes in higher educational institutes from September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-records-28-new-covid-19-cases-2-more-deaths-101628355542215.html
07-08-2021||Other||Foot-and-mouth disease claims 47 cattle in Ludhiana village; farmer ends life||Ludhiana In a development that has set alarm bells ringing for the state’s livestock farmers, 47 cattle have died due to the highly-contagious viral, foot-and-mouth disease (FMD), at Ber Kalan in Payal subdivision near Ludhiana. Over 500 animals are battling the disease. FMD is a serious livestock disease that affects animals with divided hoofs; these include cattle, buffalo, camel, sheep, goat, deer and pigs. Ber Kalan residents claim that the disease has already claimed the life of over 100 animals.Previously, 35 milch cattle had died at Dina Sahib village of Nihal Singh Wala sub-division in Moga district with the first such death reported from there on July 6. A 55-year-old dairy farmer, Nazar Singh of Ber Kalan, who lost three buffalos to the disease, could not endure the loss and committed suicide on Friday night, sources claim. Gurpreet Singh, a dairy owner, said, “The risk of another outbreak of the disease is high. The carcasses of many animals have been buried, while those awaiting burial are kept at the vacant common land of the village. I have lost 15 cattle. Villagers and some philanthropists are contributing money for the treatment of living cattle and the burial of dead animals.”Ludhiana animal husbandry department deputy director Dr Parminder Singh Walia said eight teams (each of four members) were conducting ring vaccination of cattle and other animals in a radius of 3km of the village. “An animal died, while 50 more infections were recorded on Saturday. Treatment has begun and we hope all animals recover by Sunday evening,” Dr Walia said, adding that the disease outbreak happened a few days ago. Payal Congress MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha said, “The farmer’s suicide is sad. I will visit the family on Sunday and appeal to the Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for grant of compensation to the farmer’s family. Efforts are also on get some compensation for farmers who have lost their animals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/footandmouth-disease-claims-47-cattle-in-ludhiana-village-farmer-ends-life-101628356925648.html
07-08-2021||Other||Pune’s top colleges to admit students based on Class 12 scores||PUNE: A majority of the top colleges in Pune have decided to admit students to undergraduate courses based on their Class 12 scores, which for many have been high leading to greater competition during admission. Earlier, higher education minister Uday Samant clarified that no state universities or colleges will conduct the common entrance test (CET) for admission to undergraduate courses although some autonomous colleges are willing to hold the examination in view of the higher Class 12 scores this year. It is learned that this year, the state board Class 12 pass percentage is 7% higher than what it was last year for the Pune division.On the subject of admission to undergraduate courses, Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson college, said that admission to the BA, BSc courses will be based on merit. “We will be considering the Class 12 scores for admissions to first year courses in arts and science. Even though our cut-off is high, it is expected to further increase marginally. The students can submit their admission forms by August 17. We will display the first merit list by August 21 and admission will begin subsequently,” Pardeshi said.Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar, said that the merit list will be based on Class 12 scores. “We are putting together a merit list for students based on Class 12 marks. Students will need to fill the form and get the admission. We have not organised entrance tests as they will take a lot of time and delay admissions. With the merit list process, we intend to begin college by September 1 for first year students,” Zunjarrao said, adding that 200 students will be counselled for 100 seats. “This way, we can complete admissions soon and start the academic year. Our intention is to start the academic year soon so that the syllabus is covered in due time,” Zunjarrao said.In a similar vein, Savita Datar, principal-in-charge, Sir Parshurambhau (SP) College, said that admission will be based on the merit list. “As per the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines, the academic session must start before October 1. Going by our preparation, we will be able to start the academic year for first year students from September 1. We are carrying out admissions based on the Class 12 merit list,” Datar said.With the high demand for admission to first year courses however, some colleges such as the Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce (BMCC), which is an autonomous college, have decided to conduct entrance tests for some courses. Seema Purohit, principal, BMCC, said, “We have an entrance test for the Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) course. We already have a mechanism in place and will be conducting an exam for admission to the first year. We are hoping to start the new academic year from September 1.”As per the information shared by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), the pass percentage for Class 12 for the Pune district is 99.72%; that for the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is 99.86%; Pune city east is 99.81%; and Pune city west is 99.79%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-top-colleges-to-admit-students-based-on-class-12-scores-101628356445087.html
07-08-2021||Other||21% fully vaccinated in Pune: PMC immunisation officer||PUNE Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer said on Saturday, “We have received only a small supply of 14,000 doses, after a four-day dry spell. As of now, Pune city has vaccinated about 58% of its eligible beneficiaries and 21% are fully vaccinated. Estimating that the city’s population is close to five million, of which 3.2 million beneficiaries are aged above 18 and eligible for the vaccine. We have administered 2.5 million vaccines until now, however, this does not mean that all the vaccines are administered to Pune residents as the online system allows residents from nearby villages, or even PCMC, to get a slot at a city hospital.”Even as residents and public representatives push the state government to relax Covid restrictions in Pune city, experts believe that the danger of the much-anticipated third wave will stay until at least 70% of the population is fully vaccinated. However, the city continues to see a shortage of vaccines. On Saturday, the city received 14,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses, against its capacity to vaccinate at least 1,900 beneficiaries daily. This means that 50 centres would not get any vaccines. This new lot of vaccines has arrived after a lull of four days, said officials. PMC has administered a total of 2,544,153 vaccines, of which, 58.43%, or 1,870,069 are first shots. A total of 674,084 are fully vaccinated having received both the doses which accounts for 21.96% of the estimated population of beneficiaries. The PMC has 190 centres for vaccination and if each centre gets 100 doses, then a minimum of 1,900 beneficiaries can be vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/21-fully-vaccinated-in-pune-pmc-immunisation-officer-101628356386859.html
07-08-2021||Other||‘PPP metro route from Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar will pick up pace’||PUNE Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, in Pune on Saturday to review the Metro project, accepted that one section of project, the route to be developed with public-private partnership (PPP) is far behind the main project being undertaken by Maha-Metro.He said that he expects the PPP metro route from Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar is pick up pace in the coming days.“Metro work in Pune and Nagpur is the fastest in the country in terms of completion. It is true that we had given approval for a third line between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar, but due to Covid the work was affected. The PPP model gets a little difficult because of land acquisition. I am sure it will speed-up as it is an important corridor,” said Fadnavis.Fadnavis also batted for the HCMTR (High Capacity Mass Transit Project). He said that the decision to have neo Metro on the HCMTR corridor has been taken and it will help improve the city’s traffic.On the hyperloop project, Fadnavis, who introduced the project between Pune and Mumbai during his tenure, did not offer any further information. “The state government will be able to give more information about the project,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ppp-metro-route-from-hinjewadi-to-shivajinagar-will-pick-up-pace-101628356386266.html
07-08-2021||Other||Only 2.98 per cent of students attending school in Pune district||PUNE After schools were given permission to reopen for offline classes, Pune district has reported 12.78 per cent of schools operating with just 2.98 per cent students attending Classes 8 to 12. The percentage of students attending school is one of the lowest in the state. On Friday, education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that schools for Class 5 to Class 8 may reopen from August 17. Parents in the rural areas are happy with the decision.As per the Education department, across Maharashtra, Latur division has the maximum number of students attending school from Class 8 to Class 12, at 64.08 per cent. Mumbai has the least participation with 0.87 per cent. After Mumbai, Pune division is at 7.78 per cent of attendance from students. Sunanda Wakhare, secondary school officer, Zilla Parishad, said that schools in the rural parts are being monitored. “So far, only one school has shut after Covid positive cases were detected in Bhor taluka. As of now, 120 schools are running in the district. Regarding opening of schools from August 17, further directives are yet to be issued. Once they are given we will take further action,” added Wakhare.Savita Gaikwad, whose son is in Class 6, said that she wants schools to reopen for students.“I welcome the decision. It has been over a year that children have not gone to school. Online education is today’s necessity, but students are now prepared for offline classes as they understand social distancing, hand hygiene and wearing masks. Offline education ensures that teachers give full attention to students. Offline classes will strengthen the basics for children,” said Gaikwad.State education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday announced that schools in both rural and urban areas will reopen on August 17. “Offline classes will commence in rural areas for students from Class 5-8, while those in cities will be for students from Class 8-12 following Covid-19 protocols,” Gaikwad.Schools reopened for Class 8 to 12 from July 27District--Total number of schools--Total number of students--Total number of schools open since July 27---Number of students attending school since July 27*Pune--947--240,394--121—7,034*Solapur—1,087—251,942--260—31,260*Pune division—2,034—492,336--381—38,294*Maharashtra—36,835—8,633,805—12,725—898,894*Source: Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT)*Note: Pune division includes Ahmednagar district. However, no school have opened in that district since July 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-2-98-per-cent-of-students-attending-school-in-pune-district-101628356385582.html
07-08-2021||Other||State hints at easing stand on Covid curbs in Pune; traders ready to continue defiance||PUNE Amid growing pressure from traders and the city units of political parties to relax the existing Covid curbs in Pune, the government, on Saturday, appeared to soften its stance. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said chief secretary Sitaram Kunte is in favour of considering Pune district as three administrative units - Pune Municipal Corporation, PCMC, and Pune rural, when looking at the Covid indicators “According to the chief secretary, instead of considering Pune district as a single unit, Pune city can be considered separately, as the positivity rate and case growth rate in the city low. So if recommendations of relaxations are made then, it would be considered and CM and deputy CM will take a final call,” said Tope in Jalna, while speaking to reporters. The health minister reiterated that curbs could be eased in Pune city if the local authorities recommend so. Meanwhile, traders are expecting a definitive decision at the Covid review meeting to be held on Sunday, which will be chaired by Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar. Earlier, the Pune administration had also said that the recommendations for relaxations in PMC and PCMC would be presented at the Covid review. Following this, traders and other business operators in Pune have set their eyes on a decision to be taken on Sunday. “Time and again we have made our problem clear to the administration. As we were left with no option we had to opt to defy the 4pm deadline. We are hoping that at Sunday’s meeting a concrete decision would be declared by the guardian minister. If not, then we will continue to keep our shops open till 7pm next week as well,” said Fatechand Ranka, president, Pune trader’s association. Demanding relaxations in Pune, Mayor Muralidhar Mohol had written to health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday. The average positivity rate for the last six days (Aug 2- Aug 7) in PMC was recorded at 2.69%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-hints-at-easing-stand-on-covid-curbs-in-pune-traders-ready-to-continue-defiance-101628356385070.html
07-08-2021||Noida||Noida Police arrest 2 for 'Bike Bot' scam-like fraud||The Noida Police announced on Saturday it has arrested two men in an alleged fraud case which it likened to the “Bike Bot” scam of 2019. Officials said that the two accused allegedly duped people to the tune of more than ₹2 crore each on the pretext of giving them lucrative monthly returns on investment in their car taxi company.“The company officials told investors that their taxis would be engaged by the government for its officials on a contract basis and all investors would get a lucrative monthly return,” Ankur Aggarwal, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central Noida) told the media. “However, the fraud came to light when the investors did not get the assured returns. It was later found that the contract of taxi service shown by them to the investors was forged as well,” Aggarwal said further.The officer added that a complaint of fraud was filed at the Phase 3 police station in Noida, and the case was pursued, resulting in the arrests of Vipin Tomar and Deepak Chaudhary. Searches are on to nab their partners, he said.The police also impounded a Tata Harrier car from the possession of the accused, and an iPhone purchased from the company’s accounts has been seized as well.According to officials, the woman on whose complaint the FIR was lodged, was duped to the tune of ₹2.06 crore by the company which, they said, assured its investors of a monthly return of ₹25,000 on an investment of ₹3 lakh.A detailed probe is underway to ascertain the assets purchased by the gang using their investors’ money, with any possible asset likely to be seized.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-arrest-2-for-bike-bot-scheme-like-fraud-101628355593430.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 18 fresh Covid-19 cases, 1 more death||Haryana on Saturday reported one Covid-19 related fatality, taking the cumulative toll to 9,648 while 18 new infections pushed the total case count to 7,70,060.According to the health department's daily bulletin, the latest death was reported from Sirsa district.Among the new cases, nine were from Gurugram and five from Faridabad district.The total number of active cases in the state was 685. The total recoveries so far were 7,59,727. The recovery rate was 98.66 percent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-reports18-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-more-death-101628355164179.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s CSMT to get its first restaurant on wheels||Passengers and visitors travelling to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in 2022 will be able to dine in the city’s first restaurant on wheels.The Central Railway (CR) has awarded the tender for the construction of the restaurant that will come up at the P D’Mello entrance of the terminus.The restaurant will be made inside a discarded rail coach and the construction is likely to start by year-end. The interior of the restaurant will be designed on the Indian Railways theme.“Contract for the construction and designing has been awarded. The coach has not been physically moved yet to the P D’Mello entrance of the terminus but will be done soon. We are planning to open the restaurant by mid next year,” said a senior Central Railway official.The coach will be placed alongside the heritage gully at the entrance of the terminus. The gully has rail artefacts including narrow gauge locomotives, country first locomotives, and a printing press.The zonal railway is expected to earn nearly ₹28 lakhs by providing the restaurant to a contractor.The rail tracks, coach and a drainage system will be provided by the Central Railway.The restaurant on wheels plan was suggested by the Indian Railways in a bid to increase the non-fare revenue. All zonal railways have been asked to identify locations to construct restaurants inside discarded coaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-csmt-to-get-its-first-restaurant-on-wheels-101628355485849.html
07-08-2021||Other||Five arrested for brandishing weapons to mark deceased gang leader’s birthday||In the second such incident in a month, members of a local gang were arrested for celebrating the birthday of their dead leader, for being possession of weapons in a public space.A video of the incident was uploaded on social media, which led the police to know that they had burst crackers, brandished weapons, and danced on the streets of Annabhau Sathe nagar in Bibwewadi, to celebrate the birthday of the deceased, alleged gang leader Keshav, alias Bhavesh Kamble (22).The birthday was celebrated on August 6, one day before the first death anniversary of Kamble. He was murdered last year.On checking the footage, officials identified Prasad Kanitkar holding a pistol, Nagesh Ashtage holding a blade, and Vijay Kattamani, Sanjay Koli, Ajay Pawar, along with two other people, were also seen celebrating in the video. They were all arrested. The video was recorded and spread with the aim to terrorise residents, according to the police.A case under relevant sections of Arms Act and other laws was registered at Bibwewadi police station.In a similar incident in July, two separate cases were registered against members of the Ravan gang in Dehu road by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police - one for putting up a hoarding for the gang’s deceased leader’s birthday and the second for celebrating it while being in possession of dangerous weapons on July 22 and July 23 respectively. The deceased gang leader was identified as Aniket Jadhav who was killed in November 2017, in a gang war. His death had led to the violent deaths of at least one other person in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-arrested-for-brandishing-weapons-to-mark-deceased-gang-leader-s-birthday-101628355425037.html
07-08-2021||Jaipur||‘Impact of second Covid wave in Rajasthan negligible, but...’: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday that the impact of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the state has become negligible and urged people to keep following all norms amid the rising infections elsewhere. “The impact of the second wave of Covid in the state has now become negligible. But in view of the increasing infections of Covid in different countries and many states of the country, we still have to be vigilant and follow the Covid guidelines continuously,” Gehlot's tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Gehlot on Saturday was reviewing Rajasthan’s Covid-19 situation and the vaccination campaign against the viral disease. Gehlot quoted medical experts who expressed fears that the effect of the third wave of the pandemic might be seen in the coming months due to the situation in different states and countries, according to news agency PTI. He added that all related departments in the state, including health, should make sure that they have proper arrangements to deal with any crisis.The Rajasthan chief minister also instructed that the committee of ministers, constituted with regard to the reopening of educational institutions in the state, should take appropriate decisions in view of the Covid-19 crisis in other states. Gehlot said that the committee should take into consideration the experiences of other states which have allowed educational institutions to reopen.In July, state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra announced that schools and educational institutions in Rajasthan would reopen from August 2. However, he later tweeted, “Chief minister Gehlot will decide on the opening of the schools after discussing all aspects with the cabinet committee constituted to prepare the detailed SOP.”People familiar with the matter told PTI that Gehlot questioned the education minister over this announcement of the date for reopening schools even when no decision was taken about it during the cabinet meeting on July 22.Rajasthan on Saturday recorded 19 more cases of the coronavirus disease while no fresh deaths were reported. The state’s death toll stands at 8,954. Nearly 945,000 patients have recovered so far from Covid-19 and active cases stand at 237. The health department’s bulletin said 25 of 33 districts of the state did not see any new cases.Authorities in Rajasthan have administered 34,620,726 vaccine doses to those eligible and of which 26,474,741 people have received the first dose and the remaining 8,145,985 have been inoculated with both doses. Chief minister Gehlot said on Saturday vaccination is being done with full enthusiasm, adding that the health department should continue to vaccinate as many people as possible.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/impact-of-second-covid-wave-in-rajasthan-negligible-but-ashok-gehlot-101628354873035.html
07-08-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand Guv, CM hail gold winner Chopra||Jharkhand Governor Ramesh Bais and chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday congratulated javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra as he created history by winning India’s first gold medal Tokyo Olympics. Governor Ramesh Bais said country was proud of his achievement. “He has left countryman filled with joy by winning gold at Tokyo Olympics with his talent and splendid performance. The country is proud of his historic achievement,” Bais said in a statement issued by the Raj Bhawan. Joining him, chief minister Hemant Soren said people were proud of his achievement. “My heartiest congratulations to #NeerajChopra for his remarkable feat, his golden throw in #Tokyo2020 Javelin event, bringing India the first ever Olympics Gold Medal in Track And Field events. We all are proud of his momentous achievement.(sic.),” Soren said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-guv-cm-hail-gold-winner-chopra-101628353505783.html
07-08-2021||Ranchi||J’khand’s new employment policy: Chorus to expand list of regional languages grows louder||Demand to add more languages to the list of regional languages that could be opted by candidates for job examinations conducted by the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC) is gathering steam, with more voices from within the ruling constituents coming out with such demands. Pradeep Yadav, five-term legislator from Poraiyahat in Santhal Parganas, who joined the Congress after the 2019 assembly polls following a split in JVM(P), met chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday and urged him to include Bhojpuri and Angika in the list of regional languages notified by the JSSC as mandatory papers. “While the new policy would be of immense help in providing job to the locals, a section of youth could be left out as Bhojpuri and Angika are spoken by a big population even in the urban areas of Santhal Pargans,” said Yadav. Yadav, a former minister, also urged the government to increase the reservation for other backward classes (OBC) to 27 per cent, which was a promise made by the alliance of JMM, Congress and RJD in the last assembly polls during which the combine came to power. Yadav’s demand comes a day after water resources minister and JJM general secretary Mithilesh Thakur made a similar pitch for Bhojpuri and Magahi. The state cabinet on Thursday cleared proposals amending the employment eligibility and syllabus for the examinations conducted by the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC) for grade III and IV government jobs.While the new policy replaces the two-stage examination conducted by the JSSC till now with a one examination, it also made it mandatory that anyone who does not belong to the reserved categories notified in the state would have to have mandatorily passed class Xth and XIIth from a school within the state in order to apply for a job offered by the JSSC.The new examination pattern makes it mandatory to clear a language paper from a given list of 12 regional languages including tribal languages besides Bangla, Odiya and Urdu. While Hindi and English paper would be qualifying papers, the marks obtained in opted regional language paper would be added up in order to make the merit list.Inner voicesPradeep YadavThe five-term legislator, who joined Congress after 2019 assembly polls, met CM Soren and urged him to include Bhojpuri and Angika in the list of regional languages notified by the JSSC as mandatory papers.Mithilesh Thakur On Friday, water resources minister and ruling JJM’s general secretary made a similar pitch for Bhojpuri and Magahi to be included in the regional languages notified by the JSSC as mandatory papers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhands-new-employment-policy-chorus-to-expand-list-of-regional-languages-grows-louder-101628353265964.html
07-08-2021||Patna||Rising Ganga inundates areas in Patna, Begusarai and Bhagalpur||People from riverine areas of Ganga in Patna, Begusarai and Bhagalpur have begun leaving their homes inundated with floodwaters from the river whose level has been rising continuously across its course in the state. On Saturday, the river jumped the danger level at Gandhi Ghat and Digha in Patna by 68 cm and 2 cm respectively, while it was flowing 56 cm and 44 cm above the danger level at Hathidah and Kahalgaon, respectively. “As the water level in the river is rising about two cm per hour, floodwaters from the river may engulf more localities in the next 24 hours,” said a senior official of the water resources department (WRD). The Panchane river level is also rising and wreaking havoc in many flood-prone areas of Nalanda, forcing people of dozens of panchayats to evacuate and relocate to safer places. Intermittent rains in Jharkhand and in the catchment areas of Punpun and Dardha have led to the flooding of a vast stretch of south Patna region. Residents of hundreds of villagers of north Bihar regions, including those of East and West Champaran, Madhubani, Sitamarhi and Saran have been compelled to reside on the roads due to the floods caused by Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati and Kosi. Besides the general scarcity of potable water and eatables, those displaced due to floods were having tough time arranging fodder for the cattle. “It’s almost a week since we have been waiting for the relief from the government. Officials come, but only with assurance,” said Ram Balak Rajak, a native of Sonbarsa village of Sitamarhi. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has carried aerial survey and road tour to flood-affected areas over the past few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rising-ganga-inundates-areas-in-patna-begusarai-and-bhagalpur-101628353085788.html
07-08-2021||Patna||Govt weighs in with test scales to rein in errant shopkeepers||In an effort to protect consumer rights, Bihar’s agriculture department has launched an online process of receiving complaints against unscrupulous shopkeepers who tamper with weighing scales and would be installing test weighing scales in various locations in the state capital in a phased manner, a top official said.Under the initiative, test weighing scales would be installed at all major market places, parks and government offices where consumers having bought any weighable commodity ( be it grocery, edible items including fish, mutton and sweets) can weigh them themselves and lodge a complaint online to the department immediately if there is any discrepancy.“We have already put test weighing scales at 421 locations, mostly in block headquarters, across the state. Now, we are working on putting big test weighing scales at different locations in Patna and other major cities in the next few months. This will help consumers who are often cheated with less quantity of purchased items due to manipulation of weighing machines,” said Adesh Titarmare, director, agriculture department.The weights and measures division, entrusted with the responsibility of checking the accuracy of all types of weighing scales and metal weights, comes under the agriculture department.Titarmare said there have been growing complaints of inaccuracy in weighing scales being used by business establishments in Patna and other places.“The consumers can lodge their complaints in our newly launched site maaptaul.bih.nic.in and their complaints would be redressed at the earliest. Till recently, the process of lodging complaints related to inaccurate weights and measurements was a bit tedious,” said Titarmare. He said the grievance lodging system is linked with the right to public grievance redressal system.Officials said the department has also tightened the process of issuing licence and yearly renewal of weighing scales and other equipment used by shopkeepers across the state and weighing kiosks at the state and national highways in a bid to increase revenue and also check tampering. This year, the revenue target by the weights and measures division has been kept at ₹40 crore, by way of grant of new licences, their renewal and penalties collected by errant shopkeepers. All field inspectors have been asked to conduct random inspections of business establishments periodically.“All inspections by field officers would now be monitored through an app so that they do not have enough room to cover up any act of pilferage or manipulation in weight scales by shopkeepers. Once an inspector visits a shop, he has provide feedback about the weighing scale in the app, which is geo-tagged where images would have to be posted online,” said another senior official of agriculture department.The department has already installed weighing scales at the entrance gates of three airports in Patna, Gaya and Darbhanga, where passengers going to board the aircraft can first check the weight of their luggage and offload some items if it’s beyond the permissible limit fixed by air service operators. Usually, air service operators allow each passenger to carry luggage weighing up to 15 kg and levy extra charges per kg for additional luggage.Right measuresWeighty mattersTest weighing scales have already been set up at 421 locations, mostly in block headquarters, across the state and one each at airports in Patna, Darbhanga and Gaya.Complaint a click awayConsumers can lodge their complaints in newly launched site maaptaul.bih.nic.in. The grievance lodging system is linked with the right to public grievance redressal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/govt-weighs-in-with-test-scales-to-rein-in-errant-shopkeepers-101628352905448.html
07-08-2021||Patna||₹16.86 lakh looted from BoI branch in Samastipur||At least six armed men looted around ₹16.86 lakh from the Musrigharari branch of the Bank of India (BoI) in Samastipur on Saturday, said police.Police said that a gang of at least six armed men entered the branch and took everyone hostage at gunpoint. BoI employee Abhishek Ranjan said, “They thrashed our cashier and forced him to open the iron chest at gunpoint. They also collected money from the cash counter. Altogether ₹16.76 lakh was looted as per initial counting. Further verification is going on,” he said. On getting information, IG (Darbhanga range) Ajitabh Kumar and Samastipur superintendent of police (SP) Manavjit Singh Dhillon reached the spot and inquired about the incident. “Intensive raids are going on to nab the culprits. At least six criminals carried out the loot,” said the SP. It was the 13th bank loot in Bihar since January 8 and the third in a row in a week. On Wednesday, robbers looted ₹10 lakh from an agent of a private agency Nakul Shah, at Railway Station Chowk under Sahayak police station in Katihar. Similarly, on Friday evening, three unidentified robbers targeted a Bandhan Bank’s branch in Harpur Ailoth. They looted ₹4,000 and thrashed cashier Anil Kumar who resisted their attempt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/1686-lakh-looted-from-boi-branch-in-samastipur-101628352666038.html
07-08-2021||Patna||Minor’s ‘rape-murder’ in Munger: No arrest yet, police wait for autopsy||The Munger police are still clueless about the identity of people who tortured and allegedly raped an eight-year-old girl, whose mutilated body was found on Wednesday.A police officer familiar with the case said on the condition of anonymity that the special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the case had seized the victim’s garments from a suspect and detained him for questioning. Clothes have been sent for forensic examination, the officer said.In-charge of Safiabad police outpost Gaurav Kumar, under whose jurisdiction the crime took place, said there were signs of sexual assault and physical torture during preliminary probe and so a rape case was filed on August 5. “However, police are yet to get the autopsy report of the victim,” he said. Police suspect the culprit(s) were known to the victim. According to the police, family members of the victim were tight-lipped on Saturday. “Nobody in the family, including her father, spoke a word about the incident despite repeated questioning. We specifically asked them if they doubt anybody,” said a police officer with the SIT, adding that the day of the victim’s body was recovered, her father had said she was raped and killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/minors-rape-murder-in-munger-no-arrest-yet-police-wait-for-autopsy-101628352545569.html
07-08-2021||Patna||Covid impact: Poor attendance of students, teachers in schools a concern for Bihar govt||The aftereffects of the extended closure of schools due to the Covid-19 pandemic for nearly a year and a half have started getting reflected following the government’s order to reopen institutions.The higher secondary schools were allowed to run with 50% attendance from July 12, while Classes 9 and 10 reopened from August 7. From August 16, schools will function for class 1 onwards with 50% attendance.However, the department is concerned with poor attendance in higher secondary schools. “Some district magistrates have informed that the number of schools opening is negligible in some districts and it is a matter of concern,“ additional chief secretary, department of education, Sanjay Kumar has written to the director, secondary education.Kumar wrote that while the poor attendance of students is a matter of concern, more worrying is the attendance of teachers in many of the higher secondary schools. The secondary and higher secondary schools will have their board exams early next year and sent-up exams in November-December, which leaves them with very little time to prepare.“Poor attendance in schools means that the district Education officers and their junior officials are not monitoring properly,” wrote Kumar, while directing the secondary education director to issue instructions for monitoring of higher secondary schools and making available the attendance status to the directorate. “The directorate should also be informed about the action taken against truant teachers,” he wrote.Later, he said that the truant teachers must mend their ways and discharge their duties. “The government pays them for teaching and if that is not done regularly, the entire purpose is defeated. Strict monitoring will be done,” he added.Director, secondary education, Manoj Kumar immediately complied and shot off letters to the DEOs to monitor schools and furnish attendance details in the prescribed format and action taken against teachers for unauthorised absence.State project director of the Bihar Education Project Council Srikant Shastri has also written to the DEOs and district programme officers (DPOs) to ensure proper attendance in schools and conduct catch-up courses by teachers to overcome the learning deficit of students due to extended closure of institutions. In this regard, an online meeting will be held on August 11 with all the district officials related to school education to emphasise its importance and work on a plan. Later, DEOs and DPOs will organise offline sensitisation meets with block officials, headmasters and deputy headmasters in small groups.Learning outcome in government schools has been a matter of concern even during normal times, as reflected through the annual state of education reports (ASER) and this may have gotten further affected due to the learning gap because of the pandemic. Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary had also admitted in the Legislative Assembly earlier that “due to Covid-19 pandemic, education suffered in schools and therefore, bridge course has been planned to cover the gaps, as many students could not have access to online education”.A senior teacher of a school said that it would take some time before the situation normalises. “The number of students coming is very less. The government has issued a lot of directives regarding sanitisation, hygiene and proper facilities in schools, but the ground realities are different. There is a lot of monitoring of teachers by those who have the least interest in education, while the basic facilities remain unattended,” he added.The Patna High Court, while hearing a petition last month, observed that the “education system cannot be improved as it is based on the concept of the segregated system -- one for elite section and other for poor Biharis who have to remain content with mid-day meal, free books, uniform and bicycles with poor teaching or no teaching.” The court sought details of the wards of IAS, IPS and Class-I & class-II officers studying in the government-run elementary and other schools. Following this, the education department started collecting the details. The next hearing in the case is scheduled for later this month..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid-impact-poor-attendance-of-students-teachers-in-schools-a-concern-for-bihar-govt-101628352425539.html
07-08-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka’s Ballari, Vijayanagara to remain under night curfew||Authorities in Karnataka’s Ballari and Vijayanagara said on Saturday the two districts will continue to remain under night curfew as they issued guidelines on the curbs put in place to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to an official order, the curfew will be in place from 9pm to 5am. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, religious activities are also banned in the two districts and no one can take out large congregations, the order said. Jathres, temples, festivals and processions are also not allowed, it added.People found violating these restrictions in Ballari and Vijayanagara will be liable under the relevant provisions of section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Apart from this, violators will also face legal action under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other legal provisions as applicable.The Karnataka government has also announced a night curfew from Friday till August 16 in districts that share borders with neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra to stop the spread of Covid-19. Both Kerala and Maharashtra are some of the worst-hit states across India and are seeing an increase in their infections daily.“Movement of individuals will be strictly prohibited between Friday 9 pm to Monday 5 am except for essential and emergency activities,” a state government press release said, adding that all state and central government offices and their autonomous bodies, corporations dealing with the virus will be fully operational.Shops selling essential items, public distribution systems and street vendors can function from 5am to 2pm. Restaurants and eateries are only allowed to do home deliveries and take away.Karnataka has so far recorded over 2.9 million cases of coronavirus disease and 36,773 related deaths. The overall recoveries and active cases stand at 2,855,862 and 24,266 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin.On Saturday, 1,610 people were detected as Covid-19 positive while 1,640 patients recovered and 32 died. The positivity rate on Saturday stood at 1.08 per cent and the fatality rate was at nearly 2 per cent. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the highest number of cases for the day at 357, followed by Dakshina Kannada at 342 and Mysuru at 141 among others.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakas-ballari-vijayanagara-to-remain-under-night-curfew-101628352127009.html
07-08-2021||Other||Ex-minister rejoins JD (U)||Former minister Sri Bhagwan Singh Kushwaha, who had fought the 2020 assembly election from Jagdishpur constituency on Lok Janshakti Party ticket, on Saturday returned to Janata Dal (United) at a function in Patna attended by the party’s new national president of party Lalan Singh and others.Kushwaha, elected MLA twice, started his political career with Indian People’s Front, which came to be known as CPI-ML later, and has since been in Rashtriya Janata Dal, JD(U), LJP, Jan Adhikar Party and Rashtriya Lok Samta Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exminister-rejoins-jd-u-101628352185487.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BEST adds 24 electric buses to its fleet||As part of its plan to replace the majority of its fleet of buses with non-polluting vehicles, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) added 24 electric buses to its fleet on Saturday. A total of 1,800 electric buses will be procured by the BEST by mid-2023. The buses will be procured in a phased manner and will then be introduced across other bus routes in the city. The buses were inducted into BEST’s fleet in presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday.“The 1,800 buses will be procured in phases and will be inducted on all routes,” said a BEST official.The buses can travel up to 200 kilometres with one single charge. The organisation is constructing electric vehicle charging stations in its bus depots and stations at Dharavi and Worli bus depots have already been set up. The 24 buses are 12 meters long and can accommodate 59 passengers. The buses have wheelchair access and are equipped with a Global Positioning System (GPS) and panic buttons. These along with 32 other electric buses will be operated in the island city.Initially, the first set of 10 electric buses in the city was rolled out by the BEST in September 2019. Six of the buses were Air-Conditioned(AC) and four were non- AC.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government is also in the process to issue a common card to commute by BEST bus, metro and railways in December.“Today on @myBESTBus foundation day, CM Uddhav Thackeray ji also announced the BEST App and Common Travel Pass for BEST Bus, Metro and Railway that would be launched in December,” tweeted Aaditya Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/best-adds-24-electric-buses-to-its-fleet-1-800-total-buses-to-be-added-by-2023-101628351105963.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 6,061 new Covid-19 cases amid CM's hint to ease more curbs||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 6,061 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 128 related deaths, a marginal rise in infections from the previous day. The state has recorded 6,347,820 Covid-19 cases so far of which 133,845 patients have succumbed to the disease and 6,139,493 have recovered. With 332 new infections and five deaths, Mumbai's overall caseload and fatalities stand at 737,192 and 15,942 respectively. Maharashtra recorded a rise in Covid-19 cases the day chief minister Uddhav Thackeray indicated to further ease restrictions that were imposed to contain the virus surge. Addressing a function organised by the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST), Thackeray said that the state government is going to ease more curbs but it is taking "every step cautiously", reported news agency PTI."A decision will be taken for local train passengers as well. We need to ensure that these relaxations do not trigger another wave of Covid-19,” he added.As many as 11 districts in Maharashtra, including Pune, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, and Solapur, were given no relaxations in the August 2 order, given their relatively high Covid-19 positivity rate than the state’s average. The continued restrictions in these districts have led to resentment among shopkeepers, restaurants and hotels owners.On Thursday, Thackeray said he has explained to the representatives of hotels and restaurants that curbs will be relaxed step by step. “Like we have given relaxation for shops and establishments, other districts will also get them. But we will keep our responsibilities [towards people] in mind and then provide relaxation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-6-061-new-covid-19-cases-amid-cm-s-hint-to-ease-more-curbs-101628346579509.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Weekly markets in Delhi to reopen from Monday, announces CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Saturday that weekly markets in the national capital will be allowed to reopen from Monday, explaining that this is because his government is worried about people's livelihoods."Weekly markets are being opened from Monday. These are poor people. Government is quite concerned about their livelihoods. However, everyone's health and lives are also important. I urge everyone to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour after these markets are opened," Kejriwal posted on Twitter.Weekly markets are being opened from Monday. These r poor people. Govt is quite concerned about their livelihoods. However, everyone’s health and lives are also imp. I urge everyone to follow Covid appropriate behaviour after these mkts are opened.The announcement by the Delhi chief minister will bring relief to street vendors who had demanded that weekly markets be allowed to reopen as well. On August 2, the Delhi high court sought response from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government over a plea filed by the Saptahik Patri Bazar Association, a body of weekly markets, challenging the government's decision to open malls and markets, but not weekly markets.Also Read | HC asks Delhi govt to consider opening all weekly marketsThe national capital was under a Covid-19 induced lockdown from April 19 to May 30, as the country battled a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The city began reopening from May 31 as daily infections began to decline, allowing the government to introduce a new set of relaxations every week. As a result, while most services opened one after the other, weekly markets were allowed to function with the condition that only one such market will open everyday, that too in only one municipal zone. Delhi has 12 municipal zones in all.On the Covid-19 front, the city logged 72 fresh infections, 22 recoveries and one death in the last 24 hours, a health department bulletin showed on Saturday. With this, Delhi's cumulative Covid-19 infection count has increased to 1,436,695, including 1,411,064 recoveries, 25,066 deaths and 565 active cases, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekly-markets-in-delhi-to-reopen-from-monday-tweets-cm-kejriwal-101628349575994.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||India working towards progress in flying training: Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia||The government has come up with a policy of Flying Training Organisation (FTO) under which eight new FTOs are likely to be established at five government airports, in a bid to promote flying training in the country. During parliament session, the Centre stated that Belgavi, Jalgaon, Kalaburgi, Khajuraho and Lilabari in Assam are likely to have FTOs, for which agreements have been signed between the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and winning bidders.Replying to queries, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, on August 5, said land revenue has been abolished and land rentals have been significantly rationalized in the FTO policy.The Centre also revealed that aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is planning to increase the frequency of examinations of flying cadets to reduce time for obtaining commercial pilot licence (CPL).“DGCA has modified its regulations to empower flying instructors with the right to authorise flight operations at FTOs. This may help increase flying hours and aircraft utilisation at each FTO and lead to faster completion of the CPL requirements,” Scindia said. “The number of commercial pilots who have completed their flying training in India during the last three years was 415 in 2018, 430 in 2019 and 335 in 2020,” he added.The minister also informed the House that India’s largest flying academy — Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi (IGRUA) at Amethi — has been permitted to carry out pilot training in Gondia in Maharashtra and Kalaburagi in Karnataka to enhance flying hours and aircraft utilisation, which get severely affected during winter due to visibility issues.“IGRUA has been directed to operate on weekends and holidays to enhance its flying hours. Other FTOs are also being encouraged to do so,” Scindia said.Speaking about the impact of Covid-19 on the sector, the Centre said the pandemic has caused job losses in the aviation sector across the globe including India, but according to the airlines in the country, none of their pilots have lost their jobs due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/india-working-towards-progress-in-flying-training-civil-aviation-minister-jyotiraditya-scindia-101628350385220.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Need to train doctors to certify, fill cause of death correctly, says Covid death audit panel||Recording the cause of death accurately on death certificates is crucial to know the actual all-cause mortality. In a pandemic, correctly filled death certificates can present the real impact of the widespread infection. However, this crucial piece of a document known as the Medical Certificate of Cause of Death (MCCD) is often filled incorrectly by medical practitioners. The government and the medical fraternity are now devising ways in which the doctors can be trained in accurately certifying deaths.“Accurate cause of deaths is important to know the disease burden as well as all-cause mortality,” said Dr Avinash Supe, head of the Covid-19 death audit committee. “This data is crucial to prepare healthcare infrastructure and plan targetted interventions. But there is a dire need of training doctors to understand, certify and fill the cause of death correctly,” he said.Cardio-respiratory failure is one of the common causes mentioned on death certificates. Medical experts say that all deaths eventually occur due to a cardio-respiratory failure, but the cause and proper sequence of events have to be accurately noted. For instance, if a patient with severe diabetes has heart failure, the certificate could mention heart failure following a myocardial infarction because of uncontrolled diabetes.In 2016, the state government, civic body and the Tata Memorial Centre collaborated with the Bloomberg Data for Health initiative to develop resources to train the doctors in writing the MCCD. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention provided technical help on the project and several training sessions were conducted based on the modules that were developed.Taking a leap further, the TMC has launched a digital course on death certification on Friday. The course with 11 different modules will soon be made available in Marathi and Hindi so that doctors on the grassroots can benefit from it.“The primary goal of this digitised education module is to improve the competence of the medical fraternity, be it physicians or students in rural or metro areas to ensure that they are competent in providing a correct, complete and timely cause of death certifications,” said Dr Rajesh Dikshit, Director of Centre for Cancer Epidemiology, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/need-to-train-doctors-to-certify-fill-cause-of-death-correctly-says-covid-death-audit-panel-101628349545286.html
07-08-2021||Other||Punjab’s aided colleges seek payment of dues for Scheduled Castes scholarship||Amritsar The coordination committee of Non-Government Colleges Managements Federation (NGCMF), representing all 142 aided colleges in the state, held an emergency meeting to draw up a strategy to seek immediate release of total pending grants under the post-matric scholarship scheme for Scheduled Caste (SC) students from the state government. Recently, the Punjab government had issued orders to pay only 40% of ₹200 crore arrears of educational institutions against the scholarship scheme for 2017-18 to 2019-20. “Total pending grants must be released in one instalment. The government should not dilly-dally over the matter any further,” said Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, who chaired the meeting held at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar.The committee added that colleges were already facing financial hardship and the non-release of the SC grant had further affected the smooth functioning of these institutions. The meeting also unanimously resolved that the government must withdraw the letter relating nominating its representative to the managing committees of colleges, as it amounted to direct interference into their functioning. They discussed other issues including pending DPI grants, implementing 95% grant-in-aid schemes, instead of 75% for the appointment of teachers in these colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabs-aided-colleges-seek-payment-of-dues-for-scheduled-castes-scholarship-101628349305710.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Vasai college offers free degree education to students who lost working parent to Covid||To extend a helping hand to the students who have lost a working parent to Covid-19, a Vasai college has decided to give free degree education to such students.The Gnyanodaya Education Trust runs a college and school has an overall strength of 4,500 students in Vasai. Arun Verma, principal, said, “We cannot be insensitive at a time when some families have lost their earning members. So we have decided that any students losing the only earning member of the family, shall be admitted in our three-degree college free, offering Arts, Science and Commerce.”Around 10 such students have already approached the college for admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vasai-college-offers-free-degree-education-to-students-who-lost-working-parent-to-covid-101628349125247.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Liquid medical oxygen not feasible, Navi Mumbai civic body focuses on storage of dura cylinders||With the proposed liquid medical oxygen (LMO) project not turning out to be feasible, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to focus on oxygen storage. The civic body will now invest more in dura cylinders and storage tanks for the preparation of the third wave. While five Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants are in making, one is inaugurated. All other arrangements for the third wave are expected to be ready by August 15. After experiencing immense pressure on oxygen demand during the second wave, NMMC while planning for the third wave had decided to install five PSA plants and one LMO plant. The plan was to have an LMO of 50 metric tonne on a public-private partnership (PPP), wherein NMMC would provide land to a private firm to set up the plant. While half of the oxygen would be used by the municipal hospitals, the rest would be sold to the private hospitals. A consultant was hired to check the feasibility of the project. However, it was found that to have a feasible LMO plant there needs to be a steel plant nearby, which would buy the remaining gas that emerged from the plant. “The private firms who were ready to invest needed a guarantee that the oxygen produced would be purchased by hospitals. But what after the pandemic? We also tried to collaborate with other corporations and install an LMO plant jointly, but even that did not work out. Hence, we decided to focus more on the storage of the LMO instead of manufacturing it,” NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar said. The target is to have 200 dura cylinders with a capacity of 175 cubic metres and storage tanks with a capacity of 90 kilolitre (KL). “We have procured one storage tank of 20KL and the rest too will be done soon. The tenders for the 200 dura cylinders have also been published. We plan to have six PSA with one each at Cidco Exhibition Centre, Vashi and Airoli hospitals of NMMC, Export House, Radhaswami Hall and for the sixth, the location is yet to be finalised. While the one at Vashi hospital has already started functioning, a work order for Airoli and Cidco Exhibition Centre has been done and tenders have been published for Radhaswami Hall and Export House,” deputy municipal commissioner Babasaheb Rajale said. The PSA plant would generate 1.8 metric tonnes of oxygen per day. While the oxygen from PSA is in gaseous form and is 94% pure can be used only for oxygen beds, the oxygen from an LMO which will be now stored in tanks and dura cylinders are 100 % pure and can be used for ventilators. “The dura cylinders are mobile and can be carried anywhere and can also be provided to private hospitals which raise an SOS request many times. For the third wave, 250 ICU beds each are being added to Nerul, Vashi and Airoli hospitals of NMMC besides 600 oxygen beds at GD Pol institute at Kharghar and 500 oxygen beds at Mayuresh building, at CBD, Belapur. The three floors of each hospital would be ready by August 15. “The assembling of transformers is taking time and people are working in two shifts to finish the work. The beds for the ICU will start getting delivered this week. Equipment including 100 ventilators, 100 BiPAPs and 500 monitors have been received and 2000 staff have been trained to handle the ICU,” Bangar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/liquid-medical-oxygen-not-feasible-navi-mumbai-civic-body-focuses-on-storage-of-dura-cylinders-101628348885375.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||CR to introduce vistadome coach on Deccan Queen on August 15||After the success of vistadome coach on Mumbai-Pune route, the iconic Deccan Queen will also have a vistadome coach. Central Railway (CR) will be introducing the vistadome coach on Deccan Queen on August 15. The Deccan Queen is also equipped with a dining car.“The response of the vistadome coach on Deccan Express was overwhelming. We got positive feedback from passengers, which is why we will be introducing the coach on Deccan Queen,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR. The glass-roofed vistadome coach has wide window panes and seats that rotate 360 degrees to provide passengers with a better sightseeing experience. The coach which was introduced in June had more than 95% occupancy in one month. The coach also has 12 LCD television screens for entertainment, a mini-fridge, automatic sliding compartment doors, an oven, juicer grinder and toilets fitted with ceramic tiles.Earlier, CR had upgraded Deccan Queen as part of project Utkrisht that is being done to improve the condition of the coaches in outstation trains.During the refurbishment, the railways undertook vinyl wrapping for coaches to give them a new look, replaced torn seats, installed of fire extinguishers, dustbins and Braille signages.The vistadome coach was earlier introduced on the Mumbai-Goa route in 2017 on Jan Shatabdi Express.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cr-to-introduce-vistadome-coach-on-deccan-queen-on-august-15-101628348285156.html
07-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM Dhami says state to achieve 100% vaccination against Covid, gives timeline||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said on Saturday his government will vaccinate everyone against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the next four months and that they are setting up camps in all the remote parts of the hill state. So far, Uttarakhand has vaccinated 6,424,330 people of which 4,882,205 have received the first dose and the remaining 1,542,125 have received both doses.Dhami made the comments as he inaugurated a vaccination camp at the Sant Nirankari Bhawan in the state capital of Dehradun along with state health minister Dr Dhan Singh Rawat. “The world’s largest Covid vaccination campaign is being run in the country under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In the state, vaccination is being done by the state government by setting up camps in the farthest reaches of the state. 100 per cent Covid-19 vaccination will be done in the state in four months,” Dhami told news agency ANI.After the inauguration of the vaccination camp, Dhami also interacted with some people who were at the camp to get their jab and inquired about their well being.State health minister Rawat, meanwhile, said on Saturday that a target of 1,000 vaccination had been decided at the camp held in the Sant Nirankari Bhawan for the day. “Today a target has been set to conduct 150,000 lakh Covid vaccinations in the state. For this 750 camps have been set up,” Rawat added.Uttarakhand’s caseload of the coronavirus disease has climbed to 342,336 of which 328,419 patients have recovered, nearly 7,400 have died and the active cases stand at 513. On Friday, the state reported 29 new cases, 48 recoveries and zero deaths. As per the state health department’s bulletin, nearly 6.5 million tests have been conducted in Uttarakhand so far, of which 6,101,552 were found to be negative.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-to-achieve-100-vaccination-against-covid-in-4-months-cmdhami-101628347567515.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi's daily Covid-19 caseload rises to 72; city sees 1 new death due to virus||Delhi witnessed a rise in its daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as 72 people tested positive in the last 24 hours, taking its cumulative Covid-19 infection count to 1,436,695, a health department bulletin showed on Saturday. Daily deaths due to the viral disease fell to 1, while 22 new recoveries were logged in this period, the bulletin showed further.On August 6, Delhi reported 44 new cases, five fatalities and 41 recoveries from the preceding 24-hour period.According to Saturday's data, the Capital's cumulative recovery count has risen to 1,411,064 while the toll stands at 25,066. Meanwhile, there are 565 active infections in the city, increasing from 516 on Friday. Recoveries, deaths and active cases constitute 98.21%, 1.74% and 0.04% of the overall caseload respectively.There was a rise in the test positivity rate as well, which stood at 0.10%, as against 0.06% in the previous 24-hour bulletin. Also, 73,681 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of tests done till now to 24,155,020. In terms of vaccination, authorities administered shots to 83,841 more beneficiaries, of whom 49,825 received their first dose while 34,016 were vaccinated with their second dose. The cumulative vaccination coverage in the national capital has thus reached 10,555,571, of whom 7,680,105 beneficiaries have been administered their first jab while the corresponding number of those who have received both jabs is at 2,875,466.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-caseload-rises-to-72-city-sees-1-new-death-due-to-virus-101628344783818.html
07-08-2021||Other||Discus throw finalist at Tokyo gets rousing reception at NIS Patiala||Patiala Olympic finalist in discuss throw, Kamalpreet Kaur, received a rousing welcome during her visit to the National Institute of Sports (NIS) in Patiala on Saturday. She had finished sixth at the discus throw event at the Tokyo Olympics. The district sports department organised a special function outside the NIS campus, where Kamalpreet, accompanied by her coach, had come to meet young athletes. “I am indebted for the love and support being showered on me, since qualification for the Olympics. I need to work upon multiple areas to overcome stress and pressure in such big events,” she said, adding that government and the athletes have to work together to prepare for an event like the Olympics. She thanked her parents and coaching staff for providing all support and pushing her to qualify for the finals. Her coach Rakhi Tyagi, who couldn’t accompany her to Tokyo, said, “Kamalpreet’s hard work and consistency worked for her, as she did intense training sessions with dedication.”After a meeting with the NIS athletes, she left for her village, Kabarwala, in Muktsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/discus-throw-finalist-at-tokyo-gets-rousing-reception-at-nis-patiala-101628344745000.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Dr Aasha Goel murder case: 18 years on, trial yet to start||Around 18 years after the murder of Dr Aasha Goel, her family is still awaiting the trial of four accused including one of her brothers and her maternal uncle.Dr Goel, 62, was murdered the Malabar Hill residence of her brother Suresh Agarwal on August 14, 2003. Police had found 21 injuries on her body including a massive head injury, broken jaw, ruptured liver and stab wounds.A murder case was registered with Malabar police station and was later transferred to the Mumbai Police’s crime branch. The crime branch had booked four persons — Narendra Goel, Pradeep Parab, Pawankumar Goenka and Manohar Shinde.Police claimed that the accused took care of properties belonging to the Agarwals and were allegedly paid by one of the brothers. Of the four accused, Parab has been turned an approver in the case.However, since 2006, the case has been stuck in legal tangle. It was only in 2016 that the case came to be committed to the sessions court for trial.While talking to HT, Goel’s son Sanjay and daughter Rashmi expressed disappointment at the way the case was being dragged for so many years. “It’s very frustrating. These accused follow a pattern whereby they file frivolous application one after the other which takes lot of time of the court and the case gets stuck,” said Rashmi, 53, professor of law at the University of Denver.Recently when the case was scheduled for trial, the accused filed applications for production of various documents which included copies of remand applications submitted by crime branch in 2003 while seeking custody of the accused, narco analysis report of the accused conducted at Bengaluru, lie detection report of accused conducted at Gujarat, copy of passport of Shekhar Agrawal (one of Goel’s brothers), insurance policy, insurance claim letter, correspondence regarding insurance payment of Goel.The sessions court, after hearing the plea, denied supplying several documents to the accused as they are irrelevant to the case. The prosecution, however, has been asked to supply copies of narco analysis test Report and lie detector test report of accused.“The sessions court has been asked to expedite the trial, but things just get delayed. Our concerns now, with the challenges that Covid brings, are availability of witnesses and medical evidence; especially when there is restriction on travel for people residing out of India. How will my father, who is 84, depose,” Rashmi said.Sanjay, Goel’s elder son who works with travel industry, said he has been to India for more than 80 times and met senior officials to discuss the case. “We just want justice. I was there with my mother when she visited India in 2003. She wanted to meet her brother who was unwell, and it was rakhi time. She was so worried about her brothers. But look what they did to her,” Sanjay said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dr-aasha-goel-murder-case-18-years-on-trial-yet-to-start-101628344684916.html
07-08-2021||Bhopal||'How will you...?': Kamal Nath questions Madhya Pradesh govt over response to floods||Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Saturday questioned the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led government over its response to the current flood situation in the state, also cautioning it that “this is not the time to play politics.”“How will the government assess the losses to pay compensation to those affected? How much will help will it provide? When will you repair the bridges that have been damaged, and when will you provide houses to those who have been rendered homeless due to the deluge?” Nath asked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) regime after conducting an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas in Sheopur and visiting some other districts.The senior Congress leader also accused the state government of only making a slew of announcements. “This is not the time to play politics. We are extending help, the Congress will continue to help,” Nath, who was interacting with the media, said.Nath, who also heads the state Congress unit, further said, “I saw that 80% of the people were on their rooftops. Land and crops have suffered enormous damage due to the flood. The situation is “unprecedented” in the Gwalior and Chambal divisions."Earlier in the day, CM Chouhan claimed 8832 people have been rescued from flood-affected areas, while 29,280 people have been shifted to safer places.According to government data, 1250 villages in north Madhya Pradesh have been affected by the deluge following heavy rains in the central state earlier this week. On Saturday, officials put the cumulative fatality count in rain-related incidents at 24. Gwalior, Shivpuri, Sheopur, Datia, Ashok Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Guna, Bhind and Morena were battered by heavy rains.On Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued orange alert for five districts and yellow alerts for 12 districts. The alerts, IMD said, were valid till next morning.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/how-will-you-kamal-nath-questions-madhya-pradesh-govt-over-response-to-floods-101628343759602.html
07-08-2021||Other||No let-up likely in farm stir as women collect 6-month ration for Delhi borders||Sangrur With eight months of farmers sitting on dharna at the borders of Delhi not yielding the desired results, the grain grower has now decided to be prepared for the long haul. Even as the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) faction has announced to hold a protest in Moga, Bathinda and Sangrur districts on August 15 against the black agri-laws and corporate houses, women farmers gave got busy collecting dry ration for the next six months. Over 100 women, aged between 40 and 70, with saffron dupattas on their heads are going door-to-door across the district’s villages collecting pulses, sugar, flour, cooking oil, rice, onion and other essentials for the Delhi agitation. Male farmers accompany them on a tractor-trolley. These volunteer collectors are also motivating others in villages to join their protest against the anti-farmer laws. Ranjit Kaur, 62, Gharachon village unit chief of BKU Ugrahan, said, “We have done thus before. The ration will be used at protest sites. We have spent the winters on the Delhi border and farmers will also continue this dharna across seasons, if needed. The agitation will continue until Modi does not repeal black laws,” she added.Harwinder Kaur, 48, said, “Political leaders are fighting for power and we realise that we are only votes for them. Now, we are struggling to save the agriculture sector.”Manjit Singh Gharachon, a senior leader of BKU Ugrahan, said, “The dharna has been on since November 26, 2020. Political parties are making false promises to lure voters with free power units but people are joining hands against anti-farmer policies of the BJP government. Women and labour class are moving to the Delhi borders. The government cannot derail our agitation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-let-up-likely-in-farm-stir-as-women-collect-6-month-ration-for-delhi-borders-101628342524810.html
07-08-2021||Lucknow||Cong to hold protest marches against UP govt on Quit India movement anniversary||Stepping up its offensive against the Yogi Adityanarh dispensation, the Congress' Uttar Pradesh unit will undertake marches in all the 403 constituencies of the state Monday, the anniversary of the start of Quit India movement, to protest over issues such as price rise, unemployment, farmers' "plight" and the law and order situation."On the anniversary of the start of the 'Quit India Movement' on August 9, Congress workers will protest against the Yogi government on various issues, raising the slogan -- 'BJP Gaddi Chhodo (BJP, leave the seat of power)'," party sources said.On August 9, 1942, the Quit India Movement was launched under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi which resulted in freedom of the country from British rule five years later on August 15, 1947.The Congress leaders and workers are busy preparing for the two-day campaign on August 9-10 during which various protests including the marches will be organised, they said.As part of the campaign, Congress workers will undertake marches in all the 403 assemblies of the state raising the slogan 'BJP Gaddi Chhorho', the sources said.Various responsibilities have been entrusted to state unit office bearers as well as those from the Nyaya panchayat to ensure the success of the campaign, they said.As many as 400 leaders have been given the responsibility of making the assembly-wise marches successful, they said.Also, potential assembly election candidates have also been asked to make all out efforts for this programme.The 'BJP Gaddi Chhodo' march will be undertaken for about 5 kilometers through the main market of each assembly segment, the sources said.They said the Congress is prioritising organisation building and carrying on the struggle against the government on the streets, they said.The process of organisation restructuring of the UP Congress is in its last stage and the newly-appointed block presidents have constituted their 25-member committees in all the 823 blocks of the state.The number of these block level functionaries is 20,575, the sources said.Also, the target of appointing 8,134 nyaya panchayat presidents has been fulfilled by the UP Congress.The formation of the 21-member nyaya panchayat committees is also almost over, the sources said.Congress' state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu has said that the Congress would fight the polls in Uttar Pradesh next year under Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's "dekh-rekh (supervision)", and that under her leadership, the party would make a comeback in the state after over three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-to-hold-protest-marches-against-up-govt-on-quit-india-movement-anniversary-101628341187800.html
07-08-2021||Jaipur||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla inspects flood-hit Kota, says ‘situation is dire’||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Saturday inspected the flood-hit areas in Sangod city in Rajasthan’s Kota district on an inflatable boat. In pictures shared by news agency ANI, he was seen sitting on the boat with other officials with neck-deep water around. Shops and equivalent establishments on either side of the road were submerged almost completely.“The floods have caused heavy losses. The situation is dire. In Hadoti, the flood has damaged crops,” Birla, who is also the Kota-Bundi MP, was quoted as saying by ANI.Rajasthan has been severely affected due to the rain, with many, including children, losing their lives in related incidents in the state. Kota has been witnessing flood-like situations due to the torrential rain with many parts of the city remaining heavily inundated, making people unable to leave their houses.Rescue operations are currently underway by the district administration in waterlogged regions, and citizens are being evacuated to higher altitudes to keep them relatively safe from the rain-triggered floods.A 15-year-old boy in the Jhalawar district died after a wall of his house collapsed on him following widespread rains over the past few days, police said. Apart from his house, two more houses also collapsed in the Borda village but no one was injured, news agency PTI reported.On Wednesday, 11 people died in two separate rain-related incidents in the Bundi and Pali districts of Rajasthan. Of these, as many as eight deaths were those of children. Four of the eight children died in a pond in Pali.In another incident, seven members of the family, including four minors, lost their lives after the wall of their house collapsed due to incessant rains in Bundi.According to the latest bulletin by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is very likely over east Rajasthan during the next two days. Isolated heavy to very heavy downpour is expected in the state on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-inspects-flood-hit-kota-says-situation-is-dire-101628341302119.html
07-08-2021||Lucknow||No live shows, so time to focus on independent music: Nitin Gupta||Singer Nitin Gupta, the voice behind soulful song Roye Jande Naina from Shaadi Main Zaroor Aana, says that with no live shows happening due to Covid-19 concerns, he is focused on making a strong song list.“Live shows which are very critical for singers are not happening at the moment. I have bookings for next year but it’s a very tough phase at present. This is the time that we can make maximum independent songs and release them so that we have a good playlist of original songs ready when the live shows restart. Probably, this way we can creatively utilise our time,” says the singer.The singer-composer has come up with a new song. “My latest song Ishq Nibhava is sad-romantic number which tells how people struggle in the distance relationship featuring Shakti Arora and Divya Agarwal. It’s a duet with singer Rupali Jagga (hails from Saharanpur). The lyrics have been done by my younger brother Nitish ‘Mannu’ and we both have co-composed it,” he says.‘Gupta, 30, was born and brought up in Dehradun, but has been in Mumbai for a decade.“I did my engineering and then did LLB. So, after studies I joined the corporate world which helped me sustain in Mumbai and shows kept me creatively involved with music. Till date, I have done over 500 live shows,” he says.His first single was followed by SMZA, the film that was extensively shot in Lucknow and featured actor Rajkummar Rao. “My second song was Parindey for film P Se Pyaar, F se Faraar that featured Jimmy Sheirgill. It was followed by single Mera Baalam that featured Rohan Mehra and now this song. My forthcoming song is in collaboration with Punjabi singer Deep Money,” he says.The singer feels that the two brothers into music is a win-win situation for both of them. “We both are into music and best part is I am into singing and he is a writer. We both compose and together we make a great team. We stay together, work as a unit and benefit each other,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-live-shows-so-time-to-focus-on-independent-music-nitin-gupta-101628341685143.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Planning to relax more curbs, call on local train travel soon: Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday the state government is planning to bring in more relaxations in the ongoing restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) but utmost caution is needed at this step. “The Maharashtra government is going to grant more relaxations but we are taking every step cautiously. A decision will be taken for local train passengers as well. We need to ensure that these relaxations do not trigger another wave of Covid-19,” Thackeray said while addressing a function organised by BEST, according to news agency PTI.The Maha-Vikas Aghadi government on August 2 eased Covid-19 restrictions in 25 districts of Maharashtra, including the capital Mumbai, where the rate of infection is lower than the state average. Some of these relaxations include allowing essential and non-essential shops to stay open till 8pm and permitting hotels and restaurants to function with 50 per cent of their seating capacity till 4pm. Gyms, spas, yoga centres and salons can now remain open till 8pm with 50 per cent of their capacity and government and private offices can function with full attendance.There has also been a constant demand for allowing fully vaccinated people to travel on local trains, which is one of the most crucial modes of public transportation in Mumbai.Thackeray also said that he had met with the representatives of hotels and restaurants, who have demanded relaxation in operation timings beyond 4pm, and that he explained to them curbs will be relaxed step by step.There are 11 districts in Maharashtra, including Pune, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Ratnagiri, where no relaxations have been given as per the August 2 order, since their Covid-19 positivity rate is greater than the state’s average.There has been growing resentment among shopkeepers and owners of restaurants and hotels of these 11 districts over the continuing restrictions. On Thursday, Thackeray urged such people to exercise restraint. “Like we have given relaxation for shops and establishments, other districts will also get them. But we will keep our responsibilities [towards people] in mind and then provide relaxation,” he said.Maharashtra has so far recorded 6,341,759 cases due to the coronavirus disease of which 133,717 patients have died and 6,130,137 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/planning-to-relax-more-curbs-call-on-local-train-travel-soon-maharashtra-cm-101628340127264.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||1 killed, 3 rescued after building collapses in Delhi’s Nand Nagri||A two-storey building collapsed in a market in Delhi’s Nand Nagri on Saturday, trapping four people under the debris, police officials said. The police control room received a call about the incident at about 1.30pm, following which six fire tenders were rushed to the spot, they added.Dhani Ram, 65, his wife Anaro Devi and Rajkumar have been rescued and shifted to the GTB Hospital, the police said. Ram is the owner of the building, which had shops on the ground floor, and he was living there with his family. However, the fourth person, who was trapped under the debris was found dead. Officials said the deceased was 60-year-old Kanti Lal. Saturday’s incident in the national capital comes a week after a 40-year-old woman died and her daughter was injured after the roof of their two-storey jhuggi in Navjeevan Camp in south Delhi collapsed due to rains late Thursday. “First, a woman named Pooja was rescued. She suffered minor injuries. Later, Pooja’s mother Urmila was also taken out from the debris,” deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena told Hindustan Times. “She was unconscious. Both were admitted to the hospital, where Urmila was declared brought dead,” Meena added.Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) has been receiving incessant rain after a delay in monsoon this year. On Saturday, the national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 27.3 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The maximum temperature is expected to settle at 35 degrees and the relative humidity was at 81 per cent. The weather department has also predicted moderate to heavy rains in Delhi and NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/building-collapses-in-delhi-s-nand-nagri-3-people-rescued-so-far-101628335197838.html
07-08-2021||Bangalore||Weekend curfew in Karnataka districts bordering Maharashtra, Kerala||Karnataka has announced a weekend curfew in eight districts that share their borders with Kerala and Maharashtra to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases from the neighbouring states, which have been reporting a surge in infections. The weekend curfew will be in effect from 9pm on Fridays till 5am on Mondays in Belagavi, Bidar, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, which share their borders with Maharashtra, Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru, and Chamarajanagar bordering Kerala."The movement of individuals will be strictly prohibited between Friday 9pm to Monday 5am except for essential and emergency activities," a Karnataka government release said on Friday.The night curfew will also be in force in all districts, including Bengaluru, and the duration has been advanced by an hour to begin at 9pm and will continue till 5am.Also read | Schools in Karnataka to reopen in two phases, says CM BommaiShops dealing with essential goods, street vendors and public distribution system shops can open from 5am to 2pm. Restaurants and other eateries can take orders for take-away and home delivery round the clock. Pubs and bars have not been allowed to be operated and only takeaways from standalone liquor shops and outlets have been permitted from 5am to 2pm.Movement of trains and air travel has been allowed and that of public transport, private vehicles and taxis have been permitted for facilitating people to travel on valid travel documents and tickets to and from airports, railway stations and bus terminals, bus stops and bus stands.Also read | What is Eta variant of Covid detected in Karnataka?Weddings and family functions have been allowed in these eight districts that share borders with Kerala and Maharashtra. The attendance has been capped at 100 and everyone has to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, according to the government.Cremations or funerals can be attended by a maximum of 20 people. However, all social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions, gatherings and large congregations remain prohibited.Also read | No roads between Kerala and Karnataka dug up: Dakshina Kannada DCThe guidelines issued by the government also mentioned some relaxation during the weekend curfew. "All state and central government offices and their autonomous bodies, corporations dealing with Covid-19 will be fully functional," the government order said.Karnataka has 24,439 active cases of Covid-19 and the total number of people who have recovered are 28,52,368 and 36,705 have succumbed to the virus till Friday, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/weekend-curfew-in-karnataka-districts-bordering-maharashtra-kerala-101628333926193.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||National Handloom Day: Threads of culture that bind these ambassadors to India||It’s no secret that Indian handlooms have piqued the interest of the world since time immemorial. And on National Handloom Day (August 7), the German ambassador to India Walter J Lindner, and his Polish counterpart Adam Burakowski and wife Agnieszka, tell us how they got attracted to the simplicity and vibrancy of Indian handlooms long back. Be it intricately woven shawls or comfy cotton kurtas, Indian handlooms have found a cosy place in their closets, and are there to stay for a lifetime. Excerpts from two candid tête-à-têtes... Garman ambassador Walter J Lindner: In a suit and tie, all men look the same Walter J Lindner is an artistic soul trapped in a diplomat’s body, which is often adorned by Indian clothes. And he reveals that his affair with Indian handloom began much before he came to India. “In 1971, there was a famous concert when Bangladesh had parted from India, faced a flood and a lot of pain. So that solidarity concert in New York’s Madison Square Garden was organised to bring together western and Indian musicians like Ravi Shankar and The Beatles. So here there were Eric Clapton on The Beatles’ side and George Harrison; they were usual hippie type, long hair, jeans, don’t care about what they are wearing. And on the other side, Indian musicians were in kurtas. This was the first time I saw kurtas. The whole appearance was outwardly. I saw this as a young boy of 15 years and I was like: I have to come to this country!”Coming from a place of greys and blacks, Lindner says that for him it’s all about adding that “one piece of colour” to his otherwise simple dressing style. “I usually wear one colour, black or white or blue. And if you don’t add a piece of colour, it’s a bit boring to the eye. If I was in northern Germany where it’s raining and grey, (it’s still okay...but) here where there are colours, I always add an element of colour. You could wear a tie but I don’t wear a tie, so I take a shawl,” he says revealing that he has about 20 shawls in his wardrobe at present. “When I am travelling, I try to find a shawl of any other place (than Delhi). I have a few shawls, but I’m running out of them, I will have to buy some more,” he says making a mental note for shopping!In fact, he admits sporting Nehru suits much before he took up posting in India. “When I was in Germany, and was the foreign secretary, I was known for not wearing ties but Nehru shirts with Nehru collar and Nehru suits. I have two colours, simple black and blue. I don’t wear pink and yellow. I just like the classic, no-nonsense style, which is classy and cool. It has to have something that reminds me of India and ethnic fabrics like cotton. In a suit and a tie, everyone looks the same from China to Africa; men look all the same. In India it’s different. You go to Rajasthan, you have these fantasy suits. I don’t go overboard with it, but I like this menswear over western,” says he, whose love for elephants is immense. “I bought this stole from my recent trip to Mathura, where I walked with the elephants to the Yamuna” he says pointing to the off white piece of cloth around his neck that has black elephant motifs. Lindner has even tried to incorporate the Nehru suit in his official dressing style. “In my profession as a diplomat, the uniform dress is a suit and tie. It took some time to break out of it. I started a few years ago. Okay, you cannot wear jeans! You can wear Indian suit which is a Nehru suit which is elegant and formal,” he says, adding, “In the beginning people were asking what is that for, but then people knew. I did interviews and told people. Now when I wear a tie, they would be astonished, and say: What’s wrong with you!” he laughs.Polish ambassador Adam Burakowski: We visit local markets and artisans to buy from them Adam Burakowski’s dedication to Hindi language is as intense as his wife Agnieszka’s admiration for Hindi cinema’s superstar Amitabh Bachchan. Agnieszka recalls how her welcome to a country drenched in colours as “a shock, in a positive way”, and emphasises that “It’s so colourful in India that now when I go back to Poland, it shocks me how different these two countries are... In the beginning, I was a bit hesitant to wear so much colour. For the official part of our lives, we of course stick to European standards,” she says. But talk of Indian weddings and her face lights up. “I was once wearing a kurta that was too much bling for me. Soon, we realised that nothing is too much at Indian weddings,” she says. The ambassador’s memory goes back in time at the mention of Indian handloom. “In 1997, it was the first time I came to India as a 20-year-old tourist, and bought a blue kurta from somewhere in northern India,” says Burakowski. Next year, he took back a bright Kashmiri jacket for his wife. And till date, he collects local handloom as souvenirs. “When we go to a new place, we visit the local markets, artisans and designers, and buy from them. I was recently in Raipur, Chattisgarh and bought a nice kurta. We often go to Kerala with our family and buy a few things like Kerala style shirts,” says Burakowski, and his wife adds how she picks Indian fabrics to get European style attires stitched: “It’s hot in India so I prefer cotton and linen; they are my favourites. I’ve even got European coats stitched from Indian fabrics, which I use when I go back to Poland. I designed them myself, and my friends also ask me to get it for them. Because the quality of the fabric is different, and they really appreciate it.” And even the young ones in the house are fans of Indian clothing. “We have three daughters and one son. One of our daughters who is 9 years old, loves Indian clothes and has readymade saris. She likes bright colours and even European colours in Indian style,” shares Agnieszka. The ambassador adds, “Yellow is the colour we like. There was this film Rang De Basanti, which was translated as Colour Me Yellow, in Poland. We saw that film and liked it. We watch many Indian movies especially during the lockdown... and for my wife’s birthday, I got a poster of the film Don.” Hearing this, Agnieszka’s face lights up again, as she confesses: “I’m eager to meet Amitabh Bachchan!” Authors tweet @HennaRakheja  and @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/national-handloom-day-threads-of-culture-that-bind-these-ambassadors-to-india-101628334366532.html
07-08-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: Putting logistics into place for quick delivery, minimum product returns||It’s a lead selling point on any direct-to-customer (D2C) platform – delivery time.While mega movers in the space, cue ecommerce behemoths like Amazon and Flipkart, can bust their bottom lines and the bottom lines of sellers on their platforms to ensure, ahem, same-day delivery, for a 800-odd other ecommerce platforms, websites, apps, the numbers do not add up so easily.In India time is more than money. It is, in the words of Anshul Goenka and Prodipto Roy, founders of QuickShift, a technology fulfilment startup, the key to ensuring an order placed online is delivered in “48 hours, max”, across 26,000 pin codes in India. QuickShift is the accelerator for brands in the D2C, B2B and retail space, enhancing scale and penetration and ensuring delivery times have no impact on the finances, which means, ensuring product returns are down to a minimum.It’s a logistical problem, that when, in 2015 Flipkart and Big Basket were aggressively expanding, Anshul Goenka, just back with an MBA from the UK, saw as his “eureka” moment – fulfilment centres on a platform that connects the entire online retail system – from manufacturing to customer, but especially inventory.Logistics is viewed as a cost centre for businesses. With lack of standardised solutions across the supply-chain, last-mile logistics – at the right time and cost – was a big challenge. How do companies reach the end customers? “We started speaking with brands and customers, and slowly started crafting QuickShift,” Goenka says.“When a brand goes online, they have to deal with inventory, customer experience, shipping, technology,. We built QuickShift on the idea that we want to be a one-stop shop for any of these D2C brands or SMBs looking to go online or maybe retail. For end customers also, it was important that they get deliveries faster. Today in India, shipping is fragmented. From a centralised location, the brand ships it to tier 2 or tier 3 cities, it takes about seven days. We have decentralised the way any brands store their inventory around India,” Goenka explains.In the beginning…Goenka has an MBA in marketing and operations from Symbiosis. He went to the Leeds Becket University (UK) and did another MBA in consultancy there. Says Goenka, “In 2015 I returned to India, but never wanted to fit into a 9-to-5 job. I also wanted to work on something meaningful that would impact and build an ecosystem. I conceptualised a couple of ideas, did some brainstorming and that’s when we stumbled upon logistics. At the time, Flipkart and Big Basket were aggressively expanding and they were all new-age companies. When they started expanding, their logistics started becoming a problem. We thought it’s an opportunity there.”Decentralising inventory QuickShift was launched in 2017. Says Goenka, “In the e-commerce sector, players like Amazon and Flipkart are dominating. We have also seen a lot of other brands growing. When we looked at the landscape, there were very few organised players that were providing end-to-end fulfilment or support services to these brands.”QuickShift opened a network of fulfilment centres - one such centre in Pune, a second in Mumbai and later in Bengaluru, Delhi, and Kolkata. “These are all modern-day fulfilment centres built for speed. We have connected all these fulfilment centres through a common technology platform,” he added.‘Quick’ shift from B2C to B2B“Initially we were more into the B2C segment. We thought we will build a tech platform for B2C audience. Later, we saw enterprise customers had more value. We were lucky to get good connects in the space. Through connects and reaching out to decision makers in the industry we got Big Basket as our first client. With good and long-term contractual values, our cash flows got steady,” says Goenka. The ‘convincing’ factorSays co-founder Prodipto Roy: “About a decade back, new brands had new ideas, good products, and money to spend on marketing. But, they were clueless on how to deliver at a time and speed of the customer’s choice. Big players could manage this problem. With the advent of ecommerce, small businesses and new brands could list themselves on the marketplace, but it did not solve the problem of delivering at a time and speed suitable for the end customer. QuickShift answers that question.”“When the brand connects all the ecommerce marketplaces and when the order hits their stores, it gets carried to their nearest fulfilment centre and the order is serviced within one or two days. We have brought down the seven-day delivery time to 24 and 48 hours. Whenever a customer shops on the website of a D2C brand and they see that they are getting the delivery in one or two days, they are more inclined to placing an order. This helps in getting more order volumes for the brands,” Roy adds.QuickShift claims to be among the few players providing warehousing fulfilment services combined with technology and shipping. The platform allows a brand to scale up rapidly. “They just have to focus on their product development, marketing and customer services. Retail has been hit hard due to the pandemic. E-commerce has taken up the space and with Covid we have seen the pace accelerating,” Roy adds.Addressing the ‘return’ problemBrands suffer heavily from product returns. In India, the return rate is around 25 to 30 per cent, which is very high for a brand, because there is a forward and reverse cost involved. Says Prodipto Roy, “Customers want transparency. They are comfortable shopping on known marketplaces as they are aware of the return policies. If you are a new brand, the customer might not have the conviction to buy the product from your website. We have created tools to encourage the customer to take the order and not to return it. For clients working with us, the return rate is about 7-10 per cent. We give transparency to these customers by giving them step-by-step notifications on Whatsapp. In case of missed delivery attempts, customer gets an alert of whether they want a reattempt or not. Rate of rejection goes down considerably.”And then, there is AI Explaining artificial intelligence (AI) used on the platform, Goenka said, “Brands have to partner with multiple shipping partners. To deal with each shipping partner is difficult. They are also on not-so-easy to use platforms. Hence, we have also connected all shipping partners on a single platform. With a combination of five-six shipping partners, we cover 29,000 pincodes in the country. Orders get allocated based on time required and cost incurred. The platform automatically decides which shipping partner to use for delivery based on the AI algorithm inputs.”“The algorithm to choose the last-mile-shipping partner is based on the cost and time taken to deliver. All pincodes in India are not mapped by courier partners. A partner can deliver at a particular pincode, but others may not be able to do so. So, we update our active pincode list with our courier partners every day. The AI engine knows which courier partner can serve a particular pincode and at what cost. This data is pre-fed before the client is onboarded,” he added.Revealing their future plans, Goenka said, “The Indian consumption story is growing. We want to be significant player in this market. We will be spending a lot on technology and using a lot of data. Businesses rely on very impactful data pertaining to what is working for them, customers, and demographics. These insights will be developed through our platform. Businesses will know what to sell, where to sell, what price points to sell and how they should target their marketing efforts. We will also help brands to generate demand.”Investor speak“Today, India houses 800 D2C brands which have garnered immense interest from the VC community. While the pandemic brought unprecedented changes, these brands seized the day to grow multi-fold, and with that came the need for enablers in the ecosystem. We believe that the idea that has been put into motion at QuickShift, is perfectly poised to capitalise on this opportunity that is expected to be worth over $100 bn in the next 3-4 years.”-Ashvin Chadha, co-founder, Anicut Angel Fund“The new wave of D2C brands has increased consumer choices, with rising demand from all corners of the country. While existing marketplaces have allowed brands to build top-lines, they have often struggled with demand fulfilment. They fall short on consistent consumer experience, managing inventory, and scaling geographical distribution. Quickshift’s vision is to solve this. Their fulfilment platform enables brands to build distribution, own consumer experience, outsource fulfilment and focus on growth. At Axilor, we continue to back disruptors and are delighted to partner with Quickshift, which is well on its way to market leadership.”-Nandan Venkatachalam, principal, Axilor Ventures||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-putting-logistics-into-place-for-quick-delivery-minimum-product-returns-101628332807407.html
07-08-2021||Kolkata||Pay 50% of due school fees or students will be expelled: Calcutta HC to parents||The Calcutta High Court has directed parents to pay at least 50 per cent of their children's outstanding school fee within three weeks, failing which it will mull over allowing educational institutions to take action, including expelling students.The court also said on Friday that a direction regarding students, who appeared for the Class 10 and 12 board exams and cleared them, must be made to respective boards to “suspend their qualification and certificates till the school fees are paid.”The direction came after a division bench comprising justice IP Mukherji and justice Moushumi Bhattacharya expressed displeasure over a section of “financially stable parents” allegedly taking advantage of the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The bench also asked schools coming under the ambit of this public interest litigation (PIL) to send each defaulting guardian a notice within a week citing the due fees to date from March last year.The court will consider allowing schools to keep students from attending online as well as physical classes or even “remove [their names] from the roll of the school without further notice,” should a default emerge during the matter’s next hearing, the bench noted."We are sad and annoyed to know that although the economic situation is much better now than in 2020 and that most persons have learnt how to adjust their lives to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, quite a significant number of parents and guardians of the students of various schools and other teaching institutions have taken advantage of this order by not paying the school fees at all," the court said.The Covid-19 pandemic has caused financial distress to several parents, with many losing jobs and witnessing revenue loss in business, among others, but the high court pointed out that the school authorities are also finding it hard to operate the educational institutions during this unprecedented time.Counsels representing the schools alleged that a section of parents was keeping from paying the fees based on an earlier order of the high court thereby causing difficulties to run the institutions.Notably, the court was hearing a PIL filed by guardians of students of a school in the Purba Medinipur district of West Bengal that called for a reduction in school fees in view of the virus outbreak. The petitioners referred to an earlier order passed by the high court that directed no increase in the school fees during the 2021-22 financial year, and also that “non-essential charges for use of facilities not availed of would not be permissible.”The PIL prayed for the application of that order to all students in all schools for the state for the current financial year.The court, however, stated that if all education institutions are taken into account pertaining to the matter, the total amount of outstanding fees come down to several crores of rupees.The bench added that some defaulting parents are “government servants who have suffered no loss of pay during this pandemic.” It said that a “substantial number of parents and guardians” have the capability to pay the school fees but are “deliberately not paying the dues.”Noting that schools are finding it difficult to maintain themselves, there is a need to balance between the needs of the schools against the students’ needs. "The innocent students, we feel, should not be made to suffer for their errant parents and guardians," the bench stated.The next hearing in the matter will be on September 2.Meanwhile, West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that her government has been considering reopening schools and colleges in the state on alternate days following the end of the Durga Puja vacation in November. “However, nothing has been finalised yet,” she told reporters during a meeting of Global Advisory Board (GAB), headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, at the state secretariat, Nabanna.Also Read | Covid: Mamata says Bengal may reopen schools, colleges after Durga Puja vacationEducational institutions in West Bengal have been shut since March this year due to the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pay-50-of-due-school-fees-or-students-will-be-expelled-calcutta-hc-to-parents-101628331880871.html
07-08-2021||Patna||Fatigue, weakness most common post-Covid complaint received by AIIMS Patna||A 27-year-old software engineer was hospitalised at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on July 15 after he complained of blackouts, weakness and dizziness while attending to normal chores at home, for several days after his discharge from a hospital in Bengaluru after recovering from Covid-19 earlier.He was advised to visit the institute for a physical check up after consulting doctors at the physical medicine and rehabilitation (PMR) department.A detailed examination revealed that the young man’s oxygen saturation level (SPO2) would dip to below the threshold level of 93 even during normal activities such as walking inside the house. Sensing that he may require oxygen therapy, along with pulmonary rehabilitation exercises for improving oxygenation in lungs, the doctors advised him admission.Another 42-year-old lecturer in a polytechnic college of Bihar, having recovered from Covid-19, came to the AIIMS with almost identical symptoms of fatigue and dizziness while doing routine activities such as bathing. Evaluation revealed his oxygen saturation would drop suddenly to as low as 84 while doing normal activities, making him feel exhausted quickly. He, too, was advised hospitalisation for protocol-based rehabilitation exercises and oxygen therapy, if required, to help replace the fibrous tissues in the lungs with healthy ones.The patient was discharged within six days and is now recuperating well with regular follow-up with doctors from home.Another 72-year-old woman from Darbhanga, who recovered from Covid-19, also had to be re-admitted at AIIMS-Patna for rehabilitation exercises, after she complained of fatigue, vertigo and blackout.The Hindustan Times has withheld the identity of all such patients on request.Tiredness, dizziness, prostration and weakness have emerged as the most common sequel-- a consequence of a previous disease or injury-- of coronavirus, said Dr Sanjay Kumar Pandey, additional professor and head, department of PMR, AIIMS.Nearly two-third of post-Covid patients coming to the institute complained of tiredness and weakness, with sudden fall in oxygen saturation (SPO2) level. This prompted the institute to set up a special post-Covid rehabilitation wing under its PMR department in May. Nine patients with post-Covid complications have so far been discharged after admission at the PMR between July 7 and 27. Scores of others have availed of the tele-consultation and online guidance facilities.“We told Covid patients that they may seek expert advice in case of post-Covid complications by either filling up the Google form on our website or by calling our helpline desk at 9546992688. We get around 3-4 calls every day. Out of the 206 responses we received till Friday morning, 71 approached us offline. As many as 37 respondents had undergone Covid-19 treatment at our institute, while most others were under home isolation,” said Dr Pandey.“In most cases we found there was de-conditioning of the body, especially in the case of Covid-19 patients who were hospitalised for a long duration. Lying on the hospital bed had made their muscles weak. As a result, many complained of weakness in legs, accompanied by weakness and dizziness while standing, walking or going to the washroom. We advised rehabilitation exercises at home in most cases, but advised hospitalisation in case of nine patients whose oxygen saturation level still fell below the threshold limit while doing normal activity,” added Dr Pandey.With pulmonary and rehabilitation exercises, it could take up to four to six months for a patient to get back to the pre-disease activity level, he said.As many as 43% people complained of anxiety, 36% chest congestion and 32.6% low mood. Some other common post-Covid conditions were headache, loss of weight, hair fall, lack of sleep, difficulty in breathing, talking and swallowing.Daily new infections have now come down to double-digit in the state since July 15. With 55 new Covid-19 cases reported on Friday, the state’s total tally went up to 7,25,122 with 9,646 deaths so far. Bihar’s recovery rate was 98.62%, with active cases coming down to 356.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fatigue-weakness-most-common-post-covid-complaint-received-by-aiims-patna-101628330644509.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||IMD predicts thunderstorm, moderate to heavy rainfall for Delhi-NCR||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted thunderstorm with moderate to heavy rain for Delhi and nearby areas in the next two hours on Saturday."Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over most places of Delhi, Greater Noida, Noida, Ghaziabad, Khekra, Daurala, Barut, Meerut, Modinagar, Hapur, Khurza, Kasganj, Jattari, Narora, Raya, Nandgaon, Barsana (U.P) Bhiwani, Gurugram, Manesar, Kosli, Gannaur, Gohana, Sonipat, Kaithal, Faridabad, Sohana, Bhiwari, Tizara (Haryana) Nadbai, Nagar, Deeg, Laxmangarh (Raj.) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours," tweeted IMD around 11.25 am.Earlier in the day, IMD had predicted light to moderate rain in isolated areas of Delhi-NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/imd-predicts-thunderstorm-moderate-to-heavy-rainfall-for-delhincr-101628326518302.html
07-08-2021||Lucknow||JP Nadda talks about 'small-minded people in politics', hits out at ‘BJP vaccine’ remark||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Saturday hit out at the opposition for casting doubt over the Covid-19 vaccines manufactured in India. “Modiji [Prime Minister Narendra Modi] gave India two vaccines within nine months but they said we won’t get vaccinated because it’s the BJP’s vaccine. This tells us a lot about the politicians' mindset. How will these people who have such a parochial mindset govern Uttar Pradesh,” Nadda, who is on a two-day visit to the state, said.“They are clicking photos after being vaccinated. Should I tell them what medicine is in it?” Nadda said while addressing a meeting of block and zila panchayat heads in the state capital of Lucknow. “We should understand that they are small-minded people in politics,” he said and insisted that the country is not facing any shortage of vaccines.Nadda also hit out at opposition leaders for questioning the government’s decision to roll out the vaccines without conducting clinical trials. “They caused so much damage to the country when they said they were being treated like guinea pigs and questioned why we were vaccinating individuals without conducting the third phase trials, asking if people were sheep and goats,” Nadda said. "Now, I meet these leaders who have gotten vaccinated and I ask them if they think of themselves as sheep and goats."The senior BJP leader was pointing at Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, who said earlier this year that he will not take a “BJP vaccine”. Nadda also hit out at those who criticised the government’s initiatives like encouraging frontline workers by clapping for them. “I ask them what do they know about the meaning of this? If you did your condition in politics wouldn’t be like this,” he remarked.Yadav criticised the government during the first phases of the vaccine dry run that was being conducted in UP. “Why cold-chain and refrigerators for vaccine now? This government was warding off Covid by clanging plates, claps, and hovering helicopters over hospitals,” he asked. Nadda asked BJP leaders and workers to extol the good work done by the Centre and stated that central government schemes have invited praise from people like the UN secretary general. He added that the Prime Minister’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic was also praised by the director general of the World Health Organization (WHO). He also credited PM Modi for ensuring the fair supply of oxygen and criticised the opposition for “quarantining” themselves when the pandemic struck last year and only making appearances on Twitter and virtual press conferences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jp-nadda-talks-about-small-minded-people-in-politics-hits-out-at-bjp-vaccine-remark-101628329019708.html
07-08-2021||Jaipur||Man dies after his Bluetooth headphones explode in Rajasthan||A 28-year-old man died when his Bluetooth headphone device exploded here, police said on Saturday.The incident occurred in Udaipuria village of Chomu town in Jaipur district on Friday when Rakesh Kumar Nagar was preparing for a competitive examination at his residence, they said.He was using the Bluetooth headphone device while it was plugged into an electrical outlet, police said.The device exploded all of a sudden leaving Nagar unconscious. He was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed during treatment, they said, adding both his ears had suffered injuries.Dr L N Rundla of Siddhivinayak Hospital said the man was brought to the facility in an unconscious condition.He died during treatment at the hospital, Rundla said.The man probably died of cardiac arrest, he added.According to police, Rakesh was married in February this year and was the eldest of siblings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/man-dies-after-his-bluetooth-headphones-explode-in-rajasthan-101628320052842.html
07-08-2021||Patna||Experts suggest measures for flood mitigation in Bihar||With Bihar perennially battling floods in one part and drought in the other, experts from Nepal, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Lucknow on Friday suggested different measures, including integrated flood management, intra-state interlinking of rivers, development of wetlands, silt management etc. for resolving the issue at a webinar organised by the water resources department, government of Bihar.AS Maurya from IIT Roorkee discussed the hydrological, topographical and fluvial reasons of floods in Bihar and suggested remedies like silt management by suitable reservoirs and wetlands, structural interventions and non-structural measures. The issue of silt management, especially in the Ganga, has been raised time and again by none other than chief minister Nitish Kumar, but no concrete action has been taken so far.Neera Shreshta Pradhan from International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD), Nepal, suggested involving community in flood management and sending them regular warning related to increase or decrease in water level. ICIMOD is a regional intergovernmental learning and knowledge sharing centre, serving member countries of the Hindu Kush Himalayas including India, China, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Nepal, Bhutan, Pakistan and Afghanistan.Dr RN Sankhua, chief engineer (south), National Water Development Agency, Hyderabad, discussed causes of Bihar flood in detail, including topographical and morphological behaviour of rivers, deforestation, limitations of conventional flood embankments etc., while stressing the need for innovative structural measures like widening of flood plains, flood plain lowering and detention, intra-state interlinking of rivers, creation of more wetlands, room for the river, detention basins and water storage area, alternative to embankments, dredging, etc.Dwelling on integrated flood management, Manoj Chauhan of Egis India Consulting Engineers Pvt Ltd advocated land and water resources development in a river basin with a view to maximising the efficient use of floodplains and minimising loss of life and property.N Dinesh Kumar of Egis India suggested transferring part of the monsoon flood water in north Bihar to less water-rich basins of south Bihar, besides construction of percolation wells to increase the direct recharge of monsoon runoff in river channels.Inaugurating the webinar, Bihar water resource department’s Sanjay Kumar Jha said that CM has always favoured finding long term solutions to contain floods and drought in state. “The department is working on finding long term solutions for water management by inviting suggestions from experts. The chief engineers of the department have also been asked to attend it to understand the viewpoints of experts. The department will later brainstorm to decide which idea to adopt and work on,” he added.Department’s secretary Sanjeev Hans said due to climate change it was likely that the frequency and intensity of flood in Bihar may increase in the days to come. “Under the guidance of the CM, the department has been working on structural, non-structural & green measures for flood mitigation. Given the high population density in the state, we have to look towards scientific solutions for this.” he said, adding the formulation of policies based on scientific research will ensure effective policy development and evaluation processes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/experts-suggest-measures-for-flood-mitigation-in-bihar-101628319963612.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||30 people infected with Delta variant of coronavirus in Nashik, says hospital||In a worrying development, 30 people in Maharashtra's Nashik have been found infected with the Delta variant of coronavirus, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. It quoted a doctor at district hospital, who said a majority of the patients were from rural area."30 people have been infected with Delta variant in Nashik. 28 patients are from rural areas. 2 patients are from Gangapur and Sadique Nagar. Several patients are from Sinnar, Yeola, Nandgaon, Niphad as well," ANI quoted Dr Kishore Shrinivas, surgeon at the Nashik District Hospital, as saying.He also added that the samples were sent for genome sequencing to Pune, where they tested positive for the Delta variant.Dr Shrinivas then advised the people of the area to "take precautions, sanitise, wear masks and follow social distancing norms".Delta variant is the B.1.617.2 variant of the Covid-19 virus, first identified in India. It is believed to have led to the brutal second wave of the pandemic which overwhelmed the country's healthcare systems.Maharashtra reported 5,539 new cases of the infection and 187 related fatalities on Friday, taking the infection tally to 63,41,759 and the toll to 1,33,717, the state health department said.The number of recoveries has reached 61,30,137, while 74,483 are active cases, the health department said.Among the eight regions of Maharashtra, Pune reported the highest number of cases at 2,105, followed by 1,462 in the Kolhapur region. The Mumbai region reported 769 cases, Nashik 787, Latur 292, Aurangabad 61, Akola 42 and the Nagpur region 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/30-people-infected-with-delta-variant-of-coronavirus-says-hospital-101628317711321.html
07-08-2021||Bangalore||New ministers in Karnataka get portfolios, CM Bommai keeps finance, cabinet affairs||The new ministers in Karnataka, who earlier this week took oath as part of the cabinet expansion, were finally allocated portfolios on Saturday. A notification from the office of the governor showed that chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has kept the finance and cabinet affairs portfolios, along with DPAR (personnel and administrative reforms), intelligence from home, Bengaluru development, and all other unallocated portfolios.Portfolios allocation in Karnataka | CM Bommai keeps Finance, cabinet affairs, Bengaluru development & all un-allocated portfolios. KS Eshwarappa gets Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Development. R Ashoka gets Revenue (except Muzarai). B Sriramulu gets Transport & ST Welfare pic.twitter.com/9OYs5fhAu7KS Eshwarappa was allocated the rural development and Panchayat Raj department, while R Ashoka was assigned the revenue department (excluding Muzarai). The transport department went to B Sriramulu, who was also made in-charge of the ST (Scheduled Tribes) welfare department.Also Read | Karnataka new ministers take oath; no deputy CM, no berth for Yediyurappa's sonDebutant minister Araga Jnanendra was given the home ministry, excluding intelligence. On the other hand, Murugesh Rudrappa Nirani was assigned the large and medium industries portfolio. Several former ministers from the BS Yediyurappa cabinet have retained their respective ministries, it was seen.The complete list of Karnataka portfolio allocation has been provided here:Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai: DPAR, finance, intelligence from home, cabinet affairs, Bengaluru development, and all unallocated portfoliosGovind Makthappa Karajol: Major and medium irrigationKS Eshwarappa: Rural development and Panchayat Raj departmentR Ashoka: Revenue (excluding Muzarai)B Sreeramulu: Transport, ST welfareV Somanna: Housing, infrastructure developmentUmesh Vishwanath Katti: Forest, food, civil supplies, and consumer affairsAngara S: Fisheries, ports and inland transportJC Madhu Swamy: Minor irrigation, law, Parliamentary affairs, and legislationAaraga Jnanendra: Home ministry (excluding intelligence)Dr Aswath Narayan CN: Higher education, IT & BT, science and technology, skill developmentChandrakantagouda Patil: Public works department (PWD)Anand Singh: Ecology and environment, tourismKota Shrinivas Poojari: Social welfare, backward classes welfarePrabhu Chauhan: Animal husbandryMurugesh Rudrappa Nirani: Large and medium industriesArabail Hebbar Shivaram: Labour ministryST Somasehkhar: Co-operation departmentBC Patil: Agriculture departmentBS Basavaraja: Urban development (including KUWSDB & KUDIDFC, excluding Bengaluru development, BBMP, BDA, BWSSB, BMRDA, BMRCL, and directorate of town planning, urban development department)Dr K Sudhakar: Health and family welfare, medical educationK Gopalaiah: Excise from the finance departmentJolle Shashikala Annasaheb: Muzarai, Haj & WakfN Nagaraju (MTB): Municipal administration, small scale industries, public sector industriesNarayanagowda: Sericulture, youth empowerment, and sportsBV Nagesh: Primary and secondary education and SakalaV Sunil Kumar: Energy department, Kannada, and cultureAchar Halappa Basappa: Mines and geology from commerce and industries department, women and child development & disabled & senior citizens empowermentShankar B Patil Munenakoppa: Handloom and textile department from C & I department, sugarcane development, and directorate of sugar.Munirathna: Horticulture and planning, programme monitoring, and statistics departmentAlso Read | Karnataka ministers allotted districts to check Covid, floodsKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai's new cabinet has seven members of the Other Backward Classes (OBC), three members of the Scheduled Caste (SC) community, and one Scheduled Tribe (ST) member. Two from the Brahmin community have also featured in the list.Moreover, seven persons of the Vokkaliga community, eight of the Lingayats, and one from the Reddy community have been included. However, the new Karnataka cabinet includes only one woman.Karnataka cabinet expansion was believed to be the first challenge of the new chief minister as there are several factions in the state BJP unit, with the expansion having to balance between old guards and youngsters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/new-ministers-in-karnataka-get-portfolios-cm-bommai-keeps-finance-cabinet-affairs-101628316423403.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Inebriated men make hoax bomb call to test Mumbai police’s alertness, arrested||Mumbai Police was sent on a wild goose chase following a hoax call from two drunken residents, who claimed bombs had been planted at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) station, Dadar railway station and Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan ‘s bungalow in the western suburbs of the metropolis. They later claimed they were checking how alert the Mumbai Police was.After receiving the call at about 9 pm on Friday, the Mumbai Police swung into action and deployed various units like the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) and the Dog Squad to search all the areas mentioned in the call for presence of possible explosives.“We informed all concerned police stations and agencies and carried out a thorough check of these areas,” said a senior police officer.Juhu police, MRA Marg police, Dadar police and Byculla police searched the areas within their respective jurisdictions and found nothing.“Later, we called back the caller but we were told that he was very busy and should not be disturbed. Eventually, he switched off the phone,” said a senior police officer.The Mumbai Police’s crime branch’s Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) later picked up two persons from Kalyan’s ShilPhata area on the basis of their cell phone tower location. They told police that they had been celebrating ‘Gatari’ and were heavily drunk when one of them decided to make the call “for fun”. Gatari is celebrated in Maharashtra and Goa before the beginning of the Hindu month of Shravan. On this day, people generally eat and drink to their heart’s content to make up for the abstinence to be practiced during Shravan.“Both of them are drivers. Raju Kangare, 32, and Ramesh Shirsath, 28, are residents of Dombivli,” said a senior crime branch official.The officer said the two accused claimed to have made the call for fun after getting drunk, and also to check alertness of the police machinery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/inebriated-men-make-hoax-bomb-call-to-test-mumbai-police-s-alertness-arrested-101628315223499.html
07-08-2021||Kolkata||Para-teachers in Bengal agitate outside education minister's home seeking pay hike||Around 40 para-teachers on Friday demonstrated before the residence of West Bengal Education Minister Bratya Basu here to press for their job-related demands. The agitators, representing 'Poschimbongo Sikshak Oikyo Manch' – a joint platform of para-teachers – said they wanted to meet Basu and submit their charter of demands to him. The police, however, stopped the teachers from carrying out their demonstration in Lake Town area here, following which they left the spot. "We want to be recognised as full-time teachers, not contractual employees. We also want the government to increase our salaries and provide DA, PF and gratuity benefits," one of the protesters told reporters. The para-teachers, who work on contract in government-run schools, had long been seeking salary hike and the status of ''elementary teacher''. In February, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had announced a three per cent annual pay hike for the contractual teachers, but the proposal, however, failed to quell their protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/parateachers-in-bengal-agitate-outside-education-minister-s-home-seeking-pay-hike-101628313918759.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||RT-PCR test must for unvaccinated pilgrims visiting Himachal temples||With Himachal Pradesh seeing a rise in Covid-19 cases over the past 10 days and the Shravan Ashtami Navratras set to start on August 9, the government has made RT-PCR or vaccination certificate mandatory for pilgrims visiting temples in the state. “The Himachal Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority has considered the surge in Covid-19 cases, increasing positivity rate and fatalities in the state from time to time. In order to break the transmission chain of the virus, this step has been taken,” said the order by chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh, who also heads the state executive committee. Also read: India’s daily new Covid-19 cases fall to 38,634; 617 deaths in last 24 hoursThe Shrawan Ashtami Navratras end on August 17. During this period, normally thousands of pilgrims assemble at temples. “It is of utmost importance to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour at all shrines. In view of the concern regarding the third wave and the fact that such kind of gatherings in confined spaces may become super spreader events, guidelines have been issued for the Shravan Ashtami Navratras,” he said. Police have implemented the No Mask No Darshan policy and are ensuring social distancing by sensitising, educating and legal enforcement. Provisions for thermal screening have been made at the entrance of religious places besides arrangements for hand sanitisation/handwashing. The order says persons intending to visit shrines during till August 17 shall be allowed to enter the state/district borders only if they possess a Covid-19 vaccination certificate (both doses) or RT-PCR negative report issued not older than 72 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rtpcr-test-must-for-unvaccinated-pilgrims-visiting-himachal-temples-101628314563408.html
07-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand has 4 psychiatrists for over 10 million population, reveals RTI||Uttarakhand has just four psychiatrists against 28 sanctioned posts in state’s 13 district hospitals to serve a population of over one crore, a government response to a right to information application revealed. Of all the four psychiatrists, three are posted in a Dehradun hospital and one in Nainital; the remaining 11 district hospitals have no psychiatrists.In June 2018, Uttarakhand high court directed the state government to provide “mental healthcare and treatment to all the persons with mental illness at an affordable cost, of good quality, available in sufficient quantity, accessible geographically and without any discrimination”. The HC had also directed the state government to open more mental healthcare establishments ``taking into consideration the large number of persons suffering from mental illness for their proper treatment, protection and care”.“It is shocking that 11 districts do not have even a single psychiatrist. This will make access to mental healthcare difficult in the Himalayan state, where many people need help, especially during this Covid time which has aggravated mental ailments and affected mental healthcare”, Anoop Nautiyal, founder, SDC Foundation, which had filed the RTI, said.Director general health, Uttarakhand, Tripti Bahuguna said efforts are on to improve mental healthcare in the state. “Some MBBS (Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery) doctors have been trained in basic psychiatry and more MBBS doctors will be trained in such courses to make up for the deficit. Also, State Mental Health Institute at Selaqui in Dehradun, the lone hospital for such patients with a capacity of nearly 40 beds, is being upgraded to 100 beds soon. We are also in the process of recruiting psychiatric doctors on a contractual basis”, she said.The RTI has also revealed that in nine of the 13 districts, availability of specialist doctors is less than 50%, at a time when the country is preparing for the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Haridwar has only 40 specialist doctors against 105 posts.“RTI data shows there is almost a 60% shortage in availability of child specialists and gynaecologists in the state. Accessibility is already a major challenge for women in hilly areas. Unavailability of female doctors will further exacerbate such issues,” said Rishabh Shrivastava, lead research and communications at SDC Foundation.“We have found that a lot of specialist doctors have been deployed for administrative duties. This is completely unacceptable. Right now, we need the services of these doctors more than ever,” said Vidush Pandey, a researcher at SDC Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-has-4-psychiatrists-for-over-10-million-population-reveals-rti-101628307422681.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra’s anticipatory bail plea to be heard today by a Mumbai court||Businessman Raj Kundra, who is currently in judicial custody after being arrested on July 19 on charges of producing pornographic content, has an anticipatory bail hearing scheduled for Saturday at a Mumbai sessions court. The case is related to creating of porn content and was registered by Mumbai Police last year.Kundra approached the sessions court on June 11 seeking anticipatory bail in the case filed by the Maharashtra Police's cyber cell last year. The matter had come up for hearing before the sessions court on August 2, and the court had reserved its hearing till August 7.Kundra and his IT associate Ryan Thorpe were arrested by property cell of the Mumbai crime branch in connection with a pornography film racket. The property cell has claimed that Kundra’s company Armspine was behind the app ‘Hotshots’, where the businessman used to upload pornographic content. The app was later sold to a London-based company called Kenrin Pvt Ltd, which the property cell claims is owned by Kundra’s brother-in-law. They also claimed that Kundra charged a subscription fee to users of the app and earned over ₹1.17 crore between August and December of last year.Also Read: Offence detrimental to health of society: Magistrate refusing bail to Raj KundraThe metropolitan magistrate court refused bail to both Kundra and Thorpe on August 4 and took note of claims by the property cell of both Kundra and Thorpe deleting data that had the potential to become incriminating. Public prosecutor Aruna Kamat Pai had levelled allegations of the accused deleting evidence to Bombay high court on August 2. “They (Kundra and Thorpe) were found deleting certain WhatsApp chats. The attitude of the applicant Raj Kundra speaks volume of his cooperation in the investigation. We do not know how much data has been deleted. The police are still trying to retrieve it,” Pai had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-s-anticipatory-bail-plea-to-be-heard-today-by-a-mumbai-court-101628305882581.html
07-08-2021||Patna||Unlock 5 in Bihar: Shops to function daily from today; cinema halls reopen||In view of recent improvement in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, Bihar is set to ease the restriction further, starting today. The 'Unlock 5' will see the reopening of shopping malls, cinema halls, and other commercial establishments in a phased manner. Schools for classes 9 and 10 are reopening as of today, but physical classes for standards 1 to 8 will start from August 16, according to directions issued by the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United) government.The 'Unlock 5' guidelines in Bihar will be applicable from August 7 to August 25, the chief minister said earlier this week. The Unlock 4 guideline period ended yesterday on Friday.कोरोना संक्रमण में कमी को देखते हुए दिनांक 07 अगस्त से 25 अगस्त तक सभी दुकानों को साप्ताहिक बंदी के साथ खोलने का निर्णय लिया गया है। नौवी से दसवीं कक्षा 7 अगस्त से एवं पहली से आठवीं कक्षा 16 अगस्त से खुलेगी। (1/3)All shops to resume daily operationsAll shops and commercial establishments in Bihar will now open on a daily basis, although they have been allowed to operate only till 7pm. The operation of these establishments will also take into account the weekend closure, which still remains operational in Bihar. However, establishments in the state will only allow those employees who have been vaccinated against Covid-19. A list of staff members who have been vaccinated must also be sent to the local police station.Moreover, public transport can now ply on the streets with the full 100 per cent capacity. This is expected to bring a lot of relief to daily commuters and people associated with the transportation industry since earlier, such travel was only allowed with 50 per cent capacity.Classes for 9 and 10 begin from todaySchools for students of classes 9 and 10 will reopen from August 7 under the Unlock-5 guidelines. The classes for standards 1 to 8 will resume about a week later from 16th August onwards, in the next phase of unlocking.The classes will reopen from today with 50 per cent of their strength on alternate days. Meanwhile, coaching institutes for students of Class 10 and upwards and for competitive examinations will also open from August 7 with 50 per cent attendance. These institutions will also have to ensure that all their staff has been vaccinated. Similarly, the Bihar education department will ensure that all schools are properly cleaned and sanitised before classes start for 1 to 8, according to an official order.Shopping malls and cinema halls to reopenShopping malls and cinema halls will also reopen under the new 'Unlock 5' guidelines. These establishments can now function normally on all days till 7pm, but they too have to ensure that all their staff is vaccinated and provide a list of the staff to the local police station.Notably, cinema halls and shopping malls had remained closed in Bihar till now under the existing 'Unlock 4' guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/unlock-5-in-bihar-shops-to-function-daily-from-today-cinema-halls-reopen-101628302775996.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||IMD predicts light rainfall in Delhi, nearby areas in next few hours||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday predicted thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rainfall for Delhi and nearby areas in the next few hours."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over isolated places of Delhi, Khekra, Gulothi, Bulandshahar, Billari, Milak, Bagpat, Chandausi (UP) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours," the IMD tweeted.The weather department has also predicted that the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi-NCR would remain satisfactory today."The air quality is likely to remain in Satisfactory to Moderate category on 07.08.2021 and 08.08.2021. The outlook for subsequent 5 Days: The air quality is likely to remain largely in Satisfactory category," the MeT department said.The national capital's air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.The IMD has predicted “light to very light” rainfall over the next few days in the region with “break monsoon-like conditions” likely to set in from mid-next week. Records from the IMD show that the first week of August has so far remained dry with most parts of the national capital receiving trace rainfall.Monsoon arrived in Delhi on July 13, at least 16 days behind schedule. Back in June, the IMD predicted that monsoon will arrive in the national capital by June 15. However, it revised its predictions for the arrival of monsoon and said that break monsoon conditions developed which delayed its onset.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/imd-predicts-light-rainfall-in-delhi-nearby-areas-in-next-few-hours-101628295914209.html
07-08-2021||Lucknow||BJP chief JP Nadda to begin 2-day UP visit today, meet state leaders, ministers||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda will reach Uttar Pradesh on Saturday on a two-day visit to chair a series of organisational meetings. The visit is significant in view of the assembly elections due next year.According to news agency PTI, the BJP chief is also expected to address a meeting of "corona warriors" during his visit and review efforts against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in Uttar Pradesh.Nadda will on Saturday address a meeting of block and zila panchayat heads in the state capital Lucknow. After that, he will hold meetings with party MPs (members of Parliament), MLAs (members of the legislative assembly), and MLCs (members of the legislative council). The meeting will also be attended by Union ministers and state BJP office-bearers of Uttar Pradesh.The BJP chief had earlier chaired a meeting of the party’s lawmakers from Uttar Pradesh about a week ago, which was attended by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.JP Nadda is expected to interact with core committee members of the Uttar Pradesh BJP unit to review the organisational framework, according to a party statement.The BJP chief will also meet "corona warriors" in Agra on August 8, according to the same statement. It says the BJP chief will address the health personnel and other key workers engaged in fighting the pandemic.Notably, the opposition has been accusing the Yogi Adityanath-led state government in Uttar Pradesh of Covid-19 mismanagement and inadequate response, particularly during the second wave of the pandemic back in April-May.The Uttar Pradesh government, however, insists that it met the challenge strongly. The BJP-ruled state claims that it has shown one of the best performances in India in dealing with the health crisis. The same assertion has also been echoed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who praised Uttar Pradesh and its chief minister Yogi Adityanath time and again for "unprecedented" efforts in checking the Covid-19 second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-to-begin-2-day-up-visit-today-meet-state-leaders-ministers-101628295437951.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi court to hear Umar Khalid's bail plea in northeast Delhi riots case today||A Delhi court will on Saturday hear the bail plea of former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, who was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the northeast Delhi riots case. The Delhi Police has opposed the plea, saying the case pertains to "a larger conspiracy".In a reply to Khalid's plea, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Alok Kumar said that the prosecution would demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed.“The application has no merit as would be revealed and demonstrated before this Court by reference to the charge-sheet and as such the prosecution does not seek to file a detailed reply to the application,” Kumar said, according to news agency PTI.The reply also pointed out that out of 21 persons arrested in the case, the police have given charge sheet to 18, including Khalid.Khalid, along with several others, has been booked under the anti-terror UAPA law in the case. All of them are accused of being masterminds of February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.Apart from Khalid, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case.Khalid was granted bail in another case related to the riots earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-to-hear-umar-khalid-s-bail-plea-in-northeast-delhi-riots-case-today-101628293038495.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Plea in SC against Asthana’s appointment as Delhi top cop||In a first substantial challenge to the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner, a petition before the Supreme Court has claimed that the order to appoint him is illegal and smacks of malafide as it goes contrary to Supreme Court decisions, recruitment rules and provisions governing inter-cadre transfer.On July 27, the Centre issued orders appointing the 1984 Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi’s top cop for a year, with just four days remaining for his retirement.The petition filed by NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation on Friday said that the July 27 orders issued by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC) and the Centre appointing Asthana as Commissioner of Delhi Police need to be quashed and a fresh appointment process initiated for choosing an officer from AGMUT cadre for appointment as police commissioner. The AGMUT is a cadre for Arunachal Pradesh, Goa Mizoram and other Union Territories including Delhi.The petition filed through activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan said, “The impugned orders dated July 27 are completely illegal and clearly smack of malafide and have presumably been issued only to promote the interests of the Respondent No.2 (Asthana) as well as of those in the Central government.”Earlier, a contempt petition was filed in the top court by lawyer Manohar Lal Sharma submitting that Asthana’s appointment went contrary to the top court’s March 13, 2019 judgment in the Prakash Singh case requiring any officer appointed as director general of police to have a residual tenure of six months for appointment. Asthana had four days to retire as on July 27.In May, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana alluded to the judgment when candidates, including Asthana, were being considered for the post of director of the Central Bureau of Investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plea-in-sc-against-asthana-s-appointment-as-delhi-top-cop-101628285651574.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal reviews Delhi Jal Board’s flagship projects||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday reviewed the Delhi Jal Board’s (DJB) flagship projects, including providing 24x7 water supply to all households and 100% piped water and sewerage connectivity across the city, and directed officials to ensure the projects translate into reality.The chief minister also asked officials to ensure that the project of providing 100% sewerage connectivity across Delhi is completed within the stipulated timeline.“The Delhi government will not make any false promises to the people. Officers must have a complete understanding of the on-ground reality and what we can deliver,” he said.Of the 1,799 unauthorised colonies in Delhi, piped water supply has been released to 1,573; supply is yet to be notified in 60 others, leaving just 166 more colonies to be connected to the network, he said in a statement.He added that round-the-clock water supply is being made available in areas like Malviya Nagar, Nangloi and Mehrauli-Vasant Vihar which were taken up as pilot projects and cater to 12% of the population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-reviews-delhi-jal-board-s-flagship-projects-101628284191642.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Pintu's vintage collections||Times change, institutions alter. The iconic book bazar that used to unfold every Sunday on Daryaganj footpaths has been moved to the exhibition ground of Mahila Haat. It is very close to the market’s old site, but the experience is profoundly different. In the old bazar, you walked a mile from one stall to another, with books laid out on the pavement. In the new bazar, you move in circles. The space is much smaller, there is less mobility, there are no snack stalls, and the stalls are fewer.Also, some stars of the bazar are missing. Bookseller Surinder Singh for instance, who would sit outside the Broadway Hotel with some of the best selections in novels and poetry, hasn’t opened his stall in Mahila Haat yet.Such absences are sorely felt. But the bazar has a new star.Pintu’s stall has a most incredible collection of paperback classics published by Penguin in the 1950s and 1960s. While the titles might easily be found elsewhere, you won’t get them in such stunning cover designs, which also evoke an earlier era in the book publishing art.“I have 10,000 old Penguins in my godam (warehouse) in Sonia Vihar, but here I bring only a few hundreds,” says Pintu, real name Ashwini Kumar. The stall was founded by his father Jaleshhwar Prasad in 1993 in the old bazar, but it did not stand out then. The stall’s current collection has come from “containers” arriving by sea from the US and UK, and road-transported to Delhi by trucks. That’s the primary way of sourcing books by the bazar traders, apart from scavenging in the city’s private libraries.This afternoon, Pintu’s selection includes all the Signet editions of Shakespeare plays from the 60s. These paperbacks are cherished for their minimalist yet richly detailed camp-style covers. They were the work of the legendary Milton Glaser, the American graphic designer famous for his 1967 poster of Bob Dylan with psychedelic hair and his iconic “I love NY” logo. He died last year. Pintu’s Glaser collection includes a copy of The Tempest, in which Miranda’s luscious ringlets are sprouting a dreamy vapour-like image of her father, Prospero.Now a masked browser picks up a paperback of Jean Genet’s Thief’s Journal, whose cover shows a man’s head etched with images of Greek sculptures. The customer thinks 100 rupees is too much for this priceless copy and goes away. Good for those who will value it truly.Pintu’s stall lies opposite stall 8, in the center of the grounds. The bazar is held every Sunday from 3 pm to 7 pm, and is expected to open at 8 am from September onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-pintu-s-vintage-collections-101628283631473.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks govt to respond on plea by private schools||The Delhi high court on Friday sought the response of the city government on a plea by private schools challenging a single judge’s May 31 order to the extent that it directed schools to collect annual charges with a deduction of 15%. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice on a plea by Action Committee Unaided Recognised Private Schools, an umbrella of over 400 private schools, which contended that the Delhi directorate of education has said that in addition to the annual and development charges, a reduction of 15% must also be given on tuition fee. Challenging the limited part in the judgment, private schools contended that the Delhi government has “misconstrued” the May 31 judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-govt-to-respond-on-plea-by-private-schools-101628282597768.html
07-08-2021||Other||Himachal logs 256 Covid infections, two deaths||Himachal on Thursday recorded 256 fresh Covid cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,07,344, while death toll mounted to 3,517 after two patients succumbed to the contagion. Around 68 infections were reported in Chamba, 60 in Mandi, 43 in Kangra, 24 in Hamirpur, 18 in Bilaspur, 10 in Lahaul-Spiti, nine in Solan, eight Una, five in Kullu and four in Kinnaur.The active infections have climbed to 1,727, while recoveries reached 2,02,060 after 137 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 46,567 cases followed by Mandi (28,314), Shimla (25,850), Solan (22,447), Sirmaur (15,377), Hamirpur (14,670), Una (13,478), Bilaspur (12,970), Chamba (12,364), Kullu (9,204), Kinnaur (3,323) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,780).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-256-covid-infections-two-deaths-101628281320850.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||HP govt announces ₹1 crore award for hockey player Varun Kumar after Olympics bronze||The Himachal Pradesh government on Friday announced an award of ₹ 1 crore for Varun Kumar after the Indian men’s hockey team won the bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics.Kumar, who hails from Dalhousie in Chamba district, will also be appointed as deputy superintendent of police, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said. “It is a matter of pride that the Indian team has won an Olympics medal in hockey after 41 years,” said Thakur, adding that the government had increased the cash prize for Olympic gold medal winners to ₹2 crore, ₹1.20 crore for silver medal winners and ₹1 crore for bronze medal winners.Senior Congress MLA from Dalhouse, Asha Kumari, urged the CM to build a sports complex in the region.She told the House that Kumar belongs to the Gaddi tribe of Chamba district and had won the Man of the Match award in the World Junior Hockey championship. She said that players have to go to Punjab for training and sport facilities should be developed in the state. Kumar’s family had also moved to Jalandhar a few years ago. Youth Affairs and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania said the state government will avail Kumar’s services in promoting Hockey in Himachal.He said a ₹7-crore hockey astroturf was coming up at Nahan . “Hockey is popular in Nahan and Paonta Sahib and an international hockey centre is being setting up there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-govt-announces-rs-1-crore-award-for-hockey-player-varun-kumar-after-olympics-bronze-101628280960813.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Widening of Shimla-Mataur highway will be completed in 2 years: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday said widening of the 223.7-km Shimla-Mataur national highway (NH-88) will be completed within two years. He was responding to a question raised by Nadaun MLA Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu. “The centre has given in principal approval to the project. The project will cost ₹1,323 crore. The work has been divided into six packages and the detailed project report of four packages is underway,” the CM said.On expansion of the railway network in the state, industry minister Bikram Singh, while responding to Kasumpti MLA Anirudh Singh, said, “The state is working in coordination with the Centre to expand the railway network.”The minister said that apart from the existing railway lines — Kalka-Shimla, Joginderngar-Pathankot and Una-Nangal –Talwara — work is underway on two new railway lines — Bhanupali-Bilaspur and Chandigarh-Baddi. The state government has also sought approval from the railway ministry for three railway lines — Una-Hamirpur, Bilaspur-Mandi and Jagadhari-Paonta Sabhib-Kala Amb, the industry minister added. Responding to Jwalamukhi MLA Ramesh Dhawala, the CM said around ₹7.81 crore had been spent on the repair and maintenance of the state secretariat over the last two years. Proposal for ammunition factory In a written reply to a question raised by raised by Nalagarh MLA Lakhvinder Singh Rana, industry minister Bikram Singh said the state-level single window clearance and monitoring authority has received a project proposal from a private company seeking sanction to set up an ammunition factory in Nalagarh assembly constituency. He said the proposal discussed in a meeting of the authority on July 16. “Around 1,000 acres of land will be required for setting up the unit, which will provide employment to over 2,000 people,” he said, adding that the factory is proposed to be set up in Lakhanpur Tehsil  ₹6 crore earmarked to put out forest fires The Himachal Pradesh government has made a provision of more than ₹ 6 crore in the budget in the current financial year to put out forest fires in the state, forest minister Rakesh Pathania told Barsar Congress MLA Inder Dutt Lakhanpal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/widening-of-shimla-mataur-highway-will-be-completed-in-2-years-jai-ram-101628280600899.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Leopard mauls five-year-old girl to death in Shimla’s Kanlog||In a shocking incident, a five-year-old girl was carried off and killed by a leopard in Kanlog locality of Shimla on Thursday evening. The victim, Priyanka, is the daughter of migrant labourer from Jharkhand and had been staying on a construction site. She was with her grandmother when she was carried off by the leopard from outside their shanty around 8.30pm, Shimla wildlife divisional forest officer (DFO) Krishan Kumar said. The victim’s grandmother, Sukhmati, said, “I had gone to check on the rice, leaving Priyanka outside when the attack took place. I heard the sound of a bucket falling and saw the animal carry off my granddaughter.” The victim’s mutilated head was found 200 to 250m away from the construction site. Fear-stricken residents immediately raised the alarm and informed the wildlife wing and the police as soon as the girl went missing. A team of wildlife and forest department officials accompanied by locals launched a search for the feline. However, the operation was suspended due to darkness. The victim’s remains have been sent to the forensics department to verify her identity and to determine whether more than one leopard had been involved in the attack, the DFO said, adding that the girl’s family will be given a compensation of ₹4 lakh. Cages and cameras have been set up in the area to trap the big cat, who officials say has become a man-eater. “Teams have been deployed to search for the missing girl and trap the man-eating leopard. Camera traps and cages have been set up to catch the animal,” said Archana Sharma, the principal chief conservator of the Himachal Pradesh forest department.The leopard had been sighted several times in Kanlog, Sanjauli, Khalini, Dhalli, Vikas Nagar and Five Benches areas of Shimla at night. The attack on the five-year-old is not an isolated incident. On June 21, a youngster had been attacked by a leopard outside his house in Krishna Nagar locality, while he was relieving himself. However, the alert man managed to lock the leopard in the bathroom and escaped with minor injuries. Later, the animal was tranqualised and taken away by the forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/leopard-mauls-five-year-old-girl-to-death-in-shimla-s-kanlog-101628280360866.html
07-08-2021||Other||Govt schools in J&K to be renamed after martyrs||All government schools in Jammu and Kashmir will be renamed after The Indian army soldiers, CRPF men, and Jammu and Kashmir police personnel who were killed in line of duty, while serving the nation, as per directions issued by the Jammu divisional commissioner on Friday. In a letter, Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer asked deputy commissioners of all the 10 districts of Jammu region –Jammu, Doda, Reasi, Poonch, Rajouri, Kathua, Samba, Ramban, Kishtwar and Udhampur – to identify government schools that can be named after the martyrs. The order said, “As per instruction received by a higher authority, I am directed to request you to kindly identify such government schools in villages and municipal wards of the district that can be named after our martyrs (police/army/CRPF)”. “A committee may be constituted at district level to prepare such details after due verification. Senior superintendent of police, assistant deputy commissioner, assistant commissioner (panchayat), or a representative of the army can be included in the committee to finalise the list at the district level,” said in the letter. Udhampur district commissioner Indu Chib said, “We have identified eight to nine government schools, but we are yet to finalise the list.” A senior army officer, requesting anonymity, said, “It is a wonderful initiative by the government. At least our children would learn about the supreme sacrifices of the martyrs. Not only it will nurture a feeling of nationalism among the citizens, but also immortalise the martyrs, who will be remembered by their names.” In 2019, Rajasthan had also cleared a proposal to rename 15 government schools in different districts of the state after martyrs. The Punjab government has also said that it will rename 14 more schools after freedom fighters and other renowned personalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-schools-in-j-k-to-be-renamed-after-martyrs-101628280064260.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||J&K launches film policy to promote UT as shooting destination||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha has launched the Union Territory’s Film Policy, which officials said has been worked out to facilitate the overall growth of the film industry in the region, including setting up of a film development council and revival of closed cinema halls.The policy, launched at a star-studded event here on Thursday in the presence of actor Aamir Khan and filmmaker Rajkumar Hirani, aims at establishing Jammu and Kashmir as the first choice of film shooting destination for filmmakers.The officials said the policy has been worked out to promote the overall growth of the film industry in the Union Territory, setting up of the Jammu and Kashmir Film Development Council and providing hands on access to website for talent pool and all shooting destinations.They said it will also facilitate the development of shooting locales, infrastructure for film screening, revival of closed cinema halls, upgrading existing cinema halls, encouraging setting up of multiplexes and cinema halls, destination marketing, organising the J&K film festival, and restoration and preservation of films from the region.The government has set up a single-window clearance mechanism, prepared equipment, location and talent directories, besides offering a host of incentives for filmmakers coming to the UT, the officials said.Speaking at the launch event, Sinha said it was a historic day for Jammu and Kashmir. He said the government is creating a vibrant film ecosystem to make the region the film industry’s favourite once again.Among one of the best in the country, the new Film Policy will transform Jammu and Kashmir and revive its halcyon days of being a cinematographer’s delight, he added.“I invite filmmakers from across the world to come to J&K and explore the pristine beauty of Jammu and Kashmir. At the same time, also avail a host of fiscal and non-fiscal incentives, besides world-class facilities offered by the J&K government,” he said.The Film Policy has been drafted after consultations with the experts and in-depth study of progressive film policies of other states, UTs, and other countries. “Suggestions of renowned names of the Indian film industry have also been incorporated while formulating the policy. The facility which one gets at other locations in Europe or America, we are committed to providing the same at the locations in Jammu and Kashmir,” the Lt Governor said.Sinha said the Film Policy is not just a government document, but it is Jammu and Kashmir regaining its proud legacy of association with the world of cinema, and the long and cherished tradition of film shooting.It is also a reflection of a changing development scenario of Jammu and Kashmir and represents the aspirations of the art sector, he said.“To meet the need of the film shooting, we have the manpower of more than 1500 such trained artists which will also provide an opportunity to the local talents to show their skills,” Sinha said. “Besides, there are hundreds of unexplored places, which have been left unattended by filmmakers and we are developing those potential places with the requisite facilities and team of the best local artists.The new film policy will also give a fillip to the film tourism sector, thus opening up more employment avenues for the locals,” he added.“As far as security is concerned, 10.52 lakh tourists coming in July alone shows that there is no concern from the security point of view,” the Lt Governor said.While highlighting some of the key endeavours of the government to add more attraction to the film sector and introducing Jammu and Kashmir’s long association with the films to the new generation, he said the government has decided to install illuminating signages dedicated to the directors, film actors and crew members at the locations where memorable films have been shot.Recalling the era of 60s and 70s, the Lt Governor said renowned films makers and film personalities such as Raj Kapoor, Shammi Kapoor, Rajendra Kumar, Dilip Kumar in the 60s, and later Yash Chopra, Rahul Rawail, Mani Ratnam, had a deep association with Jammu and Kashmir. The world will once again get to see and experience the same scenario after decades, Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-launches-film-policy-to-promote-ut-as-shooting-destination-101628279580748.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||3 of four govt technical varsities in state don’t have regular V-C||Adhocism has hit hard higher technical institutes with three of the four government universities in Punjab functioning without a regular vice-chancellor (V-C). Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRS PTU), Bathinda, is the only university that is having a regular V-C, whereas the term of Jalandhar-based IK Gujral Punjab Technical University’s V-C Dr Ajay Kumar Sharma had expired in May and he has been asked to continue till the time a replacement is finalised. The two newly-upgraded technical universities — Shaheed Bhagat Singh Technical University at Ferozepur and Sardar Beant Singh Technical University, Gurdaspur — are also functioning without a regular V-C. “Generally, whenever a university is announced or set-up, the first thing the government does is appoint a regular V-C so that he can create the infrastructure on the campus and take other decisions as per the requirement. In the case of these two varsities, the opposite has happened,” a retired registrar of a university said. The charge of Ferozepur varsity is with Dr Buta Singh, the V-C of MRS PTU, Bathinda, whereas the charge of the Gurdaspur varsity is with Guru Nanak Dev University V-C Dr Jaspal Sandhu. In March this year, the Punjab government had given nod to upgrade as universities the two engineering colleges at Ferozepur and Gurdaspur. The three universities having no regular V-C are also not having regular registrars and the additional charges have been given to other officials. The PTU Jalandhar is also running without a regular registrar since 2012. The post of V-Cs for these three universities were advertised in May and the last day to apply was May 25. According to a senior technical department functionary, the selection committee led by Punjab chief secretary had finalised names for the PTU Jalandhar. However, the file regarding the appointment has been moving from one office to another and is yet to reach the governor for the final notification. Technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi said he was aware of the issue and has been in touch with the officials involved in the selection of the new V-Cs. “As far V-C of PTU Jalandhar is concerned, I was against giving charge to a person whose term has ended. I even got the reports that he is not taking calls and the work of the varsity has come to a stop as he is not taking interest anymore,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-of-four-govt-technical-varsities-in-state-don-t-have-regular-vc-101628279221009.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Eye on Dalit votes, Sidhu visits Dera Sachkhand Ballan||In an attempt to woo the Dalits ahead of the 2022 assembly elections, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu visited Dera Sachkhand Ballan, a prominent place revered by the Scheduled Caste community, in Jalandhar on Friday. He also visited Dera Jaura of Sant Nirmal Dass at Raipur village in the district. He was accompanied by cabinet ministers Charanjit Singh Channi and Aruna Chaudhary; working presidents of party Sukhwinder Singh Danny and Sangat Singh Gilzian; former MP Mohinder Singh Kaypee and over a dozen party MLAs. Sidhu reached Jalandhar in the afternoon and met party MLAs and senior leaders, before they all reached Dera Sachkhand at Ballan village where he met its head Sant Niranjan Dass and also partook of a langar. In his address, Sidhu said he has come to seek their blessings in his endeavour to work for uplifting and empowering the underprivileged sections of society. “I am not here to do any kind of politics. Religion is higher than politics. We should take guidance from the religion,” Sidhu said. Sidhu also visited Dera Jaura of Sant Nirmal Dass at Raipur village. Faces farmers’ protest Farmers staged a protest against Navjot Singh Sidhu near to Dera Ballan on Jalandhar-Pathankot highway even as police kept the protesters at a bay. Farmers said Sidhu was playing politics rather than supporting them on the three farm laws. They said Sidhu has single agenda to somehow let Congress form the government in Punjab in 2022. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Kashmir Singh said Sidhu didn’t visit Singu border where farmers were protesting since November last year. “But, farmers on their own have enough power to force the central government to repeal the laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eye-on-dalit-votes-sidhu-visits-dera-sachkhand-ballan-101628278922065.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Svamitva scheme: Govt extends project to give proprietary rights to villagers||After a drone survey in villages of Gurdaspur district for giving proprietary rights to dwellers inside ‘lal dora’, the Punjab revenue department has decided to take the project to five other districts, namely Fazilka, Bathinda, Barnala, Faridkot and Fatehgarh Sahib. The project is part of Centre’s ‘Survey of Villages for Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Area’ (Svamitva) scheme, called ‘mission lal lakeer’ in the state. Svamitva scheme is a central government scheme that will provide an integrated property validation solution for rural India. This was a long pending demand of the rural dwellers to prepare a detailed inventory of all kinds of properties within the ‘lal lakeer’ and give the ownership rights so that villagers can monetise their immovable assets. Under the pilot project in Gurdaspur, 1,225 villages were to be surveyed. So far, drone survey has been completed in 206 villages and maps of 165 villages have been verified and sent back to Survey of India, the national mapping agency (NMA). Objections have been invited by displaying maps in 12 villages. There are 12,500 villages in the state and all will be covered under the Svamitva scheme. “Already work is at an advanced stage in Gurdaspur and we hope to start issuing property cards to the dwellers within a month,” said additional chief secretary Ravneet Kaur. The Survey of India has been asked to deploy drone teams in five districts in August. In July, Punjab’s rural development and panchayats department had signed a MoU with Survey of India to carry out drone-based mapping of rural habituated areas. “This will also help in resolving property-related disputes, besides enabling creation better panchayat development plans,” said a state government officer, adding that once the inventory is completed, ownership documents will be prepared. Under the scheme, 12 continuously operating reference stations (CORS) have been set up in the state. State revenue department, the nodal agency for ‘mission lal lakeer’, has constituted a state-level steering committee led by the chief secretary, district-level monitoring committees headed by the deputy commissioners and implementation committees led by the sub-divisional magistrates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/svamitva-scheme-govt-extends-project-to-give-proprietary-rights-to-villagers-101628278680785.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Realty firm director booked for cheating Chandigarh man||A realtor has been booked for cheating and criminal breach of trust for failing to provide possession of a a residential plot despite payment to a Khudda Lahora resident. Complainant Davinder Kumar, who works as a flooring contractor, alleged he had paid ₹6.5 lakh to buy a plot at Parag City in Lalru in 2012, but is still awaiting its possession. Police have registered a case against Randhir Sood, a resident of Sector 15, who is the director of Parag Infratech Private Limited and Punjab Empires Private Limited. Two more residents duped in cityIn another case, BS Walia, a resident of Sector 24, alleged fraudulent withdrawals to the tune of ₹25,500 from his SBI account. He said that on August 4, he received a message that his account has been blocked and he needs to update his KYC, for which a link was provided. During the updating process, the amount got debited from his account. Meanwhile, a woman who resides in Sector 44 was allegedly duped by a man who contacted her on a social networking site and posed as a British Airways pilot. The accused offered to send her a gift, even as she refused. The next day, she got a call from a person, who introduced himself as a customs officer and asked for ₹50,950 as carriage charges for a parcel. Even as she deposited the amount, she didn’t receive any gift, after which she contacted police and a case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/realty-firm-director-booked-for-cheating-chandigarh-man-101628277781721.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC can impose only 10% interest on delayed rent payment: Estate officer||The court of additional commissioner-cum-estate officer, Chandigarh municipal corporation, on Friday held that the civic body cannot charge its allottees 20% penal interest on account of delayed ground rent payment and can only impose 10% interest. The order came in the case of Lok Priya Buildwell Private Limited, which is the lessee of the hotel site in Sector 35-B from where JW Marriott hotel operates. The EO directed the MC to calculate the outstanding amount of ground rent at 10% as per provisions of the lease rules and intimate the lessee Lok Priya Buildwell Pvt Ltd, hotel site Block no 6, Sector 35B, within seven days. The lessee has also been directed to pay the dues within 30 days from issuance date of the demand notice, failing which the office would be at liberty to initiate action as per the rules applicable in the present case. Notably, the EO order came following the directions dated October 22, 2020, of the court of UT adviser, which had set aside the resumption order issued to the Sector 35 hotel by the estate office branch of the Chandigarh MC. The adviser had directed the EO to examine afresh. The petitioner approached court of EO through advocate by SK Jain and Vikas Jain. The petitioner’s counsel stated that the estate office had wrongly charged 20% interest on account of non-payment of ground rent while applying condition five of the allotment letter and that the said condition applied to non-payment of principal amount of premium and not non-payment of ground rent. The appellant further contended that as per the Rule 13 of Chandigarh Leasehold of Sites and Building Rules, 1973, only 6% interest can be charged for the non-payment of the ground rent and till date it is actually paid. “The Chandigarh MC had not issued any notification for the imposition of interest at 20%, which without any notification is illegal and liable to be set aside,” it was said. The MC representative submitted that it was clearly mentioned in clause five of the allotment letter that in case the petitioner failed to make payment of outstanding dues then he is liable to pay 20% interest on the account of non-payment of ground rent. “The Chandigarh Lease Hold of Sites and Building Rules, 1973, governing the allotment of the site had mentioned 20% penal interest,” it was mentioned. The UT adviser had set aside the impugned orders passed by the lower courts and remanded the case back to the MC additional commissioner for a fresh decision. The adviser order had stated, “It is clear that condition five of the allotment letter providing 20% interest is applicable only to non-payment of the principal amount premium. It is also a fact that there is a separate provision for non-payment of ground rent under the act as well as in the allotment letter. Since the additional commissioner has not applied the relevant rules while passing the impugned orders, therefore, the revision petition deserves to be accepted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-can-impose-only-10-interest-on-delayed-rent-payment-estate-officer-101628277780707.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Apply online for college admission from August 10||The portal to fill admission forms for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate courses in city colleges will open from August 10. This was announced while the joint prospectus for colleges was launched by UT secretary, education, SS Gill on Friday.The portal will remain open between August 10 and August 18. The common admission schedule for UG and PG classes (centralised and non-centralised) will be followed by the government and privately managed aided colleges. As per the prospectus, there are total 6,925 seats in various centralised undergraduate courses, 9,725 in various non-centralised undergraduate courses, 3,390 seats for postgraduate non-centralised courses and 880 seats for postgraduate diploma courses.A list of all applicants will be displayed by August 21 for the centralised admission and after giving some time to file and resolve discrepancies, the first counselling for seats is likely to start from September 1. It will be carried out virtually. The applicants will receive an SMS notifying them to deposit their fee after the college seat is assigned to them. Applicants are advised to give their contact number with WhatsApp and their working email id so that effective communication can take place. Every institution will have help desks, special helpline number and e-mail facility in place to facilitate and resolve applicants’ queries. The updated admission form for the session 2021-2022 also includes the applicants’ status of vaccination. The relevant information is available on director higher education website www.dhe.chd.gov.in There are 12 government colleges in the city offering UG courses. Six of them are government institutions— Post Graduate Government College (PGGC), Sector 11; Post Graduate Government College for Girls (PGGCG), Sector 11; Regional Institute of English (RIE), Sector 32; PGGCG, Sector 42; PGGC, Sector 46; and Government College of Commerce and Business Administration (GCCBA), Sector 50. The other six are privately managed — DAV College, Sector 10; Sri Guru Gobind Singh College (SGGS), Sector 26; Guru Gobind Singh College for Women (GGSCW), Sector 26; Goswami Ganesh Dutta SD College (GGDSD), Sector 32; Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women (MCM DAV), Sector 36; and Dev Samaj College for Women, Sector 45. Online admissions begin at govt college in Mohali Meanwhile, the process of online admissions to entry-level semester 1 of graduate and postgraduate classes for the academic session 2021-22 at Shaheed Major Harminderpal Singh Government College, Mohali, commenced on August 5. Principal Jatinder Kaur said this year onwards, admissions would be done only through an online admission portal (www.admission.punjab.gov.in) launched by the Punjab government. The last date for admission to entry-level classes without late fees is August 19 as per the academic calendar issued by Punjabi University, Patiala. The principal said a help desk has also been set up in the college campus for the assistance of such students who face hardships during online registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhapply-online-for-college-admission-from-august-10-101628277721948.html
07-08-2021||Dehradun||AAP’s Kejriwal likely to visit Uttarakhand on Sunday, say party leaders||Dehradun: Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal is likely to visit Uttarakhand on Sunday, his second visit since he travelled to the hill state in July to announce free power up to 300 units to all the households in the state, people familiar with the matter said on Friday.An AAP leader familiar with the party’s strategy for next year’s state elections said the AAP convenor is expected to make another promise to the people that the party will fulfil if the AAP comes to power.It is being speculated that he may also announce the party’s presumptive chief minister for the 2022 state elections. AAP state unit chief SS Kaler said Kejriwal was scheduled to travel to Uttarakhand every month “and make a similar announcement on other domains.” “It would include water, education, health and other basic amenities for the public which are necessary for any state. These won’t be mere announcements but our promises that will be fulfilled if AAP wins 2022 elections,” he said.In July the AAP’s state unit launched “Kejriwal Muft Bijli Guarantee Card” under which party’s 10,000 workers are to visit households in all the 70 assembly seats and ask people to register for the free electricity to get the “guarantee card” that the party will deliver on its promise if it comes to power.The BJP and the Congress, however, dismissed the AAP effort to emerge as the third player in state politics.BJP state media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan said, “It is the modus operandi of AAP to make false promises which they can’t fulfill. They are doing the same in Uttarakhand too but they won’t succeed as people are here are aware of their despicable tactics.” The state Congress called the AAP’s promises a political gimmick. “They know that they have no political ground in Uttarakhand. Hence making such promises months before the elections to garner some votes. But, the people of Uttarakhand are smart enough to not fall in their trap,” said party state spokesperson Garima Dasauni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/aaps-kejriwal-likely-to-visit-uttarakhand-on-sunday-say-party-leaders-101628277661813.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 97-year-old woman found murdered in Sector 8||A 97-year-old woman was found murdered with her throat slit at her house in Sector 8, Chandigarh, on Friday night. The deceased has been identified as Joginder Kaur, who was living alone. Police said her husband had died in 2003 and her children are staying abroad. A portion of the house is occupied by her daughter-in-law, who lives separately.The police control room received a call about a woman lying unconscious in her house around 8pm. The caller had claimed that the woman had been assaulted. After reaching the spot, police rushed Joginder Kaur to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where she was declared brought dead. Investigating officials found things scattered in the house, pointing to the possibility of a theft bid. However, police are not ruling out the role of some person known to the elderly woman, who might have tried to pass it off as a theft gone wrong.The kitchen knife used to slit her throat has been recovered. A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in Sector 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-97-year-old-woman-found-murdered-in-sector-8-101628277660622.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Rift in Chandigarh Congress: Ex-president Chhabra quits party||After a six-month-long open spat with the incumbent Chandigarh Congress leadership, the party’s former local unit chief Pardeep Chhabra on Friday resigned from its primary membership.The resignation comes a day after the Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee decided to issue a show-cause notice to Chhabra for his “anti-party” activities. There were strong indications that he would be ousted from the party.Chhabra, in his resignation letter addressed to All India Congress Committee interim president Sonia Gandhi, blamed former Chandigarh MP and party’s national treasurer Pawan Bansal for his resignation.“I was being treated as a puppet who was controlled by Bansal. I had no other option but to take this step, which I hadn’t imagine even in my dreams, because of the dictatorial attitude of Bansal,” he wrote in the letter.Since his removal from the post of the Chandigarh Congress president in February earlier this year, Chhabra has been a vocal critic of the party’s local leadership. Initially, his criticism was directed towards his successor, Subhash Chawla, but in the last couple of weeks, he started questioning Bansal’s role in the local unit’s working.In the resignation letter, Chhabra further wrote: “Bansal has been running the party like a private company. Due to his ego, I was removed from the post of CTCC president without any intimation.” Points to party’s losing streak Claiming the “Congress is dying”, Chhabra stated in the letter that since the 2013 railway scam, involving Bansal’s kin, the party has lost all elections in Chandigarh, including that to the Lok Sabha, municipal corporation, block president and gram panchayat. Expressing his frustration with the national party leadership, Chhabra wrote: “I repeatedly wrote via e-mail to Rahul Gandhi, Venugopal, party incharge Harish Rawat and also to your good self (Sonia Gandhi), but unfortunately got no response from anyone, which ultimately forced me to take this huge step.”According to party insiders, Chhabra, who had been a long-time Bansal loyalist, had a fallout with the senior Congress leader over his role in the party. “They had a different view over what should be his future in the party. Chhabra was looking for a bigger role, but instead was shunted out from the president’s post,” said a party leader, requesting anonymity.A close aide of Chhabra said one of the contentious issue between the two related to the entry of a family member of Bansal into the city’s politics. On Chhabra’s allegations against him, Bansal said: “It does not merit a response.”Meanwhile, Chawla, commenting on Chhabra’s resignation, said: “The Congress is a big party, and people come and go. But the language used by Chhabra in his resignation letter is very disappointing.”Factionalism in election yearThe factionalism in the Congress has come to the centre stage at a time when the party is looking to reclaim the electoral ground lost to the Bharatiya Janata Party.“Chhabra has been associated with the party for the past 35 years. He was a councillor for 15 years, and also a former mayor. He was the party president for the nearly six years. He might not be able to push senior leaders to break the ranks, but at the grassroots, he can get support from the disgruntled elements, which can create a problem for the Congress in the crucial election year,” said a Congress leader, requesting anonymity.Notably, so far, seven other Congress leaders have resigned from the party primary membership in support of Chhabra.“There are strong prospects that Chhabra would either join the Aam Aadmi Party or extend support to it in the MC elections. He has a long association with AAP election in-charge Chander Mukhi Sharma and shares a good equation with him,” said the leader.However, Chawla maintained that Chhabra’s resignation would not affect the party’s chances in the MC elections.On his future course of action, Chhabra said that he would consult his supporters before taking any decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rift-in-chandigarh-congress-ex-president-chhabra-quits-party-101628277480755.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Vij suspends 4 Panchkula cops for negligence||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Friday placed four Panchkula cops, including the station house officer, Sector 5, on suspension for “negligence in duty” after conducting a surprise inspection of the police station. While the home minister cited pendency of complaints, presence of an ununiformed night munshi, non-maintenance of the attendance and departure (ravangi) register, non-deployment of security guard at the entrance and failure to act on the counterfeit currency reported by a bank to justify his action against the cops, senior police officials said the facts were to the contrary. For instance, the minister said he has sought information on action taken with regards to about 143 FIRs that have not been investigated or processed. The fact is that the Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) on July 27 had asked the SHO to reconcile 125 pending complaints (not FIRs). The SHO in his response said that only 88 complaints were pending for reconciliation, which is an ongoing process. “Often people present complaints through various channels such as the CM window, home minister’s office and DGPs office. Thus, there are multiple copies of the same complaint that need reconciliation,’’ said an official privy to the matter. On the minister’s contention that many applications have been recovered from the SHO’s office on which no action has been taken, the officials said that disposal of a complaint can only be done after conducting an inquiry. “It’s a time-consuming process which required calling both the parties. Panchkula has high number of domestic and money related disputes. The question is how many were pending inordinately. This was never taken into account by the minister,’’ said an official. Earlier, after reaching the police station around 1 pm, Vij checked every room and drawer. According to the orders issued by the Panchkula deputy commissioner of police, SHO Lalit Kumar, munshi Dimpal Kumar, night munshi Ajay Kumar and probationer sub-inspector Mandeep Singh have been placed under suspension.“I wanted to suspend everyone present in the police station. But several documents are yet to come to me. Work is not being done in adherence to law in this police station specifically,’” the minister said, adding that he has asked for an action taken report on FIRs registered in the last one month. Minister versus cops Vij: No action on two fake currency notes reported by bankCops: As per 2019 RBI guidelines, police investigation by filing an FIR is only done when five or more counterfeit currency notes are detected in a single transaction For four or less counterfeit notes, only a consolidated report along with the suspected notes is sent by bank to police at month end Vij: Night munshi not wearing uniformCops: Night munshi is supposed to be on duty at night. He was in station to assist to his colleagues at a time when he should be sleeping Vij: Probationer SI Mandeep Singh’s attendance not marked in registerCops: The SI was in courts for presenting a challan. His attendance is marked in courtVij: No security guard at police station entranceCops: Due to agitation by Asha workers and Huda employees in city, police had to scramble to arrange force. Sanctioned strength of constables (705) in the district is lowest in the state Vij: No record of applications maintained Cops: Every complaint is entered in 5-P register and is accounted for. Courts can summon the records anytime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-vij-suspends-4-panchkula-cops-for-negligence-101628277301475.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal colonies: No registration of properties without NOC till decision on PIL: Punjab to HC||The Punjab government has given an undertaking in the high court that it will not register plots and properties in illegal colonies till a decision on issues raised in a public interest litigation (PIL) are not dealt with.The submissions were made in a PIL filed by a Ludhiana resident, Prem Prakash, who had alleged that authorities are permitting registration of sale deeds/transfer deeds of plots/sites in unauthorised colonies by doing away with the requirement of obtaining a no objection certificate (NOC) from the department of housing and urban development.The petitioner submitted that it was mandatory as per the letters/instructions of January 2018 issued by department of revenue, rehabilitation and disaster management, Punjab. However, authorities in December 2019 withdrew the requirements prescribed in 2018 communication. By doing away with it, the authorities are permitting transfer of plots in unauthorised colonies that have been raised by persons, who are neither the colonisers nor the colonies have been established in accordance with the law, the court was told, adding that due to this entire process of taking action against the unauthorised colonizers have become redundant.He had demanded that the colonies, which were not regularised in 2018 and those coming up after that, should be demolished.It was further argued that setting up and establishing unauthorised colonies is prohibited under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act, 1995.The government had framed a scheme for regularising the unauthorised colonies, yet without taking any action under the said scheme, the authorities are now permitting sale and transfer of plots and sites of unauthorised colonies without NOC, it was argued.The court was informed that in 2010, the high court had upheld the mandatory condition of obtaining NOC before registration of documents as required by the provisions of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975. The state’s counsel said before court that, the December 2019 instructions were issued after obtaining an opinion from the law department. However, in view of the issues raised by the petitioner, the matter would be re-examined by the authorities taking into account statutory provisions as well as the decision rendered by high court in 2010 expeditiously, the state’s counsel had told court adding that till that time 2019 instructions would be kept in abeyance and registration of properties would take place as per 2018 instructions. The high court bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arul Palli has disposed of the plea in view of assurance from the state’s counsel with a direction to authorities to consider and decide the issue raised.“It is made clear that this court has not expressed any opinion on the merits of the case and the matter has been disposed of in terms of the issues raised by the petitioner and in terms of the statement made by learned assistant advocate general, Punjab,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-colonies-no-registration-of-properties-without-noc-till-decision-on-pil-punjab-to-hc-101628277180693.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two UPSC aspirants end life in Chandigarh||A 30-year-old man and a 29-year-old woman committed suicide in Sectors 37 and 38, respectively, after reportedly failing to clear a competitive exam conducted by the Union Public Service Commission, police said on Friday. Police have found no link between the two victims.The man, who belonged to Sonepat, hanged himself with a bedsheet in the bathroom of a house in Sector 37, where he had been staying for the past four years while preparing for the exam. The suicide came to light when his friend reached the house for collective studies in the morning. Police said the victim had exhausted all his attempts to clear the exam, even as he had reached the interview stage a couple of times, and was reportedly under stress.In the other case, the woman committed suicide at her house when her mother and brother had gone to the market around 11:30 am. Police said she too had been unsuccessful in clearing the exam and was suffering from depression. No suicide note was found in both cases. Police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-upsc-aspirants-end-life-in-chandigarh-101628277120524.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Pearls Group illegally disposed of properties worth ₹1,200 crore||Despite the Supreme Court ban in 2016, PACL India Limited or Pearls Group, disposed of properties worth ₹1,200 crore bought with investors’ money till a case was registered against it in 2020. Punjab Police made this valuation claim in the chargesheet against Harsatinder Singh Hayer, the son-in-law of Pearls Group owner Nirmal Singh Bhangu, after a special investigation team (SIT), led by Ferozepur range deputy inspector general of police Hardial Singh Mann, found that the properties were disposed of by either selling or illegally transferring them despite the ban. The chargesheet in the case registered in Ferozepur district in 2020 was filed in a Zira court recently by the SIT, including Tarn Taran SP (headquarters) Gurnam Singh, Jalalabad DSP Palwinder Singh Sandhu and Zira DSP Rajwinder Singh Randhawa. Bhangu’s relatives among 55 accused Fifty-five people, including company officials and family members of Bhangu, who is already behind bars for a Ponzi scam involving ₹48,000 crore, were booked for cheating, criminal conspiracy and other sections of the Indian Penal Code at Zira police station on July 16, 2020. The SIT arrested Hayer from Mohali in May this year, while Bhangu’s daughter, Barinder Kaur, was arrested from Delhi airport in July when she was reportedly leaving for the United States. Several other arrests were made on the complaint of Pardeep Singh of Bhadson in Patiala district. In 2016, the Supreme Court restrained the PACL and its directors, promoters and associate companies from selling or transferring properties in or outside India. In December 2015, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) ordered attachment of all PACL assets and its nine promoters and directors for their failure to refund money to investors. A panel headed by Justice RM Lodha (retired) had initiated the process of refunds to investors. The chargesheet said that besides Hayer and Barinder, Bhangu’s nephew Gurpreet Singh Bhangu, his brother-in-law Avtar Singh, company directors and aides, including Munish Jakhar, Tarlochan Singh, Sarabjit Singh Sanghera of Australia, were prime accused. Money trail abroad leads to properties sold illegally “Hayer kept self-attested identity proofs and stamp papers of his employees and other people with himself and used them for the illegal sale of the properties,” the chargesheet said. He transferred huge amounts abroad for investment. The cybercrime report of his mobile phones proved that the money transferred out of the country was collected by selling properties purchased with public money. The police found an agreement for the sale of Golden Public School in Derabassi, for ₹33 crore. Hayer was a member of the governing council of the school spread over 16 acres. According to the sale agreement, the full payment of ₹33 crore was to be made before April 2022, but he took ₹16 crore and registered the sale deed of 7 acres of school land in the name of a Delhi-based firm. Despite the court’s ban, Hayer, his wife Barinder and servant sold the school property bought with public money. “Hayer made cash collected through the illegal sale of the company properties flow into PACL sister concerns,” the chargesheet said. Servants, drivers made company directors After Bhangu was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Hayer, his wife Barinder and mother-in-law Prem Kaur looked after the business. They formed new firms, the directors of which were their relatives, including Avtar Singh and Gurpreet, and servants and drivers, including Manoj Kumar, Ashwani Kumar and Kashmir Singh. “Hayer used their identity proofs for the illegal sale of properties and signed blank cheques to withdraw or transfer the money of illegal sale,” the chargesheet said. It mentioned a transaction of ₹10 crore between the bank accounts of Sanghera and Hayer. Properties in Gurugram, Mohali and Mumbai sold Punjab Police traced 30 new prime properties in Gurugram, Zirakpur and Mumbai that were bought with public money but didn’t get registered with the seizure memo of the CBI. The police seized hundreds of sale agreements of properties in the company. “Hayer also tried to dispose of the Pearls Tourism prime properties in Madagascar,” the chargesheet said. In Mohali district, 112 flats in the Nirmal Chaya project of the company were sold in ₹27 crore without the mandatory approval of the district and sessions judge by company director and accused Munish Jakhar. Besides, company properties in Chachhroli village of Dera Bassi, were illegally sold, the chargesheet said. The accused illegally transferred two flats in Goregaon West in Mumbai, seized by the CBI, without making any payment in 2020 through power of attorney to a private firm. The chargesheet said that the company had 480 acres of commercial land near Cycle Valley at Buddhewal village of Ludhiana district, but it was being illegally cultivated by Karamjit Singh, a relative of accused Tarlochan Singh on rent of ₹74 lakh a year. The rent was not being deposited since 2015. Company directors Gurpreet Singh and Sukhjeet Singh sold properties worth ₹5.78 crore in Daun and Kasba villages of Patiala district. Gurpreet and Sukhjeet along with Bhupinder Singh of Patiala are accused in the case. Illegal sale of properties in Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar Accused Gurjeet Singh sold 175 kanals of company land at Patial village of Hoshiarpur district, while accused Darshan Singh of Rupnagar sold 274 kanals at Narur village and 464 kanals at Behra village in Hoshiarpur were sold by Sanjay Soni and Anoop Kumar of Delhi. In Garhshankar area of Hoshiarpur district, 160 kanals at Achalpur were sold in a similar way. Nearly 498 kanals situated at Malewal village were illegally sold by accused Manoj Kumar and Ashwani Kumar of Mohali. The PACL gave ₹650 crore to sister firm Petra Estate Private Limited run by Rupinder Singh and Kanwaljeet Singh of Mohali. Later, Petra Estate transferred the amount to Australia and bought properties. “164 kanals of company land were disposed of at Kookanet village in Bathinda district, while the company bought 27 acres at Pohlomajra in Fatehgarh Sahib district only to sell it to its own director, Tarlochan Singh, and his relatives. The Enforcement Directorate also found Tarlochan Singh transferred ₹164 crore of the PACL as its director,” the chargesheet said. PACL agent Rampal transferred commercial properties in connivance with revenue officials in Fazilka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pearls-group-illegally-disposed-of-properties-worth-1-200-crore-101628277060756.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Will act against Punjab ministers, MLAs patronising mafias if AAP forms govt: Cheema||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema on Friday said strict legal action would be taken against ministers, MLAs and others patronising liquor, land, sand and transport mafias if the party forms its government after the state assembly polls next year. Addressing a press conference, Cheema said complete record of all those who have ruined Punjab would be made public. “People have understood that the Akalis and the Congress are in collusion. Only faces were changing with the change of the government while their activities remained the same,” he alleged before hitting out at both chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and new Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu.The AAP leader alleged that Sidhu, like a chameleon, had changed his stand on the tainted Congress legislators after becoming the party chief in the state and shown his “dual character”. He also blamed the Akalis and the Congress for the rising debt of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-act-against-punjab-ministers-mlas-patronising-mafias-if-aap-forms-govt-cheema-101628276940453.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Karandeep walks away with title in Chandigarh’s first Pro-Am golf championship||Karandeep Kochhar walked away with the inaugural professional title in the Pro-Am championship organised by Chasma Shah Sports at Chandigarh Golf Club on Friday, with a round of 6 under (66). Akshay Sharma was runner-up with a round of 5 under (67).This was the inaugural Pro-Am championship, first-of-its-kind to be organised in the city. The concept, where, one professional golfer teamed up with three junior golfers, aimed at bringing professional golfers and junior golfers to play together, so as to provide junior golfers an opportunity to pick the nuances of the game from professionals.Twenty-one-year-old Karandeep’s team, comprising Ajaypal Singh Bajwa, Ram Singh and Sakshi Mehta, won the championship with a score of 130.4 while Abhijit Chaddha’s team of Mehar Nijjar, Prateet Singh and Charvi Vaid finished second with a score of 130.8.The tournament was played by 18 professionals and 60 junior golfers.Winners(Open): Karan Kochhar (professional category), Ram Singh, Ajaypal Singh Bajwa, Sakshi Mehta (Pro-Am team category);(Boys): Harjai Milkha Singh (C-11 to 12 years), Danish Verma (D- 9 to 10 years), Upraj Singh Mehdiratta (F- 6 years and below);(Girls): Ojaswani Saraswat (D- 9 to 10 years), Malhar S Aulakh (E- 7 to 8 years), Gairat Kaur Kahlon (F- 6 years and below).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karandeep-walks-away-with-title-in-chandigarh-s-first-pro-am-golf-championship-101628276881644.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cong enacting drama, not raising farmers’ issues in Parliament: Harsimrat||Former Union minister and SAD’s Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday accused the Congress of enacting a drama of being pro-farmer outside Parliament but refusing to raise the demand of repealing three agriculture laws in the House. Talking to newsmen in the national capital, Harsimrat said it was shocking that Parliament was on since the last fortnight and every day, the Congress was demanding an exclusive discussion on the Pegasus spyware surveillance issue. “The Congress should tell the farmers of Punjab as well as the country why it is refusing to raise their voice in Parliament and is insistent on raising the Pegasus surveillance issue only,” she said. Alleging that the Congress had colluded with the Union government to suppress the voice of farmers, the former minister said: “There is no other explanation for the Congress floor strategy.” She said seven parties had got together to raise the demand for repeal of three black laws but the Congress is not pressing for discussion on the issue despite being the largest opposition party. Meanwhile, party president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the SAD-BSP MPs would continue their protest to demand justice for the farmers during the entire session or till the time when the voice of the “annadaata” was heard in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-enacting-drama-not-raising-farmers-issues-in-parliament-harsimrat-101628276760603.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid tally in double digits again||The tricity’s daily Covid-19 tally once again climbed to double digits on Friday, a day after dropping to seven. As many as 12 people tested positive, including eight in Mohali, three in Chandigarh and one in Panchkula. However, no virus-related death was reported for the sixth day in a row.In Mohali district, five cases were reported from Mohali city, two from Kharar and one from Dera Bassi. In Chandigarh, they were scattered across Sector 8, 35 and 40 while Panchkula’s lone case surfaced in Sector 2.The active caseload saw an uptick from 73 to 75, with 37 patients in Mohali, 26 in Chandigarh and 12 in Panchkula.The latest infections took Mohali’s tally to 68,480, of which 67,386 people have successfully beaten the virus and 1,057 have died. Chandigarh’s case count reached 61,970. Among them 61,132 have been cured and 811 have succumbed to the virus. Of the 30,650 infections in Panchkula so far, 30,262 have recovered and 376 have lost their lives.UT adviser inspects GMSH-16Chandigarh adviser Dharam Pal along with principal secretary, health, Arun Kumar Gupta, visited Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, to inspect preparations for a possible third wave of the pandemic.As the adviser inspected the working of oxygen generator plants installed during the second wave, director health services Dr Amandeep Kang informed him that another plant will be installed shortly. The hospital has also recently increased its ICU bed capacity from eight to 20. The adviser also visited the radiology department, blood bank and the Covid vaccination centre, and expressed satisfaction over the heath department’s preparations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-tally-in-double-digits-again-101628276640647.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||2012 attack: Biden remembers victims of Oak Creek Gurdwara shooting||Admitting that there has been a rise in hate crime against Asian-Americans, US President Joe Biden mourned the loss of Sikhs in a shooting by a white supremacist at a gurdwara in Wisconsin nine years ago.“On this day, in 2012, I was with another friend who’s half Sikh -- he’s a Sikh. And we were dealing with 10 people shot in a hateful act of bigotry at the Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. Seven people lost their lives that day. Today, we honour everyone impacted by the tragedy,” Biden told reporters at the White House.In an interaction with reporters during his meeting with AAPP civil rights leaders, Biden acknowledged that there has been a rise in hate crimes, harassment, bullying and other forms of bias against Asian-Americans during the pandemic. “It seems not to stop,” he said. Several Indian Americans were invited to attend Biden’s meeting at the White House. Prominent among them were Seema Agnani from the National Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development (National CAPACD); Satjeet Kaur from Sikh Coalition; Kiran Kaur Gill from Sikh American Legal Defense and Education Fund (SALDEF); and Neil Makhija from Indian American Impact.In a separate statement, Rajwant Singh, chairman of the Sikh Council on Religion and Education, thanked Biden for his “compassion” and a “strong stand” against hate and violence. “The Sikh community was shaken by this tragedy and our community still is concerned about the hate filled rhetoric being condoned by some political interest groups,” he said.“The White supremacist groups are on the rise in the recent years and are intimidating many other minority groups in America. President Biden and Vice-President Harris’s stand is unambiguous on this critical issue. This is the most important message that our political leaders can send across the nation and the world,” Singh said.Congresswoman Judy Chu, chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), said “Today, we remember and honour the seven victims of this domestic terror attack and rededicate ourselves to the values of peace and openness that characterise the Sikh religion.” Nine years ago, the lives innocent worshippers were taken in a senseless act of hate and violence at a Sikh gurdwara, said Congresswoman Grace Meng. “These worshippers were targeted simply because of their religious identity, a pattern that is all too common in the Sikh Community,” she said. Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney said to this day, America continues to grapple with systemic racism and inequality. “It is more important than ever that we recommit ourselves to rejecting hate and intolerance in all forms. These acts of violence and hate are not reflective of our country’s values and we must proactively work to end them by passing legislation to end gun violence,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2012-attack-biden-remembers-victims-of-oak-creek-gurdwara-shooting-101628276585528.html
07-08-2021||Other||Bajrang Punia’s family says he will return with a medal||Wrestler Bajrang Punia lost the men’s freestyle 65kg bout to three-time world champion Haji Aliev in the semi-finals of Tokyo Olympics, but his family is still hoping that he will secure the bronze medal.Bajrang, who hails from Khuddan village in Jhajjar, began the day by defeating Kyrgyzstan’s Ernazar Akmataliev and then pinned Iran’s Morteza Cheka Ghiasi to reach the semi-finals.Bajrang’s family, friends and well wishers turned up in large numbers to catch the high-voltage match in Sonepat where his parents are staying.After he faced defeat in the semi-finals, his father Balwan Singh was teary-eyed but people gathered there continued to cheer for Bajrang.The family was happy when he reached the semi-finals and everyone was jubilant. However, after Bajrang lost the bout, the mood changed. But Balwan said all was not lost and there’s still hope for a bronze medal.Balwan said Bajrang told him that he will give his best to bring an Olympic medal. “Wins and losses are part of the game. I am hopeful that he will be back with a medal,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bajrang-punia-s-family-says-he-will-return-with-a-medal-101628276584294.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 57 new cases, 3 more deaths||Punjab on Friday reported 57 new cases of coronavirus, taking the infection tally to 5,99,365, while three more deaths took the toll to 16,312, according to a medical bulletin. The deaths were reported from Faridkot, Ludhiana and Pathankot. The toll includes eight fatalities, which were not reported earlier, according to the bulletin.There are 473 active cases in the state. Of the new cases, Ludhiana reported 13, followed by Mohali (8), and Jalandhar (7).With 41 recoveries, the number of cured people in the state reached 5,82,580, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-57-new-cases-3-more-deaths-101628276461830.html
07-08-2021||Other||‘ ₹50 lakh to players losing in bronze medal bouts in Olympics’||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar has announced ₹50 lakh cash award for every sportsperson in state getting fourth position in the Olympics.Till now, there was no provision in the state’s sports policy for such players. The CM said there is a provision to give incentive money to players who are unable to win medals in these games.As per the provision, each player participating in the Olympics is being given an incentive amount of ₹15 lakh each. He said an amount of ₹5 lakh is already given to these players prior to the Olympics and now the rest of the amount of ₹10 lakh will be given to players on their return.Khattar said as per the sports policy, ₹6 crore is given to a player who wins gold medal in the Olympics, ₹4 crore for winning silver, and ₹2.5 crore for bronze.“Now onwards, a cash reward of ₹50 lakh will be given to each player in state finishing fourth in the Olympics,” Khattar said.He said nine players of the women’s hockey team who hail from Haryana will be given a cash reward of ₹50 lakh each.Khattar welcomes move to rename Khel Ratna AwardThe Haryana CM welcomed the central government’s move to rename the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award after hockey legend Major Dhyanchand.Khattar said the Union government has taken a good decision by renaming the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award after the hockey legend.“Sports awards should be named after players. Congress should not criticise the move,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs-50-lakh-to-players-losing-in-bronze-medal-bouts-in-olympics-101628276460665.html
07-08-2021||Other||‘Indian women’s hockey team deserves a warm welcome befitting winners’||“The whole world is praising the performance of Indian women’s hockey team and they deserve a warm welcome back home,” said team captain Rani Rampal’s father.Reacting to their 3-4 defeat at the hands of Great Britain in the bronze medal match in the Tokyo Olympics 2020, the skipper’s father, at his residence in Kurukshetra, said, “We don’t have any regrets. Their game was wonderful and tough till the last moment. It is not a defeat but a victory of their efforts.”He said these girls have laid the foundation by reaching the semi-finals after a long gap and their defeat for a bronze medal cannot become a hurdle in their way ahead.“They still deserve a warm welcome. We will make all arrangements to welcome them like heroes,” he added.Hockey player Navjot Kaur’s father Satnam Singh also praised their team spirit and fight. “The way our daughters fought in this match is commendable,” he said.He said the team’s journey to the semi-finals in the Olympics is the story of struggle of the daughters of India. It will inspire new players to take their legacy forward, he added.Sharing similar sentiments, another player Navneet Kaur’s father Buta Singh said the girls should be considered winners of hearts. “They made all efforts to bring a medal for the country. These daughters of India will be treated in Shahabad the same way as it is done after winning a medal,” he said.The families said their daughters will return on August 10 and not just Shahbad or Kurukshetra but the entire Haryana is ready to welcome them.Family members of the players said it was a tough day for them. They remained glued to the television sets soon after the match started.Rampal said he got up at 5am to watch the match on Friday and prayed for the team’s good performance along with his family at a home-built temple.Navjot’s mother Manjeet Kaur left the room in tears in the final moments of the match and later spoke to her daughter over the phone, praising them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indian-women-s-hockey-team-deserves-a-warm-welcome-befitting-winners-101628276340689.html
07-08-2021||Other||This ascetic finds talent in budding wrestlers at Haryana’s Nahri village||A day after Indian wrestler Ravi Dahiya secured the silver medal after losing 7-4 to world champion Zaur Uguev of Russia in the 57kg freestyle category at Tokyo Olympics, his home in Sonepat’s Nahri village is abuzz with fans, media, relatives, friends and well wishers to congratulate his family.A bearded ascetic, Bramhachari Hansraj, who had groomed a teenager Ravi Dahiya for three years before convincing his family to shift him to Chhatrasal Stadium in Delhi in 2004-05, is still busy training budding wrestlers along the banks of Yamuna at Nahri village.Hansraj, who is in his early 50s, is a wrestler and had done wrestling training with Ravi’s father Rakesh Kumar. He found respite in religion after his knees blew out nearly three decades ago. Now, he spends most of his time along the banks of Yamuna devoting his time to prayers besides giving training to budding wrestlers of nearby villages.He has prepared a mud akhara where he had trained Ravi Dahiya, Amit Dahiya (youngest Indian wrestler to achieve a medal at the World Championship) and hundreds of others over the decades.Nahri, which has a population of over 15,000, is a nursery of wrestlers. The village has produced international wrestlers including Amit Dahiya (silver medallist in the 2013 World Championship), Arun Kumar (gold medallist in the 2011 Junior Asian Championship), Mahavir Singh (1980, Moscow, 1984 Los Angeles) and Amit Dahiya ( London in 2012).Ravi Dahiya’s father Rakesh said Hansraj had asked him to bring Ravi and his younger brother Pankaj to the akhara on the banks of Yamuna when the elder one was just 6-year-old.“He trained Ravi for the next three years. Then, he asked us to shift Ravi to Chhatrasal stadium in Delhi, where he was groomed by coach Satpal Singh. For the last three decades, he has been training young wrestlers and if he finds potential, he asks the wrestler’s family to shift them to Chhatrasal stadium. He had identified the talent in Ravi,” Rakesh added.Hansraj said he trained many youngsters but Amit was sharper with more natural ability as compared to other players.“But Amit and others haven’t reached anywhere where Ravi has. Ravi had never complained no matter how hard the training was. Even though Ravi lacked the natural skills as compared to other wrestlers, he loved to train,” he said.“If you ask him for 2-hour practice, he will do double the time. Our village has lots of talent, the only need is to discover them,” Hansraj added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/this-ascetic-finds-talent-in-budding-wrestlers-at-haryana-s-nahri-village-101628276283759.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cab driver killed in group clash in Kharar||A cab driver was killed while his friend was injured during a clash between two groups over an old rivalry in Kharar late on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Rakesh Kumar, 28, who was a resident of Kharar. Police said he used to drive a cab and was planning to migrate to Australia.Eight people, including a woman, have been booked for the murder: Madhav Gupta, Suman Sharma, Gopal Krishan, Deepanshu Singla, Manak Aggarwal, Rajesh Kumar, Rahul and Kiran Bala, all residents of Kharar. The first three have been arrested while the remaining are at large. Jatinder Kumar, who was injured in the clash, told police that he along with Rakesh and others used to organise kanwar yatra to Haridwar every year. The other group also used to organise a separate yatra from the area. Jatinder said the other group was holding a grudge against them for the past couple of months, which led to the attack on Thursday night. According to the FIR, Rakesh and Jatinder were holding some discussions with their friends near Arya College in Kharar around 10:30pm, when Deepanshu, Manak and Rajesh reached there on a bike and hurled abuses at them before leaving. Rakesh called up Deepanshu and objected to it, after which the trio allegedly returned with knives and iron rods and attacked Rakesh. When Jatinder tried to intervene, he was also attacked. Later, other members of the rival group also reached there with baseball bats and sticks and started hitting Rakesh and Jatinder. Deepanshu’s mother Kiran Bala was also present there and kept instigating the group, stated the FIR. Later, the two injured men were rushed to the civil hospital in Kharar, from where Rakesh was shifted to Chandigarh, but he succumbed to his injuries. Jatinder is undergoing treatment for his fractured right leg. Inspector Ashok Kumar, station house officer, Kharar City, said the suspects are drug addicts and three of them have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cab-driver-killed-in-group-clash-in-kharar-101628276281619.html
07-08-2021||Other||Reopen Kartarpur corridor, discuss opening Nankana Sahib: SGPC||Amritsar Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Friday said that along with the Kartarpur Corridor, governments of India and Pakistan should also discuss opening a corridor to Nankana Sahib, the birth place of first Sikh master Guru Nanak.“The removal of the Nishan Sahib from a gurdwara by the Taliban in Afghanistan is condemnable. The Centre must ensure the safety of Sikh shrines in Afghanistan and the Sikhs living there. The repeated harassment of Sikhs in Afghanistan is injustice to minorities,” she added. The president also called up players of the victorious hockey team at the Tokyo Olympics. “Both men and women hockey teams have done well, with Punjab sending some good players. All of them deserve appreciation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/reopen-kartarpur-corridor-discuss-opening-nankana-sahib-sgpc-101628276280517.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tough action for delay in delivery of public service: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed chief commissioner of Right to Service Commission TC Gupta to take firm action against the officers against whom the commission is receiving complaints over delay in delivery of public service to eligible person within the notified time limit.Khattar said the CM grievance redressal and monitoring system (CM window) and the Right to Service Commission will work in tandem to address the grievances of people.This decision was taken in a meeting held under the chairmanship of the CM on Thursday, an official said.Now, complaints related to 338 services coming to CM window will be sent to the Right to Service Commission after which the commission will take action against officers who do not provide services within the speculated time limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tough-action-for-delay-in-delivery-of-public-service-khattar-101628275920462.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||RT-PCR test to cost ₹299 at pvt labs, hospitals in Haryana||The Haryana government has revised the rates of Covid-19 tests (RT-PCR) to ₹299 in private laboratories and hospitals across state, said Anil Vij, state health minister.He said the aim is to provide unmatched healthcare facilities at nominal prices. He said the state government has been providing free Covid testing facilities at government health facilities across state while monitoring the rates being charged by private labs and hospitals.Vij said to ward-off the third wave, Haryana is focusing on testing, tracking, treatment, and vaccination.During a Covid-19 review meeting with the districts officers including the deputy commissioners (DCs), Vij said officers should alert people not to lower their guard against the virus. He said gathering of crowds should be prevented in hotels, restaurants, malls and weddings,people should be counselled, and fine should be imposed for non-adherence to Covid prevention guidelines.While directing the officers to take steps to prevent sudden surge of cases, Vij asked them to ramp up testing. He said it should be ensured that the testing rate doesn’t decline.Vij underlined the need of proactive approach by officers to keep a close watch on early signs of a surge in active cases or high positivity rate. He said emphasis should be on administration of second dose of the vaccine.Additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora said pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants have been set up in many districts, especially those with high incidence of Covid.He said liquid medical oxygen (LMO) tanks are present in Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panchkula, Hisar, Jind and Rewari and work to add more LMOs is in progress.Also, gas manifold and medical oxygen pipelines were set up in all district hospitals in 2020-21 at the cost of ₹16 crore and in the year 2021-22, facility of gas manifold and oxygen pipelines is being extended up to community health centres (CHC) level at the cost of ₹36 crore, he said.In addition, oxygen concentrators as well as invasive and non-invasive ventilators are also available in sufficient quantity, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rtpcr-test-to-cost-rs-299-at-pvt-labs-hospitals-in-haryana-101628275800572.html
07-08-2021||Other||Vij asks IPS Bharti Arora to reconsider early retirement||Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij has asked Indian Police Services (IPS) officer and current Ambala Range inspector general of police (IGP) Bharti Arora to reconsider her call for premature retirement.“She is a noble police officer and we are proud to have such officers in our state. I received her file on Thursday and have asked her to rethink the decision,” Vij said on Friday.On July 24, the 1998-batch IPS officer had, in a letter, sought to be relieved of services by July 31, after attaining 50 years of age as per rules.Arora had mentioned about spending the rest of her life in Vrindavan in devotion to Lord Krishna as the only reason behind her retirement. She was transferred from Karnal to Ambala in April this year.Meanwhile, almost a week into her request, there is no decision by the state government yet. She remained unavailable for comment on Vij’s request.During a conversation with HT last week, she had refuted rumour of joining politics post-retirement and had said she was rather hopeful that the government will accept her plea at the earliest.During her service of 23 years, Arora has handled several investigations, including the Samjhauta blast probe as then superintendent of police (Government Railway Police) in 2007 and cases of immigration fraud and human trafficking as Karnal Range IGP in 2020.As Ambala SP in 2009, she arrested Vij, who was then an MLA during the Hooda-led Congress government, after a protest in Cantonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vij-asks-ips-bharti-arora-to-reconsider-early-retirement-101628275740452.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Take steps based on scientific advice to fight Covid-19: Scientific community||Scientists, students, teachers and researchers from across the country are appealing to the government to take adequate steps based on scientific advice supported by data to counter the Covid-19 pandemic.The appeal comes days ahead of the Indian chapter of March for Science is scheduled to take place on Monday. Since 2017, scientists worldwide have been holding March for Science rallies to promote rationality and scientific temper and to remove the hurdles in the path of the onward march of science and social progress. The Indian scientific community, too, has been holding marches in the first week of August to highlight the problems facing science on Indian soil. These include the abysmally low governmental support for education and scientific research, the concerted propaganda by some powerful groups to propagate unscientific and obscurantist ideas with the support of the ruling dispensation, and the fact that governmental decisions are not guided by evidence-based science. While this year, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, no major rallies will be conducted, Soumitro Banerjee, one of the organising members, said that in cities where it is now allowed, a congregation of 10-15 from the scientific community may hold rallies. Banerjee is a professor at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Kolkata and the general secretary of Breakthrough Science Society (BSS), a voluntary organisation working towards the cause of science, culture and scientific outlook.Last year, scientists associated with the India March for Science had suggested concrete measures to tackle the pandemic in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “However, the government has chosen to ignore this evidence-based scientific advice, precipitating a disaster when the second wave struck. While doctors, nurses and other health workers struggled valiantly to treat COVID patients handicapped by hopelessly inadequate healthcare infrastructure conditions, unscrupulous people were busy peddling untested concoctions as remedies for COVID, often with government support,” said the scientists in a statement.The Indian scientific community has prepared a charter of appeals for the state as well as central governments. These include a demand for putting a stop to the propagation of unscientific, obscurantist ideas, ensuring that the education system does not impart ideas that are not based on or contradict scientific evidence, allocating at least 10% of the Central Budget and 30% of State budgets to education and ensuring that at least 3% of the country’s GDP is used to support scientific and technological research. Another demand is to increase the financial support to scientific institutions and increase the fellowship tenure of PhD students by the period lost to the pandemic.“The charter of demand has been prepared in discussion with members of the scientific community across the country. A few programmes have been planned as part of the march. Thereafter, the appeal will be sent to the central and state governments,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/take-steps-based-on-scientific-advice-to-fight-covid-19-scientific-community-101628275568660.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Now, complete police verification of domestic helps via app||The Ludhiana police have developed a mobile application, using which residents of Punjab can get their domestic helps, tenants and employees verified.The app was among the development projects launched by director general of police Dinkar Gupta on Friday to control crime in the state. Gupta said that in case of a crime, details submitted during verification can help the police to trace the accused.Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the app has been specially developed in the wake of recent cases of thefts by servants. Agrawal said that the app requires owners to submit details of both themselves and the employee/tenant including photo and ID proofs.He said that after filling details, the applicant will get an OTP for authentication and a fee of ₹200 will be charged. The app can be downloaded from Google Play Store by searching PPSAANJH.DGP Dinkar Gupta also held a crime review meeting with the Ludhiana police personnel, where Agrawal apprised him of various measures being undertaken to control crime in the district.He said that ahead of the 2022 state Assembly elections, the next six months are very challenging for the police., The DGP asked all the officers to be vigilant and deploy round-the-clock nakas to intensify checking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabnow-complete-police-verification-of-domestic-helps-via-app-101628275567483.html
07-08-2021||Other||HT Readers’ take: Chandigarh and its periphery in choppy waters!||Civic amenities missing in city’s periphery Waterlogging has become a regular occurrence in the tricity. The main reason is that rapid urbanisation in Chandigarh’s periphery is not accompanied by simultaneous provision of civic amenities, mainly stormwater drainage. What worsens the situation is that MC officials and elected councillors are indifferent to people’s problems. The need of the hour is to upgrade civic infrastructure and also make rainwater harvesting mandatory for all residential and commercial buildings in Chandigarh and its surrounding areas. Surbhi Negi, Panchkula Need comprehensive review of drainage system Waterlogging has become a regular feature in the tricity and its periphery. The main stormwater drains may have been well-designed but inadequacy of road gullies and blockages appear to be the culprit. There is need for a comprehensive review of drainage system, including those in periphery areas. Piecemeal design of drainage pockets will only complicate matters and increase the agony. Unapporoved and illegal construction after approval of the masterplan often create more problems by disturbing the existing and planned flow patterns of the stormwaters. Multiple civic authorities, with least coordination and lack of technical know-how, will fail the best of designs and derail all positive efforts to address the drainage issue. DS Banati, Mohali Use development charges for infra upgradeTo prevent the recurrence of the sinking feeling every time, the drainage system of societies in the periphery of Chandigarh need to be upgraded. Unfortunately, the MC has completely failed to do so, though they are charging an amount as development charges from builders. Loopholes and lapses need to be unplugged by desilting the choes and cleaning the stormwater drains in congested old localities. Garv Bhupesh Verma, Panchkula Proper drainage outletsRecently, rains painted a sorry picture of various places in Chandigarh and nearby areas such as New Chandigarh (Mullanpur) and Zirakhpur, where flooded roads and cracked foundations became a nightmare for the residents. A comprehensive drainage system with surface and sub-surface drains, proper discharge outlets and segregation of rain and sewerage water must be provided to Chandigarh as well its periphery areas to avoid such a situation. Komal Sharma, New Chandigarh A bane for new residential areas Knee-deep inundation after just an hour of rain is acceptable in places such as old Delhi, which were developed years ago, but not for places such as Zirakpur, Mullanpar or Manimajra, which have come up in the last few years. Even after so many technological advancements, if problems such as waterlogging are a regular feature of new townships, it only points to apathy of the authorities. Desilting of nearby rivulets for longer periods or construction of high-rise apartments may be a reason for waterlogging but the fact remains that lack of proper drainage system is a major problem.SC Luthra, Chandigarh Fix accountabilityThe basic problem is the lack of fixing accountability at every level—be it the person who builds such townships, the person who is supposed to work out the plan, the field staff who are supposed to be on ground and check for problem areas. Only then can the laws in existence be implementedChander Vij, via email New townships not properly planned The war between Mother Nature and man’s needs or greed is not new. As per the original plan of Chandigarh, the whole area covering Mohali, Zirakhpur and Panchkula were to act as the lungs of the city for fresh breath of air. With an increase in the population across the city, new areas were needed for the people to live in. That has resulted in the construction of skyscrapers around the city in the last one decade. All agricultural land was taken over by developers. The colonies and townships that have come up don’t have a proper plans or drainage systems. Moreover, these block the natural streams of rainwater or seasonal rivulets. All these contribute to nature hitting back. Suresh Verma, ChandigarhMaster plan needed for periphery areasHaphazard growth of apartments and housing complexes near periphery of Chandigarh such as Zirakpur, Kharar, Nayagaun etc are main causes of flooding. The MCs concerned should develop a master plan for their area to cater to future expansion and make a central sewerage system to avoid recurring flooding and choking of drains. There should be a proper drainage system along the roads, bridges and culverts to allow free flow of water. Finally, efforts should be made to segregate plastic waste to ensure it does not choke drains and sewerage pipelines. Col.TBS Bedi.(Retd), MohaliCheck illegal colonies The population increase and rapid, unplanned urbanization are the main reasons why waterlogging has become a regular feature in the city and its surrounding areas. To find out an alternate solution. Punjab & Haryana government, along with the UT administration, should seek out a proper solution for this grim situation. At least, they should have to take initial action to stop all illegal colonies and unplanned concrete constructions. Sandeep Rawat, Chandigarh Rain readinessMunicipal corporation must take certain measures before the onset of monsoon to ensure there is no waterlogging. These include: proper cleaning of roads to keep them litter-free so that there is no chance of drains choking, re-laying of roads for proper drainage of accumulated water, doing away with plastic bags as these are the biggest cause of blockage, identification of areas prone to waterlogging so that water pumps can be dispatched to these areas for quick clearing of water. Prabhjot Nagpal, Zirakpur The unplanned periphery of planned cityChandigarh is a well-planned city but attention must also be paid to its peripheries. When roads are constructed, a public committee must be formed to keep an eye on construction work so future problems can be averted. Rainwater must be harvested for groundwater recharge. People should be senistised against the use of polybags and irresponsible discarding of household garbage, which lead to choking of drains. The municipal authorities must ensure timely cleaning of storm sewers. Subhash Nagpal, Zirakpur Stop encroachments on seasonal waterwaysApart from clogged drainage pipes and manholes, the main reason for waterlogging in the city is unauthorised encroachments on natural seasonal waterways in the periphery, which hampers the free flow of rainwater. While the Chandigarh administration should clear the unauthorised encroachments in villages falling in its territory, it should ask Punjab and Haryana governments to do the same in areas under its jurisdiction. Regular cleaning of underground pipelines and manholes in the city should be undertaken. AK Sharma, Chandigarh Fix responsibility Last week, in addition to periphery areas such as Zirkpur, Mullanpur, Khuda Lahora, almost the entire tricity was inundated. Unfortunately, this chronic issue which is wreaks havoc every year does not seem to get the attention of policy makers. Due to lack of regular maintenance of stormwater drains, it monsoon, residents are left high and dry. The need of the hour is to fix the responsibility of the person (s) concerned. SK Khosla, ChandigarhRainwater harvesting, natural drainage system The monsoon rain brings both pleasure and pain. We enjoy the rain as it brings a huge relief from the summer heat. But just after a brief spell of rain, we see waterlogged roads and drains, causing a lot of pain to all of us. The poor drainage system is to be blamed for inundated houses and roads in the city and its outskirts. Civil engineering work on the roads is also faulty as water gets accumulated on the roads. Proper designing of the lanes and bylanes in the periphery is needed for rainwater management. We need rainwater harvesting schemes in the city and surrounding areas. Very often, the natural drainage in an area, along with good water management, is sufficient to eliminate excess water and preclude the need for expensive subsurface drainage systems. Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhAdvanced and modern drainage systemClogged, flooded and sinking are the words one needs to describe Zirakpur during rains. A city that is fast developing with high-rise buildings needs a good drainage system to avoid such a system. Moreover, adjoining rivulets should be desilted and cleaned to ease the flow. Other additional measures should be taken to ease the flow of the rivers. To prevent flooding, embankments should also be constructed along the river. Plastic also chokes and clogs the drains. Therefore, throwing plastic into the drains should be completely prohibited. Drainage lines should also be cleaned on a regular basis. An advanced and modern drainage system should be put into place. Instead of having paved tiles everywhere, there should be some grounds with soil to help absorb the water. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhLack of peripheral controlDespite the many merits, our beautiful city has often been plagued by lack of peripheral control. Following are a few suggestions to improve the same: There needs to be a constitutional body with representatives from Chandigarh UT, Punjab, Haryana to decide on the overall planning. Prepare a GIS- based physical planning model with special emphasis on natural slopes and drainage, and draft bylaws accordingly. GIS-backed water management plans be chalked out with a network of small reservoirs for proper channeling of water. All new development projects often neglect factors such as natural drainage, in order to achieve more and more sq.ft of built area. Strict implementation of site development guidelines should be ensured, and heavy penalties should be levied on developers flouting these.Kamal Passi, via emailIt’s nature hitting back! The havoc let loose by rainwater is result of man-made blockages due to illegal construction that get regularised over the years under political patronage and money power. Silt-free wider stormwater drains are an insurance to avert recurring devastation by waterlogging in residential areas and submerged potholed roads. A suo motu strict intervention by the NGT and superior courts can undo all construction in illegal colonies coming up in violation of notified master plans in different areas. Water is life but fury of uncontrolled water threatens life and property alike. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaCleanliness and regular checksThere should be regular maintenance checks by the authorities to decrease the scope of flooding. Cleanliness is a must if flooding takes place as people can get infected with various diseases due to waterlogging. Construction of dams and reservoires should be properly planned and should be regularly inspected.Ishita Nara, via email Streamline procedures for licensed projects, illegal colonies The root cause for mushrooming illegal colonies and construction violations in Chandigarh’s periphery is the failure of multiple authorities to ensure enforcement of the notified Master Plans and the Punjab Apartment & Property Regulation Act, 1995. As a long term solution, the state government, through a task force, should take steps to review the licensing policies. As for already regularised colonies, the authorities must ensure upgrade of infrastructure and drainage system. Hardaman Singh Bhogal, MohaliIdentify problem areas, take corrective measuresHandling nature’s fury is a challenging task but routine problem being faced every year can be managed if the administration takes up the matter seriously. If possible the experts of the engineering wing should identify the areas prone to waterlogging during monsoon season and dig safe boreholes on nearby vacant land to divert extra water into them through underground channels and save it for use after treatment. Undoubtedly, the process will also help to recharge the groundwater levels. Surinder Paul Wadhwa, Mohali Re-design drainage systemMushrooming of unauthorised colonies, faulty levelling of roads, unplanned stormwater drainage cannot happen without the consent of authorities. Responsibility must be fixed and measures should be taken to ensure residents don’t face such a problem. At the outset, all housing societies and colonies must have well-designed rain harvesting system. Secondly, levelling of roads and plinth levels of houses should not be considered in isolation and must be done for the complete area. Last and not the least, stormwater drainage must be redesigned. Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd), ChandigarhReader of the week:Check haphazard construction Unauthorised and haphazard development needs to be stopped. Authorities also need to think of creating a robust system for unobstructed and free surface runoff as per natural slopes leading rainwater to rivulets and choes to avoid urban flooding. A drainage plan as per natural topography should be drawn for Zirakpur to implement long-term and short-term measures. Floodable areas along rivulets, choes and Ghaggar river should be identified and notified under ‘The Canal and Drainage Act’. No development should be allowed in the notified floodable zones, and in the already developed areas, obstructions and encroachments should be removed. Apart from that, rainwater harvesting should be made mandatory for each property. MS Aujla, via email What experts say:Clean up!Congress is responsible for waterlogging as they failed to clean the drains and choes for four years. They didn’t even lay any new drainage pipe in Zirakpur. There won’t be any waterlogging if natural choes are cleaned properly. NK Sharma, Dera Bassi, MLAStormwater drainage Zirakpur is an old town, which has no stormwater drainage system. But now with new technology, authorities can come up with an integrated master plan so as to solve the problem of waterlogging. Also, the natural choes must be cleaned regularly.Devinder Singh, GMADA chief engineerRainwater recharge systemEven though Zirakpur MC is collecting crores on the account of external development charges (EDC), it has completely failed to develop infrastructure. We suggest the authorities come with rainwater recharge system to replenish groundwater.Harish Gupta, president of the Zirakpur Builders AssociationMan-made barriersAuthorities should deal with people carving out illegal plots on river banks as it blocks the flow of river water and causes flooding even after light rain. An illegal bridge has been constructed in Shiv Nagar panchayat, which slows down the flow of the water as the pipes used are not of proper dimensions.Kulbir Singh Bisht, Nayagaon MC councillor Damaged roads Roads get damaged due to movement of heavy vehicles and this in turn leads to waterlogging. Repair and maintenance of roads should be the responsibility of mega project developers. They should also ensure drains are cleaned so that water does not stagnate. Ranjit Uppal, general secretary Omaxe Cassia Residents Welfare Association (OCRWA), Mullanpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-and-its-periphery-in-choppy-waters-101628275500660.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Man attempts rape on daughter in Ludhiana, nabbed||Police have arrested a jobless man for trying to rape his 16-year-old daughter at Gobindgarh village in Raikot. Though the incident took place on July 13, the girl did not reveal the matter to anyone. After she confided in her mother on Thursday, the police were sounded and the accused was arrested.According to the girl, her father had returned from Dubai nine months ago. Following his return, he had met with an accident and fractured his leg. Since then he had not picked up a job and used to stay home, while her mother made ends meet by working as a labourer.On July 13, her father asked her to help him administer eye drops to a cow. Thereafter, she went to the store to bring fodder for the cattle. There, she alleged, her father followed her and tried to rape her.He let her go when she resisted, but threatened her to stay mum. Over three weeks after the incident, she revealed the attack to her mother, who took her to the police station to lodge a complaint.Sub-inspector Ramandeep Kaur, the investigating officer in the case, said taking note of the complaint, they lodged an FIR under Sections 376 (rape) and 511 (attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. They arrested the accused immediately after lodging the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-attempts-rape-on-daughter-in-ludhiana-nabbed-101628275442397.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man booked for raping, blackmailing 44-year-old woman||Police have booked a Shimlapuri man for raping his work partner and blackmailing her with her nude pictures.The accused has been identified as Harpreet Singh of New Basant Nagar, Shimlapuri.In her complaint filed on January 15, the woman said she and Harpeet used to help people secure bank loans. She alleged that one day Harpreet took her to meet one of his friends and offered her a spiked drink. After she lost consciousness, he raped her and also took her nude pictures and videos.Using these pictures and videos, he started blackmailing her to leave her husband and marry him. On her refusal he also barged into her house and stripped off her clothes in front of her husband.She also accused Harpreet of failing to return ₹4 lakh that he had borrowed from her.“Following an investigation, we have booked the accused under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for his arrest,” said inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO, Division Number 6 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-booked-for-raping-blackmailing-44-year-old-woman-101628275440753.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Maintenance work kicks off at PAU hockey stadium||A day after Hindustan Times highlighted the dilapidated condition of Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU’s) Prithipal Singh Hockey Stadium, the sports department swung into action and began maintenance work on Friday.Wild vegetation around the stadium was chopped and gunny bags filled with cement were removed. Besides, the washroom and changing area were cleaned.As the city was soaked in celebration of Indian’s bronze medal victory at the Tokyo Olympics, the local hockey stadium with its slippery turf, overgrown vegetation and crumbling infrastructure highlighted the indifferent attitude of the sports department and PAU authorities.Veteran hockey players including former hockey coach HS Bhullar, former Olympian Hardeep Singh Grewal and veteran player Jagbir Grewal said that the authorities have finally woken up from their slumber.Former players celebrate women’s team’s performanceVeteran hockey players gathered at PAU hockey stadium to celebrate the stellar performance of the women’s hockey team at the Tokyo Olympics. They distributed sweets to celebrate the occasion.Former hockey player Anil Sharma said that while men’s hockey had seen it highs and lows, the women’s team was considered underdogs before the Olympics. “What the girls have done is phenomenal. They have inspired an entire generation and we hope that more girls take up the sport,” he said.Many former PAU and GADVASU students and officials, including Dr Lajwinder Singh Brar, Dr Ramesh Kumar and Dr Navdeep Singh, who had played hockey for the agriculture university, said that Tokyo had been lucky for India.Charanjit Singh, who had led India to a gold in the 1964 Olympics, was a student of PAU and had later served at the varsity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-maintenance-work-kicks-off-at-pau-hockey-stadium-101628275386763.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana ASI dismissed after recovery of 350kg poppy husk||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Ludhiana police and his two accomplices, including a woman, were arrested by the Ludhiana police’s special task force (STF) while smuggling 350kg poppy husk on Thursday night. The accused ASI Rajinderpal Singh, who was deputed at Daba police station, has been dismissed. According to STF officials, he used to assist the woman and his male aide, who is his relative, to smuggle the contraband and avoid police checking. He used to charge from between ₹50,000 and 1 lakh, depending on the weight of the consignment.His accomplices have been identified as Daljit Kaur alias Babli, 46, of Mahalla Gautam Vihar of Haibowal and Pawanjit Singh alias Kaka, 25, of Manjit Nagar, who is a driver. Babli is already facing trial in several cases of drug peddling.Snehdeep Sharma, assistant inspector general (AIG) STF, said that inspector Harbans Singh and his team arrested them near Dyalpura in Samrala village. On being stopped, Rajinderpal, who was in the police uniform, tried to avoid checking.“The STF sleuths recovered the poppy husk from them which was stuffed in sacks. The accused confessed that they were smuggling it from UP,”said the AIG.A case under Sections 15, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered at the STF police station in Mohali against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-asi-dismissed-after-recovery-of-350kg-poppy-husk-101628275320597.html
07-08-2021||Other||Delhi: Two held for duping after posing as employees of a food joint||New Delhi: Two alleged cheats belonging to a Mewat-based gang have been arrested after nearly a 1,000 kilometres chase across various states for allegedly duping people in the name of delivering food items and liquor, police said on Friday. The arrested men had uploaded mobile numbers on Internet, impersonating themselves the employees of a food joint in Delhi, and gave lucrative officers on home delivery of food. They duped over 100 persons by promising home delivery of alcohol during the lockdown in Pune and Bengaluru, the police said.“The arrested men had cheated a government official of ₹82,500 in the name of delivering food packets that were ordered for a farewell organised at the government office,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse, adding that four mobile phones, 28 SIM cards and Brezza car purchased using cheated money were seized from the arrested men.DCP Alphonse said that the government official had filed a complaint in July regarding the cheating. The complainant alleged that food packets were needed for the retirement program in the office and the contact number of a shop was found on the internet. The person who received the call introduced himself as an employee of the food joint and sent a bar code to the complainant for making the advance payment for the order.“As the complainant scanned the bar code, ₹82,500 were deducted from the bank account in four transactions. However, the food packets were not delivered. A case was registered and investigation was taken up,” the DCP said.Through technical investigation, the police learnt that the money was transferred into bank accounts in Mewat through a UPI ID. Also, a fake mobile number of Odisha was used in the office and its location was in Haryana’s Mewat, Bharatpur in Rajasthan and Khamman in Telangana. The phone number was uploaded on different websites for home delivery of liquor in Maharashtra and Karnataka.“We kept the mobile number on surveillance and found that the suspects were travelling towards Uttar Pradesh from Madhya Pradesh. Our cyber cell team followed the trail and after travelling around 1,000 kilometres, the two suspects, identified as Tarif Khan and Taufiq, were arrested from near Agra in Uttar Pradesh,” added DCP Alphonse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhitwo-held-for-duping-after-posing-as-employees-of-a-food-joint-101628275263513.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Will recruit 450 counsellors, experts to resolve matrimonial disputes: Punjab DGP||Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Friday inaugurated a new building for the centre for crime against women and children in Rishi Nagar, a state-of-the-art indoor sports stadium at Police Lines and ‘Book Nook’, a modern library space for cops’ families and children. He also announced that the Punjab Police will be recruiting around 450 professional counsellors and experts with the required skill sets to work together with the private panel members to resolve matrimonial disputes. He also directed Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal to make the family counselling centre an all-women staff unit so that women coming to lodge their complaints feel comfortable. DGP Gupta reiterated that preventing the crimes against women had remained the topmost priority of the Punjab government and the police and in upcoming recruitments of over 10,000 police personnel at sub-inspector, head constable and constable ranks, one-third will be the women force.When asked about the status of arrest of Lok Insaf Party chief and MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains, who is facing rape charges, the DGP said that investigation in the matter was on. The counselling centre, which has provision of 44 rooms, in-house photocopy and typing facility, canteen, rooms for feeding newborn babies, play area for kids, reception, rooms for private counselling members and psychologists and doctors, will also accommodate the offices of ACPs and in-charges of women cell from all four zones of the city at a single centrally located place, he added.Interacting with the panel members at the counselling centre, the DGP said that they were playing a vital role in creating a healthy society and must focus on reuniting the families through counselling.Police commissioner Agrawal informed the DGP that earlier, the counselling centre was functioning from four zonal offices located at random buildings, which were in dilapidated condition. While inaugurating sports complex at Police Lines, the DGP said that the major objective of this robust infrastructure was to maintain their health and fitness.He said that this stadium comprised world-class facilities, including a carpeted badminton court, yoga and meditation room besides as officer’s lounge and a gymnasium equipped with the latest workout machines with a pleasant view of the surroundings which would encourage police personnel and their families to remain fit and healthy. “Specially trained gym trainers will work on physical condition, body strength, and assign appropriate exercise activities and create unique workout routines to help the police personnel become the best version of themselves,” added the DGP. Book Nook, an innovative reading-cum-activity area for wards of police personnel has been launched in collaboration with an NGO, Aas Ehsaas, to promote reading habits among the kids of cops, the DGP said. It is said to be a brainchild of ADCP (Zone 1) Pragya Jain.The salient features of the Book Nook are its aesthetic ambience, which has educational, fictional and non-fictional books for four to 18-year-olds besides an attractive thematic tent with several board games and indoor educational activities to boost motor activity coordination.The wards of police personnel of all ranks can avail the facilities, he said, adding that the daughter of an employee working as a gardener at the Police Lines would be handling the reception and day-to-day functioning which will promote a sense of ownership and belonging. The DGP also asked the Ludhiana police chief to establish such libraries and reading rooms for senior citizens as well so that they can come there and convert their free time into productive activities.Commending Agrawal and his team for actively working towards ensuring efficient delivery of services to people, the DGP exhorted them to come up with more such ventures for overall betterment of families of brave police force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-recruit-450-counsellors-experts-to-resolve-matrimonial-disputes-punjab-dgp-101628275262840.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||MC official leading team to ban plastic bags in Ludhiana transferred||Ludhiana Municipal corporation (MC) secretary Jasdev Sekhon has been transferred to the Abohar MC by the Punjab local bodies department. The transfer order, issued on July 30, was received on Friday, while Sekhon was away to Prayagraj (Allahabad) on an official visit to study solid waste management.Notably, Sekhon is in-charge of the 13-member MC team that has been confiscating plastic carry bags as part of a drive started on August 2. He was transferred to the Ludhiana MC from Hoshiarpur in August 2019.Under the Solid Waste Management and Cleanliness and Sanitation Bylaws, 2020, MC has banned the use of plastic carry bags in the city and a fine up to ₹20,000 can be levied for violations.With Sekhon getting transferred, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the drive against plastic ban will continue and another official will be deputed to lead the team.He said he had no information why the transfer order was issued and the decision had been taken at the state level.When contacted, Sekhon also denied having any information regarding the reason behind his transfer and said he will follow the orders following his return from Prayagraj. After the drive began on Monday, MC team confiscated over 12.25 quintals of banned plastic bags till Tuesday and issued fines worth ₹2 lakh to violators. No raids were conducted after Wednesday due to rainfall in the city and Sekhon then left for Prayagraj on Thursday. While the ban on plastic bags is in place across Punjab since April 2016, MC has so far been unable to rid the city of their use, primarily due to resistance from the plastic industry and political interference. On Wednesday, a group of plastic industry representatives had also met the mayor seeking permission to manufacture and sell plastic bags with thickness of 50 micron and above, as a complete ban will destroy the industry, which is already reeling under losses due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mc-official-leading-team-to-ban-plastic-bags-in-ludhiana-transferred-101628275200450.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||DDMA chalks out fresh Covid strategy for Delhi||Advanced sero-surveys for better identification of susceptible pools, augmenting genome sequencing efforts to keep better track on variants of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, and granular data and trend analysis for location-based measures to control the infection - these are among the strategies chalked out by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday to prepare for potential waves of the Covid-19 in the future and keep the disease in check in the Capital.After a meeting chaired by DDMA chairperson and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Friday, the agency said it will also work towards ensuring adequate health infrastructure, medical oxygen and availability of essential drugs, by August 31. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is also the vice-chairperson of the DDMA, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and health minister Satyendar Jain also attended the meeting, along with NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul, AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava and NCDC director Dr Sujit Singh.“After detailed discussion with experts, it was decided to undertake aggressive and targeted surveillance and testing in areas, locations and specific activities to ascertain and address any trends of concern. The experts stressed upon continued vigil and caution, and suggested that all steps related to preparedness for any probable surge in infections, in terms of hospital infrastructure, oxygen and drugs availability, should be put in place and operationalised by the end of August,” said a senior DDMA official present in the meeting.The official further said, “It was also suggested that the comfort provided by the current controlled situation be utilised for undertaking an advanced sero-survey that takes into account extended epidemiological dimensions so as to identify susceptible pools (with regard to potential infection) and augment the genome sequencing efforts with an aim of prioritising vaccination. The Health Department was accordingly advised. They also suggesting analysing granular data to figure out trends which will help develop location-based measures.”Delhi on Friday recorded 44 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours with a positivity rate of 0.06%. At its peak, the city recorded around 28,400 cases in a day on April 20 and a positivity rate exceeding 36% on April 22. In the fourth wave of the pandemic – that coincided with the country’s second – in Delhi, the healthcare system was overburdened and the city faced a severe shortage of medical oxygen that contributed to deaths of Covid-19 patients.Another senior DDMA official, who also attended Friday’s meeting, said, “Experts present in the meeting lauded the Delhi government’s efforts to control the second wave and bringing back a stabilised environment in Delhi. They suggested that focus should be on increasing the pace of vaccination at this stage.”Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases division at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “At this stage, the government should focus on micro containment efforts. Also, they should focus on location specific strategies with regard to tests, awareness drives and vaccination. The DDMA is working in the right direction regarding this policy. Things should be controlled at an early stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/advanced-sero-surveys-augmenting-genome-sequencing-as-ddma-chalks-out-fresh-covid-strategy-for-the-capital-101628275023029.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man held for raping three-year-old step-daughter||A labourer was arrested for raping his three-year-old step-daughter at the labour quarters on Barewal Road on Thursday night.The child’s mother, a labourer, was away at work when the incident took place. Locals caught the accused after hearing the girl’s screams and beat him up before handing him over to the police.The child’s mother said she had married the accused a few months ago after the death of her first husband. On Thursday night, she was at work, while her daughter and son were home with him.Inspector Paramdeep Singh, SHO, Sarabha Nagar police station, said locals informed the police around 10pm after catching the accused red-handed and also rushed the child to a hospital. The accused was arrested and booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-held-for-raping-three-year-old-stepdaughter-101628275021775.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Child has right to use mother’s surname, says Delhi HC||Every child has the right to use his or her mother’s surname and a father can’t dictate terms, the Delhi high court observed on Friday while hearing a plea by a minor girl’s father seeking direction to the authorities to reflect his name as his daughter’s surname in the documents and not otherwise.“The father does not own the daughter to dictate that she should use only his surname. If the minor daughter is happy with her surname, what is your problem?” Justice Rekha Palli remarked adding that it is “unfortunate” that the parties are litigating this aspect.“I see no merit in the present writ petition. The apprehension that the LIC [policy] will be dishonoured is wholly misconceived and is an attempt to somehow settle scores with his estranged wife,” she said, while refusing to pass any order.During the hearing, the man’s counsel submitted that his daughter is a minor and cannot decide such issues on her own, claiming that the surname was changed by his estranged wife.He claimed that the change in name will make it difficult to avail insurance claims as the policy was taken in the name of the girl with her father’s surname. The mother had changed the surname from Shrivastava to Saxena.The court, which declined to allow the plea, noted that even the birth certificate on August 10, 2018, issued by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) also will have both the names.The judge disposed of the petition with a liberty to the man to approach his daughter’s school to show his name as the father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/child-has-right-to-use-mother-s-surname-says-delhi-hc-101628274960469.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Govt sets up panel to decide on opening schools, colleges in Delhi||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday decided to set up a committee, including officials from the education and health departments, to work out a strategy to reopen educational institutes in the Capital, said a senior official, adding that deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia reportedly told the DDMA meeting that at least 90% of the parents who attended the mega parent-teacher meeting (PTM) of students of government schools are in favour of reopening schools.“The issue of opening schools and educational institutions was deliberated upon in detail. In accordance with the suggestions by experts, it was decided to set up a committee, including officials of education and health departments, to evaluate and finalise a detailed plan comprising standard operating procedures (SOPs); assessment of the ability of schools to implement such SOPs and plan for vaccination of teachers and staff; and address concerns of parents of the students. A decision on reopening will be taken thereafter... It was noted that in principle, there is no harm in opening schools provided certain pre-requisites in place,” said the official who did not wish to be identified.The DDMA meeting was chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who is the chairperson of the DDMA, and attended by Delhi chief minister and DDMA vice-chairperson Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and health minister Satyendar Jain. NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul, AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava and NCDC director Dr Sujit Singh also attended the meeting.The official further said that of the 33,000 people who wrote to a e-mail feedback campaign, 68% respondents wanted schools to reopen and 83% voted for colleges to reopen.“Sisodia highlighted how the Covid-19 pandemic has already caused too much loss in terms of ‘learning’ and cited a recently held PTM in which, he said, 90% of the 800,000 parents who attended the meet, voted in favour of re-opening of schools,” said an official who attended the DDMA meeting on Friday.The special PTM was conducted in Delhi government schools from July 19 to 31 to guide parents on online education and seek their suggestion on reopening of schools.Dr Jacob John, former head of the clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore, said: “The authorities have to plan each step meticulously. Re-opening of schools and education institutes should ideally be done in a phased manner. We have to remember that children are yet to be vaccinated against Covid-19 and the state governments should not only keep demanding that children be vaccinated but also propose plans to the central government. Delhi can consider opening senior classes in a few schools in each district and observe trends for a period – say two weeks. They should take further calls based on the observations in each phase. They also must ensure that the entire staff – teachers to administrative officials and bus drivers – are fully vaccinated at least two weeks before schools and colleges open.”Schools and colleges in the national capital have been closed since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Classes briefly resumed in a staggered manner between January and February before being suspended again due to the fourth wave of the pandemic in the Capital.“We all are waiting for normalcy to be restored. As teachers we are worried about the dilution that online teaching and examination has caused. However, the university needs to bring a well thought-out plan. Reopening cannot be a rushed exercise,” said Abha Dev Habib, treasurer at Delhi University Teachers’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-sets-up-panel-to-decide-on-opening-schools-colleges-in-delhi-101628274959891.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Protest in Delhi’s Dwarka against upcoming Haj house||A large group of residents from Dwarka and nearby urban villages on Friday staged a protest against the construction of a proposed Haj house in Dwarka’s Sector 22 and said such a building may lead to a “law-and-order problem” in their area, even as several other residents took to social media to claim that the protest was being spearheaded by right-wing groups.Protest leader Ajit Swami, who is also the president of the All Dwarka Residents Federation (ADRF), claimed otherwise and said it was the federation, which has over 300 villages near Dawrka as members, that led the protests.“We have written to lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, who is also chairperson of the DDA (Delhi Development Authority), asking him to cancel land allotment made for the Haj House. There will be a law-and-order problem if the Haj house is constructed here,” said Swami.The LG did not respond to requests for comment.“The money for the construction could be used for another noble cause. There are no such houses/facilities for people of other faiths who go pilgrimages,” he said, and added that protests will continue till the land allotment is cancelled.It is to be noted that Delhi does not have a Haj house unlike other states, even though the national capital is the largest embarkation point for the pilgrimage in the country. Nearly 15,000-20,000 Muslims from Delhi, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, western Uttar Pradesh and Chandigarh leave for Mecca in Saudi Arabia, the holiest city for Muslims, from Delhi every year and they usually stay in camps set up at Ramlila Maidan and Dargah Faiz Illahi before flying out.According to the details of the construction, the proposed Haj house will be able to accommodate at least 350 pilgrims at one time. An area of around 5,000 sqm has been allotted for the project, show DDA records.Aam Aadmi Party Sleemapur MLA Abdul Rehman, a nominated member of the Delhi State Haj Committee, said the protests were “politically motivated”.“ Why should anyone have a problem if a few people come together for a short stay before embarking on a pilgrimage? The land where the house in being built does not belong to any private person, not has it been usurped or encroached by anyone. Our country is a land of many religions. People want to live peacefully. Some are out to divide the country on religious lines and we request the government to act against such motivated protests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/protest-in-delhi-s-dwarka-against-upcoming-haj-house-101628274900951.html
07-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra housing regulator extends deadline for projects due in April to Oct||In view of the devastating second Covid-19 wave, the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera) has evoked the ‘force majeure (unforeseen circumstance)’ clause and extended the completion, revised extension and extended completion dates of real estate projects that were due on or after April 15 by six months to October 14.This extension will not be applicable to projects whose completion date was before April 15.The order issued by MahaRera on Friday read: “…whereas the second wave was much more devastating than first wave and has caused great loss to human lives as well as economy. And consequent lockdowns have caused disruption of supply chains for obtaining construction material, labour work, forced migration and slowdown in pace of construction. Therefore, in order to aid government efforts in controlling the damage caused due to Covid-19 and ensure that completion of MahaRera-registered projects do not get adversely affected, it has been decided to issue this order.”Builders have welcomed the order, stating that it has brought a much-needed relief to the sector. “The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has been a major challenge for the real estate sector,” said Niranjan Hiranandani, national president, National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), an association of the builders. “Activities at various construction sites across the country were severely impacted. MahaRERA’s move to extend the deadline by invocation of force majeure for six months is a welcome step,” he added.The last extension on similar grounds was issued during the first wave of Covid-19, wherein an extension was granted from March 15 to September 14, 2020.The real estate sector had been facing a huge slowdown in the past few years and the Covid-19 pandemic has paralysed it further. Builders are unable to complete their projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-housing-regulator-extends-deadline-for-projects-due-in-april-to-oct-101628274900500.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||DPCC launches survey to count industrial units, identify water polluting ones||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has launched a survey across industrial clusters in the national capital to assess the total number of units that are functional as well as identify “water-polluting” units that may be running without approval, thereby exacerbating the pollution in river Yamuna.The pollution control agency, on August 3, sent letters to associations of 28 industrial areas across the city in this regard. The effluents discharged from illegally running units go into drains, which eventually empty into the Yamuna, adding to its pollution load, a DPCC official, privy to the matter, said.“The survey is a long-drawn process and the first such full-fledged exercise to assess the actual number of units operating in each industrial area. It has been kick-started from Patparganj Industrial Area. We are going door-to-door to check on the functioning of the units and to understand procedural issues. A lot of the pollution in the river is caused by untreated effluents. This exercise will help us address the gaps in the process,” said the senior DPCC official, requesting anonymity.The confirming industrial areas include those located in Narela, Bawana, Mayapuri, Wazirabad, Patparganj, Okhla, Jhilmil, Naraina (phase -I and II), Najafgarh, Kirti Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Badli and Moti Nagar, among others.The officials further said the survey is being conducted to create a database on the number and kind of industrial units in each cluster. “According to the data available with us, it appears that there is a gap between the number of units that are actually operating in the industrial areas and the number of units that have taken consent under the ”water polluting” category,” the letter dated August 3 stated.Industrial units are given consent by the pollution control board to operate under different categories based on the nature of their work. The survey will help establish the total number of units running under different categories and the permissions taken for the same, said officials.All industries are required to have small effluent treatment plants (ETPs), wastewater from which goes into larger common effluent treatment plants (CETPS). In several areas, it has been observed that the wastewater discharge is not reaching the CETP; rather, it is being released directly into drains. There are 13 such CETPs in Delhi.The DPCC August 3 letter to industrial areas further stated that a recent quality analysis of wastewater samples taken from the CETPs revealed that most plants were not meeting the prescribed standards.Industry owners, however, believe that instead of just collating a database on confirming industrial areas, the DPCC must also survey units located in unorganised and non-confirming industrial clusters, as well as getting CETP operators to improve the functioning of their plants.Ashish Garg, general secretary, Narela Industrial Complex Welfare Association, said, “Every industry owner in the area, even if it’s a closed unit, has to pay operational charges for the CETPs. These plants need to be fixed as they are treating a larger quantity of wastewater,which is discharged into the river. Also, the actual “water-polluting” units are the ones that are functioning without any checks in clusters such as Gandhi Nagar and Sultanpuri. There are multiple units in these areas engaged in dyeing and other such work,” said Garg.Last year, a National Green Tribunal (NGT)-appointed Yamuna monitoring committee had raised concerns over untreated or partially treated effluents being discharged into drains had said only three of the 13 CETPs meet environment standards. Many units are not connected to any of the treatment plants. It also asked the DPCC and other agencies to explore strategies to deal with the issue at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dpcc-launches-survey-to-count-industrial-units-identify-water-polluting-ones-101628274841842.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Priest sentenced to life in prison by Delhi court for rape of two minor girls||A Delhi court sentenced a 76-year-old priest to life imprisonment for repeatedly raping two minor girls within the “sacred precincts of a temple” at a village in Mehrauli in 2014, saying that the accused is a “habitual sexual predator” and has “desecrated the temple where the children should have had a carefree and safe time”.Additional sessions judge Vijeta Singh Rawat said the convict,Vishva Bandhu, did not even care for the respect and faith attached to his office as a priest. She said the offences were committed repeatedly on two girls,aged seven and nine years, showing the rapacious and habitual conduct on the part of the convict.“…such habitual sexual predators cannot be trusted. He has not even cared for the respect and faith attached to his office as a priest and has also desecrated the temple where the children should have had a carefree and safe time. Therefore, the interest of justice would only suffice if the convict is sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for life and fine of ₹50,000/-,” Rawat said in a 12-page order, dated July 16.She said the convict “betrayed the trust and respect the victims and the public had upon him”. It also noted that no remorse was shown by him at any stage of the trial. On February 26 this year, the court convicted the priest of rape and under relevant sections of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.“In the facts and circumstances of this case, if leniency is shown, this court would be letting down children who have fought all odds to pursue the matter. These victims have been scarred for the future. The court would also be failing in its duty if such predators are set free...,” said Rawat.The judge also noted that the crime has not been committed by the priest due to any mental or emotional distress. It said considering that extremely vulnerable victims were preyed upon by the priest repeatedly, despite his advanced age, there seems to be no scope for reformation.“Rather, considering that minor children... had been repeatedly raped by the convict, who was then aged about 69-70 years, irrefragably speaks volumes about the depravity and proclivity in the mindset of the convict, which is an aggravating circumstance,” said the court.The judge also ordered a compensation of ₹7.5 lakh each to the two victims to secure their emotional and mental health, and to ensure that they have access to unhindered education that will equip them for a safer future.According to the prosecution, the incident came to fore when one of the victims complained to her mother of pain in her lower abdomen and difficulty in passing urine before finally breaking down and revealing to her the repeated assault. The mother checked with her daughter’s friend, who admitted that she too was sexually assaulted by the same priest.The girls told their parents that the priest sexually assaulted them every time they went to the temple to play or have ‘prasad (sweet offering)’. He threatened them against talking to anyone about the assault.The accused, then 70 years old, was arrested on August 18, 2014, after the parents of the girls lodged a complaint against him the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/priest-sentenced-to-life-in-prison-by-delhi-court-for-rape-of-two-minor-girls-at-temple-101628274839841.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||13-year-old accuses cop of rape, Ludhiana police chief marks inquiry||Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal has ordered an inquiry by additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 1) Pragya Jain after a 13-year-old girl accused a police personnel of rape.In her complaint to the commissioner, the child said on July 21, her friend and her boyfriend took her to a hotel, where she fell unconscious after consuming a soft drink. On waking up, she found herself naked and realised she was raped.Thereafter, her friend and her boyfriend dropped her at the civil hospital, where a staffer took her to the hospital police post.The girl alleged at the post, one of the police personnel removed her clothes for physical examination. He then took her to an isolated location in his car and raped her, before dropping her off at a child care home. At the home, she repeatedly requested the staffers to let her talk to her parents, but they did not heed her appeals. Eventually, after two weeks she was able to talk to her parents and was brought home.Her parents alleged that after their daughter revealed the matter to them, they lodged a police complaint against the cop and her friends, but no action was taken.The cop, who is facing the inquiry, refuted the allegation, saying that after the hospital staffer brought the girl over, she was sent to the child car home after medical examination. ADCP Pragya Jain said appropriate action will be taking following the investigation. Meanwhile, no FIR has been lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13yearold-accuses-cop-of-rape-ludhiana-police-chief-marks-inquiry-101628274785444.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||DU cancels move to restart classes from August 16, says will wait for DDMA nod||The Delhi University (DU) decision to restart from August 16 in-person classes and practical work of undergraduate and postgraduate students in the science stream was rescinded on Friday. The varsity officials said the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the nodal agency which decides on matters related to the Covid-19 pandemic, is yet to allow in-person classes on campuses.The move to restart in-person classes was also opposed by the faculty body, Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA), which raised concerns about whether Covid-19 protocols could be properly implemented in “crowded” labs and classrooms.Registrar Vikas Gupta said the varsity wanted to wait for DDMA guidelines. “We got information from our colleagues that the DDMA hasn’t allowed the reopening of schools and colleges as yet and it will be reviewing this matter soon. So we have decided to defer the reopening until further notice,” he said.In the DDMA meeting held on Friday, it was decided that a committee, comprising education and health officials, will evaluate whether educational institutions are ready to reopen with safety protocols in place. The committee will also be responsible for drawing up the safety protocols and standard operating procedures (SOPs) as well as checking the vaccination status of staff, and addressing concerns of all stakeholders.Several stakeholders, including DUTA, welcomed this. Treasurer Abha Dev Habib reiterated that the reopening could not be “rushed”, and the university needs to have a plan in place for it.“As the vaccinations for the 18+ age group is currently underway, the university should give time to students to complete their vaccine doses. Teaching in overcrowded rooms and labs would pose a health hazard to all. Many teachers and non- teaching staff, who fell ill during the second wave of Covid, are getting their first dose of the vaccination only now,” she said.At least five principals that HT spoke to said outstation students are not keen on attending in-person classes as they fear a third wave of the pandemic and are apprehensive about finding accommodations at short notice, not to mention their pending vaccination status.Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna said, “We have received countless emails from students saying they prefer to practice in virtual labs and expressing their wish to prioritise health over everything else. We will not need more than a week to implement the SOPs, but before that, the university and colleges should consult all stakeholders to form a plan on how classes are to continue.”Meanwhile, several other universities in the capital are now waiting for a clearance from the Delhi government to reopen campuses. Yogesh Singh, vice-chancellor of Delhi Technological University, said, “Keeping the pandemic in mind, we introduced a system of continuous assessment last year and a modified version of that will continue this year as well. As far as reopening is concerned, we will wait for the government guidelines.”Singh said in order to accommodate outstation students, the university will work out a system for using hostels while maintaining Covid protocols. “If the Covid situation in Delhi remains stable, we will allow PhD students and final-year students to return to the campus in a staggered manner. Classes will, however, continue in a blended mode ( online and offline).”Mahesh Verma, vice-chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU), said they have also conducted vaccination drives on campus to ensure all staff members are vaccinated. However, the varsity has not maintained any data on this.“Most of our staff have been vaccinated. As far as students are concerned, according to our academic calendar, final-year students are currently appearing for their examination. Students who have started their final-year this academic session are currently continuing in the online mode. Many students “pandemic fatigue” and want to visit campuses but we cannot allow that to happen until all are safe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-cancels-move-to-restart-classes-from-august-16-says-will-wait-for-ddma-nod-101628274784492.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Missing Trilokpuri-Mayur Vihar link inaugurated||Delhi Metro on Friday inaugurated the much-awaited missing link between Mayur Vihar pocket-1 and Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake stations on the Pink Line, making it the longest single Metro corridor in the city, spanning 59 kilometres between Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar.“This is a significant effort to decongest Delhi and further strengthen the state-of-the-art, green and resilient metro rail network...The stretch might appear to be a small section but this is a significant link in providing connectivity on this corridor,” said Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, who along with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal flagged off the first train on the section in a virtual ceremony on Friday.Kejriwal too stressed on the importance of this 290-metre section in completing the overall corridor. “This is a small but critical stretch. (Delhi Metro Rail Corporation managing director) Mangu Singh and I met several times to find a solution for the rehabilitation issues pertaining to this stretch,” he said.The section was formally thrown open for passengers from 3pm.Many passengers who travelled on the section on Friday said that the link will be a huge benefit for residents living in pockets of Trilokpuri, who till Thursday had to get down at Mayur Vihar pocket-1 and wait for rickshaws to reach their homes.“The availability of e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws are good outside Mayur Vihar phase-1 station, because it is closer to the main road and the footfall there is more. But because pocket-1 station is located on the internal road and not many passengers get down here, we have to wait for several minutes to get a ride till Trilokpuri. This becomes even more difficult after dark. Even if you get a ride, they wait till the rickshaw gets more passengers, which is inconvenient,” said Bharti (only first name), who lives in Trilokpuri road number-27.While the existing Pink Line was made functional by the Delhi Metro in 2019, the link between Mayur Vihar pocket-1 and Trilokpuri was stuck due to land acquisition and rehabilitation issues as over 100 houses in Trilokpuri’s block-15 fell on the route of the metro corridor.Eventually, after several rounds of talks with the residents, a lottery was held for allotment of flats to the affected families under the supervision of the Delhi high court. Work on finishing the section began after the displaced residents were rehabilitated.DMRC on Friday said that with the opening of this corridor, the Pink Line has become a fully operational ‘Ring Corridor’. With this, the total metro network in the Capital is now 390 kilometres long and has 285 stations, including the Noida–Greater Noida Metro Corridor and the Rapid Metro in Gurugram.“The construction of this stretch was a challenging task for DMRC as the work was repeatedly hampered by the pandemic induced lockdowns and issues such as the non-availability of workforce. Completion of this work was a significant achievement because the civil construction on this stretch continued despite the hurdles and concluded within the set deadline,” DMRC said in a statement on Friday.The Delhi Metro also said that the Pink Line corridor will be further extended under phase-4, eventually making it the only ‘Ring Corridor’ of the Metro in the country.“This corridor will further be extended from Majlis Park to Maujpur in phase-4, making it the longest single Metro corridor in India at approximately 70 km. After completion of phase-4, the Pink Line will also become the only Ring Corridor of Metro in the country,” the DMRC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/missing-trilokpuri-mayur-vihar-link-inaugurated-makes-pink-line-longest-metro-corridor-in-delhi-101628274783069.html
07-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi assembly speaker says will move SC against provisions of the GNCTD Act||State assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel on Friday said that he, as a representative of the House, will approach the Supreme Court against provisions of the Government of National Capital Territory of India (Amendment) Act which, he said, curtails the powers of the legislative committees that come under the domain of the House.“We will not challenge the entire Act. The call on whether or not to challenge the entire Act in the court will have to be taken by the government. I cannot comment on that aspect,” Goel said in a press conference in Vidhan Sabha on Friday.Goel later clarified that he will file the appeal before the top court as a representative of the Assembly.The Act, which makes the Lieutenant Governor’s (LG) prior opinion a must before every executive action by the Delhi government, and every legislative action by the state assembly, was notified in Delhi on April 27, after being passed in both houses of Parliament the previous month.While the Aam Aadmi Party and other Opposition parties across the country criticised the law, the Centre said it promotes “harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further defines the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lieutenant Governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court”Through the amendment, a provision has been added in the original GNCTD Act that prohibits the Assembly or its committees from making rules to take up matters concerning the day-to-day administration of Delhi, or to conduct inquiries in relation to administrative decisions. This has effectively derailed several assembly committees, particularly two that are dealing with issues related to the north-east Delhi riots that happened last year.Goel on Friday told reporters that the decision to challenge provisions of the Act was taken after the Supreme Court’s favourable verdict in a case involving the assembly committee on peace and harmony examining the role of a social media company in the Delhi riots by refusing to quash summons sent to a top executive of the company.“We believe the court will restore the powers of the Assembly which have been taken away through a law which is completely undemocratic and unconstitutional. We have taken legal consultations on the matter,” Goel said.The Supreme Court on July 8 held that Facebook must appear before a Delhi assembly committee to respond to queries regarding its role and other aspects of the February 2020 Delhi riots.The Act was also the subject of a charged debate in the assembly last week. Leaders of the AAP argued that the law is “unconstitutional” and “anti-democracy”, as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) asserted that the law did not weaken the powers of the Delhi Assembly.On several occasions in the past four months, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia have said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Delhi government have plans to challenge the law in the Supreme Court and are taking legal help on the matter.BJP MLA Vijender Gupta said, “The GNCTD Act does not reduce the power of the Assembly in any way. We fail to understand why the AAP wants to bring up the issue after eight months. Also, no committee of the Delhi Assembly has been nullified. The GNCTD Act asks that rules of the Assembly committees should be in line with rules that apply in the Lok Sabha. The law prohibits interference on day-to-day administrative work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-speaker-says-will-move-supreme-court-against-provisions-of-the-gnctdact-101628274599850.html
07-08-2021||Lucknow||Tokyo Olympic stars from Uttar Pradesh want jobs in home state||A day after India won a historic bronze medal in men’s hockey at the Tokyo Olympics, ace midfielder Lalit Kumar Upadhyay expressed the wish to play for Uttar Pradesh in future if he is given a lucrative job offer in any government department in the state.The 27-year-old hockey player from Varanasi has been serving an oil company as assistant manager at Mughalsarai for the last seven years.Keen to play for his home state at the next nationals, Upadhyay said serving “your own state” is very important for a player like him.Similarly, women’s team forward Vandana Katariya, who scored four goals including a hat-trick at the Tokyo Olympics where the Indian women’s team finished a historic fourth, too expressed the desire to shift to UP after leaving the Railways.“Yes, I would love to do a job in UP, given the right opportunity,” she said from Tokyo on Friday.“Many state governments across the country are offering lucrative jobs, including the post of deputy superintendent of police (DSP). I would love to serve my own state if given similar a job opportunity in the days to come,” said Lalit, adding, “When I get to meet CM Yogi Adityanath Sir the next time, I will surely make an official request to him.”The chief minister recently announced the re-launch of recruitment of sportspersons in almost all the government departments under a 2% quota system. The effort is being viewed as “great” support to the Uttar Pradesh sportspersons, many of whom have been playing for other states after getting jobs there.“As the CM said, the process of filling the 2% sports quota in government offices has begun. Soon, the government will come out with some more plans for sportspersons, including a raise in their prize money,” a top government official said on condition of anonymity.“The government is committed to the development of sports and sportspersons. That’s the reason why the chief minister himself addressed all the 10-Tokyo Games bound athletes from Uttar Pradesh through a virtual meeting. Thereafter, an additional sum of ₹2 lakh for their preparation/kits was assured, besides sanctioning the mandatory ₹10 lakh as participation fee,” he said.As promised by the chief minister before the start of the Tokyo Games, all the 10 athletes and their families are expected to have a face-to-face interaction with Yogi Adityanath later this month at a function here.“We are in the process of finalising the date for the felicitation of all the 10 athletes and their families at a function here in the last week of this month,” said the official.Uttar Pradesh Olympic Association secretary Anandeshwar Pandey, too, supported the demand of Uttar Pradesh athletes for jobs in their own state.“The UPOA has been fighting for this cause since long and this would be a great gesture by the state government if it offers suitable jobs to deserving candidates.”“Filling sports quota vacancies in the state government is a very good move and I hope that many more would get suitable jobs in various departments in the near future,” he said.“This is the way to bring all the migrant sportspersons back into our fold. It will help raise the sports standard of Uttar Pradesh at the national and international levels,” he added.As per the government’s scheme, Lalit Kumar Upadhyay would get ₹1 crore for his bronze-medal win and an additional ₹2 lakh as preparation fee, whereas nine others would be richer by ₹12 lakh each.A steep raise in the prize money is also likely in the near future, according to those privy to the issue.“We are trying to ensure parity with the prize money for athletes of states like Haryana. If everything goes well, Uttar Pradesh too would offer one of the biggest purses to Olympic medallists,” said another official.HOW UP ATHLETES FARED AT TOKYO GAMESLalit Kumar Upadhyay (hockey, Varanasi): Bronze medal.Vandana Katariya (hockey, Meerut): Fourth position.Saurabh Chaudhary (pistol shooting, Meerut): Seventh position.Mairaj Ahmed Khan (skeet shooting, Bulandshahr): 25th position.Shivpal Singh (javelin, Varanasi): Failed to qualify for the finals.Annu Rani (javelin, Meerut): Failed to qualify for the finals.Seema Punia (discus, Meerut): Failed to qualify for the finals.Priyanka Goswami (walk-race, Meerut): Finished 17th.Satish Kumar (boxing, Bulandshahr): Lost in quarterfinal.Arvind Singh (rowing, Bulandshahr): 11th position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tokyo-olympic-stars-from-uttar-pradesh-want-jobs-in-home-state-101628272021225.html
07-08-2021||Other||Sports awards should be named after sportspersons, says Maj Dhyan Chand’s son||LUCKNOW UP’s sports fraternity welcomed the government’s decision to rechristen the Khel Ratna in the honour of Major Dhyan Chand, saying that the country’s highest sporting honour was now named after India’s greatest hockey player. Dhyan Chand’s three gold medals at consecutive Olympic Games in 1928, 1932 and 1936 were still the best-ever by any Indian sportsperson in the world. Ashok Kumar, son of Dhyan Chand, welcomed the government’s move, saying: “Dhyan Chand belongs to the whole country and hockey is our national game. Sports awards should be named after sportspersons. This Khel Ratna was first named after honourable Rajiv Gandhi but it’s better to name these awards after sportspersons connected with it. Our country and our Prime Minister took notice of this today, because of the increasing popularity of hockey now.” There celebrations in Prayagraj, where Dhyan Chand was born on August 29 in 1905; Jhansi and Lucknow, where he spent his playing days. His fans distributed sweets to mark the renaming of the award. Khel Ratna awardees get a prize of ₹25 lakh. Ashok Kumar also showered praise on the Indian hockey teams at the Tokyo Games. “Our men’s team won a medal and the women’s side won hearts. The entire country is celebrating their performances. It’s a big occasion for all of us,” he said. He thanked the nation for keeping Dhyan Chand’s name alive. “There is no doubt that athletes and sports fans have kept Major Dhyan Chand’s name alive even today. And now this Khel Ratna award will take that legacy forward. He (Dhyan Chand) is still alive in our hearts.” Uttar Pradesh Hockey, the official unit of the Games’ governing body, Hockey India, too welcomed the PM’s announcement to rename the award after Major Dhyan Chand. “It’s a great moment for Uttar Pradesh Hockey as we all grew up hearing the tales of Dhyan Chand Ji on the hockey field. He has been the ideal of all hockey players in India. In our playing days, we all wanted to play like him,” said RP Singh, who also happens to be a former India hockey captain. “Most of our hockey astro turf stadiums in UP (14) are already named after Major Dhyan Chand. The stadium in his name at the Guru Gobind Singh Sports College here has witnessed many big events like 2016 Junior Men’s Hockey World Cup and Gold Cup Tournament in the past,” he said. “It’s a golden double for UP, as after the success of hockey players like Lalit Kumar Upadhyay and Vandana Katariya at the Tokyo Games, we got to see the government renaming the sports award in the name of Major Dhyand Chand,” added Singh, who is also UP’s sports director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sports-awards-should-be-named-after-sportspersons-says-maj-dhyan-chand-s-son-101628265784838.html
07-08-2021||Chandigarh||Why no final decision against judicial officer indicted of graft in 2018: HC to registrar||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday issued a notice to its registrar-general to file a status report on why no decision has been taken against additional sessions judge Hemant Gopal, who is under suspension, on the basis of an inquiry report dated March 31, 2018. Gopal is under suspension since 2013 after former MLA Mangat Rai Bansal produced a video CD as proof of a gratification racket involving the said judicial officer, who was then posted as a judge in the special CBI court, Mohali. Gopal was indicted in the preliminary inquiry and later in the final inquiry, but despite the report submitted three-and-half years ago, the high court has not taken any action. Petitioner Bansal’s counsel further submitted that in pursuance of inquiry report, Punjab government’s law officer Sushil Kumar, who had acted as middleman and collected the bribe money, has since been dismissed from service, however, the high court has not taken a decision against Gopal. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan issued the notice to the registrar general of the high court and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “The registrar general of this court is directed to submit a status report as to why no final decision has been taken against the said officer on the basis of the inquiry report dated 31.03.2018,” reads the order of Justice Sangwan, who was apprised by advocate Vishal Nawarna, appearing for the petitioner. The bribery case against the judge pertained to allegations by one of the accused in a paddy embezzlement case that law officer Singla ‘struck a deal’ on behalf of additional district sessions judge Gopal. Also an accused in the paddy embezzlement case, Bansal circulated a video CD showing Singla collecting ₹40 lakh as bribe from another accused, Parminder Singh, allegedly on the behalf of Gopal on April 17, 2013. In the embezzlement case itself, Bansal and 23 other rice millers were accused of paddy embezzlement and causing a loss of ₹1.8 crore to the exchequer. The CBI registered a case in 1999 and the trial was completed in 2013. Pronouncing the judgment, CBI judge Hemant Gopal had convicted 22 people and acquitted Parminder Singh and one Bachni Devi. “The above-said judgment had been passed by you by extraneous considerations. Thus, you committed gross misconduct, acted against the judicial canons, lowered the image of the judiciary in the eyes of public and acted in a manner unbecoming of a judicial officer,” the petitioner’s counsel quoting the content of the inquiry report, a copy of which is in possession of HT, conducted on the orders of the high court against Gopal. The operative part of the inquiry report reads: “Per discussion and findings recorded above, I hold that all the allegations as contained in the article of charge, are proved against the delinquent officer, Shri Hemant Gopal, Additional District & Sessions Judge (sic).” The court has fixed August 24 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/why-no-action-against-judicial-officer-indicted-of-graft-in-2018-hc-to-registrar-101628264879920.html
07-08-2021||Bhopal||MP to take disciplinary action against employees who stage ‘indecent’ protests||Madhya Pradesh will take disciplinary action against employees who protest in a “shameful and indecent” manner against the state government, a general administration department official said, requesting anonymity.The official said an order will be issued in this regard soon on the directions of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who objected to panchayat secretaries protesting against the government half-naked, alleging they were not paid salaries.“State government employees shouldn’t stage protests in a shameful manner by tonsuring their heads and getting half-naked. They are working in responsible posts and shouldn’t behave indecently,” said state home minister Narottam Mishra.Also Read | MP floods: 2 dead, PM Modi reviews situation with CM ChouhanUnder the new rules, Mishra said, disciplinary action will be taken against employees indulging in indecent protest for violating the civil services rules.“All departments have been asked to inform employees about the civil services rules and what is inappropriate behaviour,” said another officer of the general administration department.Employee union leaders alleged it was the first time the state government was “trying to take our democratic right of protest away, citing civil service rules”.“In the past few weeks, over 2,000 employees of 313 janpad panchayats and the rural development department have been booked by police for violating orders duly promulgated by public officers. They were suspended and some contractual employees were fired. We never saw such inhuman and undemocratic behaviour against employees for staging protests. Now, they are calling it a violation of civil services rules,” said Dinesh Sharma, a leader of the employee union.The employees said if the government fulfils their demand on time, they will not protest.“We staged a protest only after our demands were not met for a long time. Protests are the only way to bring our long-pending demands to the attention of officers and ministers towards, and the now government wants to snatch away our right. We won’t tolerate this suppressive decision,” said Laxminarayan Sharma, general secretary, MP Class 3 Employees Association.The Congress also supported the employees’ unions. “The BJP-led state government is coming up with such decisions as they are afraid of being exposed. The government fooled the employees and is now trying to suppress them. We are with them and will not allow the state government to behave undemocratically,” said KK Mishra, spokesperson, MP Congress Committee.However, the BJP said the decision to stop “indecent” protests is not to suppress anyone. “The government employees are part of the system and they should behave decently. They can sit on dharna, stage protests and shout slogans, but does it look nice to take off clothes and to break earthen pots? The employees themselves should feel that they should adopt a decent and appropriate way of staging protest,” said Rajneesh Agrawal, spokesperson, BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-to-take-disciplinary-action-against-employees-who-stage-indecent-protests-101628251919297.html
