08-08-2021||Other||BHU, AstraZeneca roll out cancer screening camp for women in Varanasi||AstraZeneca India (AstraZeneca Pharma India Limited), a leading science-led biopharmaceutical company and Banaras Hindu University (BHU), conducted a cancer screening camp for women in Varanasi on Sunday.It is the second such camp set up in and around Varanasi, as a part of the Ganga Godavari cancer screening programme, since its launch in March 2021.The programme strives to spread awareness on the importance and need for early detection of oral, breast, and cervical cancers in women and facilitate detection of such cancers at this specialised screening camp.More than 100 women underwent screening in a camp organised two days ago, and five suspected cases were referred for further evaluation, said Dr Amita Yadav, AstraZeneca Pharma CSR Lead in a press statement.The current phase of the programme, introduced in March of 2021, is being conducted in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, in consensus with NHM and the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).The department of community medicine at the institute of medical sciences, BHU, acts as a nodal agency for this programme. The department of obstetrics and gynaecology, general surgery and dentistry provided an expert team of medical professionals for the provision of screening services at the health and wellness centre at Tikri.More than 300 women participated in the cancer screening camp held at Varanasi in March 2021. As many as 15 women were referred to tertiary care hospitals for further management, according to the press statement.In its first phase, the programme was implemented in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka. Till now, more than 76 camps have been conducted under the Ganga Godavari Initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhu-astrazeneca-roll-out-cancer-screening-camp-for-women-in-varanasi-101628447352615.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sarpanch’s vehicles set on fire in Ludhiana’s village||The Sudhar police booked a resident of Boparai Kalan village, along with his accomplices, for torching three vehicles belonging to the village sarpanch.The accused was identified as Harpreet Singh, alias Happy. His accomplices have yet to be identified.Complainant Lakhbir Singh said he owned three vehicles, including an open jeep, a Mahindra XUV 300 and a motorcycle, which he used to park at a plot near his house.On Friday night, he woke up on hearing commotion in the street. When he went out, he was shocked to see his vehicles on fire. With the help of neighbours, he managed to douse the flames. On scanning the CCTV footage, he realised that Harpreet, along with his accomplices, poured some inflammable substance on his jeep and set it on fire, which soon spread to the other vehicles parked nearby.Sub-inspector Nirmal Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage to the amount of one hundred or ten rupees), 427( mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused. Efforts are on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sarpanchs-vehicles-set-on-fire-in-ludhiana-s-village-101628447293972.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Chhota Rajan henchman ran extortion racket from jail||An investigation by the anti-extortion cell (AEC) of the Mumbai crime branch has revealed how gangster Chhota Rajan’s former henchman, Yusuf Suleiman Kadri alias Yusuf Bachkana, who has his own gang, was running an extortion racket from Hindalga central jail in Belagavi district of Karnataka, where he is serving a life term.Bachkana, police officers said, ran the racket with the help of two people from Mumbai — 57-year-old Tilak Nagar resident Habiba Khan, a widow of a Rajan gang member, and Prakash Kunchikurve, a sweeper employed with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Born and brought up in Dharavi, Khan was married to Hussain Ahmed Khan alias Hussain Ustara, a smuggler and member of the Dawood Ibrahim gang, who died in 2002 due to cardiac arrest. Rajan used to visit his residence in Tilak Nagar with his other henchman DK Rao.According to joint commissioner of police (crime branch) Milind Bharambe, Dharavi resident Kunchikurve was also on Bachkana’s payroll since long.Both Khan and Kunchikurve were arrested by the AEC after Bachkana was booked in Mumbai on June 8 for threatening a Ghatkopar-based builder, and then arrested and brought to Mumbai on July 22.Their interrogation revealed the modus operandi. Khan used to visit offices and new project sites of builders in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai, pretending to be a prospective flat or shop purchaser and used to collect all information about the builder, the firm, its partners, their old and new projects, and also look into their financial status and political links. She used to pass all the information, including personal contact details to Bachkana, who would then threaten the builder and force him to pay them a ransom.In case of the Ghatkopar builder, Khan had visited the site in May 2021, pretending to be a flat purchaser. As usual, she visited the site alone and took an auto to reach the site. After gathering information about the developer, she contacted Bachkana through WhatsApp. Police officers said she also used other mobile apps to send messages and communicate with Bachkana. The builder started getting calls from May 19. Fed up with the calls, he lodged a police complaint on the basis of which Ghatkopar police registered an FIR on June 8. The case was later transferred to the AEC for further probe.Initial investigation revealed that the threatening calls originated from Hindalga central jail in Belgavi where Bachkana was lodged. The extortionist had called the builder many times and sent his recorded clips and also threatened the builder with dire consequences if he failed to pay him Rs50 lakh.“We then wrote to the jail authorities and the Karnataka government as well and obtained a production warrant for arresting and bringing Bachkana to Mumbai,” said deputy commissioner of police Prakash Jadhav, of the crime branch. “We have also asked the jail authority to investigate as to how Bachkana was allowed to use a mobile phone inside the jail and recover the used phone and send it to the AEC for further probe. But they have not yet recovered the phone,” added the crime branch officer.During interrogation, Bachkana revealed the name of Kunchikurve who used to go to meet him in the court on hearing dates and on his direction, Kunchikurve had procured Khan’s latest mobile number and gave it to him. Bachkana also revealed that he spoke to Khan on the phone from jail. As per his instructions, Khan gathered information of the builder and passed the same on to him. Police officers said Bachkana has confessed that Khan had passed the Ghatkopar builder’s details and contact number to him, said police inspector Yogesh Chavan of the AEC. The AEC then arrested Khan on July 22 from her residence and Kunchikurve was also arrested on July 24. Now both are in police custody till August 6.A crime branch officer said Bachkana had also threatened a Navi Mumbai-based builder for extortion and part of the ransom was collected from the builder.Kunchikurve’s role was to visit the court whenever Bachkana came to court on hearing dates in Mumbai and provide food, clothes as well as information to him and handle his finances. Police sources also said Kunchikurve was allegedly on Bachkana’s payroll and was paid ₹200,00 every month by Bachkana. He was said to be the right-hand man of Bachkana for several years. Police officers said Bachkana had worked as a sharpshooter for the Rajan gang, and it was Rajan’s close aide Ravi Mallesh Bora aka DK Rao who had introduced Habiba Khan to Bachkana. At that time, the Tilak Nagar resident was arrested with Rao for trying to extort from a Badlapur-based builder and Bachkana was arrested for allegedly planning to kill filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt. DK Rao and Bachkana were old friends as both had worked for Rajan. Six months after her arrest, Khan was let out on bail and during court visits for the case, Rao had introduced her to Bachkana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/chhota-rajan-henchman-ran-extortion-racket-from-jail-101628447233184.html
08-08-2021||Lucknow||JP Nadda’s message to Uttar Pradesh BJP: Performance will matter, not profiles||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda laid down the blueprint for the 2022 state assembly elections during his two-day visit to Uttar Pradesh on Saturday and Sunday, making it clear that only performance would matter, and profiles won’t, leaders privy to the development said. Nadda concluded his visit to UP, holding party meetings in Lucknow and Agra, before flying back to Delhi on Sunday evening.While tickets to sitting lawmakers would be decided on the report of the party in-charges of all 403 assembly constituencies and ground level feedback, the BJP leadership has also decided to ensure “collective responsibility” by getting ministers and senior leaders to attend booth-level campaigns and take ownership of associating voters with the party at the booth-level, party leaders said. From Monday, the BJP unit in UP, as well as the government, would set in motion a series of voter-connect initiatives through the meeting of panna pramukh or in-charge of a page in voters list. The experiment of panna pramukhs was tested in Gujarat in 2007.“The booth adhyaksh and panna pramukh (booth president and in-charge of page on voters’ list), our lowest representatives at the grassroots are going to be the key in the party campaign. To ensure that the cadres are galvanised at the local level, even ministers and senior leaders could be made panna pramukh in their regions,” a BJP leader said.“Senior leaders would also visit booth presidents to ensure that the top leadership is connected with the ground level cadres,” party leaders said. To continue the engagement with villages, the BJP is thinking of newer ways to engage with state’s countryside, party leaders said.The party had organised a get-together of all the new district panchayat and kshetra panchayat chairpersons in Lucknow on Saturday and tasked them with specific assignments.On August 23, the party would launch “booth vijay” campaign. To supplement this rural engagement, the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), would launch a month long “ek gaon, ek tiranga (one village, one tricolour)” campaign from August 15. The UP BJP unit and the Yogi Adityanath government would regularly undertake people-connect campaigns as well as initiatives. The party leadership would also ensure that before his big rallies begin, Prime Minister Narendra Modi would keep connecting virtually with the people of the state on a regular basis, BJP leaders said. While the UP BJP leaders would undertake a campaign to clean memorials and statues of great leaders across the state on Monday, PM Modi would virtually transfer the next installment of PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi to beneficiaries and also interact with some of them from Kasganj.On August 5, the PM had interacted with poorest of the poor beneficiaries of PM-Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY) in Varanasi, Sultanpur, Jhansi, Kushinagar and Saharanpur. On August 10, the PM will launch Ujjwala 2.0 from Mahoba in Bundelkhand. Ujjwala, the free gas connection scheme, was earlier launched from Ballia in UP in 2016.“Modi is the party’s lifeline and so he would continue to interact with UP in some way or the other before his big rallies start happening closer to the elections,” a party leader said. The statue and memorial cleanliness campaigns would conclude on August 15. They would be followed by party meetings in all assembly segments till August 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jp-nadda-s-message-to-uttar-pradesh-bjp-performance-will-matter-not-profiles-101628446992666.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: Common investment mistakes||While investment is necessary, not all people know the right way to do it. The idea behind parking money in various market instruments is to financially secure your future while saving enough for needs like higher education or health or retirement. But the road to successful investment is filled with errors. Here are some common ones: Lack of clarity: Why have you chosen a particular financial instrument over another? Do you have investment goals? How much return would you like to earn after a specific period? Have you divided your financial goals into long-term, mid-term and short-term before deciding on your investments? These four questions about investment decisions are crucial. Past performance: The past may have an impact on your future financial decisions, but it cannot become the sole consideration. People often check past returns to gauge particular stocks or funds, and while assessing the working of a financial instrument helps, any decision regarding its purchase must be rooted in the present context and in its future possibilities. A financial instrument’s returns depend on myriad factors including inflation and current economic conditions. Also, changes in management and business policies could cause the price of a particular stock to increase. Exaggerated expectation: Timely and regular investments can get you handsome returns, but to expect becoming filthy rich within a year amount to extremely high expectation of earnings and profits. While you may be making your investments after considerable planning and research, be ready to face any adverse situation too or realize that not all stocks and investment options may yield you expected returns. Not diversifying: Investment diversification is essential to risk management. Allocating investments in different channels or to different categories helps mitigate the risk associated with investments that may be volatile or subject to extreme market movements, but still are worthy enough to invest in. People refuse to look beyond debt funds and fixed money market instruments to earn fixed returns, and wile While this shields them from possible market losses, it does not give access to good returns needed to beat rising inflation. No period reviews: A common and avoidable mistake that most people make is not reviewing their investment portfolio regularly. While you may have invested in myriad market instruments, your inability to check their performance regularly will keep you bereft of the necessary information needed to make your investment goals and decide the right balance of equity and debt funds in the long run.Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-common-investment-mistakes-101628446991470.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Delta Plus cases surge to 45, from 21 in June||Amid the relaxation of Covid-19 restrictions, the number of Delta Plus cases has surged to 45, from 21 in June. The highest number of cases has been recorded in Jalgaon, followed by Ratnagiri and Mumbai, among others. The variant has also been identified among young adults below 18 years. Almost 80% of the samples sent for the sequencing has tested positive for the Delta variant. However, public health officers have observed no significant surge of the variant in these districts.The Delta Plus (AY.1) is a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant of Sars-CoV-2 (B.1.617.2) and detected in the state during the second wave. In June, the Union health ministry declared it as the variant of concern.As per the recent data provided by the state health department, Jalgaon has recorded 13 cases, Ratnagiri 11, Mumbai 6, Thane 5, Pune 3 and one each in Palghar, Beed, Aurangabad, Sindhudurg, Nandurbar, Akola and Sangli.In the second wave which started in the middle of February, medical experts observed higher infection rate compared to the first wave. Since then, on a monthly basis, the public health department has been sending samples for genome sequencing. “So far, we have sent more than 8,000 samples for genome sequencing. Although the positivity rate of the Delta Plus variant is below 0.05%, almost 80% of the samples have tested positive for the variant,” said Dr Awate. In the 42-60 age group, 14 patients have been identified. Also, five patients above 60 years of age have contracted the variant.Genome sequencing is an exercise to study the changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant. The samples from the state are sent for genome sequencing to the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB). “We have sent more than 8,000 samples for genome sequencing. Though the positivity rate of the Delta Plus variant is below 1%, almost 80% of the samples have tested positive for the Delta variant,” said Dr Awate.However, there is a silver lining as medical experts haven’t observed any sudden surge in Delta Plus variants in the districts like Palghar, Thane, Sindhudurg, Mumbai, among others, where the variant has been recorded.“The variant has already spread to over 80 countries across the world, including the United Kingdom, United States of America, Singapore and southern China. It’s more transmissible and causes group infections. But so far, we haven’t observed any major spike in Delta Plus cases in any districts,” said Dr Subhas Salunke, state advisor to Covid-19 treatment. “So, it is essential that people get fully vaccinated and keep following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Keep wearing masks and before travelling, get fully vaccinated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-delta-plus-cases-surge-to-45-from-21-in-june-101628446931449.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Close shave for driver as moving car catches fire in Ludhiana||A moving Tata Nano car caught fire near Jain Villa Colony at Bhamiyan Road on Saturday night. The driver, Gurpreet Singh, had a narrow escape as he managed to get out of the car in the nick of time after passers-by alerted him.A short-circuit in the car’s engine is suspected to be the reason behind the incident. Even as nearby residents and shopkeepers tried to douse the fire using water buckets, flames completely engulfed the car in no time. Gurpreet, who is a trainer at a gym on Bhamiyan Road, was returning home when the fire started. Sambhav, a local who called the fire brigade, said, “Before the fire brigade could reach the spot, the car was completely damaged. Fortunately, the owner escaped safely.”Fireman Amritpal Singh of Focal Point fire station said on receiving an alert, they sent one fire tender to the spot and the flames were doused in around half an hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/close-shave-for-driver-as-moving-car-catches-fire-in-ludhiana-101628446873605.html
08-08-2021||Other||Varanasi: NDRF deploys 20 teams in Uttar Pradesh, MP; urges people to remain patient||An NDRF team led by Commandant Manoj Kumar Sharma visited the flood outposts in Varanasi on Sunday.During the visit, Commandant Manoj Kumar Sharma urged the people not to be afraid and be patient. NDRF is with them and is constantly monitoring the situation, he added.A press statement issued by NDRF said a team has been deployed in Dashashwamedh Ghat, Samne Ghat and Maruti Nagar to deal with the flood situation. A total of 20 teams of NDRF have been deployed in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, the press statement added.In Uttar Pradesh, the teams have been deployed for flood rescue and monitoring in Varanasi, Etawah, Jalaun, Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Shravasti, Bahraich, Siddharthnagar, Ballia, Prayagraj. At present, the relief work is underway in Etawah and Jalaun.Simultaneously, people were evacuated by the NDRF team from the waterlogged areas in Maruti Nagar, Varanasi, to a safe place.Meanwhile, the NDRF control room received a call from Maruti Nagar, where the caller had a broken leg and was trapped in the flooded area. The NDRF team immediately reached the spot and rescued him, and later rushed him to a local hospital by boat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-ndrf-deploys-20-teams-in-uttar-pradesh-mp-urges-people-to-remain-patient-101628446872318.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Chimbai fisherfolk clash over infrastructure development||Fisherfolk from Chimbai village in Bandra (West) have gotten into a heated dispute over the ongoing infrastructure development work along their waterfront executed by the fisheries department. The ₹8.5-crore project, which involves expansion of an existing jetty, construction of two new boatyards and two new net mending shelters, has also drawn the ire of environmentalists who said the work is in violation of permissions granted under the Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) rules.The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) had, on February 26, 2019, recommended the fisheries department’s proposal for CRZ clearance while the construction work commenced in August 2019. The project is being funded by the Central government and involves developing “infrastructural post harvesting facilities” at 10 different fish landing sites in the state. A rapid environment impact assessment (EIA) report carried out for the same noted that the work would “fulfil long-standing demand of about 2,525 fisherfolk residents in Chimbai”.While the project has faced opposition from a majority of fisherfolk, a smaller group of Chimbai residents — recently organised into the government registered Chimbai East Indian Koli Samaj Sanstha which claims to represent around 85 individuals — have supported the project. Revamping the existing infrastructure, they said, is necessary to revitalise trade in the village, particularly during the economic downturn after Covid-19.Residents highlight environmental concernsThe majority of residents HT spoke with maintained that they have never made such a demand in the first place. “There are not even 150 fishing boats left here anymore. This project will only damage our small beach further,” said Prakash Chimbaikar, whose family has been fishing at Chimbai for at least three generations. “Because of the jetty expansion and blasting of rocks to make way for the boatyard, the water is already coming further into the village during high tide. The boatyard is being constructed over rocks that halt the water from reaching our homes. Even the jetty expansion has been done in a way which does not allow water to flow back out as quickly during low tide,” he added.In a petition filed earlier this year before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) by Chimbai resident Maria Thelma against MCZMA, it has been noted that the scale of proposed amenities are “entirely disproportionate to the needs of the local community”, and are best “avoided at all costs due to the fragility of the geomorphic features of the intertidal rocky areas and mangroves in the region”. The petition also alleges that construction debris and raw materials are being dumped wantonly inside CRZ-I areas, which an HT team found to be true during multiple site visits in the past month.Speaking to HT, Thelma also said construction material was being stored in a common area that was earlier used for net mending and fish drying. “Ever since the work began, we are not able to use the area for drying fish. The area also touches a mangrove patch. The contractor has made sheds there for his staff and parks his machinery on site. Who has allowed our common areas to be taken over like this? Where is the permission?” she said.Project violates terms of clearance: ActivistsThe ongoing work in Chimbai has also come under the scanner of environmentalists who first wrote to authorities in January this year, pointing out lapses in the governance and execution of the project. The two proposed boatyards, as per the fisheries department’s layout plans, will involve reclamation of 45,000 sq ft of intertidal zone on the sea-ward side of Chimbai village, which is a CRZ-III area.These areas are marked as no development zones as per the CRZ Notification, 2011, and exceptions may be permitted only for reconstruction of “dwelling units of traditional coastal communities”, as per the CRZ rules. “About 190 metres of the 300-metre beach will be taken up by the project. This leaves very little open space left, and there has not been any detailed study on how the tidal influence will change. The way the project has been executed is quite shabby. Even MCZMA when granting clearance did not seem to be aware of the scale of the project. This increases room for violations which, as we can see, has already happened. Old, natural rocks which act as protective barrier between the sea and people’s homes have been destroyed,” said environmentalist Zoru Bhatena, who had first written to MCZMA in January this year, highlighting the project’s ecological impact. A perusal of the rapid EIA report prepared for the project, too, shows glaring lapses in the consultant’s risk assessment methods. For example, the report uses tidal pattern data not of Chimbai village but that of Apollo Bunder in Colaba when assessing the project’s risks on flow of tide water. “This is a blunder. Changes in the tide can completely change how we park and anchor our boats. If the flow becomes more intense, our boats will get damaged in choppy weather,” said Brian Falcon, a fisherman from Chimbai.Despite attempts, HT was unable to reach Narendra Toke director, environment and member secretary of MCZMA, for a comment. A fisheries officer privy to the project, requesting anonymity, said, “We have all permissions for the project. NGT has not stayed the work either, and has appointed a monitoring committee with members of the environment ministry and state pollution control board. Any queries should be taken up with them.”Infrastructure needed to revitalise fishing communityDespite the attendant environmental repercussions, not all residents are opposed to the development. Daven Kandoriya, chairman of Chimbai Matsyodyog Vividh Karyakari Sanstha and president of Chimbai East Indian Koli Samaj, said the development was essential for reviving the practice of artisanal fishing among the local community.“A boatyard will enable us to buy bigger boats, and we can also earn revenue by renting out the area for cultural events and festivals. We could start our own Koli food festival, establish a fish market and so on. It’s not as if we do not have adequate infrastructure today, but given the economic downturn and job squeeze, more people are coming back to fishing instead of doing other kinds of jobs. We need to be able to provide them with support,” said Kandoriya.Alan Misquita, 40, a fisherman from Chimbai, said the village currently suffers from a shortage of public space where the community can gather to conduct trade and discuss related affairs. “What is being built will continue to belong to the entire community. We have also asked for a third dhakka to be built. Each of the three Koli communities — Catholic, Maharastrian and Kathiyawadi — can have their own fish landing. We are acting in everyone’s interest,” he clarified.Asked if they were cognisant of the possible ecological ramifications of the proposed works, Kandoriya, Misquita and other members of the Samaj expressed faith in a recent order of NGT which allowed the work to continue while disposing Thelma’s petition. “The matter has been dismissed once earlier by the high court in January. If the courts had seen merit in their argument, we would have accepted. What some residents do not seem to understand is that if we cannot show enough infrastructure, tomorrow the village may get placed in some slum rehabilitation scheme. We are only trying to protect the koliwada,” said Valley Quadros, 46.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-chimbai-fisherfolk-clash-over-infrastructure-development-101628446812353.html
08-08-2021||Other||Murder bid accused brought from Tihar Jail||The local police have brought Karanbir Singh, alias Karan Walia, a member of the Shubham Mota gang, on production warrant from Delhi’s Tihar Jail. He is wanted by the Tibba police in an attempt to murder case, besides two cases under the purview of Division Number 7 and Division Number 3 police.“Karanbir is wanted for trying to murder Akash Soni of New Hargbind Nagar, Tibba, in the Gurmel Park area on June 5. On the same day, the accused and his accomplices had also assaulted members of the Puneet Bains gang,” said inspector Pramod Kumar, SHO, Tibba police station.On July 19, the Delhi police had arrested Karanbir and his accomplice Sarabjot Singh, alias Raja. The accused were returning from Madhya Pradesh with a consignment of illegal weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/murder-bid-accused-brought-from-tihar-jail-101628446810836.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||CMO asks forest department to look into landfilling allegations in Aarey||The chief minister’s office (CMO) on Sunday directed the forest department to look into complaints of illegal landfilling along the banks of Mithi River inside Aarey Colony. The site in question is opposite the Metro-3 casting yard on Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road between Powai and SEEPZ. Initially flagged by Save Aarey activists in March this year, it is alleged that at least four acres of land along Mithi have been buried.“After we complained in March, the work stopped. It has now started again today. What was already reclaimed is expanding, and grasslands which fall in the catchment of Mithi are being buried. CMO has now directed the forest department to look into the matter. It’s reassuring that the forest department can now be roped in for protecting Aarey, but it remains to be seen whether they can stop the damage,” said Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti. On June 8, 812 acres of Aarey land were handed over to the forest department for protection.Sanjiv Valsan, an activist with Save Aarey and Rewilding Aarey movements, said scores of trucks have once again started coming to the plot which is marked as a green zone in development plans and have been dumping debris and mud in an organised manner. Valsan also shared videos taken on Sunday which show construction material being offloaded by labourers. “We have been told that the land was reserved for a 200-square metre petrol pump, but the landfill extends over a larger area than that. This will worsen flooding. There is no board outside the project either. We have filed a complaint with Aarey police but no action has been taken. This is illegal. Authorities should clarify who the contractor responsible for this is,” Valsan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cmo-asks-forest-department-to-look-into-landfilling-allegations-in-aarey-101628446631507.html
08-08-2021||Other||Illegal sex determination centre uncovered in Ludhiana, three held||Police have arrested three people, including a woman, for running an illegal sex determination centre at Jagera village.The arrests came following a sting operation by Dr Balwinder Kaur, deputy civil surgeon and nodal officer for Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT), Ambala. The accused have been identified as Gurnam Kaur, her nephew Gurjant Singh and their aide Lakhwinder Singh.On Saturday, the Ambala health department sent a decoy pregnant woman to the accused’s centre after informing the Ludhiana civil surgeon.When the woman sought to know the gender of the foetus, the accused played a fake video on their laptop, pretending it was her scan and lied about the gender.The health department team caught them red-handed, and seized the laptop and ₹12,500 in cash that they had taken from the woman.“No ultrasound machine was recovered from the centre. They were simply conning gullible patients on the pretext of disclosing the gender of the foetus,” said inspector Sukhdev Singh, station house officer (SHO), Dehlon police station.He shared that Gurnam was arrested for the same crime in September 2020. But she did not mend her ways and started another centre after relocating. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and PNDT Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegal-sex-determination-centre-uncovered-in-ludhiana-three-held-101628446573978.html
08-08-2021||Lucknow||88 villages included in Lucknow municipal limits to get piped water supply||Jal Sansthan has planned to extend its tap water supply to 88 new villages included in the municipal limits of Lucknow last year. A meeting of the general manager (GM), Jal Sansthan, and the project manager, Jal Nigam, was organised to prepare a project report of the plan last week.Confirming this, general manager, Jal Sansthan, SK Varma said: “The Jal Nigam will start a survey of these villages from next week for laying pipelines. Besides, more than one lakh houses in the old city, which don’t have any water connection, will also be given water connection by laying new water lines in different areas of Lucknow. A plan for this is also being prepared. Presently, these areas are getting water supply through handpumps and submersible pumps.”Project manager, Jal Nigam, GC Srivastava said, “A proposal to lay water lines in those areas which still don’t have piped water supply is being prepared.” Besides, Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) is also planning development of all the 88 villages.The committee constituted by Lucknow Municipal Corporation has submitted the report recommending development of these villages with ₹100 crore. The report recommends laying of pipelines for piped water supply, installation of streetlights, development of parks, establishing community centres and laying of sewer lines.Chief tax superintendent, LMC, Ashok Singh said, “The good thing is that these villages have come with a good land bank for LMC which can be used for LMC projects in days to come. The area of LMC has increased from 310 sq km to 568 sq km . And this has come with added responsibilities. Now, we have to take care of their civic needs, right from piped water supply, sewer lines, streetlights , roads, footpaths and parks.”Additional municipal commissioner Amit Kumar said, “Population of these villages is around 2.69 lakh. The LMC will concentrate on connectivity of these areas with the city. So, construction of roads and drainage system would be given priority. Jal Sansthan would be asked to ensure piped water supply and arrange funds for laying of sewer lines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/88-villages-included-in-lucknow-municipal-limits-to-get-piped-water-supply-101628446572821.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||9 wards contribute to 54% of active cases, says Mumbai civic body data||Nine of the 24 wards in Mumbai contribute to 54% of the active Covid-19 cases in the city, according to information from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). These wards are areas corresponding to Andheri West, Borivali West, Kandivli, Goregaon, Bandra West, Mulund, Bhandup in north Mumbai and Malabar Hill in south Mumbai, with over 200 active Covid-19 cases per ward. As of Sunday, Mumbai had 4,645 active Covid-19 cases. Of the 4,196 active Covid-19 cases, for which ward-wise data is available with the BMC, 2,267 active cases are from nine wards in north Mumbai. The highest number of active Covid-19 cases were reported in K-West ward corresponding to Andheri West (328), followed by R-South ward corresponding to Kandivli West (303), and R-Central ward corresponding to Borivli West (286). The fewest active cases are in Dongri and Pydhonie area of B ward (8), Girgaum and Marine Lines area of C ward (38), and G/North ward corresponding to Worli (98). However, 17 wards across the city presently have a growth rate higher than Mumbai’s overall average growth rate of Covid-19 cases – 0.04%. B ward has the lowest growth rate of 0.01%, while A ward in south Mumbai, corresponding to areas of Churchgate, Colaba and Cuffe Parade, has the highest growth rate of 0.07%. Growth rate is calculated as per the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past seven days. A ward currently has a total of 144 active cases. A senior civic officer from the BMC’s public health department said, “As a general trend during the second wave, we have noticed Mumbai received more cases from suburban residential buildings, in contrast to the first wave last year, where more cases were seen in slums. The residential buildings of suburbs have seen large number of cases.” Mumbai, on Sunday reported 305 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine deaths, taking the tally to 737,497, and toll to 15,951. The recovery rate in Mumbai is 97%, and the doubling rate is 1,642 days. Box: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received 45,000 vaccine doses on Saturday night, facilitating the vaccination drive in the city on Monday. On Saturday, some public vaccination centres in the city were closed due to shortage of vaccine stock Mumbai received 57,000 Covishield doses and 48,000 Covaxin doses on Tuesday night, which were distributed to vaccine centres on Wednesday. Following this, Mumbai had not received any fresh stock. On Saturday, 35,484 beneficiaries were vaccinated across the city, of which 10,472 received their second dose, and 25,012 beneficiaries received their first dose. There are 432 vaccination centres across the city, of which 295 are operated by the BMC, 20 by the state or central government, and 117 are private. So far, 1,859,100 beneficiaries have been completely vaccinated (with both doses), and 5,620,933 beneficiaries have received their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/9-wards-contribute-to-54-of-active-cases-says-mumbai-civic-body-data-101628446271491.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two robbers attack cops with blade, arrested||Samta Nagar police on Friday arrested two persons for robbery and assaulting police personnel with a blade.According to Anandrao Hanke, senior police inspector, the incident took place on Friday night when the two brothers identified as Rohit Kaparla, 23, and Babu Kaparla, 21, were trying to rob an idli vendor at 2.30am. While they were trying to flee on their motorcycle, two police constables from Kurar police station who were on patrolling duty, apprehended them. On seeing the policemen, the two siblings left their two-wheeler and ran towards Samta Nagar police station which was 500 meters away.“The two constables began searching for the robbers, not suspecting that they would have entered the police station after committing the crime,” said Hanke.The two reached the police station and cried those two constables had assaulted them and robbed their motorcycle.When the officers were in the process of registering the complaint, they received a wireless message about the two robbers’ escape with their description, which matched the complainants.“We immediately contacted the Kurar police officers and detained the two brothers,” added Hanke. However, as their lie was caught and when they were being arrested, they removed a blade from their pocket and attacked the constables of Samta Nagar police station and themselves. They tried to flee but they were intercepted and arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaitwo-robbers-attack-cops-with-blade-arrested-101628445911363.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||LPG tank leakage at Kasturba Hospital: Mumbai Fire Brigade to submit report on Monday||The Mumbai fire brigade will submit a detailed report regarding the LPG tank leak incident at Kasturba Hospital, on Monday. At 11.10am on Saturday, LPG tank in building 148 with a capacity of 10 metric tons began to leak. As a precautionary measure, the hospital administration moved 58 patients including 20 Covid-19 patients and 19 members of the hospital staff to an adjoining building. Four MT of LPG remaining in the tank was immediately shifted into a tanker.The hospital administration is also checking CCTV footage to determine whether the incident was due to mischief or accidental.All patients who were moved out on Saturday were moved back into the ward on Sunday. No injuries were reported in Saturday’s incident.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of the civic public health department said, “The patients who were shifted out were moved back into the ward on Sunday. I have asked the hospital administration to check any available CCTV footage to determine the cause of the leakage.”Covid-19 RT-PCR testing at Kasturba Hospital will continue routinely on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lpg-tank-leakage-at-kasturba-hospital-mumbai-fire-brigade-to-submit-report-on-monday-101628445611389.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Employees steal diamond, gold pendant worth ₹6 lakh, arrested||The Dahisar police have arrested two diamond polishers on Sunday for allegedly fleeing with a diamond and gold pendant worth ₹6 lakh belonging to their employer. While one accused was arrested from Nallasopara, the other was nabbed from Ahmedabad.According to the police, the accused identified as Mahadev Kayal, 42, and Vishwajeet Bora, 27, were working as ornaments polishers at the gold workshop located in Nitin Industrial Estate in Dahisar (West). The two are natives of West Bengal and had come to Mumbai a few months back.On July 27, the owner of the workshop had given the accused a gold pendant weighing 33.78 grams and a diamond of 4.86 carat costing ₹6 lakh for polishing. The same day, the two accused left the workshop for lunch and escaped by crossing the check naka on NH 48.When the two failed to return to the workshop till late evening, the owner approached the police and registered a complaint. The police team scanned the CCTVs of the nearby areas and found that the two had left through the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway.On tracking their mobile phone locations, the police found the hideouts of the two. “We have arrested the accused for theft and have recovered the entire stolen ornaments,” said assistant inspector Chandrakant Gharge, from Dahisar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-employees-steal-diamond-gold-pendant-worth-6-lakh-arrested-101628445131299.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Vasai factory blast kills one, injures 2||Nemuddin Mohammed Karim Salmani, 18, died and two other were injured in a wall collapse caused by a blast at the manufacturing unit of Heft Engineering Company, Tungarphata in Vasai (East) on Saturday evening. The export-oriented unit manufactures heat exchangers, finned tubes and other engineering products. The injured are admitted at a private hospital.“The blast in the boiler was so powerful that the worker of the adjoining Dolphin Company died after the portion of the boundary wall fell on him and he died instantly. The blast caused shockwaves so much so that some locals thought it was an earthquake,” said an officer from Waliv police station. Firemen from the Vasai civic fire brigade went to the spot and admitted two injured workers —Anwar Siddiqui and Vinod Yadav — at a private hospital.“As of now, we have registered a case of accidental death and are waiting the report of the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH), Vasai who visited the spot to ascertain the cause of the blast. We will register a case of negligence against the owner of the unit,” said the officer, adding that they are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vasai-factory-blast-kills-one-injures-2-101628444951244.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Over 1.2 million voters likely to be deleted from electoral rolls||Around 1.2 million registered voters are expected to be deleted from the electoral rolls for being absent from their residential address for various reasons. The district collectorates have been directed to ‘purify the rolls’ by following the due process.Maharashtra has 90.08 million voters registered to the electoral rolls across the state. Around 1.2 million voters were found missing from their registered residential addresses during the verification visit by the booth level officers appointed by the chief electoral officer of the state. Most of them had no photographs on their election cards. The chief executive officer (CEO) of Maharashtra on direction from the Election Commission of India (ECI) has asked district authorities to delete the names.Of the 90.08 million registered voters, many believed to have multiple entries in rolls because of the shifting of the residences. The migration from big cities like Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune to neighbouring cities is more resulting in duplicate entries of the voters. “This results in the drop in the voting percentage as it is taken on the registered voters and not on the actual living in the constituencies. One of the reasons for the low voting percentage in Mumbai and Thane is the duplicate voters prevailing in these cities. We call them ADS (absent, dead and shifted) voters and take a regular drive to purify or cleanse the electoral rolls. This is one such drive,” said an official from the CEO’s office.At 550,000, the highest ADS voters are in Thane, the district with a high migration rate. Mumbai suburban and Pune have more than 200,000 such voters, while Mumbai city and Nagpur have over 100,000 ADS voters.By using software, the ECI delete the demographical similar names from the rolls from time to time after due verification. “We conduct two summary revisions per year for the addition and deletions of the voters and insist on the photographs of voters in the rolls. Dead persons are deleted from the list by obtaining data from the authorities concerned. Most of these ADS voters have no photographs in the rolls, which clearly indicate that they have not been staying at the address for long. They have been given due time to comply with the discrepancies and on their failure to respond, we have been deleting the names,” the officer said.“We had 118,000 names without the photographs on the election cards in Mumbai city. On verification we found them missing from the address. After an appeal, around 1,000 of them have responded with their photographs and details within the deadline. For remaining voters, the deletion process has started. The names are being deleted by conducting punchanamas and verification from the neighbours and booth level agents appointed by political parties. Even if any valid voter is deleted erroneously, he/she will always have an opportunity to re-register by filing Form 6,” said Rajeev Nivatkar, collector, Mumbai city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiover-1-2-million-voters-likely-to-be-deleted-from-electoral-rolls-101628444831536.html
08-08-2021||Other||Students can register for Class 11 centralised online admission till August 16||PUNE As several students across six cities in the state were facing difficulties in registering themselves for the centralised online process for Class 11 admissions, the Directorate of Education (secondary and higher secondary) has extended the deadline for registration till August 16. This year will also see the quota system in the admission process and apart from these six cities, offline admissions will be carried out in the rest of Maharashtra.D G Jagtap, director of the secondary and higher secondary education department, said, “There should be adequate awareness about the Class 11 centralised online admission process. Student registration is being extended for conducting training for students, parents and guidance centres.”As per a circular issued by the department today, student registration has been extended till August 16. Students need to register themselves on the official website, generate their login id and set the password. They then need to fill in their personal details in the part 1 form, pay the fees, check the form and lock it. Currently, students can use the mock demo registration facility made available on the website to familiarise themselves.Till now, around 11 lakh students have registered for the Class 11 common entrance test (CET) to be held on August 21. Out of these, 36,000 students are from other boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-can-register-for-class-11-centralised-online-admission-till-august-16-101628443330667.html
08-08-2021||Kolkata||Covid patient needs ₹1.5 lakh daily for treatment; family, friends expresses concern||A family in Kolkata continues to feel the financial and emotional burden of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as one of its younger members remains on life support. To keep 30-year-old Jitpal Singha alive, they have had to pay ₹1.5 lakh every day for the Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation or ECMO machine for the last one month, according to NDTV. Doctors have said that Singha needs to remain on the machine, which pumps and oxygenates his blood outside the body so that his heart and lungs can rest, for another 30 days.But his family is concerned about funds drying up. His mother, Alpana Singha, said that when she last met her son he showed her a victory sign. She said that her son keeps asking about returning home. "He can't speak as he has all these pipes in his throat. But as I was leaving, he indicated I should take a photo of him," she told NDTV.The report said that his father has been unable to face the problems presented due to his son’s hospitalisation and has been visiting an ashram to cope up. Jitpal Singha’s cousin Debanjan Burman along with his friends is racing against time to secure the funds for his treatment. Jitpal's friends have chipped in generously to ensure his recovery and raised nearly ₹40 lakh. But now Burman said he worried because they will not be left with any money within 10 days.Nitish Vyas, a childhood friend of Jitpal, has also started a crowdfunding campaign to raise money for his treatment but points out the difficulties. "No family is prepared for this. It's a difficult scenario, an impossible scenario we are in, but we are not giving up," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid-patient-needs-rs-1-5-lakh-daily-for-treatment-family-expresses-concern-101628442749633.html
08-08-2021||Other||Three killed as car rams into tree in Kaimur||Three persons, including a couple , were killed and one was critically injured when their car collided into a tree on Mohania-Buxar state highway under Mohania police station limits of Kaimur district late on Saturday evening, police said on Sunday.The passengers were returning to their native Godasara village near Ramgarh after getting vaccinated for Covid-19 from Mohania.According to the police, the accident took place when the driver lost control over the car. The couple died on the spot, while one other died on way to a hospital. The injured person was undergoing treatment, police said.“We handed over the bodies to the aggrieved families after conducting post-mortem examination,” station house officer Ram Kalyan Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-killed-as-car-rams-into-tree-in-kaimur-101628442731334.html
08-08-2021||Patna||Patna’s Ganga pathway to partially open in March next year||The 5.50km-long Digha-AN Sinha Institute stretch of the ambitious Ganga Pathway, considered Patna’s version of Mumbai’s famous Marine Drive, will be opened for vehicular traffic by March next year, officials said on Sunday. This is part of ₹3,390 crore signature project coming up on the southern bank of River Ganga to minimise traffic load on the congested Ashok Rajpath. Envisoned by Nitish Kumar during his second stint as the chief minister, the road construction department (RCD) in 2013 laid the foundation stone of the 20.50km four-lane expressway, that connects National Highway-30 and AIIMS-Digha elevated corridor in the west with the upcoming six-lane Kacchi Dargah-Bidupur bridge over River Ganga in Patna City in the east. The project, however, got delayed inordinately owing to multiple reasons, including procedural wrangle in land acquisition and design modifications. Founded in 2013, the project was scheduled to be completed in 2017. However, as all the issues affecting the project are now tackled with, the RCD is now aiming to complete the project by June 2023. RCD additional chief secretary Amrit Lal Meena said efforts were on to open the Digha-AN Sinha institute stretch, which connects with Ashok Rajpath through a bridge, by March next year. “Most of the construction on this stretch is being done at grade level, while a short span of it is on elevated structure,” he said, adding that fund issues have also been resolved as the state Cabinet gave its nod for taking ₹2,000 crore as loan from Housing and Urban Development Corporation (Hudco). The RCD has arranged rest of the project cost from the state government’s resources, Meena said after a Cabinet meeting, which cleared the department’s proposal at its meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday last. In another important decision to empower youths with industrial skills, the state Cabinet approved the industries department’s proposal for launching vocational training institute of Central Institute of Petrochemicals and Engineering Technology (CIPET), and building premises of Bhagalpur co-operative spinning mill at a cost of around ₹40.10 crore. An assistance grant of ₹10 crore has also been released to start the project in the current fiscal. The Cabinet also gave its approval for release of around ₹30,000 crore to be spent by urban and rural local bodies towards development work. The allotment of fund will be made by the finance department to Panchayati raj and urban development departments in the light of the sixth state finance commission. The state government has also decided to frame rules, including qualifications, for appointment of chairman, members and member-secretary of Bihar state pollution control board. Currently, the board is running on an ad-hoc arrangement, as terms of present office-bearers expired last year. Project highlightTotal length of project: 20.50km Cost of project: ₹3,390 crore Foundation laying: 2013 Type of construction: 6.5km at-grade/14km elevated Stretch to be opened first: 5.50km Digha-AN Sinha institute Project deadline: June 2023||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnas-ganga-pathway-to-partially-open-in-march-next-year-101628442611311.html
08-08-2021||Other||Bhima Korgegaon commission: Narrative of events disputed by Dalit’s testimony||PUNE The Bhima Koregaon Inquiry Commission saw the light of day after several months in Pune, as a series of hearings were held between August 2 and August 5. The two-member commission includes Justice (retired) Jainarayan Patel and former chief secretary of Maharashtra, Sumit Mullick. Some of the claims made by a retired income tax officer from the family that claims to be a descendent of Dalit warrior Govind Gopal Mahar, created some loopholes in the narrative of events that occurred in the run-up to the violence in January 2018, and its immediate aftermath.Pralhad Ishwar Gaikwad (63), the man who claims to be a descendant of Govind Gopal Mahar, has claimed that he is not aware of who affixed the board whose vandalism led to unrest in Vadhu Budrukh village in December 2017. The board credited Govind Gopal with performing the last rites on the mortal remains of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj. The contents of the board disputed an opposing belief of the Maratha community that it was their ancestors, and not Mahar, who had performed the last rites on Sambhaij Maharaj, after his body was desecrated by Mughal emperor Aurangazeb.The Gaikwad family and the Maratha community got into a fight after the desecration of the board and the memorial. Rekha Shivale, the former sarpanch of Vadhu Budrukh has submitted a video of the fight that ensued between the Dalit Gaikwad family and members of the Maratha community.Additionally, Gaikwad blamed the then deputy sarpanch of Vadhu Budrukh village, Santosh Shivale, for misleading him into signing an affidavit that claimed that the memorial was only two-three years old.He claimed that he had been visiting the samadhi since his childhood, even though there is no record of its existence before the unrest happened in 2017.During his cross questioning by Advocate MV Deshmukh on August 2, Gaikwad claimed that the memorial and his family house were washed away in the 1997 floods, and that it was reconstructed, without his permission, in 2015-2016, on a site that was different than its original location.On August 3, during cross-questioning by Advocate BG Bansode, he said, “Govind Gopal Mahar was our ancestor. His samadhi is situated near the open plot, ie, in the buffer zone of CTS No 283. I am seeing the samadhi since my childhood. My father and grandfather used to tell us that in our family, Govind Gopal Mahar was a well-known warrior.”This statement went directly against the claim that was made in his earlier affidavit in June 2018, and in a hand-written letter he had submitted to the gram panchayat in May 2018. A revised affidavit was submitted by him in October 2018, rectifying this claim.Furthermore, Gaikwad added that he was not aware of who had reconstructed the memorial in 2015-16, or who had installed the board on the night intervening December 28-29, 2017. However, he does stake a claim on the sole ownership of the land on which the current memorial stands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhima-korgegaon-commission-narrative-of-events-disputed-by-dalit-s-testimony-101628442550595.html
08-08-2021||Other||Dumping of waste in public places: 0.11 million fined ₹4 crore in 18 months||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has fined 0.111 million citizens for dumping of waste in public places. A total of ₹4 crore has been recovered the past 18 months. Citizens were fined for dumping plastic, garbage, debris, and spitting in public.According to PMC’s solid waste management department, the fine recovery and action against illegal dumping began from November 2018 and continued till July 2021. Of the total fine of ₹4 crore, ₹40 lakh alone was for fines levied for dumping plastic waste and illegal sale of plastic bags.An amount of ₹8 lakh was recovered for spitting in public places. The action comes after the PMC commissioner had reiterated the need for preventive measures to contain the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) in the city and also to keep the city clean to prevent the outbreak of contagious diseases. “A fine of ₹500 will also be levied for not wearing masks in public places, government offices or private offices. Also, a fine of ₹1,000 will be recovered from those spitting in public place,” a PMC order on the matter states.The fine is levied for violating norms under relevant sections of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act of 1949, as well as the environment protection laws.PMC’s solid waste management chief Ajit Indalkar said societies and individuals are requested to follow civic rules failing which, action will be taken and fines levied. Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “Fines are recovered to discipline citizens and we want our city to become clean, healthy and beautiful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dumping-of-waste-in-public-places-0-11-million-fined-4-crore-in-18-months-101628442430588.html
08-08-2021||Patna||Party posters without JD(U) national chief’s pictures trigger row||A controversy erupted in the JD(U) on Sunday when large posters were put up at the party office and other places to announce the arrival of former JD(U) president and newly inducted Union minister R C P Singh on August 16 in Patna did not have images of the newly appointed JD(U) national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh and JD(U) national parliamentary board chairman Upendra Kushwaha. The posters put up by youth JD(U) president Abhay Kushwaha had pictures of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, RCP Singh and other leaders. The conspicuous absence of Lalan Singh’s picture from the poster did raise eyebrows and sent across a message about internal friction within the party between the newly elected JD(U) president and his predecessor.The posters came up just two days after JD(U) national president Lalan Singh was given a rousing welcome in the state capital, which was seen more as a show of strength by the Munger MP.However, most of the posters were removed from the party office and other places by the afternoon after the party’s state leaders took strong exception to it. Umesh Kushwaha, JD(U) state president, said that the absence of JD(U) national president from the posters was a breach of protocol and those responsible for it would be facing action. “We will send show-cause to the persons responsible for this. If their reply is not satisfactory, they will face action,” the JD(U) state president said. On his part, Abhay Kushwaha called the incident a mistake.Tejashwi missing from RJD postersMeanwhile, some eyebrows were also raised over posters put up outside the RJD state office by the youth wing of the party, in which large images of former health minister and Hasanpur MLA Tej Pratap Yadav were visible while pictures of the leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav were missing. There are speculations that Tej Pratap, who has been critical of the state president Jagdanand Singh, is keen on playing more assertive in the party and trying to increase his clout to compete with his younger brother Tejashwi who has gained acceptance as the party’s face.Tej Pratap, during a party’s youth wing meeting, took potshots at the state president Jagdanand Singh again, saying that some people are acting on their whims and fancies and have introduced a ‘system’ in the party due to which people are not able to come freely to the state office. “This party belongs to all and not a fiefdom of few people. That is why I have become active to bring in the same old vibrancy in the party so that people do not act arbitrarily,” he said.About the missing photo of Tejashwi Yadav from the party’s posters, Tej Pratap said, “Why are you all bothered about pictures. Tejashwi is in my heart. He is our chief ministerial face,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/party-posters-without-jd-u-national-chief-s-pictures-trigger-row-101628442371249.html
08-08-2021||Other||Now regularise water connections by paying a nominal fine||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has launched an amnesty scheme to help regularise illegal residential and commercial water connections by paying a fine. The standing committee of the corporation had given its nod to the scheme two months ago but the civic administration took time to frame the details and take proper approval.Aniruddha Pavaskar, head of the water department, said, “The scheme duration is only for three months. Citizens having illegal water connections need to file a written application with their name, address, property details and contact number mentioned. Only water connections having a width of less than one inch will be regularised.” Upon submission of the application, the concerned zone will verify the documents and initiate the regularisation process, as per the water department.With the PMC fixing nominal charges for regularisation, the civic body is expecting more citizens to come forward to regularise their illegal water connections. The corporation has appealed to slum-dwellers to support the drive, with elected members urging them to regularise connections in slum areas. There are over 70,000 illegal water connections in the city, as per civic estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-regularise-water-connections-by-paying-a-nominal-fine-101628441831630.html
08-08-2021||Other||CBSE results row: All schools were bound to follow board’s guidelines, say PSCWA officials||Expressing concern over the “discontentment” among students and their parents, following the publication of Class 10 and 12 results by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), the city-based Private Schools and Children Welfare Association (PSCWA) officials said that “unnecessary pressure was being put on schools while holding them responsible for the situation” and asked the students to appear for written examination for improved scores. In a meeting of PSCWA held on Sunday, Darbhanga PSCWA chief SAH Abdi (principal of Don Bosco School-DBS) and secretary Hira Kumar Jha (director of Mahatma Gandhi Shikshan Sansthan-MGSS) sought to clarify that all the CBSE-affiliated schools were bound to prepare the results based on the ‘reference year’ as per the guidelines issued by the board.“No school could exceed the average marks for that year set by the board,” they said.While appealing to the students and their parents to make them understand the parameters of CBSE, the PSCWA secretary and director of MGSS asserted that all the examination results have been prepared based on the moderation method of the board and the previous year’s performance of the school. Association’s mentor and principal of Woodbine Modern School Dr Nasreen Nabab said that as this result was based on the last year’s performance of the school, so the correct assessment was very difficult. Dissatisfied lots are requested to take part in the written examination as decided by the board.Every school was in a state of complete helplessness due to the instructions issued by CBSE. “Many good and meritorious students had to be marked less based on the CBSE evaluation formula this year because of the board’s direction to refer to the results of last three years before granting the marks,” alleged many speakers at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbse-results-row-all-schools-were-bound-to-follow-board-s-guidelines-say-pscwa-officials-101628441831127.html
08-08-2021||Other||65-year-old woman duped of ₹5 lakh by caller who told her SIM card about to expire||PUNE A 65-year-old woman from Pune has been duped of ₹5 lakh by a caller who told her that her SIM card was about to expire.The woman received a call on June 9 and the transactions continued for three days until July 3, according to police. The caller told the complainant that her SIM card was going to be deactivated unless she completes some procedure, according to her complaint.“The man first asked them to transfer a small amount, so she transferred ₹10. After that, even though the victim is not telling us how, in detail, yet, but multiple transactions took place on the account. There was no application that was downloaded on the phone. Therefore, we suspect the OTP was probably shared by the victim,” said inspector (crime) Sanjay Mogale of Deccan police station, who is investigating the case.A total of Rs5,52,030 was taken from the woman’s account over the next three days. Once the woman realised that the SIM card was functional, she approached the police.A case under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating), 34 (Common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act has been registered at the Deccan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/65yearold-woman-duped-of-5-lakh-by-caller-who-told-her-sim-card-about-to-expire-101628441770519.html
08-08-2021||Other||Tempo turns turtle inside new Katraj tunnel, driver dies on spot||PUNE: A tempo driver lost his life after losing control of the vehicle around 300 metre inside the new Katraj tunnel en route to Pune.The deceased driver and accused has been identified as Vijay Ashok Rokade, 23, a resident of Ambegaon Khurd area of Pune, according to the police. One other person identified as Akshay Anant Shinde, 25, who was with Rokade in the tempo, was injured in the accident. The tempo was heading towards Pune via the new Katraj tunnel from Khed-Shivapur at around 5pm on Friday when Rokade allegedly lost control of the vehicle which turned turtle, killing him on the spot.Mohan Deshmukh, assistant sub-inspector of the Bharti Vidyapeeth police station, said, “The tempo was empty. They were driving back to Pune. The accident caused a small traffic snarl and the people inside two to three vehicles that were stranded called the police and we cleared the road.”As Shinde, who was with Rokade, was also injured, the police lodged a complaint in the case and an offence was registered against Rokade under sections 279, 304(a) and 337 of the Indian Penal Code along with sections 184, 119/177 of the Motor Vehicles Act at the Bharti Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tempo-turns-turtle-inside-new-katraj-tunnel-driver-dies-on-spot-101628441771152.html
08-08-2021||Patna||Eight tableaux to display essence of Bihar on I-Day||With Independence Day round the corner, preparations for its celebration are in full swing in the capital city. The local administration is making all necessary arrangements for the state function to be held at Gandhi Maidan keeping in mind Covid-19 safety protocols. Altogether eight departments will display tableaux exhibiting the essence of the state on the occasion, officials said on Sunday.Excise and Prohibition department’s tableau is based on alcohol prohibition, social welfare department will present one on anti-child marriage and dowry, cooperative department on ‘Har thali me Bihari tarkari’ (Bihar’s vegetable in all plates), industry department on Khadi, tourism department on Kesariya Stupa, education department on girls’ education, state health society on vaccine express and rural development department on Jal Jeevan Hariyali.Apart from this, 10 teams including those of Central Reserve Police Force, Sashastra Seema Bal, Bihar Military Police, Home guard, Army and Fire Brigade are participating in the parade.Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, said, “All participants and contingents have been vaccinated. Nodal officers are deputed in all departments to ensure proper coordination during tableaux display. Parade rehearsal, which started on August 1, will continue till August 13.”The commissioner recently reviewed necessary arrangements such as security, transport and parking, barricading, seating arrangements for guests.He said, “Instructions have been given to speed up preparations. The Gandhi Maidan will be thoroughly sanitised before the event. Thermal screening will be done at entrance gates and seating arrangements are being made following social distancing norms.”The police department has also been asked to beef up security by deploying adequate number of police force and magistrate at Gandhi Maidan along with other prominent places for peaceful celebrations on Independence Day, Agarwal said.As per district administration, no cultural event will take place on the occasion owing to Covid-19 restrictions, and common people will not be allowed to attend the ceremony. However, the event will be live streamed by information and public relations department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/eight-tableaux-to-display-essence-of-bihar-on-iday-101628441652850.html
08-08-2021||Patna||Patna is fifth in India to complete 1 lakh Covid jabs in a day||Patna administered 136,560 doses of Covid-19 vaccines on Saturday, the highest achieved on the day by any district in India, and also became only the fifth in the country to cross the 1 lakh vaccination mark in a single day, said officials. Patna’s contribution was 27% of the state’s achievement of 509,447 doses administered on Saturday. “We surpassed Bengaluru (88,327), Ahmedabad (55,988), Mumbai (53,988), Belgaum (49,513), Kurnool (49,203), Surat (48,691), Dehradun (44,495) and Chennai (41,357) in terms of Covid jabs on Saturday,” said Patna’s district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh. “We also earned the unique distinction to join the elite club of five districts in India to cross the 1 lakh mark of Covid-19 vaccinations in a single day,” he added. Indore, with 227,349 doses in a day, tops the list of such districts, followed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (173,960), Bhopal (156,137) and Ujjain (105,314). Patna has now administered 95% first dose vaccination to its urban adult population and 33% to the rural masses. The district’s first-dose achievement was 53% against the state’s 32%. The district has administered 1,361,533 doses to its 4,349,131 target population so far. Patna had achieved 18% full immunisation against the state’s 6% coverage of the target population of 7.22 crore to have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, said Dr SP Vinayak, Patna’s district immunisation officer. The 17 special vaccination centres in Patna, incepted in May and June, had administered 902,277 doses of the 1,361,533 doses till Saturday. Of this, the three vaccination centres at the Patliputra Sports Complex, Patliputra Ashok hotel and the Government Polytechnic college in Patliputra that operate 24x7 accounted for 41% (370,845) doses. These three centres are managed by Care India, which provides technical support to the state government in the implementation of the health programme. Patna had 262 vaccination sessions on Saturday. “There is no hesitancy anywhere now. People from rural areas are calling up our field officers to know about the availability of vaccines in their respective areas. Now that we have almost saturated the urban areas, we shall turn our attention to vaccination in rural areas from August 10,” said Singh, in response to the vaccine hesitancy in rural areas, which had led to low first-dose coverage (33%). “In addition to the 86 “Teeka Express” or mobile vaccine vans, we have four special vans, which will have vaccinators, data-entry operators, as well as artists who will perform street plays to sensitise people about vaccination in a handful of remote areas where people are delaying taking their jab. In addition, we will also take help from NGOs working in those areas,” he added. Though chief minister Nitish Kumar has set a target for his officers to complete Covid-19 vaccination in the state by December, Patna hopes to do it before the given deadline, subject to the availability of vaccines..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-is-fifth-in-india-to-complete-1-lakh-covid-jabs-in-a-day-101628441531032.html
08-08-2021||Patna||Private schools in Bihar to reopen for classes 9 and 10 from Monday||A majority of city schools are set to welcome students of Classes 9 and 10 from Monday as school managements were seen completing last-minute preparations on Sunday.As a part of Unlock 5, the state government allowed the reopening of schools across the state for Classes 9 and 10 from Saturday. However, a majority of the private schools skipped reopening last week owing to pending arrangements.Among prominent schools, St Michael’s High School, St Karen’s High School and Baldwin Academy will resume classes from Monday while several schools would re-open later this week due to ongoing examinations. Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, principal of Baldwin Academy, said, “All necessary arrangements for calling students of the secondary section have been completed. Students will attend physical classes on alternate days. We have made provisions for live streaming of lessons from the classroom for those who will attend classes online.”Similarly, those schools which re-opened last week are expecting improvement in attendance.“Around 20 students of Class 9 and 10 attended classes on the first day which was less than 25% of the total strength. The attendance of Class 12 students is slightly better. We are expecting a rise in attendance from Monday,” shared a teacher of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Khagual. Bishop Scott Group of Schools would reopen from August 11. “All our teaching and non-teaching staff are fully vaccinated. Sanitisation of premises and transport vehicles have been done. We have planned to call students based on their locality to ease transportation facility”, shared Ashfaque Iqbal, vice-principal of Boys’ wing. PU’s geology department celebrates platinum jubileePatna University (PU)’s geology department celebrated platinum jubilee on Sunday.Speaking on the occasion, PU’s vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Choudhary pressed for developing geology museum for imparting practical training to students.Attending the online ceremony, Arbinda Mitra, scientific secretary at the Principal Scientific Adviser Office (GoI), said that he would take initiatives for providing opportunities to PU’s students and research scholars for scientific analysis at top laboratories. The department’s former head BK Mishra and senior JD(U) leader Ranveer Nandan announced extending financial assistance of ₹1 lakh each to the department. The department has also launched a new logo on completion of 75 years.Among prominent alumni, Rajeev Sinha head of department at IIT Kanpur, Abhinav Kumar serving at atomic minerals divisions, ONGC’s former director DN Singh, Rajeev Lochan who is associated with Coal India attended the ceremony along with other top designated pass outs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/private-schools-in-bihar-to-reopen-for-classes-9-and-10-from-monday-101628441411158.html
08-08-2021||Other||1 dead, 1 severely burnt after shed with petro-chem products catches fire||PUNE One person is dead, while one sustained severe burn injuries, after a shed with petro-chemical products caught fire on Sunday morning. Fire brigade officials needed one-and-a-half hour to douse the fire, according to an official. The incident happened in Kopare gaon, Uttam nagar.The deceased have been identified as Brijesh KEshavnagarayn Sahani (21), and the injured man is Sanjay Rampreet Sahani (37). Sahani owned and ran a welding and painting business, according to said senior police inspector Vaishali Chandgude of Uttam nagar police station. They were both natives of Uttar Pradesh.The two were rushed to Sassoon General Hospital while the fire brigade department doused the fire. While the 21-year-old died of burn injuries, the other man is undergoing treatment for burns.“They both lived in that shed. They owned and ran a painting and welding business. The chemical is suspected to be thinner used for painting. There were around 8-10 barrels but, we are not sure how many of them contained the liquid. The younger one was a cousin of the injured man. We registered an accidental death report, but now we have begun the process of registering an offence,” said senior PI Chandgude.The fire that started in a shed, consumed a car that was parked in a garage, and two luxury buses which were parked in an open space adjoining the garage, according to Gajanan Patrudkar, official of the fire department.“There was a shed of around 1200-1500 square feet in which there were multiple barrels full of petro-chemical liquid. No idea what they were doing with it in that shed or how the fire started. When we reached, the people had already pulled them out and taken them to the hospital. There were two fire tenders from Pune city and two from PMRDA. We needed two tankers. The barrels were individually causing explosions and the shed was blocking our dousing foam. So, we had to pull the fallen roof and then pull out the burning barrels before the fire could be doused completely,” said the fire brigade official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-dead-1-severely-burnt-after-shed-with-petro-chem-products-catches-fire-101628441290572.html
08-08-2021||Other||₹65 crore cumulative losses suffered in Mulshi, Bhor and Velha due to floods: dist admin||PUNE The Pune district administration has submitted a report to the state government on Sunday, claiming that the total cumulative losses suffered in the Mulshi, Bhor and Velha tehsils due to heavy rain and monsoon floods is ₹65 crore.District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “Farmers and villagers sustained huge losses due to rains this monsoon. A proposal to this effect has been sent to the government for approval.” As per the district administration, 3,183 hectares of agricultural land with standing crops has been destroyed due to the floods, which affected 10,000 farmers. Other losses include livestock and cattle.Maharashtra government had announced a relief package of ₹11,500 crore for flood-affected areas in the state. This includes ₹1,500 crore as ex-gratia for flood-affected people, ₹3,000 crore for redevelopment and ₹7,000 crore for long-term flood-mitigation schemes.The state cabinet also increased compensation for damaged houses from ₹96,000 to ₹1.5 lakh, per house. Compensation for partially damaged houses has been set at ₹50,000. Kin of deceased will be given ₹9 lakh while traders and road-side vendors will be given an ex-gratia payment of ₹50,000 and ₹10,000, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/65-crore-cumulative-losses-suffered-in-mulshi-bhor-and-velha-due-to-floods-dist-adming-101628440930456.html
08-08-2021||Other||Defying Sec 144 order, tourists rain down on Lonavla||PUNE The district administration’s order, imposing Section 144 on Lonavla and Khandala, restricting the number of people that can gather, travel or meet together to less than five, did not have any impact on the weekend crowds that thronged the hill resorts.The rural police, under whose jurisdiction the twin—hill stations fall, claimed a shortage of manpower and hence, did not fine the rule breakers, instead choosing to “request” commuters to leave Lonavla and Khandala.“We don’t have the manpower to collect fines, so we are sending them back from the check post. We cannot stop people who have hotel bookings and that is one reason we are witnessing a heavy rush,” said Dilip Pawar, senior inspector, in charge of Lonavla city police station.The demand to re-open specific tourist spots in Lonavla and Khandala, currently closed to visitors due to Covid restrictions, has also begun to be made by businesses and tour operators in the area.On Sunday, the district administration recorded three fresh Covid cases in Lonavla, taking the total number of active cases in the city to 39.“Covid-19 is not increasing in Lonavla. The aim of the administration is to bring the number down to zero. It is very hard to determine whether tourists who are visiting hill stations are spreaders or not. They could only be mild spreaders, because if one has been detected with the symptoms then the person is not allowed to enter city,” said Dr Sourabh Gharde, medical officer, urban primary health centre, Lonavla.“More people will visit if Section 144. Business has been hugely affected. Now the situation is under control and the administration should support the locals from the hill station,” said Samir Ingale, member, Lonavla- Khandala hotel association.“We are appealing people to follow Covid protocols strictly since there is an anticipation of a third wave. Negligence from a few people can bring back the situation we had last year,” said Somnath Jadhav, chief executive officer (CEO), Lonavla Municipal Council.Covid in Lonavla Total cases: 4,358Active Covid cases: 39New cases registered on Aug 8: 3‘Ban on entry of tourists to Maval’Maval taluka, famous for natural waterfalls which occur during the monsoon season, is also drawing a large number of weekend revellers.“People are coming to enjoy natural waterfalls occurring near Pavana dam, Andhra dam, Somwadi, Shirota, Wadivale, Jadhavwadi, Tokalwadi, Malwandi and Kasarsai. Administration should restrict entry to these places near the dams,” said Tushar Tare, resident of Gahunje.Sandesh Shirke, sub-divisional magistrate said, “Police patrols have increased around the spots where waterfalls appear due to ongoing monsoon season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/defying-sec-144-order-tourists-rain-down-on-lonavla-101628440390547.html
08-08-2021||Other||Doctors report spike in cases of Covid recoveries with heart problems||PUNE Doctors in the city are reporting recovered Covid patients who are encountering heart problems, such as chest pains, sudden palpitations, heart-attacks, heart-swelling, heart failure, low pump capacity (low ejection fraction), blood clotting, and arrhythmia (abnormal heartbeat). Cases of heart attack or heart failure in Covid-19 recovered patients within three months of recovery are rising, say doctors. To keep the heart healthy, post-Covid, patients should go for a regular cardiac screening every six months, stick to a healthy diet, stay physically active and take medication, as suggested by the doctor.Experts have often found that although Covid-19 is primarily a lung infection, it is known to leave an impact on other organs as well, including the cardiac system. The high levels of inflammation in the body during covid19 treatment as the body’s immune system fights the virus can cause complications outside the lungs too. In some cases it was found that those who had not reported any cardiac issues before the Covid-19 infection reported cardiac issues after recovering from the infection.Dr Pramod Narkhede, cardiologist at Apollo Clinic said, “After getting infected with coronavirus, patients encounter chest pain, myocarditis (inflammation of heart muscle), heart attack, heart failure, blood clotting, arrhythmia (abnormal heartbeat), and stroke. These problems may be seen after recovery from the Covid infection. It was observed that 78 of 100 patients diagnosed with the infection reported symptoms of heart damage and inflammation.” “Mainly young adults and elderly patients are suffering from this. Many people experience shortness of breath, chest pain or palpitations. Any of these problems could be related to the heart, but they could also be due to other factors, including the aftermath of being very ill, prolonged inactivity and spending weeks convalescing in bed. Six of 10 patients seen in the OPD, who did not have pre-existing heart problems, have post-Covid cardiac symptoms. Those who have pre-existing heart problems should be cautious and have regular medications and follow ups. Regularly checking and medical attention can prevent lethal complications,” said Dr Narkhede.Dr Keerthi Prakash Kotla, consultant pathologist at a city laboratory in Pune said, “Those who have developed chest pain post-Covid recovery or those who have already suffered from heart problems and have got infected with Covid-19 should go for cardiac tests to know the functioning of the heart. ECG, X-Ray chest and lipid profile and should be repeated after six months in high-risk individuals with pre-existing conditions like diabetes and hypertension .These tests will help to determine whether there is any damage to the heart. Don’t forget to go for regular follow-ups too”.Dr Amit Sinkar, cardiologist at Lokmanya Hospital in Pune, said, “Currently, many post-Covid patients are encountering various heart problems. Heart beat irregularities and heart failure are seen in patients usually within three months of recovering from Covid. Heart failure can develop due to myocardial inflammation (Which can happen after any viral infection), or worsening of existing Cardiomyopathy (impairment of heart pumping function). Incidences of blood clots in blood vessels of heart and brain are increased after getting infected with Covid-19. This often leads to heart attacks and strokes (Paralysis) due to poor blood supply to the heart and brain, respectively. Currently, we have patients with increased heart rates after recovering from Covid. These patients need constant monitoring and follow up.”Dr Dhanesh Kamarkar, consultant cardiovascular surgeon at Ruby Hall Clinic said, “Yes we are seeing a rise in the number of complaints related to clotting in the legs, abdomen and arteries among Covid-19 recovered patients. Clotting problems in the arteries are among those with predisposed factors like diabetes, high cholesterol, and chronic kidney disease. This rise in numbers is more evident following the second wave as we did not see so many cases in the first wave. Also during the second wave we did see use of steroids. Most of the clotting cases are reported in middle-aged or senior patients, but a few also in younger patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doctors-report-spike-in-cases-of-covid-recoveries-with-heart-problems-101628440270450.html
08-08-2021||Other||79 villages ‘hypersensitive’ to Zika virus: dist collector||PUNE The district collector has issued a list of 79 villages most vulnerable to the Zika virus. These 79 villages fall in 12 different talukas and have been listed as hypersensitive to the infection given a rising number of confirmed cases of Dengue and Chikungunya in the last three years. As of Saturday, the district administration has surveyed six villages, including Belasar, which reported the first Zika virus case on July 30. As pregnant women are thought to be most affected by the infection, 99 pregnant women in these villages have been surveyed till now, with blood samples sent to the NIV,The collector in his order issued on August 5 states that these 79 villages would be on a list of surveillance for the infection. The administration will keep a tab on all these villages which are located in Junnar, Khed, Ambegaon, Shirur, Daund, Indapur, Haveli, Velha, Mulshi, Baramati, Purandar and Bhor. A total of 158 blood smear samples have been sent to the NIV. None of the pregnant women who have been surveyed has been found to be symptomatic. As of now, only one confirmed case of Zika virus has been reported. A survey of all the houses located in six villages, including Belasar is ongoing. Samples of anyone reported to have the flu are being sent to the National Institute of Virology for further testing. These six villages include Belssar, Kothle, Walunje, Nilunje, Khanwadi and Pargaon in Purandar tehsil. The symptoms of the Zika infection include fever, rashes on the body, conjunctivitis, weakness, and headache which could last for up to seven days. Eighty per cent of the patients infected are asymptomatic. If pregnant women are infected with Zika virus then it could lead to microcephaly, a condition where the baby’s head is much smaller than expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/79-villages-hypersensitive-to-zika-virus-dist-collector-101628440090445.html
08-08-2021||Other||3 samples from Pune district positive for delta-plus variant||PUNE Of the 45 samples reported to positive for the delta-plus Covid variant in the state, three are from Pune district, of which two are from Nira, Baramati, and one is from Chakan in Pune rural. All patients are reported to have mild to moderate symptoms and so far, only one death has been reported in a patient suffering from psychological problems who did not cooperate with doctors, said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. As per the state report on genome sequencing of samples from Covid-19 positive patients, the highest such confirmed samples of the delta-plus variant were from Jalgaon with 13 positives, followed by Ratnagiri with 11 positives. Dr Awate said, “We sent 8,000 samples for genome sequencing of which only 45 have tested positive for this variant, which is not even one per cent. We have also found that the districts of concern have reported only one sample each, except for Ratnagiri, which has reported 11 samples. So from this data we can say that the variant is not as infectious. Also those who have tested positive for this sample have reported mild to moderate symptoms and have recovered as well, except the one case, in which the patient was not at all cooperative with doctors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-samples-from-pune-district-positive-for-delta-plus-variant-101628439910455.html
08-08-2021||Other||Pune district’s positivity rate at 5.8%, Ah’nagar at 7%||PUNE While the district administration has announced relaxations on Covid restrictions in the city, Pune district continues to report a much higher RTPCR positivity rate, despite the state average positivity rate falling further. The state RTPCR positivity rate for the week between July 31 and August 6 is 3.4%. Pune district reported a RTPCR positivity rate of 5.8% for the same period. Along with Pune, Ahmednagar is also becoming a district of concern, reporting an RTPCR positivity rate of 7.0%, the highest in the state for that week.Experts have repeatedly said that the RTPCR positivity rate gives the right picture of the spread of the infection, as rapid antigen tests could give false negatives at times. Pune’s RTPCR positivity at 5.8% is still a matter of concern. In Pune division, except Kolhapur which is at 3.4% and has the lowest RTPCR positivity, Satara is at 6.9%, Sangli at 6.1% and Solapur at 5.6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-s-positivity-rate-at-3-4-ah-nagar-at-7-101628439730435.html
08-08-2021||Other||I take decisions related to Pune consulting the CM: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Days after health minister Rajesh Tope suggested the local administration recommend relaxations for Covid curbs in Pune, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Sunday, indirectly sent a message to other ministers in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). He said that he takes Pune-related decisions with the chief minister’s permission and on being asked about Pune-related decisions, “Pune’s guardian minister will decide after discussing with the CM,” said Pawar.“While taking decisions related to Pune I ask the CM. So if someone asks others (ministers) anything about Pune, they can say that the guardian minister will take a decision after consulting with CM,” said Ajit Pawar. Pawar also asserted that when it comes to analysing Covid indicators, the state government recognises Pune as a single district and not as three different administrative units. “In Maharashtra, every district is known as a district. Pune district is very diversified in terms of geography. The state government considers it a single district. When I got to know about the situation, I spoke to the CM and requested him to consider the ground situation in Pune. Then CM spoke to the divisional commissioner, collector, municipal commissioners, and commissioners of police. Then he again talked to me. After all this, we have arrived at this decision. The population of the Pune district is huge as compared to the other districts. Now also, we have kept the rural parts at level 3,” said Pawar. The state’s government’s order on the five-level unlock plan had categorically mentioned the municipal corporations were to be considered as separate administrative units, including Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Based on the Covid indicators given in the order, level 3 restrictions were put in pace for PMC and PCMC, and level 4 restrictions were imposed in rural parts. As the positivity rate further declined in PMC, more relaxations were offered only in PMC for a brief period, before level 3 was made the baseline for restrictions, fearing the transmissibility of delta plus variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/i-take-decisions-related-to-pune-consulting-the-cm-ajit-pawar-101628439310423.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi to implement colour-coded action plan with 'immediate effect'||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) announced on Sunday that the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) is being implemented in the Capital “with immediate effect,” according to news agency PTI. The implementation of the plan, which was approved by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on July 9, means that henceforth, all restrictions and relaxations in the city, related to the coronavirus pandemic, will be determined in accordance with the colour-coded scheme.Also Read: What is colour-coded plan to combat Covid-19 in Delhi?"All district administrations are hereby directed to implement GRAP recommendations with immediate effect. Daily alerts will be sent to all districts under the system to help them take decisions over permitted/prohibited/restricted activities. The plan will be in force till further orders," a DDMA notification read.The GRAP, which has been devised to tackle a possible new Covid-19 wave in Delhi, the national capital's fifth, takes into account three parameters: positivity rate, new Covid-19 cases, and average occupancy of oxygen beds in Delhi. Four colour-coded alert levels have been recommended under the plan: yellow, amber, orange and red. The order of alert, according to the DDMA notification, will be issued when any of the three parameters is at the specified level of alert.The alerts have been classified from level 1-4, with yellow being the lowest and red the highest, while amber and orange are in the middle, respectively. Level-1 alert will be issued when positivity rate tops 0.5% on two successive days, or fresh infections increase to 1500, or occupancy of oxygen beds reaches 500. For Level-2 alert, positivity rate should be above 1%, or fresh infections at 3500, or oxygen bed occupancy of 700.The corresponding figures for the two highest levels of alerts are as follows: over 2%, 9000, and 1000; over 5%, 16,600, and 3000, respectively."Upon activation of GRAP, the additional chief secretary (health) will issue daily morning and evening bulletins regarding the level of alert. Appropriate orders will be issued separately as and when required," the notification said further.On Sunday, Delhi reported 66 new Covid-19 cases, zero deaths and 95 recoveries from the preceding 24 hours, according to a health department bulletin. From Monday, weekly markets will reopen in the city, as will schools, for class 10 and 12 students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-ddma-orders-immediate-implementation-of-colur-coded-plan-in-delhi-101628438230458.html
08-08-2021||Other||Huge sigh of relief as Pune traders welcome easing of curbs||PUNE The sustained pressure and civil disobedience by traders last week has forced the state government to ease some of the curbs in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The traders, hoteliers and mall owners welcomed the decision, promising to follow Covid- appropriate behaviour. The Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) president, Fatechand Ranka said, “We welcome this decision of the state government and at the same time promise to ensure utmost precautions after the relaxations come into force. The decision brings justice to lakhs of people such has traders and shop owners, along with their staff, who are dependent on businesses. Once we get the official order from the civic body we will be sending instructions to all our members to follow Covid rules strictly. Also, vaccination of workers and staff is going on and will try to speed it up.” In major relief to traders, shop, mall owners and hoteliers in the city, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, after Sunday’s weekly review meeting, announced several relaxations in Pune district. All shops are now allowed to remain open till 8 pm for six days a week, while malls are allowed to be open on the condition that they will ensure only those customers and staff who are vaccinated fully are allowed in. The restaurant timing have also been extended upto 10 pm. While allowing shop owners to operate on weekends, the administration has asked them to follow their previous weekly days of closure. This means areas like Laxmi road and Tulsibaug will remain closed every Monday. The announcement of relaxations came with a warning from Pawar. The deputy chief minister warned that the relaxations would be withdrawn if the positivity rate exceeds 7%. “While offering the relief, I have to underline repeatedly here that the moment Pune’s positivity rate goes beyond 7%, these relaxations will be immediately be rolled back,” said Ajit Pawar during a press conference in Pune on Sunday. Pune city’s positivity rate for the current week ending Saturday stands at 3.3%, while for Pimpri-Chinchwad, it is 3.5% and for rural parts of Pune district, it is 5.5%. Tulshibaug Market Traders Association president Nitin Pandit said, “We are happy with the decision though it came late. This will now bring the disturbed lifeline of traders on track. It will take time, but we are hopeful to get business. Ahead is the festival season when a rush is there, so we will ensure maximum safety precautions, social distancing and complete vaccination of all our Tulshibaug traders and their workers.” Malls are also been allowed to open from Monday, with some conditions such as allowing only fully vaccinated customers and testing of staff every fortnight. Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, committee member of the Shopping Centres Association Of India (SCAI) and COO, Amanora Mall, said, “We really welcome the decision taken by the state government and we are looking forward to restarting after a long. The Covid protocols given for the malls will be followed strictly.” Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) said, “For more than a month we were meeting several top leaders right from the state chief minister, deputy chief minister, and Pune district collector to demand for and extension of timings. As our Covid cases have drastically gone down, there should be relaxation given and it has finally happened. State government officials told us to get both doses of the vaccines given to our staff, but it is not possible as there is gap between two doses. Whereas 90 per cent of staff has taken the first dose, we strictly follow all the SOPs given by the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/huge-sigh-of-relief-as-pune-traders-welcome-easing-of-curbs-101628439130575.html
08-08-2021||Pune||Pune reports 963 new Covid cases, 13 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 963 new Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths in 24 hours on Sunday. This took the progressive count to 1.097 million of which 1.063 million have recovered, 18,939 deaths and 14,458 are active cases currently in hospitals undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 8,000 vaccinations on the day as it was Sunday. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 542 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 332,714 and with eight deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,315. Pune city reported 213 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 505,676 and reported three more deaths on the day the toll stood at 8,905 while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 208 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 258,691 and with two more deaths reported, the toll stood at 3,416. Vaccine count Pune also saw 8,158 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Sunday and totally 6,547,284 vaccines have been administered in total, including 4,878,973 first dose and 1,668,311 are second dose. A total of 123 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 27 are government and 96 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-963-new-covid-cases-13-deaths-101628438051772.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Fully vaccinated people can travel on local trains from August 15: Thackeray||Fully vaccinated people will be allowed to travel on local trains in Mumbai from August 15 a fortnight after they receive their second dose, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Sunday. Uddhav Thackeray said those who have taken both doses of the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) 15 days ago will be allowed to travel on these trains. "Mumbai has 19 lakh people who have taken both their doses. They will be allowed to travel by registering themselves through an app," Thackeray said while addressing the citizens of the state on social media.Thackeray said those who do not have smartphones can take photo passes from municipal ward offices in the city as well as suburban railway stations. "Unless the vaccination is completed, we will have to tread very cautiously," the Maharashtra chief minister said.Thackeray's announcement came as the state has seen a drop in daily cases of Covid-19, which have been logged between 6,000 and 7,000 for the past few days. Maharashtra recorded 41,774 cases in seven days till Saturday, compared to the first week of July when 61,489 infections were recorded. There were 5,508 new Covid-19 cases and 151 related deaths in the last 24 hours, news agency ANI reported on Sunday, which have taken the tally to 63,53,328 and the toll to 133,996.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday that a decision on further relaxations, including reopening of local train services, will be made in the next few days. Thackeray also said that the decision over relaxations to hotels, restaurants, malls and religious places will be taken on Monday during the meeting of the Covid-19 task force and finalise the standard operating procedures (SOPs)."I have requested industries and private offices to stagger office timings and set up field hospitals as part of the preparedness for the third wave," Thackeray said.Also read | From tomorrow, shops in Pune to open till 8pm for 6 days a week"We have decided to relax some activities. But if the number [of Covid-19 cases] rise again, a lockdown will be imposed again. It will be linked with the oxygen bed availability in the districts," he said.The chief minister also pointed out that six districts are still a cause of worry as the number of Covid-19 cases in these areas is still high. "Pune, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri and Beed are still reporting a high number of cases," he said.Also read | Maharashtra mulls reopening schools from August 17Earlier in the day, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar announced relaxations in Covid restrictions in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad from August 9. "Even though some relaxations have been given for now, but if positivity rate goes above 7 per cent in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad areas, the restrictions will be imposed like earlier. Hence, everyone must follow the guidelines so that cases do not increase," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fully-vaccinated-people-can-travel-on-local-trains-from-august-15-thackeray-101628435296886.html
08-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana hi-tech cycle valley in line for completion by March, says Punjab industries minister||Chandigarh Punjab industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora on Sunday said the hi-tech cycle valley coming up on 379 acre of land at a cost of ₹365 crore in Ludhiana will be on the world map as industry titans will soon start establishing their units.He added that the layout plan, change of land use (CLU), environmental clearance under the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), RERA have also been accorded approval for the entire chunk of land. “The basic internal infrastructure of the cycle valley is scheduled to be completed by February 28,” he said. Arora added that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh led state government is working diligently towards setting up such industrial projects in the state, which would serve the twin purpose of being environment-friendly and providing employment avenue to the youth. He added that a 100 acre plot had been allotted to Hero Cycles limited, Ludhiana in December, 2018 for setting up of anchor unit, on which Hero Cycles limited has already commenced production from April, 2021 after constructing the requisite manufacturing infrastructure.Another 61 acre plot has been allotted to the Aditya Birla Group and 17 acre allotted to the JK Paper. The Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL) will also set up an electricity grid station of 400 KVA on 30 acre. “The cycle valley has been connected with the Chandigarh-Ludhiana national highway by constructing a 100 feet wide 4 lane and 8.3km long, external concrete road that was dedicated to the public on April 14, 2021,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-hi-tech-cycle-valley-in-line-for-completion-by-march-says-punjab-industries-minister-101628431750541.html
08-08-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka sees slight dip in new Covid-19 cases, 348 infections in Bengaluru||Karnataka reported 1598 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including 348 in Bengaluru, and 20 people succumbed in the state, taking the total number of infections to 29,18,525 and death toll to 36,793, a bulletin issued by the health department showed on Sunday. The fresh cases and deaths were slightly lower than those reported on Saturday when Karnataka logged 1610 Covid-19 infections and 32 fatalities.The rising Covid-19 cases in Karnataka has forced authorities to impose renewed curbs on the movement of people across the state. A weekend curfew in eight districts, which share borders with Kerala and Maharashtra, has been put in place to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases from the neighbouring states.Also read | States tighten Covid-19 curbs in view of surge in casesOfficials have said that the weekend curfew will be in effect from 9pm on Fridays till 5am on Mondays in Belagavi, Bidar, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, which share their borders with Maharashtra. The same restriction will also apply to Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru, and Chamarajanagar bordering Kerala. Authorities in Ballari and Vijayanagara on Saturday said the districts continue to remain under night curfew and issued guidelines on the curbs.Also read | Schools in Karnataka to reopen in two phases, says CM BommaiIn Bengaluru, where the daily rise in Covid-19 cases has been higher than that in other metro cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata, prohibitory orders under Section 144 will remain in place till August 16. The duration of the night curfew, which earlier started at 10pm, will now begin at 9pm and end as usual at 5am.Also read | Weekend curfew in Karnataka districts bordering Maharashtra, KeralaSunday's Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru were marginally lower than Saturday when 357 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease. On Friday, the number of new infections stood at 441.There are 162 micro-containment zones in the city and more than 100 apartments and individual homes have been sealed by authorities. These areas were declared micro-containment zones after three Covid-19 cases were reported from each of these places. Before this, a micro-containment zone was declared when more than 10 Covid-19 cases were reported from an area.The positivity rate stands at 1.09 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) at 1.25 per cent and there are 23,930 active cases of Covid-19 in Karnataka, the health bulletin showed. The positivity rate on Saturday stood at 1.08 per cent and the case fatality rate at 1.98 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-sees-slight-dip-in-new-covid-19-cases-348-infections-in-bengaluru-101628430402735.html
08-08-2021||Lucknow||Coming up: Biopic on athlete’s comeback story!||Sportsperson Neelu Mishra from Varanasi, who has won 51 national and 28 international medals in athletics, is elated with the country’s performance at recent Tokyo Olympics. With an exceptional journey, Mishra has inspired film maker Manoj Tiwari to direct her biopic. The 49-year-old athlete says, “The director, who had earlier made P se Pyaar F Se Faraar based on a javelin player, has come down to sign a contract with me for the biopic. Scripting is on and now they are zeroing on an actor who can essay my role as mine is a sports journey of a fat to fit so it needs a lot of transformation.” She feels Alia Bhatt, Taapsee Pannu, Anushka Sharma or any newcomer can play her character. “Initially I was 54 kgs which reached to 89 kgs due to illness and then reduced to 62 kgs.” Giving an insight of her journey she says, “I belong to Basti and before marriage (1995), I played 12 nationals and my record for inter-university in UP of 100 m in 12 seconds is still unbroken. Then, I left sports and got busy with my family, son and government job. After miscarriage, I developed medical conditions and nearly had a kidney failure, sugar, BP, asthma with heart and intestine problem.” Warned by doctors, in 2008, she realised that she really wants to be back on track. “In three months, I made a turnaround. In January 2009, I bagged gold medal in national game (35 plus age category) held at Hissar and in July won bronze medal in World Masters Athletic Championship, Finland.” Currently, she plays in 45 plus category and from next year will play 50 plus. She has won 79 medals and feels had lockdown not happened the tally today would have clocked 100. She last won 2 gold and 1 silver in Imphal (2020), while in Malaysia (2019) she bagged a gold medal. Mishra inspired many in the city too. “I started my club and soon girls and boys started joining in, even from Naxalite area. Many of them have won medals, got government job and some had opened academy and even become coach. It was tough as I had to convince family and answer patriarchal society, but I had to do it,” says the Rani Laxmibai awardee. Elated with the India’s performance in Olympic she says, “I am very happy that men did well but happier that girls have made us so proud. Being a sportsperson, I know besides sports they have to put up a fight in every stage of life. The medal haul will be an inspiration for female sportsperson and parents.” Mishra is working hard for national championship to be held later this year and the Asian and World Championship next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/coming-up-biopic-on-athlete-s-comeback-story-101628431151576.html
08-08-2021||Gurugram||Haryana allows hotels, bars and restaurants to operate with 50% capacity||Haryana on Sunday announced a new set of relaxations and allowed shopping malls, restaurants, bars, gyms and spas to reopen with certain restrictions from Monday onwards. However, the government extended the Covid-19 restrictions under the Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana till August 23.The government also removed the restrictions in timings imposed earlier. While malls have been allowed to operate maintaining Covid-19 appropriate measures, restaurants and bars have been asked to operate with 50 per cent of their seating capacity.Gyms and spas have also been asked to operate in a similar fashion. The government has also asked clubhouses, restaurants and bars inside golf courses to function with a 50 per cent seating capacity. Committees in these golf courses were asked to allow golfers and visitors to play in a staggered manner in order to avoid overcrowding.The government has also allowed the reopening of swimming pools but has recommended that the staff gets vaccinated along with eligible visitors.The Haryana government asked authorities to ensure that all restaurants, bars, gyms and spas along with hotels and malls should be regularly sanitized.The state has witnessed a drop in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases in recent weeks. The positivity rate in Haryana in the last week of July stood at 0.09 per cent, much lower than the 27 per cent recorded at the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in April-May. Haryana reported 18 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which have taken its tally to 770,060. It also reported one Covid-19 related fatality and now the state's death toll stands at 9,648.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-allows-hotels-bars-and-restaurants-to-operate-with-50-capacity-101628428252327.html
08-08-2021||Pune||UP engineer booked by Pune police for triple talaq||PUNE: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have booked an engineer from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and his parents for divorcing his wife by pronouncing triple talaq and allegedly subjecting her to domestic violence. The 32-year-old man and his parents live in DLF Dilshad Extension area in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, according to the woman. The man allegedly sent her a notice declaring triple talaq between them while she was at her parents’ place in Pune. The family has also failed to return her jewellery and valuables given to her during her wedding, according to her complaint. According to the complainant, she had been married to the man since 2018 after which she claims to have been subjected to domestic violence by the man, his 72-year-old father and 65-year-old mother. The family allegedly demanded money and a car from the complainant’s parents. The woman was living with the in-laws until April 2021, according to the police. A case under Sections 498(a), 504, 506, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 4 of Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019 was registered against the three at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/up-engineer-booked-by-pune-police-for-triple-talaq-101628429711037.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||Schools in Delhi to reopen partially from tomorrow for class 10, 12: DDMA||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) announced on Sunday schools in the national capital can reopen partially from August 9. However, these will reopen only for students of class 10 and12, a DDMA notification read."Schools to partially reopen for class 10 and 12 students in Delhi from August 9. Students can visit their schools for admission-related work, including counseling, guidance and practical activities related to board exams," the notification said, according to news agency ANI.Schools to partially open for class X and XII students in Delhi from August 9; Students can visit their schools for admission related work including counseling/guidance and practical activities related to board exams: Delhi Disaster Management AuthorityOn July 28, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, invited suggestions from various stakeholders, including parents and teachers over the reopening of educational institutes in the Capital, which have been shut since March last year, when the first nationwide lockdown was announced to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Schools reopened briefly in January and February this year, but were closed again as Delhi was hit by its fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Now, due to the city's reduce daily caseload, and fears over a possible loss of a second successive academic year, students and parents wanted to know about the reopening of schools, Sisodia had said.Schools across several states have already reopened, though only for senior classes. Several other states have announced on-campus classes will resume in the coming days.On Saturday, Delhi reported 72 fresh infections, 22 recoveries and single related death from the preceding 24 hours, according to a health department bulletin. Its cumulative Covid-19 caseload stands at 1,436,695, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-to-reopen-partially-from-tomorrow-announces-ddma-101628427701481.html
08-08-2021||Bangalore||Yediyurappa says no to cabinet-rank perks offered by Bommai govt||A day after the Karnataka government accorded cabinet rank status to former chief minister BS Yediyurappa, the senior BJP leader wrote to his successor Basavaraj Bommai to withdraw the same. He urged the newly appointed chief minister to provide him with only those facilities that he was eligible for as the immediate former CM."I request you to provide me only those facilities which are given to an immediate former chief minister and withdraw the order giving me a cabinet rank," Yediyurappa wrote in his letter that was made available to the media.On Saturday, Bommai had ordered that Yediyurappa, who is said to have played a key role in the former’s elevation as the CM, with all facilities at par with Cabinet-rank ministers.Also read | Bommai is chief minister of Yediyurappa’s cabinetAccording to a notification from the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR), the perks will be applicable till the time Bommai is in office. This would have also meant, the senior leader from the Lingayat community may have continued to live in Cauvery, the official residence of the Karnataka chief minister.Ending months of speculation and dissent, Yediyurappa had resigned on July 26, the day his government completed two years in office after overthrowing a Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) government. A day later, Yediyurappa had proposed Bommai's name as the leader at the BJP legislature party meet and was accordingly accepted by all. On July 28, Bommai took oath as the new chief minister.At the time, Bommai had said he had no issues working under the guidance of Yediyurappa, who is a mentor and his vast experience would only help him govern the state efficiently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/trending/yediyurappa-says-no-to-cabinet-rank-perks-offered-by-bommai-govt-101628425477348.html
08-08-2021||Pune||From tomorrow, shops in Pune to open till 8pm for 6 days a week||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Sunday announced several relaxations for the Pune district, though he also warned these will be withdrawn the moment Pune’s positivity rate goes beyond 7%.“From Monday, all shops in Pune will be allowed to function for six days a week, till 8pm. Hotels and restaurants can offer dine-in services till 10 pm throughout the week. Malls can operate till 8pm, though all staff members and customers should be completely vaccinated against Covid-19,” Pawar, who is the guardian minister for Pune, announced at a press conference after chairing a review meet.The deputy chief minister further said, “While offering the relief, I have to underline repeatedly that these relaxations will be immediately taken back the moment positivity rate in Pune goes beyond 7%. Its positivity rate for the seven-day period, which ended on Saturday, stood at 3.3%. The corresponding figures for Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural parts of Pune district are 3.5% and 5.5% respectively.”The announcement by Pawar came amid demand from traders, as well as city units of various political parties, to relax existing curbs in the district. Earlier this week, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, too, said curbs could be eased if local authorities recommend so.Also Read | State hints at easing stand on Covid curbs in Pune; traders ready to continue defianceMaharashtra, with a cumulative Covid-19 infection tally of 6,347,820, has the highest caseload in the country. On Saturday, the western state logged 6061 fresh infections and 128 deaths, while also registering 9356 recoveries from the viral disease, according to official data.At 8pm on Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will address the state, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/from-monday-shops-in-pune-to-open-till-8pm-for-6-days-a-week-101628423911549.html
08-08-2021||Pune||Curtain call: One scene, one set-change and a watershed moment for Marathi theatre||The opening day of ‘Amar Photo Studio’ was only a few days away. We had been rehearsing for nearly three months now and were eager to show the play to the world. But, I was still dealing with one problem.As mentioned in my previous articles, the story of the play was about time travel. The story of the play was pretty unique when it came to commercial Marathi theatre which is usually confined to a single location – the living room of a house. We had made some unusual choices, in all departments. But, they weren’t made for the sake of being unusual. That is what the play required and I had the full support of my producers.The extensive rehearsal allowed me to experiment with the format of the play and also its technical aspects. We had tried to make hydraulic sets and had also toyed around with the idea of using a projector. There were many magical moments in the play and I did not want to lose them or change them only because I couldn’t execute it. Everything else had fallen in place. We had left the idea of hydraulic sets behind after realising that the infrastructure of our auditoriums was not ready for it. With my previous experience of working with projectors in plays, I had given up on that idea too. I had found simple, elegant solutions to every other problem. And these solutions only underlined my love for the beauty of theatre. It was during this process that I realised that it was only in this medium that I could pass the onus of believability to the audience when it came to complicated scenes. I need not “show” everything, but make the audience “believe” that they have seen it. And that made a world of difference.And that is how gradually I came to the solution of the last problem – changing the set mid- scene. As mentioned before, the set was changed during blackouts by backstage artists. This particular scene warranted that the set be changed while a scene was being performed and seeing the set changed by backstage artistes would have taken away its essence.In the previous scene, the protagonists are being chased by the police. So at a specific cue, when they are being chased, I asked the actors to climb down the stage. The remainder of the scene was performed with the audience! Since there wasn’t any important dialogue in that sequence, the audience sitting in the last rows wouldn’t miss any information too. The actors were told to improvise while they were in the audience. So naturally, everyone was looking at the scene unfold.Meanwhile, backstage artistes would come on stage in dim light and change the set. But nobody would be looking at them! Again, on cue, the actors would go on stage to a changed location. It was that simple and hardly took a minute. Also, while improvising, the actors were told to interact with some members of the audience while staying in character.When the play opened this particular segment received a tremendous response. I was pleasantly surprised to see the audience accept this with open arms. They loved the fact that the actors were performing so close to them. And the actors interacting with them was a cherry on the cake.When the play opened, it received an extremely positive response. Both, from the audience and the critics. Its marketing strategy was also regarded as a gamechanger for advertising Marathi plays. We all noticed that some audience members were still terming the play as “bold”. We knew that it was a different play, but did not understand this particular tag. Sunil Barve, our producer, rightly identified one instance in the play, that was hardly a few seconds long, but made a majority of the audience think that. More on that next week.Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling stories, on stage, in front of the camera, or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-one-scene-one-set-change-and-a-watershed-moment-for-marathi-theatre-101628423230874.html
08-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Asha worker rows boat in tough condition to vaccinate island residents||No hurdle is too big for Corona warriors such as Kamla Rot, an ASHA (accredited social health activist) know as ‘Sehyoginis’ in Dungarpur district of Rajasthan, who rowed a boat fighting unfavourable conditions to reach a tribal village located on an island in the middle of swollen Mahi river to ensure that the inhabitants were vaccinated against the deadly coronavirus.33-year-old, Kamla’s official duty was limited to informing and motivating tribal villagers about the need to attend to health and family welfare, but she went beyond to take four nursing staff to the island village by rowing the boat in challenging conditions without any help for about 45 minutes. After about 90 residents of Odaphala village were vaccinated, she rowed the staff back safely. It was her commitment to the cause that ensured that residents of the two islands - Odaphala and Betphala in Salakhadi village area under Seemalwada block of Dungarpur district, who were finding it difficult to reach the nearest primary health centre due to increased water level in the river and were also a bit hesitant about the vaccination drive, were vaccinated in time. There are 23 houses on Odaphala island and nine on Betphala. Medical officer at [which] primary health centre Dr Chandraveer Parmar said the medical team’s bid to reach Odaphala island failed in its first attempt due to strong winds upsetting the boat’s balance in the river swollen due to monsoon rains.In such a challenging situation, Kamala offered to row the boat on the second attempt the following day, when the rest of the team was apprehensive of taking the boat trip. She took them safely to the island after paddling the boat for close to an hour and then played her part in motivating several hesitant villagers to get vaccinated, clearing their misconceptions about Covid vaccines. Mother of two, Kamla said she too had to overcome fear before taking the trip under the circumstances but she realised that vaccinating people was a big responsibility. “The people on the Island had their misconceptions related to the vaccine, but we also had to overcome increasing water level in the river, which was threatening to derail the vaccination drive. But once the health staff was prepared to take [the trip] then there was no turning back,” she said. Not much of a smooth talker, Kamla said she learnt to row a boat from her fisherman husband after her marriage in 2006. “Even I have relatives on the island. They were refusing to get vaccinated, so I took the nurses there and they had to get it done.” “I have never had a bad experience in the river but during the monsoon and when water is released from the dam, few incidents have happened in the past. I know how to swim and we live near water (river bank) and sometimes also go fishing,” she said. Block chief medical officer, Simalwada, Dr Narendra Prajapat said a total of 137 people live in 32 houses on Odaphala and Bedphala islands that are surrounded by water throughout the year. While people routinely travel by paddle boat, high volume of water and strong winds in the rainy season stops their movement. It was a challenging task to reach the people living on both the islands for vaccination in these conditions but the Corona Warriors were still doing it with full dedication, he claimed. District collector Suresh Kumar Ola said the spirit shown by Kamla was commendable. Her effort was also lauded by chief medical health officer (CMHO) Dr Rajesh Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-asha-worker-rows-boat-in-tough-condition-to-vaccinate-island-residents-101628415249512.html
08-08-2021||Patna||Bihar Police’s murder probe 'reveals' string of killings planned from Tihar Jail||The conspiracy to kill property dealer Nawal Kishore Singh, brother of a Janta Dal Rastravadi (JDR) candidate from Sheohar assembly seat, was hatched in Tihar Central jail, Bihar police said on Saturday. Not just that, the police said at least three more assassinations in Bihar were linked to plots hatched inside the national capital’s Tihar jail.A member of Santosh Jha’s gang has told Bihar police that the plan to eliminate the property dealer was chalked out by Vikash Jha alias Kalia, a gangster lodged in Tihar Jail who was once a close associate of dreaded gangster Santosh Jha, who was killed while serving a life term in the murder case of two engineers while appearing in a Sitamarhi court on August 28, 2018 in connection with one of the 20 criminal cases he faced.Police said Kalia used Whatsapp to contact other key members of the gang outside the jail, Vishal Jha alias Raja and Vijay Jha, from inside the Tihar jail. His associates created a Facebook Page “Book-Bro” to chat with each other and Kalia frequently spoke to them using Whatsapp since February this year.Police said that two sharp shooters later identified as Kanhaiya Singh and Abhishek @ Mukul Mishra gunned down Nawal on June 30 on the busy Sitamarhi-Muzaffarpur national highway after forcing him to stop his bike in Ahiyapur police station area of Muzaffarpur district. The assailants spent about a minute at the spot after the first shot, firing repeatedly to make sure that Nawal was dead.Muzaffarpur police chief (SSP) Jayant Kant told HT that three criminals including one Ayush Singh of Sitamarhi, who were involved in the murder, have been arrested and sent to judicial custody.Ayush confessed that he was tasked with tracking Nawal’s movement by Kalia’s men identified as Raja, Abhishek and Kanhaiya, who had rented a house in March near the Medical overbridge at Muzaffarpur to carry out his killing. He also named some other criminals identified as Babul and Raghu, who he claimed were also placed by a tea stall near zero mile on the Sitamarhi-Muzaffarpur national highway for two months to track Nawal Singh’s movements, police said.Nawal’s wife Sadhana Devi later told police that her husband and son used to receive threats from a Facebook page named Book Bro, which carried pictures of AK-47.SSP) Jayant Kant said police had written to Facebook requesting information about the page used to issue threats and allegedly plot the murder. “So far, the conspirators and shooters, numbering around 10-15, are absconding. Raids are on,” the SSP added.Jayant Kant also revealed that Kalia was also a prime accused in the murder of Nawal’s brother Srinarayan Singh, a JDR candidate. JDR was part of the Upendra Kushwaha-led political alliance that included Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM and BSP. Srinarayan was shot dead along with a supporter in Sheohar’s Hathsar village during the assembly poll campaign on October 25, 2020. Nawal Kishore Singh was apparently a witness to his brother’s murder and had vowed to avenge it.The then Sheohar superintendent of police (SP), Santosh Kumar, currently posted at Saran, said his investigation had revealed Vikash Jha’s hand in Srinarayan Singh’s murder and he had twice written to Tihar authorities with mobile number, apparently used by Jha to plot the murder from behind the bars.During the probe into Nawal’s assassination, police claims to have also got clues to the murders of advocate Rajesh Ranjan alias Mani Jha, who was killed on June 16 at Sitamarhi, and the son of a school owner Awadhesh Jha, who was gunned down on May 16 at Dostiyan village under Purnahiya police station in Sheohar district. They say both these murders were also planned from inside the Tihar jail, however, they were not ready to divulge the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-police-s-murder-probe-reveals-a-string-of-killings-planned-from-tihar-jail-101628404809485.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||Security heightened at Delhi airport after cops receive 'bomb threat' e-mail||The Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport at New Delhi reportedly received a bomb threat on Saturday, following which security arrangements remained heightened on Sunday morning. According to news agency ANI, the IGI police station warned the Airport Operations Control Centre about a potential terrorist attack led by the Al Qaeda outfit. The airport authorities later investigated the threat and found it "non-specific", thereby terminating the Bomb Threat Assessment Committee (BTAC) from the airport. However, an extra alert has been sounded and all security measures have been enhanced, the IGI airport said in an official statement.They are planning to put bomb at the airport in 1-3 days. On examination, DIG pointed out that similar threat message was received in recent past with same names & similar details, which was declared non specific by Bomb Threat Assessment Committee (BTAC)As per SOPs, Security Operations Control Centre informed all concerned agencies & has alerted personnel. Anti-sabotage check has been carried at all terminals of IGI Airport, access control, vehicle checking at entry nakas & patrolling has been intensified.The bomb threat was received by the IGI airport police yesterday in an e-mail, the subject of which was reportedly a planned bomb blast by Al Qaeda Sargana. The e-mail stated that Karanbir Suri, alias Mohamad Jalal, and his wife Shaily Sharda, alias Haseena, are coming to India on Sunday from Singapore and that they "plan to put the bomb on IGI in 1-3 days".On receiving the bomb threat email, the Security Operations Control Centre (SOCC) at the IGI airport found out that a similar threat message was received in the recent past. The earlier message also carried the names of the same couple and a similar language detailing the bomb threat.The Delhi airport took all security measures as per standard operating procedure, informed all concerned agencies and put duty personnel on high alert. The SOCC also carried out an anti-sabotage check at all terminals of the IGI airport. Security checks at all access control points and vehicle parking points and at entry nakas were also intensified, according to the airport authorities.The BTAC was convened yesterday to examine the bomb threat. However, the threat was declared "non-specific" at about 7:18pm yesterday, following which the BTAC was terminated.Delhi Police has been requested to look into the investigation report of earlier threat messages involving the same couple and also check up the e-mail source.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/security-heightened-at-delhi-airport-after-cops-receive-bomb-threat-email-101628402229671.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi CP wants DCPs to visit crime spots, dominate streets against urban crime||Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana has directed that district DCPs must visit the crime spot in case of heinous crimes and has asked for police domination of streets to prevent urban crimes like chain snatching and robberies. Within days of taking over as CP, Delhi, Asthana has plans to rationalise higher ranks and bifurcate law and order, and criminal investigation so that police officers have specific tasks and not shunted around on the basis of tasks.No policeperson shall face any difficulty for bonafide discharge of duty and the senior leadership has to take care of the force as mentors and not find faults with them unnecessarily Asthana said. In a video address which was attended by 14,000 police staff, the new CP said Delhi Police have taken several initiatives on technological intervention in field policing. Time has come for evidence-based policing and scientific investigation as that's how cases would result in a conviction, he said.Briefing the force ahead of Independence Day, the CP said that Delhi police should draft in a big way the cooperation of street vendors, small shop keepers, auto drivers, rickshawalas etc to be the “eyes and ears against terrorist or criminal designs." These common people on the ground can be vigilant to act as our ‘force multipliers’ and form a part of our community policing to keep the city safe and secure with greater public cooperation and participation, Asthana said. Talking about communal harmony in the national Capital, the new CP said that this is an issue of utmost importance and the police have to engage with leaders of all communities. There should be no partial treatment to criminals of any community, Asthana said reminding the force that criminals do not have any religion or community.In his address, he also hinted that on a pilot basis law and order and investigation functions can be separated in police stations. Three duty shifts in select police stations will also commence on a pilot basis, the CP hinted.Complainants, victims and visitors to police stations should be treated politely and empathetically by giving time and attention to them, Asthana told the SHOs. Visitors to the city get their first impression from the traffic situation and hence the traffic department has the responsibility to give the best impression of the Delhi Police, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cp-wants-dcps-to-visit-crime-spots-dominate-streets-against-urban-crime-101628401567093.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Landslide in Thane damages 6 houses as large stone rolls down from hill||Six houses were damaged and about 25 families were shifted following early Sunday morning landslide in Thane district’s Kalwa Ma Kali Chawl area in Kalwa east, disaster management officials said. They added that no one was injured in the incident that saw a huge stone roll down with mud.The landslide took place between 2 to 3.30 am on Sunday morning with a portion of a little hillock next to a small cluster of houses beginning to slide slowly, officials said. By the time residents sounded an alert, a portion of the hill including a large stone fell on some houses.Disaster management authorities reached the site following the landslide and shifted many residents to a Thane Municipal Corporation school.Santosh Kadam, a senior officer posted with the regional disaster management cell in Thane, said, “We have made residents vacate the six houses that were damaged. There was no casualty and no injuries in the incident. We have shifted around 22 to 25 families to a municipal school at Gholai Nagar.”Western Maharashtra witnessed multiple incidents of landslides in July this year following a heavy spell of rains over a few days resulting in deaths of scores of people. Following the tragedy, the state government has come up with a plan to permanently relocate people living in hilly areas and rehabilitate them to safer places. The government said a policy would also be formulated for the management of water as parts of the state, especially the western Maharashtra region, witness floods during the monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/landslide-in-thane-damages-6-houses-as-large-stone-rolls-down-from-hill-101628396708640.html
08-08-2021||Bangalore||Everyone can’t get the portfolios they want: Basavaraj Bommai on reports of dissatisfaction among ministers||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said he has talked to his party colleague Anand Singh who expressed dissatisfaction on not being given the portfolio he wanted and reiterated that all ministers can't be assigned the portfolios they want."Everyone can't get the portfolios they want. He (minister Anand Singh) is close to me so everything will be fine. I called him and spoke with him. I will handle it." Bommai told news agency ANI on Saturday.Bommai’s statement comes as the new ministers of Karnataka's reshuffled cabinet were allocated portfolios. Singh, who has been allocated the ecology, environment and tourism department, said he was not happy with his department. "I didn't ask for this portfolio. Whatever request I made at the party forum has not been considered. I am planning to meet the Chief Minister. I will request him to reconsider my request," Singh said.Also Read: New ministers in Karnataka get portfolios, CM Bommai keeps finance, cabinet affairsA total of 29 ministers were assigned their portfolios on Saturday. The chief minister has kept the finance and cabinet affairs portfolios, along with DPAR (personnel and administrative reforms), intelligence from home, Bengaluru development, and all other unallocated portfolios with him. The new cabinet has also made space for ministers belonging to the Other Backward Classes (OBC), the Scheduled Caste (SC) community, and Scheduled Tribe (ST), along with the politically influential communities of Lingayats, Brahmins, Vokkaligas, and Reddys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/everyone-can-t-get-the-portfolios-they-want-basavaraj-bommai-on-reports-of-dissatisfaction-among-ministers-of-his-new-cabinet-101628388949973.html
08-08-2021||Bangalore||18 of 29 Karnataka ministers retain portfolios; BSY's Cabinet-rank facilities remain||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday allocated portfolios to 29 newly inducted cabinet ministers, with 18 of them retaining the ministries they had in the previous BS Yediyurappa government.The Bommai government has also issued an order, providing Yediyurappa all facilities on par with Cabinet-rank ministers. This will be applicable until the new CM is in office, an official notification from the protocol wing of the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms said.While the CM kept the key portfolios of finance, Bengaluru development and cabinet affairs, debutant ministers secured plum portfolios — Araga Jnanendra (home), V Sunil Kumar (energy, Kannada and culture) and BC Nagesh (primary and secondary education, and Sakala department).Significantly, defectors from the Congress and the Janata Dal Secular in 2019, have retained their portfolios — K Sudhakar (health and family welfare), BC Patil (agriculture), ST Somashekar (cooperation), Byrati Basavaraj (urban development), K Gopalaiah (excise), and Shivaram Hebbar (labour).The portfolio allocation has also triggered disgruntlement, with ministers Anand Singh and Nagaraju expressing displeasure. “I didn’t ask for this portfolio. Whatever request I made at the party forum has not been considered...” Nagaraju, too, said: “Previous CM BSY and present CM Basavaraj Bommai have not kept their word...”Downplaying the disgruntlement among his cabinet colleagues, the CM said he will speak to them and sort out the issue. “Naturally everyone will have desire (for certain ministries)...everyone can’t get the portfolio they ask for.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/18-of-29-karnataka-ministers-retain-portfolios-bsy-s-cabinet-rank-facilities-remain-101628377697288.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Nutritional awareness needed among lactating mothers, finds PAU study||The department of food and nutrition of the College of Community Science of Punjab Agricultural University surveyed 120 children and their mothers during World Breastfeeding Week. Breastfeeding week is celebrated every year in August from 1 to 7 to create awareness among mothers about the importance of breastfeeding.During the survey, it was found that 6.5% of children had low weight for height, 40% had low weight-for-age, and 61.5% had low height-for-age which reflects under nutrition.The results depicted that 41% of the total number of mothers exclusively breastfed their infants for the first six months, while only 5.5% of mothers introduced complementary foods at the age of six months, and 59% of mothers continued breastfeeding up to two years.Dr Jaswinder Kaur Brar informed that the department surveyed 120 mothers including, 60 from rural and 60 from urban areas of the district.Out of the total 120 mothers, it was found that only 32 knew about complementary feeding practices and most of them did not apply the knowledge they have.The study recommends that it is important to impart knowledge and create awareness regarding breastfeeding and complementary feeding practices.“The department observed that the practice of giving honey, glucose, jaggery as first feed (Gurti) was still prevalent in both rural and urban areas. It causes infections like diarrhoea in the new-borns and delays the early initiation of breastfeeding,” said Dr Brar.She added that poor hygiene is another cause of infection among children during breastfeeding.DMC&H observes World Breastfeeding WeekThe gynae seminar room of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) observed World Breastfeeding Week.During the programme, health benefits of breastfeeding for mothers were discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nutritional-awareness-needed-among-lactating-mothers-finds-pau-study-101628375587500.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||ED raids hotel as part of its probe against NCP’s Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday conducted searches at a Nagpur hotel as part of its investigation in a case of alleged corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, people aware of the developments said.The raids came a day after the central agency conducted searches at the Nagpur Institute of Technology (NIT), run by Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha headed by Deshmukh in Fetri, and seized some documents, the minister’s personal secretary confirmed.According to the people cited above, a team of ED officials conducted searches at Hotel Travotel on Wardha road in Nagpur on Saturday afternoon for at least three hours.Deshmukh, his family and his employees were not available for a comment in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-raids-hotel-as-part-of-its-probe-against-ncp-s-deshmukh-101628374976891.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana residents take to streets over clogged sewer lines||Irked over clogged sewer lines, the residents of Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Ward Number 21, staged a protest against the municipal corporation (MC), area councillor Kitty Uppal and MLA Sanjay Talwar on Saturday. The residents of street numbers 7, 8, and 9 rued that they have been facing trouble due to accumulated sewer water in the streets for the last few months but, the authorities have failed to resolve the issue despite repeated complaints. They stated that the filthy sewer water also enters the houses in the area, and its accumulation is turning the area into a breeding ground for mosquitoes.Deepak Uppal, councillor Kitty Uppal’s husband, said,” A dyeing unit is situated in the area, and the sewer lines overflow due to waste being dumped by the owner of that unit into the MC sewer lines. We have submitted complaints with MC but to no avail.”“We were also working on installing a sewer line at Shingar Cinema Disposal Point, but the councillor of the adjoining ward is not allowing us to do that, as the sewer line has to be installed through his ward. I will again take up the matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal,” he added.MC SDO Samarvir Singh said that he is not aware of any protest as he was in the field on Saturday. “There was some issue regarding a disposal point from where the sewer water is pumped out, and it has been resolved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-residents-take-to-streets-over-clogged-sewer-lines-101628375048226.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Councillor seeks razing of unsafe industrial building in Ludhiana||Lying in a dilapidated condition since a massive fire broke out in May last year, the multi-storey building of RT Woollen Mills in Industrial Area- A is posing grave danger to the lives of residents and workers in the neighbouring buildings.Fearing that the building might collapse during the rainy season after its boundary wall shifted by around two feet from its original place, the municipal corporation (MC) sealed it on Thursday.The move came a day after Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) councillor Swarandeep Chahal submitted a complaint with mayor Balkar Sandhu.Chahal, who owns the adjoining building, demanded that the MC should get the building razed to avoid any untoward incident, as apart from the labourers working in the nearby factories/commercial establishments, over 200 of them live in the quarters situated in the area around the damaged building.Chahal said,” I came to know about the condition of the building after its boundary wall (rear side) shifted from its original place and led to the collapse of our plot’s boundary wall on July 29. The building situated on around 2,000 square yards is unsafe. Even though the pillars on its rear side are broken and the concrete slab of the first floor is supported by wooden piles, its owner was trying to resume operations there claiming that the building is safe.”“If it collapses, it might result in a large number of casualties. The owner is putting the lives of residents at stake. Even the MC officials were not paying heed to the problem until I went to the mayor on Wednesday. I have been complaining about the building since July 29. Even now, the MC has just sealed the building instead of forcing the owner to demolish it,” said Chahal.Kulwant Singh, the owner of Manjit Timber situated behind the damaged building, said, “The boundary wall of the fire-ravaged building is also expanding towards our side due to which the plaster of our boundary wall also got damaged.”“I will submit a complaint regarding the same with the mayor,” said Singh. Meanwhile, the MC officials stated that a few employees were present inside the unsafe building, which has now been vacated and sealed. MC assistant town planner (ATP) Mohan Singh said that the MC had earlier declared the building unsafe, and a report has now been sent to higher authorities for further action.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said,” It is now the responsibility of the owner to raze the building or else he can submit a fee with MC for demolishing the same. The MC is looking into the legal aspects and the owner will be responsible for any accident that takes place.” A fire broke out at the woollen unit on May 24 last year. The fire-fighting operation continued for over 12 hours. In total, 14 fire tenders were deployed at the spot, which was refilled over 100 times to douse the flames. No casualty was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/councillor-seeks-razing-of-unsafe-industrial-building-in-ludhiana-101628374988014.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing case: Deficient probe by SIT chief delayed action, says Tewari||With his party facing flak over delayed action in the Kotkapura firing case, Congress MP Manish Tewari has alleged that justice in the case had been delayed due to the deficient investigation conducted by the then SIT chief and now Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Kunwar Vijay Pratap, whose report was also quashed by the Punjab and Haryana high court in April.Addressing a press conference at the Circuit House on Saturday, Tewari said the state government had to face embarrassment due to the deficient inquiry and conduct of Pratap, and thereafter he had joined the AAP. He said the new SIT will soon submit the chargesheet and justice will be served in the case.On the tussle between chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Tewari, who is also senior spokesperson of the Congress, said in his 40 years of experience, he had learned that no party can form a government if the CM and the state party chief did not work together. So, they both will work together to form the government in 2022.Lambasting the Union government over the Pegasus spyware row and the three farm laws, he said the sheer arrogance of the BJP government was responsible for the prolonged parliamentary logjam that could wash out the entire monsoon session. He also flayed the Union government for renaming the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award after legendary hockey player Major Dhyan Chand: “If the government wanted to honour the hockey wizard, it should have announced a new award in his name.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-case-deficient-probe-by-sit-chief-delayed-action-says-tewari-101628374807950.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Paid parking returns at Ludhiana’s Sarabha Nagar market||With MC finally allotting contracts through the third attempt, paid parking has resumed at the Sarabha Nagar main market after two years. The MC has fixed the parking rates as ₹10 for two-wheelers and ₹20 for four-wheelers. MC had been working to allot contracts of Sarabha Nagar market and Tuition market in Model Town Extension since March this year, but could not find any bidder due to low footfall amid the pandemic. Finally, contracts were allotted in the third attempt through e-auction. While the contract for the Sarabha Nagar market has been allotted for ₹28.4 lakh, the contract for paid parking of Tuition market, which was being managed by MC itself for around a year, has been allotted for ₹26.6 lakh. MC secretary Neeraj Jain said following the e-auction, possession was handed over to the contractors on August 5. Meanwhile, traders in the market have sought reduction in the parking fee.“The fee has been doubled from the previous rates, which will affect the footfall in the market. We will take up the matter with the MC officials and mayor Balkar Sandhu in the coming days,” said Wangjenn Chiu Wong, chairman, Sarabha Nagar Main Market Traders’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paid-parking-returns-at-ludhiana-s-sarabha-nagar-market-101628374746896.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||JEE Main: Keshav Gupta tops Ludhiana in third session||Keshav Gupta, 17, a student of Guru Nanak Public School, has topped the city in the third session of the JEE Main exam with 99.94 percentile marks. The teenager had also achieved the highest percentile in the city in the second session held in March with 99.88 percentile score.Gupta said among all the attempts so far, the third score was his best. In the first attempt in February, he had scored 99.89 percentile. He is now gearing up for the fourth and final session for a better score and to inch closer to his goal of becoming a computer engineering. This Haibowal resident said he had been studying for five to six hours a day, with clearing JEE Main as his main focus. His father, Kapil Dev Gupta, is in the merchant navy and mother Sapna Dev Gupta is a former teacher. His elder sister is a software engineer.Rishi Gandhi of Kundan Vidya Mandir bagged the second position by achieving 99.89 percentile. Earlier, he had scored 99.62 and 99.87 percentile in his first and second attempt, respectively. Gandhi said his only competition was himself and he will improve further in the fourth session. His father, Sameer Kumar Gandhi, is a businessman and mother Ruchi Gandhi is a homemaker.Apart from these two students, Manas Gupta stood third with 99.79 percentile and Ishaan Bajaj fourth with 99.73 percentile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jee-main-keshav-gupta-tops-ludhiana-in-third-session-101628373846931.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||1 dead, 3 hurt in building collapse in Nand Nagri||A 60-year-old man died and three others were injured after a building collapsed in north-east Delhi’s Nand Nagri area on Saturday afternoon after a short spell of rain in the morning.The Delhi Police identified the deceased man as 60-year-old Kanti Lal. His body was buried deep in the debris, and it took rescue teams over three hours to recover his body.The fire department said six fire tenders reached Nand Nagri’s Block E soon after the Delhi Police informed them about the collapse around 1.30pm on Saturday.Three people — Dhani Ram (65), Anaro Devi (65) and Raj Kumar (64) — were rescued from the wreckage and taken to the nearby Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, where they are being treated for their injuries. Devi was rescued by local residents before the police and fire teams reached the spot.Residents of the area told the rescue team that Lal, who lived in an apartment a few buildings away from the one that collapsed, was still missing. His family told the police that Lal would often chat with Dhani Ram and other locals at a designated spot below the building.Around 5.30pm, Lal was pulled out from the debris and rushed to the hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.During the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted that he was monitoring the situation through the district administration. “All possible help is being provided for relief and rescue. I myself have been continuously monitoring the incident through the district administration,” he tweeted.The police said they have launched an inquiry into the incident, and are investigating what led to the collapse.Locals have told the police that the building was constructed 15-20 years ago. “The construction of buildings in these areas is poor. It was in a dilapidated condition. The morning rains could have led to the collapse,” said an investigating officer, asking not to be named.“The house is owned by Dhani Ram who lived with his family members there. It was a two-storey building with shops on the ground floor. At the time of the collapse, he was inside with the other victims who are his relatives. In all, four people were trapped, of whom three survived. We are probing what led to the collapse,” a senior police officer said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1-dead-3-hurt-in-building-collapse-in-nand-nagri-101628373591503.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi youth found hanging in Ludhiana, girlfriend booked for abetment||A 22-year-old Delhi resident died by suicide at his paying guest accommodation in Model Gram on Friday night. The police booked the deceased’s girlfriend after they found a suicide note by him, blaming her for the extreme step. However, the note provided no other detail.“The youth had come to Ludhiana four months ago to find a job. He was living in a PG accommodation with two roommates. On Friday night, when he did not open the door despite persistent knocking, his roommates informed the police. On breaking into the room, the cops found the youth hanging from the ceiling fan,” said sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Division Number 5 police station.He confirmed that a suicide note, accusing his girlfriend, was found in the room. The police contacted the deceased’s parents, who shared that their son was upset for the past few days.A case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the deceased’s girlfriend.The body has been sent to the civil hospital for autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-youth-found-hanging-in-ludhiana-girlfriend-booked-for-abetment-101628373667136.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||ASIs’ killing in Ludhiana: Two held for sheltering shooters get clean chit||A man and a woman, arrested for providing shelter to the accused who shot dead two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) in Jagraon on May 15, have been let off by the police.According to investigators, Harcharan Singh of Gwalior and Ramandeep Kaur of Dhalleke village, Moga, were given a clean chit after no strong evidence was found regarding their involvement in the crime.Police had earlier suspected that the duo had provided shelter to the shooters, Darshan Singh and Balwinder Singh, alias Babbi, at Harcharan’s house.The shooters were associates of gangster Jaipal Bhullar who was gunned down by the West Bengal police in Kolkata in June.During questioning, Harcharan had claimed that he was not aware about the fact that the accused were wanted by the police for the murder of the two ASIs. He had only allowed them to stay at his house following a friend’s request.Ramandeep is the wife of Gurpreet Singh, who owned the truck that was recovered from Darshan and Balwinder following their arrest.Gurpreet had bought the truck in partnership with one of the accused, but later sold the truck to the accused.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Jagraon) Jatinderjit Singh said Gurpreet’s role was still under scanner, but his wife and Harcharan were released.Jaipal Bhullar, along with his accomplices, had gunned down ASI Bhagwan Singh and ASI Dalwinderjit Singh of the CIA staff in New Grain Market of Jagraon on May 15. Jaipal and his accomplice, Jaspreet Singh, were killed in an encounter in Kolkata on June 9, while two other shooters, Darshan and Balwinder, were arrested two weeks after the shooting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asis-killing-in-ludhiana-two-held-for-sheltering-shooters-get-clean-chit-101628373486845.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana international airport’s inauguration pushed to March 2022||Slated to be completed by November this year, the international airport at Halwara is now expected to be inaugurated by March 31, 2022.Chief secretary Vini Mahajan shared this while reviewing the progress of major development works during a meeting with the district administration officials on Saturday.However, the official listed a number of projects that she said will change the shape of the industrial city in the coming months.She said a 24x7 surface water supply project was being executed at a cost of ₹3,383.89 crore. Land had been identified for the project and an amount of ₹38 crore had already been released.The chief secretary said the ₹650-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project was going on in full swing and will be completed by December next year.Two new government degree colleges were coming up at Burj Hari Singh village in Raikot and Jamalpur in Ludhiana city, and both should be ready by October this year. Besides, 35 projects in Dhandra cluster, under RURBAN Mission for development of rural areas on urban fringes, at a cost of ₹100 crore, and construction of 17 panchayat ghars in various villages, costing ₹2.34, crore should also be completed by October, she said.Under the smart village campaign, as many as 3,353 development works, estimated to cost ₹200 crore, were going on in full swing and should also be over by October.In the same month, development of 57 village ponds in the district, costing ₹12 crore, will be finished. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma apprised the chief secretary that 31 ponds had already been covered.The chief secretary said new bus stands were being constructed in Mullanpur Dakha, Raikot and Khanna at a cost of ₹5 crore, ₹3.87 crore and ₹3.73 crore, respectively. The projects for providing water supply and sewerage schemes at Raikot, Samrala and Khanna should be completed by December 31 this year, she said.Mahajan disclosed that the construction of the much-awaited integrated rail-over bridge and rail-under bridge project on Pakhowal Road, costing ₹123 crore, was expected to be completed soon.She expressed satisfaction over Ludhiana municipal corporation generating record revenue from building plans, water charges and property tax, besides floating tenders of development works worth ₹170 crore.Instructing the district authorities to complete all development projects in a stipulated time frame, the chief secretary also reviewed the revenue collection in the district and directed the officials to speed it up further.Focus on building infraMahajan said the state government had undertaken a slew of infrastructure development projects worth ₹11,493.89 crore in Ludhiana. To bolster the industrial sector and create jobs, she said the upcoming hi-tech cycle valley at Dhanansu village should be made fully operational by February next. The valley has already attracted prominent industry players such as Hero Cycles, Aditya Birla Group and JK Paper Limited. Hero Cycles Limited has already set up their anchor unit with a production capacity of 4 million bicycles per annum, especially e-bikes and premium bikes. Similarly, Aditya Birla Group has proposed to invest around ₹1,000 crore in the hi-tech valley. However, she evaded questions on the exit of Adani Group-led Adani logistic plant, which had rendered over 500 employees jobless. “It was a local issue and all are aware of it,” she said.Mahajan said the land acquisition process for the construction of new national highways – Delhi-Katra expressway, four-laning of Talwandi Bhai to Ferozepur, Ludhiana-Talwandi NH-95, Kharar-Ludhiana and Ladhowal Bypass – at a total cost of ₹5,700 crore should be completed by October 15. ‘Covid‘Testing ramped up among students’Leaving nothing to chance, especially with schools resuming physical classes, the health department is collecting nearly 10,000 samples from school children daily to monitor the spread of the infection, shared Mahajan She said the state government had also urged the central government to increase the supply of vaccines under the government quota. Besides, for early identification of new Covid variants, a new genome sequencing laboratory will soon be set up at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Patiala. In order to further augment the health infrastructure for successfully taking on the possible third Covid wave, ten pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generating plants and paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) have come up in Ludhiana district, “stated Chief Secretary, Vini Mahajan, While addressing the media at Bachat Bhawan in mini-secretariat, she appreciated the efforts of the district administration and healthcare workers in successfully beating the first and second Covid waves.A one-minute silence was observed for Covid victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-international-airport-s-inauguration-pushed-to-march-2022-101628373246887.html
08-08-2021||Lucknow||Don’t elect people with a ‘narrow mindset’ to power: Nadda in UP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda, who is on a two-day visit to poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, launched a fresh attack on the Opposition on Saturday, saying people with “narrow mindset” should not be elected to power.“On April 20, 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modiji constituted a task force and he gave the country two vaccines (against coronavirus) in nine months... It is a separate matter (that the Opposition said) we will not get vaccinated. This is a vaccine of the BJP. Now, you have been vaccinated with the BJP vaccine. This tells the mindset of the leaders. Those who have a narrow mindset, how will they lead UP? This is something to think upon,” said Nadda, as he urged the people to “bless the BJP again” in the 2022 assembly elections.Nadda’s visit comes at a time Uttar Pradesh is gearing up for the next year’s assembly polls, in which the ruling BJP will be pitted against the Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Congress and other regional fronts.Addressing a meeting of the newly-elected chairpersons of zila panchayats and block panchayats, the BJP chief directed the officials to launch a mega awareness campaign about the initiatives and achievements of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the Adityanath government in the state. “Visit your vicinity and check if anyone has not taken vaccines, if there is any house that doesn’t have a toilet, or free gas connection? It’s our duty to ensure that these benefits reach one and all, without any discrimination,” he said.Attacking the Opposition, Nadda claimed that while the BJP cadres were helping the poor and the needy at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, Opposition leaders were busy criticising the government and questioning the indigenous vaccines.“They are working to mislead (people). They have damaged the country by saying ‘do you think that we are guinea pig’. Today, when I meet them, and ask whether they have taken the vaccine, they say ‘yes’,” said Nadda.Hitting back at Nadda, Akhilesh Yadav said: “People are distressed with BJP. Samajwadi Party will win the elections by bagging the number of seats I had predicted and form the next government”.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dont-elect-people-with-a-narrow-mindset-to-power-nadda-in-up-101628371475153.html
08-08-2021||Lucknow||Nadda says Yogi govt has taken everyone along, people will bless BJP again in UP assembly polls||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Saturday said the people would bless the party again in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls and criticised those who questioned the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination campaign.Nadda, who arrived on a two-day visit to the state, also said, “There was a time when it was said that this community was ruling UP or that community was running UP. It appeared as if there was no rule of the society. Now, under the leadership of PM Modi, chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s government in UP has been able to take everyone along.” He tasked the newly elected district panchayat and kshetra panchayat chairpersons in the state with launching a mega awareness campaign about the initiatives and achievements of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in the state. The 2022 UP assembly elections are due in about seven months’ time. He asked 67 of the 75 district panchayat chairpersons and 648 of the 826 kshetra panchayat chairpersons, who won on the BJP’s backing, to set the party’s agenda in rural UP. BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, who has been regularly visiting UP since June to fine-tune the party’s preparedness, gave Nadda company from Delhi.Nadda addressed the elected representatives at Lucknow’s Indira Gandhi Pratishthan about the same time as Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav held a press conference to criticise the BJP government over what he alleged was its “failure on all fronts”.Nadda, too, targeted Yadav in a veiled fashion. He raised the “BJP ki vaccine (BJP’s vaccine)” comment to target Yadav. “In UP, record vaccination has been done. Now, some said that it was BJP ki vaccine. Our scientists had worked hard to develop the vaccine as a safeguard against Covid and here such comments were made which depict the kind of mindset people have. How can such opposition (think of) running UP?” Nadda said.On January 2, Akhilesh Yadav had said he would not take the Covid vaccine jab as he did not trust the BJP’s vaccine. He later clarified that he had faith in scientists.At an event on Friday, Yadav said he had not taken the vaccine yet and would take it only after the needy received it.Nadda told the rural representatives to visit each household and check if the benefits of the government schemes were reaching them. “Visit your vicinity and check if anyone has not taken vaccine, if there is any house that doesn’t have a toilet, or free gas connection? It’s our duty to ensure that these benefits reach one and all, without any discrimination,” he said.Nadda claimed that while the BJP cadres were helping the poor and the needy during the height of the Covid surge, the Opposition leaders had “quarantined” themselves and had limited themselves to criticising the government through virtual press conferences.Nadda also held a meeting with the in-charges of all the 403 assembly constituencies. Later, he, along with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other top BJP leaders, met ministers and party functionaries for feedback about various initiatives and poll preparedness.He is scheduled to visit Agra on Sunday before flying back to Delhi.Ensure better coordination: Yogi to panchayat chiefsUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked the newly elected gram pradhans (village heads), district panchayat and kshetra panchayat chairpersons to ensure better coordination so that development activities could be undertaken in rural areas of the state.“You are going to be the main agents driving change and development in rural areas. Remember while our government has done record vaccination and undertaken a successful test-trace and treat campaign, the threat of Covid-19 is still not over. “We will have to be cautious and focus on sanitisation,” he said.UP BJP chief tasks panchayat reps with working for party’s win in assembly pollsUttar Pradesh BJP president Swatantra Dev asked the newly elected representatives in the rural areas to ensure party’s win in the 2022 UP assembly polls.“Abrogation of Article 370, the bhoomi pujan for Ram temple in Ayodhya, the fight against Covid-19 have been among several landmark initiatives of the BJP. It’s clear that only the BJP has the policy, leadership and the vision to fuel the development of the country and the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nadda-says-yogi-govt-has-taken-everyone-along-people-will-bless-bjp-again-in-up-assembly-polls-101628366827674.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra will take calculated risk on relaxations: Uddhav||Maharashtra recorded 6,061 fresh Covid-19 infections on Saturday, pushing the count to 6,347,820, even as the government mulls further relaxations within a few days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said a decision on further relaxations, including reopening local train services for all citizens, will be made in the next few days. Thackeray said that the government will take a “calculated risk”, so that a possible third wave does not hit the state hard, like it did in the previous wave. The tally of active cases reduced to 71,050 as 9,356 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. The state recorded 128 new casualties with Pune district reporting the highest (17) deaths, followed by Satara with 15 fatalities. The state government is planning to further ease lockdown restrictions in 25 districts where the growth rate as well as positivity rate is much less than the average. Speaking at an event in Mumbai, Thackeray said he is consulting health experts, health department officials and civic officials over putting further relaxations. The state government is considering opening up local train services for fully vaccinated people. “We are in the process of making a decision regarding restaurant/eateries and local [trains]. I am speaking to experts, health officials in the state and in BMC. In the next two to five days, the government will announce what further relaxations will be provided,” Thackeray said. Thackeray, who is under pressure from all quarters to provide additional operational hours for restaurants and eateries, allow fully vaccinated people to use trains, said that the government has to move ahead “cautiously” to ensure that the Covid-19 situation that has bettered in Mumbai does not reverse like it did in the second wave. The chief minister said, “We have to move ahead cautiously so that while the take steps [towards unlocking] we don’t make any wrong moves. We have to take calculated risk. Covid situation is now better in Mumbai but we have to ensure that it does not reverse. The first wave had receded and the second wave hit us so fast. The chaos it led to is something I don’t even want to recall. Therefore, in the next few days, we will take more decisions [towards giving relaxations].” Thackeray said that gradually things are getting back to normal again across the state as the state is easing restrictions in the state in phases. “Yesterday, representatives from hotel and restaurants associations met me. There is a demand from all to start the local trains. We have not locked up everything and misplaced the key. We have the key, and gradually we are turning it and reopening looking at the Covid situation,” he said. State health minister Rajesh Tope also said they are working on crowd management at railway stations which will be required after allowing fully vaccinated people to travel through local services. “No one is opposed to allowing those fully vaccinated in local trains, but discussion is going on over its proper implementation. Checking certificates and allowing them to enter in the railway stations will require a separate system as we all know the number of people traveling in local trains in Mumbai is huge and the chief minister is working on the same,” Tope said. On August 2, the state government provided relaxations from the lockdown restrictions to 25 districts where growth rate and positivity rate is less than the state’s average. It has allowed all essential and non-essential shops to stay open till 10pm, while restaurants are allowed to operate at 50% seating capacity till 4pm. As the state government is likely to ease down curbs, the state is looking at a slight drop in the graph of Covid-19 cases. The daily cases are between 6,000 and 7,000 for the few days. In the last seven days, it has recorded 41,774 cases which is much less compared to the first week of the last month when 61,489 cases were reported. On the other hand, there are also many districts and cities that have not reported a single case on Saturday. Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Malegaon, Parbhani, Akola and Nagpur cities reported zero cases whereas districts such as Dhule, Hingoli, Yavatmal Wardha, Bhandara and Gondia also found no cases. On Saturday, Mumbai clocked 332 cases and reported a total 737,192 cases till date. It also recorded five fatalities, taking the toll to 15,942. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 199,681 samples and had a positivity rate of 3.03%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 12.86%, according to the data issued by the state health department. It has also vaccinated 304,009 people on Saturday, according to the data available on Co-Win portal. It has administered 46,682,776 doses in the state till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-will-take-calculated-risk-on-relaxations-uddhav-101628366766863.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Police constable recruitment: HSSC cancels written exam, seven held with answer key||Even before thousands of aspirants who took the examination for constable’s post in Haryana Police could reach their homes, the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) cancelled it amid reports of answer key making rounds on social media. Seven people have been arrested since as they were found with answer key to the questions. However, the commission did not disclose the reason behind the cancellation of the exam scheduled for August 7 and 8, but it is learnt that the answer key was making rounds on social media since morning. “It is notified for the information of all the candidates that the written examination for the post of male constable (Cat No. 01) against advertisement 04/2020, examination which was held on August 7 (morning and evening shifts) and also scheduled for the August 8 (morning and evening shifts) is hereby cancelled,” reads a notice issued by secretary, Haryana Staff Selection Commission. “I had to travel to Yamunanagar to appear in the exam and when I was returning, I came to know that the exam has been cancelled. This was very painful for not only me but for thousands others,” said an aspirant, Ankit Kumar, of Kurukshetra. Another aspirant Vivek Kumar of Sonepat said, “My exam was scheduled in the first shift on Sunday at Karnal and I have come here a day in advance. Now, I have come to know that the exam is cancelled.” Five held in Kaithal, two in Hisar The crime investigation agency of the Kaithal police claimed to have arrested five people, including an aspirant, for allegedly possessing solved question papers near an examination centre in Kaithal. The Kaithal police was tight lipped over the issue and did not confirm whether they managed to leak the question papers. Kaithal SP Lokender Singh did not respond to the phone calls and text messages but late evening his office released a press note, confirming the arrest of five people. The press note says the CIA-I of the Kaithal police arrested five people on suspicion of leaking the question paper of a written exam for the post of constable of Haryana Police. Two FIRs have been registered under various sections of the IPC at the city police station and the investigation is being done by the police in the said case, it said. Police officials associated with the investigation said Shashikant, Sandeep, Gautam, Naveen and Ramesh were arrested as they were allegedly having answer keys of around 98 questions. Also, they were having contact numbers and admit cards of several aspirants in their mobile phones. Meanwhile, two people were arrested in Hisar in connection with the paper leak case of the Haryana police constable examination in Hisar. The arrested accused have been identified as Sanjay Dahiya of Chang village of Bhiwani district and Amit Sodhi of Sahu village of Hisar district. They were produced in a local court in Hjsar, which remanded them in two-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-constable-recruitment-hssc-cancels-written-exam-seven-held-with-answer-key-101628366650243.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Bajrang never comes empty-handed from abroad: Mother||“Bajrang has never returned empty handed from a foreign (country). He always brought medals. Yesterday, we were sad after he lost in the semifinals but I was sure that he will bring the bronze (medal),” says Om Pyari, the mother of Olympic bronze medallist wrestler Bajrang Punia. Bajrang’s house in Sonepat was full of people as neighbours, friends and relatives assembled to watch his match with Daulet Niyazbekov of Kazakhstan. Celebrations started as soon as the referee declared him the winner. Bajrang’s father Balwan Singh said he had received a phone call from Bajrang on Saturday morning. “He promised me that he will win the bronze medal and he fulfilled his promise by the evening. I am a proud father. Apart from wrestling, Bajrang is a very down to earth. We were expecting gold from him but he lost the semi-final match yesterday as he was struggling with an injury. I hope he will bring gold in the next Olympics,” Balwan Singh said. Dronacharya awardee coach Mahavir Singh Phogat, whose daughter Sangeeta Phogat is married to Bajrang, expressed happiness over his performance. Phogat family was upset after Vinesh Phogat couldn’t qualify for the semifinal. “I hope Bajrang and Vinesh will bring gold medals in the next Olympics. Bajrang’s hard work has paid off,” Mahavir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bajrang-never-comes-empty-handed-from-abroad-mother-101628366532824.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Neeraj dedicates medal to Milkha||Neeraj Chopra, who became first ever Indian to bag a medal in the track and field event in Olympics when he clinched the gold in javelin throw at Tokyo Olympics on Saturday, dedicated the win to late legendary Milkha Singh. He said after the win, “I dedicate the medal to Milkha Singh; I hope he is watching from heaven. Had he been alive, I would have gone to meet him with the medal.” He won the men’s javelin throw event with a best distance of 87.58m. Milkha, who died two months ago at 91 in Chandigarh, always wished to see an Indian athlete clinch a medal in the Olympics. He was the first Indian male to reach the final of an Olympic athletics event and was placed fourth in the 400-metre race at the 1960 Olympic Games in Rome. Praising Neeraj’s win, Milkha’s golfer son, Jeev Milkha Singh tweeted: “What a show @Neeraj_chopra1! Dad waited so many years for this to happen. His dream has finally come true with India’s first athletic gold. I am crying as I tweet this. And I am sure dad is crying up above. Thank you for making this happen.” The country had longed for an athletics medal after near misses from Milkha Singh, PT Usha and Anju Bobby George in the Olympics over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/neeraj-dedicates-medal-to-milkha-101628366350436.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster’s murder: Assailant injured in retaliatory fire got treated at Batala hospital same day||One of the four assailants, who gunned down gangster Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia at a private hospital in Amritsar on August 3, went to a healthcare facility in Batala to get treatment and stayed there for at least two hours as he was injured in retaliatory firing, it is learnt. Kandowalia’s close aide Tejbir Singh alias Teji, a leader of the Students Organisation of India (SOI), the student wing of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), had fired at the assailants in defence. Teji and a hospital guard were also injured in the firing. Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rashpal Singh said, “The hospital staff didn’t inform us even as the injured assailant stayed there for two hours.”The Amritsar commissionerate police are also exploring options to take action against the hospital for not informing the local cops before treating a person with bullet injuries.Amritsar deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “We are hopeful of nabbing the accused soon. We have also applied in a local court for bringing gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria on production warrant from Delhi’s Tihar jail.”Kandowalia, who was facing nearly 15 criminal cases, including that of murder and attempt to murder, was fired upon by some assailants at a private hospital where had gone to enquire about his cousin sister’s health. The assailants pumped six bullets into his body.Aide gunned down days before gangster’s murderThe police said an associate of Rana Kandowalia was gunned down by two unidentified bike-borne men in broad daylight at a village in Batala sub-division in Gurdaspur district four days before the gangster’s murder. The victim, Satnam Singh, alias Sattu of Fatehgarh Churian town, was driving a Mahindra Scorpio SUV. Sattu, a property dealer, was an aide of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria before his shifted his loyalties towards Kandowalia, police said. The police suspect that same people are behind both the killings and the two cases are interlinked. An official said Sattu had forewarned Kandowalia of a possible attack on him nearly two weeks ago. “Sattu may have been killed for tipping Kandowalia about a possible attack on him,” said a senior police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangsters-murder-assailant-injured-in-retaliatory-fire-got-treated-at-batala-hospital-same-day-101628366288183.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Basking in Neeraj’s golden glory, Khandra village erupts in joy||All the nineteen members of Neeraj’s family, along with hundreds of residents of Panipat’s Khandra village, remained glued to a huge television screen installed outside his residence to watch his golden throw at Tokyo Olympics on Saturday. And the entire village erupted in joy as soon as 23-year-old Arjuna Awardee’s javelin hit the ground covering a distance of 87.58 metres.The atmosphere instantly turned festive as people started distributing sweets and dancing to the beats of drums. Neeraj’s parents — Satish Chopra and Saroj Bala — were soon drowned in garlands. “I am not getting words to explain the happiness; it’s the fruit of his hard work and dedication,” said his father Satish Kumar. “I remember the day when he started his daily practice at Panipat’s Shivaji Stadium which was 20km away,” he added.“Not only me but the entire country is happy over the performance of my son. I am proud of my son,” said Neeraj’s mother Saroj.Neeraj’s uncle Bhim Chopra, who supported him throughout his sporting journey, said, “His friend Jaiveer helped him to focus on Javelin. In 2016, he was very disappointed when he could not qualify for the Rio Olympics after throwing 82.37m, just short of the qualifying 83m. But we did not let him lose hope and he worked harder,” he added.Neeraj belongs to a family of farmers and they live in a joint family of 19 members.Neeraj had created history in 2016 by becoming the first Indian athlete to bag the title of world champion by clinching the gold medal at the U-20 World Championships in Poland.He won a gold medal at the 2016 South Asian Games with a throw of 82.23m and won another gold medal in Asian Athletics Championship in 2017 with a throw of 85.23meters. In the 2018 Commonwealth Games, he won a gold medal with his best effort of 86.47 meters. In 2018, he broke the national record at the Doha Diamond League with a throw of 87.43 meters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/basking-in-neeraj-s-golden-glory-khandra-village-erupts-in-joy-101628366229644.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||87,100 quintal wheat missing from Pungrain godowns in Jandiala Guru||At least 8,7160 quintal wheat has gone missing from the warehouses of the Punjab Grains Procurement Corporation Limited (Pungrain) in Jandiala Guru sub-division of Amritsar district.The state food and civil supplies department has got a case registered against the warehouses’ custodian inspector Jasdev Singh, who is absconding. Since the scam came to the fore, the department’s teams have been checking all four godowns in the sub-division since Friday. If calculated at the minimum support price (MSP), the value of the siphoned of grain comes out at more than ₹16 crore. The volume of the missing wheat may grow further as checking is still underway, said department officials. In the police complaint, food and supply inspector Raj Rishi Mehra said, “Assistant food and supply officer (Jandiala Guru) Arshdeep Singh brought it to my notice on August 3 that they were not able to establish contact with Jasdev Singh since July 31 and he was also keeping his mobile phone switched off. Neither he nor any of his family members were found at his house. Arshdeep expressed an apprehension that Jasdev Singh may have been involved in certain misdeed.” “As per records, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) was to get a “special load” of wheat at the Gehri railway station in the district. It is mandatory for the custodian inspector to be present in the godown at the time of a “special load”. But Jasdev Singh was not duty that day,” Mehra said. “So it was decided to get the godowns under the supervision of Jasdev Singh check so as to ascertain the actual status of the stock. During the checking, a total of 1,93,343 bags of wheat were found missing from the godowns in the sub-division,” he added. The Pungrain, an undertaking of the department of food and civil supplies, looks after the purchase, storage and dispatch of the grain in the state. A case was registered against the custodian inspector and unidentified persons under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant, banker, merchant or an agent), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), and 120 (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the Jandiala police station, said investigating officer Durlabhdarshan Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/87100-quintal-wheat-missing-from-pungrain-godowns-in-jandiala-guru-101628366226552.html
08-08-2021||Other||Wildbuzz | Owls! Phantoms of eerie hours||As a child budding in a verdant Sector-7 bungalow in Chandigarh, I would awake to a haunting bird call in the eerie hours when the human spirit is at its lowest ebb. The call went as a single, mellow, interrogative note, ‘wuat?’, jerked out unhurriedly and monotonously every three seconds or so. The call’s acoustics startled the bungalow’s brooding atmosphere. I was versed enough with Nature’s ways to discern it was an owl’s vocalisation.I searched for the owl in the trees the next day and my eyes picked a silent spotted owlet in just the second one I scanned, a fig tree. I presumed it was the phantom of the opera well past last midnight. As luck would have it, the legendary birdman of India, Dr Salim Ali, was on a tour during summer 1982 and was staying with us. I went up to him and grandly announced I had heard an owl call, ‘wuat?’, had searched for “many exhausting hours” the next day in “every single tree” and pinpointed the spooky songster as the Spotted Owlet. Dr Ali was very patient and encouraging with children. Ever so gently he pricked my ballooning birding ego. He identified the species from my description of the call as the Punjab Collared Scops Owl, which is currently known as the Indian Scops Owl (ISO). In Dr Ali’s words, the Spotted Owlet’s calls were very different: “A harsh, screechy ‘chirrur-chirurr-chirurr’ etc followed by or alternated with ‘cheewak, cheewak, cheewak’ and a variety of equally discordant screeches and chuckles.” As a child, I had heard the ‘chirrur’ calls umpteen times but since they were not spooky enough for a young mind mired in detective fiction and ghost thrillers, I had not stretched a limb to pinpoint the caller.He went on to explain that there was every chance of both species perched close by but a keen and uninitiated eye noticing only the more conspicuous of the two, the head-bobbing Spotted Owlet. The ISO was a master in camouflage, remained frozen as a statue during the day and could hide in some obscure, dark nook of the foliage by taking the shape of a tree snag such as a decaying leaf. Dr Ali prodded me to redouble my efforts and locate the perch of the ISO, the true ‘wuat?’ caller. Following his gentle rebuke, I was desperate to deliver an atonement to the globally-renowned birdman and then PM Indira Gandhi’s favourite conservationist. Much to my consternation, I was never able to find the wily ‘wuat?’ phantom. Despite the many honest hours I invested in neck craning and feverishly scanning leafy boughs as if they held out the promise of a furtive glimpse of misting limbs and appendages of a perching Bo Derek or Zeenat Aman.I recalled the anecdote with a wry grin just a few days back on August 4, celebrated as International Owl Awareness Day. Nocturnal species such as owls and nightjars prove arduous to spot during the day due to their cryptic habits, plumages and enigmatic silences. At night, one may trod upon an irate serpent if one chooses to randomly poke the eye up the dark chambers of foliage looking for an owl. The saving grace is that owl lingo is more distinctive than the faces that subtly set them apart. The owl species is identified by keeping the ears peeled from dusk to dawn while knowing precisely which owl makes which particular call. The night listening enables us to assess the owl’s rough location and makes it easier to locate the perch the next day. In other words, an owl’s call is virtually its nightly face.So, know your owls, if not by the scowls of the day then by their drawls in the dark. You will find they are wondrous creatures whose real lives are not at all governed by the presumptions of superstition. The ‘spooky’ call may well be just a doting ditty of courtship and love, in just the way owls are.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wildbuzz-owls-phantoms-of-eerie-hours-101628365386779.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra has Chandigarh connect||Thirteen years ago, a palatial house in Zirakpur on Chandigarh’s periphery was thronged by media persons and fans when shooter Abhinav Bindra bagged a gold medal in the Beijing Olympics. On Saturday evening, a few kilometers away from Bindra’s house, fans and media persons swarmed the Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Panchkula to watch Neeraj Chopra claim India’s second individual gold medal, this time in javelin throw at the Tokyo Olympics. Neeraj, a native of Khandra village in Haryana’s Panipat district, had come to this Panchkula stadium a decade ago to learn the nuances of javelin throw from his first coach Naseem Ahmad. Ecstatic scenes were witnessed at the stadium where the men’s javelin throw event was being live streamed on a big screen, and coach Naseem was hooked to it along with around 1,000 fans. As soon as Neeraj’s claim to the gold medal was confirmed, an emotional Naseem said: “My boy did India proud, finally winning the first medal for track and field events for India in the Olympics. I knew Neeraj would do it. He was confident ahead of the final.” Naseem, who had trained Neeraj from 2011 to 2015 before he got into the Indian camp and also joined the Indian Army, said: “I remember him as a sharp kid. Coming from rural Haryana, he had the hunger to do well and become a top-notch athlete. Three-four young javelin throwers had come from Panipat with him to excel in the sport as there was no javelin equipment in Panipat academies. He had previously won two to three tournaments at the district and state level.” The 58-year-old coach, who is posted at the stadium that is run by the Haryana sports department, also praised Neeraj for dedicating his gold medal to the legendary sprinter Milkha Singh, who died recently, and other Indian athletes like PT Usha.Neeraj has another connect with Chandigarh. In 2015, he had enrolled at DAV College, Sector 10, an institution that has produced Kapil Dev and Yuvraj Singh (cricket), Anjum Moudgil (shooting), Sukhbir Singh Gill (hockey) and Gurpreet Singh Sandhu (football) among other Indian sportspersonsNeeraj had taken admission in BA and in just one year broke the meet record in the all-India inter-varsity competition.“It was so inspiring to have Neeraj at our college. Other athletes learned so much from him. I spoke to him the day before the final and told him to not be nervous and just be fearless. And he was focused and not at all nervous,” said Ravinder Choudhary, associate professor, physical education department, DAV College, and also secretary of the Athletics Federation of India. College students and the staff celebrated Neeraj’s feat, with Anjum Moudgil joining them too.Neeraj made his international debut in 2016, when he won the World U20 Championship in Poland, with a world junior record throw of 86.48 metres. He won gold in the 2016 South Asian Games with a throw of 82.23 metres. At Tokyo, his 87.58-metre throw got India the gold. “This gold will change the Indian athletics for good,” said Naseem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/olympic-gold-medalist-neeraj-chopra-has-chandigarh-connect-101628365146284.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | The joy of putting pen to paper||I am not a writer by the yardstick of professionals, author or even a regular columnist. However, I write everyday, even if it is a letter to the editor. The act of expressing my views freely infuses me with happiness. It does not matter if the piece is rejected as it has been written from the heart to voice one’s convictions. Of course, if a letter or article is chosen for publication, it lifts one’s spirits, as it helps one to connect to more people. Whenever I get a rejection slip (I have dozens), I smile, and delete it so that the e-mail does not stare at my face.My journey started in 1965 with my contribution to our school magazine ‘Shu -Zen’ at King George’s School, Belgaum, when I was in the seventh standard. My first piece was published in a children’s magazine ‘ Sun Shine’ in 1966. Thereafter, the pursuit of reading, writing, and speaking continued hand-in hand, thanks to our principal RS Mani, who passed on good books, and encouraged me to speak in morning assemblies. My father, an avid reader of Urdu journals, also encouraged me.In college too, I continued writing for newspapers and magazines. I would painstakingly prepare a speech for an inter-college debate and declamation contest and deliver it with passion. One had to work very hard, as one rubbed shoulders with Sushma Sharma (former minister of external affairs Sushma Swaraj) from the PU law department, Vivek Katju (who went on to become the foreign secretary) from the St Stephen’s college, Vikram Vohra (breakfast show host), Ish Kapoor, ML Verma, Jyotsana Pandit, Harvinder Kaur and many other top PU debaters. After the event was over, I would convert my speech into an article and send it to a newspaper or magazine. Many times, the article was not published, but some editors were encouraging and publishing some of these in the form of letters or comments on a current topic. This was thrilling in itself as friends and teachers complimented me. DAV College, Chandigarh, principal Triloki Nath would call me and say ‘ shabash’ whenever he read my contributions. I donned the uniform as a commissioned officer in 1974. While I picked up the gun , I did not drop the pen. It now flowed for service journals and magazines. After hanging my uniform in 2012, I started writing as a hobby. Apart from delivering lectures on communication skills to the youth, and conducting INTACH activities, writing keeps me busy and satisfied. It does not allow time to weigh heavy on me as a senior citizen, and one feels relaxed after expressing oneself. It is like a daily diet for the mind and spirit. I do not write to provoke or vent negative energy. Writing has healing properties for me. It allows me to say what I feel strongly about, rather than cribbing or sulking. The aim is to be constructive, and chip in one’s bit towards a better society. I mingle with people from villages, daily wagers, and safai karamcharis to understand their frustrations and write meaningfully. I must feel the pain to be worthy of some healing.Writing proved to be a boon during the lockdown period. It kept me occupied at home, and my mind stimulated. The urge to write cannot be locked. It will flow, and no power can stop it. Social media has given another opening to writers, and they can now share their views with a wider audience.Recently, my wife decided to organise my written work, and put my published pieces, year wise, in separate files. Lo and behold! She counted over 1,100 letters to the editor and comments, and over 125 articles published in different newspapers, magazines, and service journals. The treasure is a result of this creative hobby and our whole family has inculcated the habit of reading and writing. What a joy!ripu_d2003@yahoo.co.in(The writer is an Ambala-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-the-joy-of-putting-pen-to-paper-101628365026305.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Hospital owners held for negligence in Punjab’s Zirakpur||Owners of a private hospital in Zirakpur have been arrested for alleged overcharging and negligence that led to the death of a Covid-19 patient. They have been identified as Dr Manish Goyal, owner and director, and Pravir Goyal, owner and managing director, of New Life Line Hospital. “The complaints were lodged by the wife of deceased. After inquiry, the hospital was indicted for violation of Covid-19 guidelines, overcharging and negligence,” said Omkar Singh Brar, station house officer, Zirakpur. The two were produced in court and sent to one-day police custody. In May 2020, Paramjit Singh, a resident of Noida, died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at New Life Line Hospital. His family had accused the hospital management and staff of negligence and overcharging. In two separate complaints, lodged by Singh’s wife, it was alleged that patients inside the hospital were treated without PPE kit and were not given timely meals. The complainant also alleged that the hospital had not provided bills and medicine receipts and had overcharged for the treatment. A three-member committee was constituted that indicted the hospital. Initially, only Dr Manish was booked but later his brother Pravir was also named. Initially, a case was registered under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Disease Act, but after the committee report, Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code were added too, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-hospital-owners-held-for-negligence-in-punjab-s-zirakpur-101628364846642.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | When legendary sprinter Mann Kaur caught the tech bug||While working at a local college, I had the opportunity of interacting with several senior citizens seeking to admit their grandchildren in different courses. I soon realised that most of them were not tech savvy.Catching some of them gazing at the computer labs hesitantly, in awe of the contraptions within, got me thinking and I pitched the idea of imparting free-of-cost computer training to senior citizens in the tricity area to the management as part of its social responsibility initiative.The college labs were equipped with around 150 computers and the machines as well as trainers were made available to senior citizens after 3pm. The course was advertised in newspapers, and my steno received around 200 calls on the very first day. The callers included a former chief secretary and his wife, a retired director general of police, doctors, engineers and retired officers from the armed forces.A syllabus was designed, and basic study material was prepared. The first batch had 40 pupils, all of whom were over 65 years of age. The course was inaugurated by justice SS Sodhi (retd) in November 2004.One of the participants was Mann Kaur, the legendary sprinter who went on to break several centenarian track-and-field records. She was 87 at the time.An unmatched zeal to learnAfter a break-in session on the opening day, all of us moved from the mini auditorium to the IT department. I couldn’t help noticing a short grey-haired lady leading us all. After reaching the lab, she stood in the first row in front of the computer where I had planned to explain the basics. The zeal of the eager pupil in the 45-minute class was something to be seen. She refused to leave the machine after the allotted time was over and insisted on more time. In the computer lab, the octogenarian, was like an eager teenager trying hard to impress her teacher. On the final day, we had a tea party and a feedback session. Kaur immediately took charge and regaled everybody with humorous anecdotes. Later, whenever I read about her achievements in athletics, I attributed it to her undying spirit for learning, trying and experimenting. She redefined the word “passion” for me. It is true that those blessed with wings, never stick to their nests. It is never too late to follow a passionIt is a well-known fact that most great achievers scaled new heights and reached the pinnacle of success after crossing the half-time of life. These achievers believed that there is no such thing as “too late” in life. What is common between Bertrand Russell, George Bernard Shaw, Michelangelo, Somerset Maugham, Winston Churchill and Peter Drucker? Two things: they lived a long life and were sharp, witty and creative. They left the world richer through their contribution. For instance, even at the age of 99, author Khushwant Singh was mentally sprier than most and his contributions were acknowledged and recognised by his worst critics.Such people do not let their biological age as defined by the dates on a calendar define them. Real age is determined by perception and attitude. One may not be able to stop the wrinkles and creases from deepening but advancing in age does not have to mean having a weak mind in a weak body. In fact, engaging in productive activities helps one live longer.People like Mann Kaur do not let opportunities go by because they are too old to avail them. They take to their passion like duck to water. They understand that the mind and spirit never age. The cells which decay due to advancing age are replaced by newer and younger neurons. Old age, in fact, is the dawn of intellect and creative powers and one has so much to give to the younger generation. May the clan of Mann Kaurs continue to inspire us!colcheema1942@gmail.com(The writer is a Panchkula-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-when-legendary-sprinter-mann-kaur-caught-the-tech-bug-101628364666265.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz: Congress high command wary of Mail Mantri||Many in the Chandigarh Congress had nicknamed former city unit chief Pardeep Chhabra “Mail Mantri”. “Whenever we talked to our senior leaders in Delhi or went to the party headquarters, we were told to stop our Mail Mantri from sending a trail of emails. Chhabra had been relentlessly writing emails to Delhi, airing his grievances against local party leaders,” said a local Congress leader. Incidentally, in his resignation letter to the party, Chhabra cited how the high command had not responded to his multiple emails as one of the reasons for calling it quits. Breather from infighting in city Congress for now Last week saw the Congress fighting infighting in Chandigarh. With the former city unit chief, Pardeep Chhabra, quitting the party, many insiders were relieved. “Now the party will not get bad publicity,” said a party leader, requesting anonymity. But he was quick to add: “Things should be peaceful at least till the party starts distributing tickets for the municipal corporation elections. Then we may see another round of ruckus.” A glass half full: Chandigarh MC’s novel way to save water The Cutting Paani campaign seems to have found favour with the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, particularly after it came to light that the MC loses at least 30% of drinking water to leakages in supply. The MC’s water and sanitation committee came up with a novel way to save water the other day. It asked MC officials to ensure that councillors at the monthly general house meeting are served a glass half full each. This, it hopes, will help tide over its water woes. Well, each drop counts. Mohali mayor takes jibe at Azad group councillor During the monthly house meeting in Mohali on August 3, city mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu took a jibe at a councillor of the Azad group, Sukhdev Singh Patwari. Patwari said work was still to start in some development projects approved in his ward in 2020. The mayor, who is from the Congress, hit back, saying: “During your tenure, no development works were started. But don’t worry, we will soon start work.” Patwari, who was with the Shiromani Akali Dal, joined the Azad group, led by former mayor Kulwant Singh, after the civic elections in February. When UT education dept was caught off guard While there was talk about reopening school for students of Classes 7 and 8 on the lines of senior classes, when the date for this was fixed on August 9, it came as news to many. While UT adviser Dharam Pal issued an order in this regard on Wednesday, personnel in the education department claimed not to know about it. However, the department was involved in making arrangements on how the classes would function and a detailed order regarding this was issued by the UT education department on Friday. Campaigning for senate poll in full swing now After the Panjab University senate elections finally started on August 3, campaigning is on in full swing. When the poll schedule was announced last month, a number of candidates and voters were apprehensive whether polling will take place or not. This was the third time since last year that PU announced the poll schedule. Not much enthusiasm was seen among candidates when the schedule was announced in July but now, they are campaigning in the campus even during weekends. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Rajanbir Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-congress-high-command-wary-of-mail-mantri-101628364486743.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ghaggar pollution: 29 untreated discharge points in Ambala||Untreated effluents are flowing into the Ghaggar from 29 discharge points in Ambala district, officials said on Saturday.In all, there are 39 points where various drains empty into the river in the district, of which only 10 are connected to treatment plants.The figures were provided by the irrigation department to deputy commissioner Vikram during a meeting on Friday, called in line with the National Green Tribunal rulings pertaining to the pollution in the river.The DC instructed the urban local bodies and public health department to jointly inspect the 29 discharge points and submit a report in a week on how to plug them, it is learnt.“The public health department has been asked to explore an online monitoring system of their existing and planned treatment plants while the urban local bodies department has been instructed to ensure that household waste and sewage doesn’t get mixed with stormwater,” said Nitin Mehta, regional officer of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board.The Ghaggar originates in Sirmour district of Himachal Pradesh and travels for 320 kilometres through the states of Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan. It passes through Kalka, Ambala, Kaithal, Fatehabad and Sirsa districts in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ghaggar-pollution-29-untreated-discharge-points-in-ambala-101628364247702.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman loses gold chain to snatcher in Sector 41||A biker snatched and fled with a woman’s gold chain in Sector 41, police said on Saturday.Complainant Kirmala, 38, who lives in Sector 37 and runs a beauty parlour in Sector 41, was returning home on her scooter when the incident took place around 8:30pm on Friday. According to the FIR, she had stopped her scooter to attend to a phone call near the church in Sector 41 when the bike-borne snatcher targeted her.A case has been registered under Section 379A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in Sector 39. Police are scanning CCTV footage of the area to identify and trace the accused. 35-year-old found dead in Sector 22 market A 35-year-old man was found in the Sector-22 market on Saturday. The victim, Pappu of Bihar, used to sleep in the corridors of the market. Police said he was a habitual drinker and no foul play was suspected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-loses-gold-chain-to-snatcher-in-sector-41-101628364246359.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate elections: Three more winners declared||The Panjab University senate got three more members as the results for the elections to the constituency of principals of technical and professional colleges were declared on Saturday.The polling for the constituency was held on August 3, the day the senate elections kicked off, and the counting of votes took place on August 5. The constituency had recorded 96% polling.The results were delayed as there was an issue over the inclusion of the name of one voter in the list. The results were first produced in a sealed cover before the Punjab and Haryana high court on August 6. The winners from the constituency are Sandeep Kataria, Neetu Ohri and Savita Kansal. Kataria, principal of Saint Sahara College of Education at Sri Muktsar Sahib, secured 16 votes. He was fielded by Navdeep Goyal’s group.Ohri, principal of Guru Nanak College of Education in Gopalpur, Ludhiana, secured 13 votes. She is aligned with the Bharatiya Janata Party group.Kansal, principal of Brahmrishi Yoga Training College, Sector 19A, secured one vote, and has been declared winner from Chandigarh. She was also fielded by Navdeep Goyal’s group.“I will work for the upliftment of education colleges and ensure quality teachers are provided to these colleges,” said Kataria. “We will work for the betterment of colleges and the university,” said Kansal.Now, the voting for the constituencies of professors and associate/assistant professors of the university teaching departments will take place on August 10. In all, there are eight constituencies and the last round of voting and counting will be held on August 23.The senate, which is PU’s apex governing body, comprises 91 members, 47 of whom are elected from eight constituencies. The remaining ones are either nominated or are ex-officio members. Since the four-year term of the previous senate had ended on October 31, 2020, PU had been functioning without a governing body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-elections-three-more-winners-declared-101628364186194.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Our Take: Should Chandigarh have an exclusive administrator?||With VP Singh Badnore set to complete his five-year tenure on the gubernatorial post later this month, speculation is rife that the Centre could divest the next Punjab governor of the charge of UT administrator and appoint a separate executive head for Chandigarh. Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal has spoken against any such purported move, bringing the spotlight back on whether the existing system should continue or Chandigarh should revert to the chief commissioner system. Until 1984, the UT was helmed by a chief commissioner at the top of the bureaucratic hierarchy in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana. But, turmoil of the 1980s in the border state led to a new system in which Punjab governor was also designated as the administrator of Chandigarh.The dual charge, introduced at the beginning of a five-year-long President’s rule in Punjab, was necessitated by law and order exigencies of coordination between Punjab, Chandigarh and the Union government. However, what was a stop-gap system of governance has continued even two decades after peace returned to Punjab. Over the time, Chandigarh has evolved as a vibrant city with high-level of civic aspirations. Classified as a smart city, the UT has however been suffering from governance deficit that is attributed, in major part, to the duality of Punjab Raj Bhawan also steering the UT’s complex and challenging issues. The extra powers to Punjab governor in affairs of a shared capital has also led to heartburn for Haryana.There has been growing feeling, both in the bureaucracy and political class of Chandigarh, that the city would be better off with an exclusive administrator at the top to deal with complex and challenging issues that the UT faces. That, in effect, means return to the chief commissioner system which, many believe, was much more effective with direct powers in the affairs of administration.The redesignation of the adviser as chief commissioner and more power to elected municipal corporation may pave the way for a hands-on governance that Chandigarh direly needs to realise its potential as a world-class city and live up to its residents’ high expectations.What is your opinion? Should Chandigarh revert to the chief commissioner system or is the existing system working fine? Send your comments to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by August 13 to feature on the Readers’ Take page of HT Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/our-take-should-chandigarh-have-an-exclusive-administrator-101628364126285.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Chandigarh Housing Board at odds with its objectives||On July 15, the Chandigarh Housing Board invited the public to submit suggestions on how it could simplify its processes and minimise regulatory compliances, which was surprising in itself as many of my representations are buried beneath the files at the CHB office. The CHB was established in 1976 with the primary objective of providing affordable and quality housing to UT residents, particularly the less affluent sections of society. However, all of it is water under the bridge, with the housing board charging a small fortune for its flats.This is evidenced by the board’s 2016 self-finance scheme for Sector 51, which garnered a poor response due to the unrealistically high price of the flats. A mere 225 applications were received for 200 units. However, the CHB remained undeterred and pitched a costlier housing scheme for Sector 53, where a three BHK (bedrooms, hall and kitchen) flat was offered for ₹1.8 crore, a two BHK for ₹1.47 crore and one BHK for ₹95 lakh. To nobody’s surprise the CHB found few takers and the prices had to be revised twice. The final pricing for the three categories was ₹1.5 crore, ₹1.28 crore and ₹86 lakh, respectively, which was still way over the market price. The scheme drew so poor a response that it had to be scrapped.This raises questions over how the CHB determines the price for its flats and shows that the board has deflected from its professed objectives over the years.Hefty fee for recording transfersMoreover, the CHB recovers the complete cost of its housing projects from the allottees. Once possession is handed over to an allottee, the CHB owes no duty to the allottees. The cost of all repairs, and maintenance work falls to the allottee.The board also charges a pretty penny for recording the transfer of flats and houses. For instance, in Sector 63, the flats were initially allotted on leasehold basis. If an allottee sold his high-income group (HIG) flat after the lock-in period by way of a registered sale deed and the purchaser applied to CHB to transfer the flat in his name, then the purchaser had to pay a transfer fee of ₹3,75,000, with an additional 18% goods and service tax (GST). The same fee is charged each time the flat is sold, generating a handsome income for the CHB. Interestingly, the CHB earlier charged a mind-boggling sum ranging from ₹7 lakh to ₹10 lakh, depending on the category of flat. Is charging so high a fee for merely recording transfers in CHB records commensurate with the ‘affordable’ housing objective of the CHB in any manner?At each step one has to pay arbitrary charges and a hefty fee for the most nominal of services. For example, it is mandatory to pay ₹10,000, plus GST, for publishing a notice for each sale in newspapers. Every sale and transfer of property is published in newspapers for no rhyme or reason on the dime of the purchaser. This also applies to legal heirs who have to pay around ₹12,000 for the same despite there being no ambiguity in the chain of title.Legally, publishing neither creates rights in favour of the transferee nor does it extinguish anybody’s interest in the property. Thus, publishing every transfer in the newspaper is a futile exercise. The common man has to shell out money to satisfy the whims of the babus at the helm.Arbitrary, exorbitant pricing In case, a purchaser takes a home loan, the bank sends a letter to CHB intimating it of its charge over the property. The CHB only has to put that letter in the concerned property file for record purposes. However, it charges ₹7,500, plus GST, for the same. These are just a few ways by which the CHB unreasonably and arbitrarily charges allottees. Charging property owners for the meanest of services when the CHB does not take any responsibility for maintenance of flats after handing them over to the allottees is hardly fair.It is unfortunate that 45 years after its inception, the board has mutated into, yet another public sector behemoth bent on milking its allottees for all they are worth.amitjaiswal.adv@gmail.com(The writer is an advocate in the Punjab and Haryana high court. Views expressed are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-at-odds-with-its-objectives-101628364066589.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 63 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||ChandigarhPunjab’s Covid-19 tally increased to 5,99,428 on Saturday with 63 fresh cases while the death toll climbed to 16,313 as one more person succumbed to the disease, according to a medical bulletin.Of the fresh cases, Jalandhar reported 13, Gurdaspur 11 and Ludhiana nine, the bulletin stated.There are 461 active Covid cases in Punjab. With 74 more recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,82,654, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-63-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101628363526291.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Private schools in Chandigarh unlikely to reopen for Classes 7-8 yet||Even as the Chandigarh administration has allowed schools to resume physical classes for students of Classes 7 and 8 Monday onwards, it is unlikely that private institutions will reopen for the two classes just yet. The schools are mulling talking to the parents and arrive at a consensus before reopening. On July 19, schools were allowed to reopen for Class 9 onwards, but not many did so immediately. Most schools reopened towards the end of July and even now, some private schools are conducting just online classes.President of the Independent Schools Association (ISA), HS Mamik, said, “We will consult the parents and would plan on reopening if we get at least 50% positive response. We have also asked parents regarding any inhibitions they have so that we can discuss and resolve them with the authorities.” Mamik, who is also the chairperson of Vivek High School in Sector 38, said their school reopened in August after an extended summer vacation and they recorded around 30% attendance. St Kabir Public School in Sector 26 was one of the only private schools in the city to reopen along with government schools when the restrictions were lifted. However, administrator Gurpreet Bakshi said they might not reopen from Monday. “We have sought the parents’ opinion. For Class 9 onwards, around 40% parents had said yes, but the attendance is still around 30%,” Bakshi said, adding that they are using hybrid classrooms to conduct online and offline classes at the same time and will be adequately prepared to reopen for the younger classes as well. While St Stephen’s School in Sector 45 opened in the end of July owing to summer vacations, they are likely to delay the resumption of primary classes as well. “We will wait for the parents’ decision on this. However, it becomes taxing for our teachers to teach online and physical classes simultaneously,” he said, adding that around 30% of classes 9 and 10 students are coming to school as of now.Not all private schools have resumed the offline classes yet. One such school is St John’s High School in Sector 26, whose principal Kavita Das said, “Earlier, the children had exams and now we are waiting for them to clear their online backlog while we design a timetable and ensure the school is ready. We expect to reopen after the Independence Day.”Meanwhile, the education department on Friday issued a detailed order for the reopening of Classes 7 and 8. It is identical to the one issued for Classes 9 onwards. Schools will be open from 8:30am to 1pm for students and 8am to 2pm for staff. It has also called for ensuring vaccination of teaching and other staff.Around 15 children will be allowed per class and they’ll have to follow all Covid-safety protocols. Signed permit slips will be needed to enter the schools while online classes will continue side-by-side and attendance won’t be mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/private-schools-in-chandigarh-unlikely-to-reopen-for-classes-7-8-yet-101628363466186.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Nishan Sahib removed by Taliban at Afghanistan gurdwara restored||The Nishan Sahib, which was removed by the Taliban from Gurdwara Thala Sahib in Afghanistan’s eastern Paktia province, was restored with its “proper dignity” on Friday night, said president of Indian World Forum Puneet Singh Chandhok. Chandhok said he talked with the local caretaker of the gurdwara, who informed him that several Talibs revisited the gurdwara on Friday evening and agreed to its “functioning as per customs”.They also directed the caretaker to restore the Nishan Sahib, a Sikh religious flag, immediately in their presence. On Friday, it was reported that armed men had forced the caretaker to remove the Nishan Sahib from its assigned place and tied it to a tree so that it could not be viewed as a distinct symbol from afar.“I have been personally informed a few minutes back by Rahman Chamkani, local caretaker at the gurdwara that Nishan Sahib has been restored with its proper dignity at the roof of historical gurdwara last night,” Chandhok said.“He further said that Taliban officials, including their forces, revisited the gurdwara yesterday evening and conveyed their assent for the functioning of the shrine as per its customs,” he added. The gurdwara, located in the Chamkani area of Paktia, was once visited by Guru Nanak.The restoration of the Nishan Sahib comes after India condemned its removal.“We condemn this act and reiterate India’s firm belief that Afghanistan’s future must be one where the interest of all sections of Afghan society including minorities and women are protected,” government sources said.Chandhok appreciated the efforts of the Indian government and the international community for ensuring that the rights of minorities are well protected. Sikhs not safe in Afghanistan: BJP Chandigarh: The Punjab BJP on Saturday said the recent incident of sacrilege by Taliban forces of removing the Nishan Shaib in Afghanistan gurdwara is not only unfortunate but a precursor that the minority community of Sikhs will be targeted more ones the American forces leave the country. In a statement, BJP national spokesman Iqbal Singh Lalpura said a granthi was abducted from the gurdwara a few days ago, which clearly reflect how unsafe was the Sikh community Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nishan-sahib-removed-by-taliban-at-afghanistan-gurdwara-restored-101628363288706.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali court rejects ex-DGP Saini’s bail plea in corruption case||A Mohali court has dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in a corruption case registered by the state vigilance bureau, observing that allegations against him are gravest in nature.On August 2, the vigilance bureau had registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and criminal conspiracy against the former DGP along with six others, including public works department executive engineer Nimratdeep Singh and his father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal, who owned a house in Chandigarh’s Sector 20. The agency alleged that Saini acquired the house in a fraudulent deal with fake documents and questionable financial transactions.“Contribution made by the petitioner in the discharge of his official duties does not give a licence or permit to the him to indulge in the alleged shady financial transactions/deals after his retirement as alleged in the FIR,” special judge Parminder Singh Grewal said to an argument that Saini has been in the forefront in terrorism days and served as the DGP. The court observed that Saini transferred ₹6.4 crore to the owner Jaspal between August 2018 and August 2020 and the amount has not been paid in accordance with the condition of the rent of ₹2.5 lakh per month as claimed in the rent agreement. The sale agreement of October 2019 was not written on a stamp paper and is unregistered. Besides, it has no witness to it, the court observed, adding that the rent agreement has been executed as a cover-up to their earlier financial transactions, which have been performed in a clandestine manner to give undue benefit to one another with respect to alleged shady deal. It also took note of submissions that the rent was in excess to ₹50,000 but according to norms, 10% TDS deduction to be made by Saini as per the income tax laws was not done. “Thus, the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is required in this case to ascertain the mode and manner of the commission of the alleged offence,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-court-rejects-ex-dgp-saini-s-bail-plea-in-corruption-case-101628363106059.html
08-08-2021||Other||Admn threatening traders with police cases for Aug 5 shutdown: Mehbooba||Former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday said the government of India was threatening shopkeepers with police cases for observing a strike on August 5, the second anniversary of abrogation of Article 370. “The GoI threatening shopkeepers with FIRs for shutting their shops on August 5 is the latest confidence-building measure (CBM) after firing of government employees on trivial grounds and denial of passports,” tweeted Mehbooba. Addressing a press conference in Srinagar, People’s Conference chairman Sajjad Lone said, “In a democracy, we will not endorse any action where shops are opened or closed forcefully.” Traders in Srinagar alleged that police broke locks of several shops in the city. On Wednesday, president of retailers’ association Farhan Kitab had alleged that traders have been getting calls from the police and district administration not to observe a shutdown on August 5. “The administration told us that the shops from Lal Chowk to Polo View are on ‘nazool’ land (government land) and the traders have not renewed the legal formalities and are hence liable for legal action. Four of our shops were sealed on Wednesday,” he said. Kitab said that police also held a meeting with them, asking them not to indulge in any “anti-national’’ activity on August 5. “We are a traders’ body and can’t force anybody to keep their business open,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/admn-threatening-traders-with-police-cases-for-aug-5-shutdown-mehbooba-101628362446818.html
08-08-2021||Lucknow||BJP to highlight schemes of Modi, Yogi govts in run-up to Uttar Pradesh assembly polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh has launched a massive campaign to highlight the initiatives of the party’s governments at the Centre and in the state. The campaign would be run both physically and virtually, party leaders said, adding innovative folk songs to popularise the schemes would also be played in the rural areas. The steps to market these initiatives include putting a booklet detailing various government schemes in waterproof bags provided by the Yogi Adityanath government to all beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY) and asking cadres to visit rural households to enlist beneficiaries.A booklet titled ‘Iradey nek, kaam anek (honest intentions, several achievements) prepared by chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s government too has been distributed to party lawmakers for ready access, “recall and repeat” among the masses.Besides, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to virtually launch phase 2 of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana from UP on August 10, officials indicated. Uttar Pradesh is due for assembly elections early next year. The first phase of the Ujjawala Yojana, too, was launched from UP (Ballia) in 2016, a little ahead of the 2017 state assembly polls. This time, the scheme could be virtually launched from Bundelkhand, people familiar with the matter indicated. During his interaction via video conference with five beneficiaries of PM-GKAY in UP on Thursday, PM had listed many of his schemes, a strategy that BJP chief JP Nadda has now directed the party’s state unit to adop ahead of the polls. “Of the nearly eight crore beneficiaries of the Ujjawala Yojana, 2.54 crore families benefitted in UP alone,” Nadda told party workers in Lucknow and asked them to popularise these schemes. The BJP leadership has been telling the cadres to highlight how UP has been the biggest beneficiary of the various initiatives of the centre and how UP has also launched a campaign to cover all eligible poor, still not enlisted in the various social security schemes. For instance, under Ayushman Bharat, Nadda said more than 50 crore people across the country had got annual ₹5 lakh medical insurance cover and 2.54 crore benefitted from it.“In UP, 1.83 crore people have benefitted so far,” Nadda told cadres. He also added: “Those left out of the scheme so far are now being covered under Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Yojana of the Yogi Adityanath government.” The emphasis on a state scheme launched with the idea of covering those who were left out of Ayushman Bharat is part of the party plan. “We are going to talk about how UP is changing. The state is now number two on the ease of doing business. That in itself is a big achievement for a state that was part of BIMARU states not very long back. From vaccination, Covid testing, hospital beds, oxygen availability, we have made rapid progress. So, we will of course tell the people that while the world praised India, the opposition was happy criticising us,” a BJP leader said.“The statements of opposition leaders too would be shown to the people,” he added. “Talk of agriculture where we have raised the spending from ₹1.21 lakh crore to ₹2.11 lakh crore. The Modi government is giving subsidy of ₹1200 on each sack of DAP fertiliser. The cadres are being trained on how to reply to the Opposition,” a senior BJP functionary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-to-highlight-schemes-of-modi-yogi-govts-in-run-up-to-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-101628362386093.html
08-08-2021||Other||Five members join Sajad Lone’s party||Sajad Lone-led People’s Conference (PC) received a major boost on Saturday when five new members, including two former parliamentarians formerly associated with People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and District Development Council chairperson from north Kashmir joined the party.Former member of legislative council Murtaza Khan, former parliamentarians Nazir Ahmad Laway and Mir Mohammad Fayaz, Baramulla DDC chairperson Safina Baig and former deputy mayor of Srinagar, Sheikh Mohammad Imran joined PC in presence of PC chairman Lone at Church-lane Srinagar.Lone exuded hope that his party is coming up with a stronger team to the challenges J&K was facing.The PC and Altaf Bukhari’s Apni Party have been increasingly emerging as a force to reckon with for the traditional National Conference and PDP.Sajad Lone, a former separatist, switched sides in 2009 and joined pro-India politics by fighting parliamentary elections, a first separatist to do so in Kashmir after militancy erupted in the Valley in 1989. Since then, his party has slowly but surely grown, particularly in north Kashmir.Laway, former Rajya Sabha member from south Kashmir, was expelled from PDP after he had attended the swearing-in ceremony of new J&K lieutenant governor GC Murmu in November 2019 months after J&K’s special status was revoked and the region split into two UTs.Fayaz, whose Rajya Sabha tenure ended in February, had become distant from his party and would of late praise PM Narendra Modi for the schemes implemented in J&K.Safina Baig, who won the DDC chairperson post in Baramulla with the help of PC, is wife of former PDP leader and former deputy chief minister Muzaffar Baig.Baig had recently fallen foul of the PC after his utterances during the all-party meeting with the PM on June 24.Laway said after Mufti Mohammad Sayeed’s death, PDP ‘scattered’.“I did not leave PDP but was expelled. After Sayeed’s death, the party dispersed. After his death, there was no direction where to go and hence I decided join PC,” he said.Murtaza Khan said they were the founding members of PDP. “We gave our blood to PDP but with time, the misery against which we had raised our voice hit the party and hence we separated,” he said.Lone, in a statement, said the organisation will immensely benefit from the leaders’ political experience and expand the outreach of the party beyond its strongholds.“They are experienced leaders with a huge base of supporters and will in the coming years play a crucial role in shaping the politics and welfare of J&K. People’s Conference is growing stronger with each passing day. The party is emerging as a formidable political force to reckon with,” he said.He said PC will play a constructive role in the region to create an enabling environment for engagement.Laway said: “There is a leadership deficit in J&K. J&K politics needs new ideas and energy. Lone is the only leader who can take us out of this impasse and restore the rights of people.”Safina Baig said PC is the only party standing for the interests of people of J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-members-join-sajad-lone-s-party-101628362326084.html
08-08-2021||Other||UP faces challenge of balancing finances amid austerity measures||Lucknow: A challenge of balancing finances stares the state government in the face as it presents its first supplementary demands for grants for 2021-2022 in the forthcoming session of state legislature commencing here on August 17. The government had recently announced austerity measures to ensure availability of sufficient funds to fight against Covid-19 and carry out other necessary work in the state. A need for getting a supplementary budget passed in the state legislature has been felt to finance the new schemes announced in recent months and also provide funds to complete important development projects that chief minister Yogi Adityanath may like to showcase as major achievement ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. “The state government will present the first supplementary demands for grants for 2021-2022,” said minister for finance Suresh Khanna without giving any details about day for presenting the supplementary budget or its size. The Uttar Pradesh government had presented its largest ever annual budget for ₹5,50,270.78 crore on February 22, 2021, despite constraints of adverse impact the Covid-19 has had on the state’s economy. So, the state government will obviously face the challenge of funding the largest size UP budget that incorporated new schemes worth ₹27,598. 40 crores. Yogi had recently announced a new scheme to provide financial assistance to children who lost both or one of their parents in the fight against Covid-19. He also announced a scheme to provide financial assistance to women who lost their husbands and were left with no means to sustain them. The state government may also like to allocate more funds to more such schemes, if any, that may have been announced after the presentation of annual budget for 2021-2022. Will this be the last supplementary budget of BJP government before Uttar Pradesh goes into poll mode 2022 assembly elections? The Samajwadi Party government had presented the second supplementary budget along with a vote on account for the first five months of 2017-2018 in the state legislature on December 21, 2016, before going for 2017 assembly elections in the state. “Since this may be the last budgetary exercise of the state government before announcement of 2022 assembly elections in the state, the focus is likely to be more on welfare measures for different sections of society. The state government will provide budget for schemes that it may like to showcase in 2022 assembly elections. The state government had recently announced austerity measures. It will have to strike a balance between providing enhanced budgetary support to its favourite projects and ensuring that no extra burden is put on the state exchequer as is evident from the austerity measures,” said professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head, economics department, Lucknow University. Tyagi further said, “The state government had presented its annual budget of ₹5.50 lakh crores and under the prevailing circumstances it may not be able to achieve this level of expenditure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-faces-challenge-of-balancing-finances-amid-austerity-measures-101628362147604.html
08-08-2021||Other||Post-abrogation of Article 370, Rahul Gandhi to visit Kashmir on Aug 9, 10||Amid Parliament session, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will be in Srinagar on a two-day visit from Monday.During the visit, he will inaugurate the party’s Jammu and Kashmir headquarters and meet party workers.This will be the Congress leader’s first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A on August 5, 2019.“Gandhi had already planned a four-day tour to J&K but the Parliament session ensued and so he is now visiting Kashmir on a short visit. He will be in Kashmir on August 9 and 10,” said J&K Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir.Mir said after Parliamentary session gets over, the Congress leader will also visit Jammu for two to three days.“This time he will inaugurate party headquarters in Srinagar because the inauguration was already delayed by Covid and other factors. We requested him to do it now and he agreed to come on a short visit,” said Mir.Rahul will address a selective gathering including state office bearers, party district presidents, former legislators and others during the inaugural ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/postabrogation-of-article-370-rahul-gandhi-to-visit-kashmir-on-aug-9-10-101628362146092.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||NEP: Amid major push for vernacular languages, English still favourite||Even as the National Education Policy (NEP) aims to promote education in mother tongue, the English language continues to be a favourite among parents and students, according to experts.The NEP, passed by the Union cabinet last year, emphasises that at least up to Class 5, students will be taught in vernacular languages wherever possible. In his address last week on NEP’s anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that 14 engineering colleges in eight states would offer the courses in Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi and Bengali.However, English continues to hold an aspirational value for parents, particularly in tier-2 and 3 cities, said Aarti Gupta, co-founder of Qin1, an online learning platform for children in the age group of five to 14 years. “After coding, English is the most sought-after course on our platform. We’ve learnt that parents are willing to invest in their child’s ability to speak and read English well. This is particularly so in the middle-income group families, which is almost two-third of our entire user base,” said Gupta. Qin1, a start-up backed by the Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi, also offers personalised live classes across disciplines such as spoken English, coding and robotics. Parents believe that basic English knowledge increases their children’s chances of employment, said Gupta. Mumbai-based educationist and co-founder of School Leaders Network (SLN) Francis Joseph agreed with Gupta. “You can go to any part of the country and you will find that parents assign an aspirational value to English. It gives the child the confidence to interact at a global level. While there is no harm in learning one’s mother tongue, knowledge in English provides the child access to multiple courses worldwide. The child can get access to global content and resources.”“In school, everybody speaks in their mother tongue, and English is only learnt, not practised. We want our children to be able to read and speak grammatically correct English, which has become essential these days. It will bring a lot of prospects for him,” said the parent of a 12-year-old from Aligarh. They’ve enrolled their child for an English course in Qin1, paying around ₹1,000 a month for the course.Joseph said that one of the reasons for the high demand for English is the higher education system in the country, which is primarily taught in English. However, the Centre is making efforts to address this. The Joint Entrance Exam, which is taken by hundreds of thousands of students every year, is currently being held in English, Hindi and Gujarati. The ministry of education has said that from this year, the exam would be held in more regional languages.Joseph said, “A ‘this’ or ‘that’ approach won’t work. Balance is very critical. Policies should allow both languages to survive. It is expected that NEP will grow into that balance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nep-amid-major-push-for-vernacular-languages-english-still-favourite-101628362086078.html
08-08-2021||Other||Jai Ram goes on foundation laying spree in home segment||Ahead of elections, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur announced a sub-divisional magistrate office at Thachi and sub-tehsil for Balichowki in his home assembly segment.He inaugurated and laid foundations stones for project worth ₹14.50 crore at Thachi. He said Thachi area will be developed from ecotourism point of view to attract tourists to this area.He announced setting up of 33 KV sub-station at Thachi to solve the voltage problem of the area and opening of horticulture development office and SMS agriculture office at Balichowki.He announced opening of primary schools at Shilli Largi and Demsaid, upgrade of government high schools, Mani, Bagi Bhanwas and Seri Batwara to government senior secondary schools, government middle school, Shalaghat to government high school, government primary school Kau to government middle school. He also announced opening of veterinary dispensary at Didal.Jai Ram inaugurated ₹2.48 crore science lab building of government senior secondary school Thachi, ₹1.41 crore newly-constructed PWD rest house Thachi and ₹3.98 crore LWSS Dadwas and group of villages in GP Thachi, Panjain, Mani, Somgad, Balichowki tehsil.The CM performed foundation stone laying ceremonies of ₹87 lakh health sub-centre Murah, ₹53 lakh health sub-centre Devdhar, ₹4.51 crore irrigation infrastructure clusters Devdhar Seraj, Thata, Mani, Talicha Bhekhali, Bsunghi, Sarli and Dobha under Himachal Pradesh Horticulture Development Project and ₹50 lakh government sericulture centre Murah.Jai Ram thanked people of Thachi and adjoining areas for according him warm and rousing welcome. He said during election campaign in 1998, he had visited the area on foot as there was no road connectivity.He said he made a promise to ensure road connectivity to the area by 2003 and with the active support of the people, the area was connected with road.He said the credit of this goes to people of Seraj Vidhan Sabha area who have reposed unconditional support and faith in him for the last about 24 years.He said the roads were lifeline for development in the hilly areas as economy gets a big boost due to better road connectivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jai-ram-goes-on-foundation-laying-spree-in-home-segment-101628361966391.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity records no Covid death for seventh day||No coronavirus deaths were reported in the tricity area for the seventh consecutive day, while seven more people tested positive for the virus on Saturday. Four people tested positive in Chandigarh, three in Mohali, while Panchkula reported no new fresh cases. All three fresh infections in Mohali were reported from Kharar, while residents of Sector 16, Dadumajra and Hallomajra tested positive in Chandigarh.The tricity has 74 active cases, of which 38 cases are in Mohali, 26 in Chandigarh and 10 in Panchkula.No deaths have been reported in the tricity area since July 31, when a 55-year-old Chandigarh man had succumbed at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. So far, 68,483 people in Mohali have tested positive, of which 67,388 people have recuperated and 1,057 have succumbed. In Chandigarh, 61,137 of 61,974 Covid patients have recovered so far, while 811 have died. Of the 30,650 people who have tested positive in Panchkula, 30,264 have recovered and 376 have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-records-no-covid-deaths-for-7th-consecutive-day-101628361906725.html
08-08-2021||Mumbai||Close aide sparks buzz on Maharashtra CM’s younger son joining politics||A newspaper advertisement and a tweet from Milind Narvekar – Shiv Sena functionary and close aide of chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray – sparked speculations on the political debut of the Sena chief’s younger son Tejas. Narvekar put up the advertisement in Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Tejas’s 25th birthday on Saturday, in which the Sena functionary likened him to Caribbean cricket legend Vivian Richards. In the advertisement, Narvekar wished Tejas and said that he is the “Vivian Richards of the Thackeray family”. Narvekar also posted a tweet describing Tejas’s nature, sparking a buzz in the political circles of another Thackeray family member joining active politics. However, Narvekar, while speaking to TV channels, said that the advertisement should not be linked to politics as he merely wished Tejas on his birthday. He said that while Thackeray’s elder son and state minister Aaditya has qualities of former Indian cricketing great Sunil Gavaskar, Tejas is aggressive like Richards. Senior Sena leaders maintained silence on questions surrounding the political debut of the youngest Thackeray family member. “He [Tejas] has been carrying out his work in wildlife, discovering species, and is being recognised for it... Whatever responsibilities Uddhav ji gives him, he will fulfil them,” said Sena parliamentarian Anil Desai, when asked if Tejas will make his political debut.A senior Sena leader, on the condition of anonymity, said, “So far, there are no discussions within the party on him joining active politics. Apart from Tejas’s, it will also be the family’s decision.” Tejas had accompanied Thackeray for the 2019 election campaign in Sangamner, Ahmednagar, but the Sena chief had ended speculations of his political entry and said that he is keen on wildlife. Tejas is a wildlife enthusiast and has been instrumental in discovering gecko, snake and crab species. Within the party circles, Tejas’s entry is seen as a move that would give a new dimension to Sena’s leadership. “Uddhav ji and Aaditya ji are calm and patient, whereas Tejas does not hide his emotions. He has traits similar to what Balasaheb [Sena founder late Bal Thackeray] had, with measured aggression, decision making, etc,” another Sena functionary said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/close-aide-sparks-buzz-on-maharashtra-cm-s-younger-son-joining-politics-101628361607779.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police make no headway in elderly woman’s murder||A day after a 97-year-old woman was found murdered with a slit throat at her house in Sector 8, Chandigarh, police are yet to make any breakthrough. The deceased, identified as Joginder Kaur, was living alone in a portion of the house. Another portion is occupied by her daughter-in-law, while a domestic help and her family is staying in separate quarters on the premises. The woman’s husband had died in 2003 and her other children are staying abroad. The police control room had received a call about Joginder Kaur lying unconscious in her house after an apparent assault around 8pm on Friday. Police said the elderly woman was offering prayers in the lobby when she was attacked. The attacker had later tried to drag her to the room, where she was found dead. The kitchen knife used to slit her throat was recovered from the spot.Police have recorded statements of the daughter-in-law and servants. According to the police, the daughter-in-law had gone to a gurdwara at the time of the crime, while the domestic help had gone to the park and her husband was at work in the Industrial Area. Police are scanning call details, mobile data dump and CCTV footage of the area, but so far have not found anyone entering the house from the front gate. The dog squad was also deployed to get clues on Saturday.A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in Sector 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-make-no-headway-in-elderly-woman-s-murder-101628361487158.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||At current pace, Delhi will vaccinate its adults by July or August: Govt||At the current pace of the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive, Delhi will be able to fully inoculate its entire adult population of 15 million only by July or August next year, the state health department has informed the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).The matter was discussed in a DDMA meeting chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday, during which the health department said that in order to administer both doses of vaccines to all the adults of the city by December this year, it will need 20 million more doses of Covid-19 vaccines in batches of at least about 4.5 million jabs a month.“But, it is unlikely that the doses will come at this pace every month. In August, Delhi was allocated 1,679,660 doses. At this pace, complete vaccination of the national capital’s entire adult population will be over only by July or August, 2022,” said a senior official, who attended the meeting, on condition of anonymity.“If we have to expedite the vaccination drive, we also have to focus on completing the first dose for every adult, which means around six million doses will ideally be needed for the purpose by next month. But, that seems unlikely, because the Centre’s allocation to states are different depending on the case load,” said the official.A shortage of supplies has forced the Delhi government to regulate the use of doses in all its vaccination centres. The administration has reserved 80% slots for those who have their second dose of Covishield vaccine due, and the remaining 20% are for for first doses. For Covaxin, 60% of the slots are reserved for the second dose, while 40% are for the first. This is because the gap between two doses of Covaxin is shorter (one month) compared to the 12-16-week gap for Covishield.Documents seen by HT showed that so far, Delhi has received 9,376,300 doses of Covid-19 vaccines of which 7,082,270 were Covishield and 2,294,030 were Covaxin. As on Friday, the state government had 745,010 doses of Covid-19 vaccines in stock.Till Friday, Delhi administered at least 10.47 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Of these 7.6 million are first doses and 2.8 million are second doses.At least 3.84 million of Delhi’s population aged between 18 and 45 have got their first doses, the highest among the inoculation age groups.But when it comes to those who are fully vaccinated with both the doses, the highest numbers (1.88 million) are among those aged 45 and above. Only 400,000 people aged between 18 and 45 have been fully vaccinated so far.“This is also because the vaccination for those aged 18 and above started much later, in May, whereas jabs for the 45+ group started in April. If doses are given in enough quantities from time to time then Delhi is capable of administering 300,000 doses every day,” said a health official.Delhi government officials said they are simultaneously focusing on enforcing Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in public places, and added that the city’s district administrations have put in place 156 enforcement teams with 129 vehicles.So far in August, teams under the 11 district magistrates in Delhi have issued 25,102 challans, registered 735 FIRs and imposed fines worth ₹4,57,05,300. When compared month-wise since May, the highest prosecutions were made in July, when 211,267 challans were issued, 6,424 FIRs registered and fines worth ₹36.21 crore imposed.The Delhi Police also carries out enforcement drives and in August so far, the force has issued 1,767 challans, arrested 350 people and registered 389 FIRs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-current-pace-delhi-will-only-vaccinate-its-adult-population-by-july-or-august-next-year-govt-101628360826137.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||Rakesh Asthana hints at rejig of Delhi police force to improve productivity||Newly-appointed Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana on Saturday said that an internal committee of senior officers is categorising police stations across the city on the basis of crimes, communal sensitivity and VIP security so that “appropriate skilled officers” can be posted to improve the productivity of the force.Outlining his vision for the city police during a virtual meeting of over 10,000 police personnel on Saturday, he also insisted on ensuring communal harmony in the Capital and called for unequivocal strict action against criminals as “they have no religion or community”.DCP Chinmoy Biswal, who is also the Delhi Police spokesperson, said, “In view of the upcoming Independence Day, the commissioner directed that local police should rope in cooperation of street vendors, small shopkeepers, auto drivers, rickshawalas etc to act as our ‘eyes and ears’ against terrorist or criminal designs. These common people on ground can be vigilant to act as our force multipliers and form a part of our community policing to keep the city safe and secure with greater public cooperation and participation.”“ Our chief said that there should be fear of police among criminals and a sense of security among the law-abiding citizens. The criminals should have fear of law and it can only be instilled if we ourselves are disciplined to core... Insisting on fairness and impartiality, the CP said that criminals have no religion or community and ordered unequivocal strict action on criminals,” Biswal said, adding that Asthana told the force that communal harmony is of utmost importance in the national capital and that it has to be maintained by the police through engagement with leaders of all communities.During the meeting, Asthana told officers that he will also see if duties of law and order and investigation can be separated for all officers at police station. Currently, 30 police stations are trying this model where officers are either posted on investigation or law and order duties, in an effort to ensure productivity and leave no room for clash of tasks.Asthana further said that he is exploring the feasibility of eight-hour shifts for personnel. “We never had shift system in Delhi Police though Mumbai Police,which implemented it, noted an increase in productivity. Maybe he will start shift system at a few police stations and see if it works well, “ said a senior police officer who attended the meeting.During the briefing, Asthana also assured the force that he will hold an open session at his office every Friday to address grievances of police personnel.To be sure, this is the first time that Asthana, a Gujarat cadre IPS officer, is working in the Delhi Police. Senior officers in Delhi Police are from the AGMUT cadre of the Indian Police Service (IPS).The last officer from outside AGMUT cadre to be appointed as Delhi Police chief was Ajai Raj Sharma, an Uttar Pradesh cadre IPS officer, who was commissioner from 1999-2002.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/asthana-hints-at-rejig-of-delhi-police-force-to-improve-productivity-101628360285997.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Cyclist injured after cab hits him on DND flyway||A 49-year-old man cycling on the Delhi Noida Direct flyway lane going towards Noida was injured after he was run over by a car on Saturday morning. Police identified the suspect as a cab driver and said they have arrested him.Police said the victim, identified as Mayur Vihar resident Manish Jayal, was returning home after a morning cycling session with friends when the accident took place at around 9.15am.Police arrested the driver, Gaurav Chand, from his house in Pandav Nagar in east delhi. “Chand is a cab driver. He fled after running over Jayal on the DND. We traced Chand through Jayal’s phone, which had the GPS system on and was found stuck on the car’s broken windshield. Chand was unaware of the phone. We have seized the car which was damaged in the accident.”Police said Jayal’s friends have already identified Chand as the errant driver.Police said they are yet to take Jayal’s statement as he is currently undergoing treatment at the Dharamshila hospital.Police have registered a case against Jayal at the Sunlight Colony police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhicyclist-injured-after-cab-hits-him-on-dnd-flyway-101628360225342.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Balloon seller’ arrested with 20 guns near Dwarka||A 27-year-old man, who allegedly posed as a balloon seller to smuggle illegal guns into the national capital, was arrested along with 20 pistols from near Dwarka, Delhi Police said on Saturday.Police said the suspect, Mathura resident Mufeed (only first name), was caught at around 10.30pm on Friday from Ghumanhera Modh area near Dwarka.Police said that to avoid suspicion, the suspect carried balloons and also had a bag with many new packets of balloon. He reportedly told police that he had come to Delhi to deliver arms to his contacts.“ When our officers first spotted him, he appeared to be a nondescript balloon seller on the road at night. When we tried to check him, he ran while waving a pistol at the police team. Our officers managed to overpower and catch him,” said Santosh Kumar Meena, DCP(Dwarka).Police said Mufeed got the pistols from Burhanpur in Madhya Pradesh and was allegedly planning to sell it to criminals in the NCR region. Police are trying to trace his contacts in the city.Preliminary investigation revealed Mufeed was earlier arrested for carrying illegal arms at the Kosi Kalan police station in Uttar Pradesh.In the run up to the Independence Day celebrations, the national capital is on high alert. In an interstate meeting held last week at the Delhi Police headquarters, the top brass of many north Indian states such as UP, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab and Delhi have agreed to work together to stop smuggling of arms and ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhiballoon-seller-arrested-with-20-guns-near-dwarka-101628360165409.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||Waterlogging, snarls return as rain ends Delhi’s week-long dry spell||After a week-long near dry spell, the national capital on Saturday received “light to moderate” showers in several areas which led to reports of waterlogging and traffic snarls at key stretches in the city.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) initially predicted only light rainfall in some parts of the city, but revised it to an Orange alert for the day on Saturday morning.The weather agency further predicted more showers late on Saturday evening and extended the Orange alert to Sunday when it said there will be “moderate to heavy rainfall” in isolated pockets.According to IMD records, the Safdarjung Observatory, considered representative of Delhi’s weather, received 6.9mm rainfall till 5.30 pm; Delhi Ridge weather station recorded 50.8mm rainfall; Aya Nagar received 2.1mm rain; Lodhi Road received 1.1mm; and Palam witnessed 0.6mm rainfall till 5.30pm.As per Delhi traffic police data, waterlogging and traffic snarls were reported from areas including Vikas Marg (near ITO), Dhaula Kuan, Nizamuddin flyover, AIIMS flyover, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Zakhira underpass, Saket, Malviya Nagar, Karol Bagh and Shahdara, among others.“Even with little rain, Vikas Marg, a major route connecting east Delhi, gets jammed. This has been the issue for years. The government must fix this problem now,” said Ankit Tiwari, a commuter.On Saturday, the maximum temperature was 33.2°C, a notch below the season’s average, and the minimum settled at 27.3°C.Met officials said that light rain is likely over the next two days, after which break monsoon-like conditions are expected to set in, resulting in a significant decrease in rainfall.“From August 10 break monsoon-like conditions will prevail, as the monsoon trough is expected to shift to the Himalayan foothills. The break will remain for four-five days. Monsoon is likely to revive from August 15-16,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.He added that in the absence of rainfall, both day and night temperatures are likely to increase with high humidity levels adding to the discomfort.Independent forecasters too said that break monsoon conditions, that are usual during the monsoon, are likely from next week.“The monsoon trough is in a transition phase. It will move north from August 10-11. The break may last five-six days. Monsoon is expected to revive thereafter from August 16-17,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, Skymet, a private forecaster.Monsoon arrived in Delhi on July 13, at least 16 days behind schedule. Though IMD had predicted that monsoon will arrive in the Capital by June 15, it later revised its forecast and said that break monsoon conditions had delayed its onset.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/waterlogging-snarls-return-as-rain-ends-delhi-s-week-long-dry-spell-101628360047001.html
08-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt to buy land from farmers to prevent distress sale||To stop distress sale of land by farmers, Haryana has decided to buy it from farmers and create a landbank for planned development and prevent exploitation from middlemen, said a government spokesperson on Saturday.Under this policy, farmers can submit proposals to the government for a potential sale, the spokesperson said.The policy was approved by the Haryana cabinet on Thursday. It would make land available to government departments, including boards and corporations, for development projects. The government also plans to form committees to oversee the implementation of the policy.“Landowners, especially those living outside the country, at times have to make a distress sale of their assets due to slump in the market, due to pandemic, pressure from middlemen in the market or various other reasons, “ said the spokesperson. Such cases make it difficult to provide land for essential services such as waterworks, power sub-stations, colleges and other specialized institutions of higher learning including universities, medical colleges and other hospitals and polytechnics etc, the spokesperson said.The policy also calls for unutilised land from all departments and boards to be clubbed under the revenue and disaster management departments. The revenue department will also make a landbank of evacuee land (lands formerly owned by people who left for Pakistan following partition) and nazul land (a technical term referring to unused government land), while it will also club land categorised as ‘shamlaat deh’ (common areas) and vested with panchayats. All these lands, plus those offered by landowners will be utilised in an optimum manner through this policy, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-govt-to-buy-land-from-farmers-to-prevent-distress-sale-101628360045347.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||Planting a tree compulsory for all DU students from this year||Delhi University (DU) on Saturday announced that it will be mandatory for all students to plant at least one tree anywhere in the country as part of their new programme, known as “environmental action as academic social responsibility”, from the upcoming academic session.Officials said this will be applicable at the undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD level, adding that the idea is to bring “environmental education to environmental action at the ground level”.“From the upcoming academic session, it has now become compulsory for every student to plant at least one tree anywhere in the country during the course of their study...The programme will be scientifically monitored and evaluated by the respective colleges, centres and departments,” said DU Registrar Vikas Gupta in a notification issued on Saturday.As part of the programme, students will have to submit a proof of having planted the tree to their respective departments and colleges. “Each student should plant at least one native tree species in his/her native place/place of stay… The student should submit GPS coordinates/site location along with the picture of the plant to the respective college/department/centre. Picture should have a placard containing details, such as name of the tree, name and course of the student, location and date of plantation,” the notification read.“The student needs to take care of the tree planted by herself/himself by periodic monitoring. For long-term monitoring, the family members/RWA/local bodies may be involved. Six-monthly reports and photographs with some description of growth needs to be submitted by the student,” the notification added.Besides, in case of death of the tree due to a natural disaster or “unforeseen circumstances”, the saplings will have to be replaced.For undergraduate students, it will be a part of the compulsory course on Environmental Studies, and for those in postgraduate courses, it will be part of their first semester. It has also been included in the MPhil/PhD coursework.The University Grants Commission (UGC) had in 2019 made it mandatory for all universities to teach a compulsory course on environmental studies at the undergraduate level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/planting-a-tree-compulsory-for-all-du-students-from-this-year-101628359685959.html
08-08-2021||Delhi||DU considers naming new college in south Delhi after Sushma Swaraj||The Delhi University (DU) is considering naming an upcoming college at Fatehpur Beri village in south Delhi after late Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sushma Swaraj, officials said on Saturday.“The University is considering naming the upcoming college after the first woman chief minister of Delhi Sushma Swaraj. Some other names are also under consideration. The final decision will be taken in the statutory bodies of the University, i.e Academic Council (AC) and Executive Council (EC),” said DU Registrar Vikas Gupta said.Delhi government had in 2019 allotted 40 bighas of land to DU to build a college in the village. Though the construction is yet begin at the site, the university, in March last year, said the institute will be a women’s college and invited suggestions from the public for naming it.In its notification issued on March 12, 2020, the University said, “The University of Delhi is going to establish a women’s college at Fatehpur Beri Village, Delhi, on the land recently allotted to the university by the Government of NCT of Delhi. A committee has been constituted to suggest a suitable name for the proposed women’s college. The committee in its meeting held on March 11, 2020, has decided to invite suggestions from the general public in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/du-considers-naming-new-college-in-south-delhi-after-sushma-swaraj-101628359026567.html
08-08-2021||Pune||Metro belongs to Pune, not to any party: Fadnavis||PUNE Former chief minister, the BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis tells his party workers and members of the opposition in Pune, not to politicise the Metro project, saying the project belonged to the city and not to any political party. His comments came days after deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar flagged off a trial run of the Metro in Pune on July 30, prompting comments from BJP leaders that Fadnavis was deliberately not invited for the trial run. The Pune Metro carried out its first trial run on a three-km stretch from Vanaz to Anandnagar, on a route that will go all the way to Ramwadi. Fadnavis said it was obvious that Pawar, as guardian minister of Pune district, flagged off the trial run. The former chief minister also clarified that while kick-starting commercial operations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi should be invited for the official launch. Fadnavis, on Saturday, visited the Metro sites at the civil court and Swargate. After the visit he interacted with media. Recently, the BJP’s state unit president, Chandrakant Patil, expressed anger that BJP MPs and MLAs were not involved with the metro trial. Patil alleged that the Metro project was being implemented under pressure from the ruling party in the state, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). “The Metro project is owned by the citizens of Pune. No single party can take credit for it. As Pawar is deputy chief minister, as well as guardian minister of Pune district, it is obvious that he would flag off the trial run. As per progress of the project, the priority stretch would be ready by October this year. While launching the commercial operations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi should be invited, as the Centre has given the maximum funds for this project. International financial institutions also funded the project.” On the the Centre reducing its share in the expenditure for the proposed Katraj-Swargate stretch, Fadnavis said he will try and get maximum finance from the Union government. “Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has already given the nod for the Swargate-Katraj stretch, and it is ready to do the funding. We will also help to get funding from the central government,” Fadnavis said. ‘Pune should get relaxation’ Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has demanded relaxations for Pune city as the positivity rate is constantly coming down. Fadnavis said that the state government took a policy decision to have restrictions where the positivity rate s above 5%. “Pune’s rate is coming down and considering, that traders need to be allowed to run their business for maximum hours.” ‘PPP metro plan will pick up pace soon’Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, in Pune on Saturday to review the Metro project, accepted that one section of project, the route to be developed with public-private partnership (PPP) is far behind the main project being undertaken by Maha-Metro.He said that he expects the PPP metro route from Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar is pick up pace in the coming days.“Metro work in Pune and Nagpur is the fastest in the country in terms of completion. It is true that we had given approval for a third line between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar, but due to Covid the work was affected. The PPP model gets a little difficult because of land acquisition. I am sure it will speed-up as it is an important corridor,” said Fadnavis.Fadnavis also batted for the HCMTR (High Capacity Mass Transit Project). He said that the decision to have neo Metro on the HCMTR corridor has been taken and it will help improve the city’s traffic.On the hyperloop project, Fadnavis, who introduced the project between Pune and Mumbai during his tenure, did not offer any further information. “The state government will be able to give more information about the project,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/metro-belongs-to-pune-not-to-any-party-fadnavis-101628356325135.html
08-08-2021||Pune||Bleeding woman carried down 11 floors after power cut in Pune||PUNE: A blame game has started between residents of a slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) scheme building and the Maharashtra State Electricity Distributor Company Limited (MSEDCL) after a woman - bleeding from a miscarriage in the eighth month of her pregnancy - had to be manually carried down from the eleventh floor of the building on Friday night after the MSEDCL cut off power due to non-payment of bills for several months.According to residents of the SRA society, the MSEDCL employees kept the power shut even after being informed about the presence of many pregnant women in the building. Whereas MSEDCL employees claim that they turned the electricity back on within 10 to 15 minutes of learning about the bleeding woman having to be carried down manually despite the bills of the society running into Rs6 to 7 lakh.Sachin Mujumale, member of the SRA society and worker at a social organisation called Madat Pratishthan, said, “We get a common bill for the entire building for electricity- and water- usage. The society management kept changing so we could not pay the bill but we managed to clear Rs4 lakh worth of bills while bills to the tune of Rs3 to 3.5 lakh were remaining to be paid. I have a recording of a call I made to a MSEDCL employee, pleading with him for an extension of one week as there are many pregnant women in the building but he did not listen.”However the MSEDCL official Mujumale was referring to said that he got a call from another person who explained the situation and promised to get a cheque of Rs1 lakh payable towards the society’s bill on Saturday morning.Sayas Sopanrao Darade, executive engineer, Parvati division, MSEDCL, said, “I turned on the electricity within minutes of the call by Nilesh Chavan from the society. We are not monsters. For the sake of humanity, we did not shut the power of 60 private home meters in the building even though some of them have bills worth Rs50,000 pending.”“They have been getting reminders for several months but neither the residents, builders nor the government have responded to our warnings. We were told to cut-off power supply for pending bills of more than Rs1 lakh which we did. But Pune is now under pressure as there are around 1 lakh people who have not paid their bills and the state government has directed us not to collect from places such as Sangli, Kolhapur and Ratnagiri due to the floods,” Darade said.Purva Jadhav – who started bleeding on Friday night while she was with her elderly mother-in-law - had to be manually carried down from the eleventh floor of the 13-storeyed building. She was put in a rickshaw at around 10.40pm and taken to Godbole hospital from where she was ferried to Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital in an ambulance. Calls and messages to Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director, Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, went unanswered on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bleeding-woman-carried-11-floors-down-sra-bldg-after-power-cut-due-to-bill-nonpayment-101628355245019.html
08-08-2021||Other||‘Puaada first Punjabi film to hit the theatres after pandemic’||Punjab’s beloved onscreen couple Ammy Virk and Sonam Bajwa are set to recreate their magic in upcoming romantic comedy, Puaada, which will hit theatres on August 12, post-Covid pandemic. The stars talk about their film, upcoming projects, coping during the lockdown and adjusting to the post-Covid world. Excerpts:Tell us about your character in Puaada?Sonam: My character’s name is Ronak. She is almost done with her masters and falls in love with a milkman, Jaggi (played by Ammy), who comes to the college to drop milk. She has a defense background and the family is not in favour of the relationship. That’s where the conflict starts. There is also a cute surprise for the viewers. It is a refreshing film after almost two years being affected by the pandemic. It can be enjoyed with the family. We had a blast while shooting.What was the most challenging aspect of filming?Ammy: We mostly shot the film in the same clothes. The characters were not particularly challenging as we have played similar roles earlier as well but the plot is that of ‘pange pe panga’ following the characters at each step. It’s a unique story.This is your fourth film together. After delivering three successive hits did you feel the pressure of recreating the magic?Sonam: Rather than feeling the pressure, it gives us a sense of confidence. We do feel a little nervous as a lot has happened since early 2020. We are slowly and steadily trying to return to normalcy, and this will be the first Punjabi film to hit the theatres after the pandemic. We feel a lot of responsibility as many people depend on the film industry and need work to keep rolling it. In fact, I want to congratulate our producers for deciding to go ahead and release the film. I want everything to stay smooth so that people can come and enjoy our film with their families in a happy frame of mind.Ammy, you produced around 20-23 covers during the lockdown. Would you say you were at your creative best?Ammy: Usually, even if we think that we will take a month or two months off that never happens. This time it was God’s way of telling us to take a break. In the first five days of the lockdown, I downloaded all OTT apps and caught up on many shows. After that, I would go to the studio late at night. There would be no one there and I would just start making covers to entertain people as there was no way to earn money. I reasoned that at least it will increase my followers, thus helping with endorsements. My Instagram followers increased by 2.4 million through covers and videos. Then, I shot three to four songs.Were you stressed out when the movie’s release was pushed indefinitely from June 2020 due to lockdown?Sonam: I’m still away from all of this. People who put in their money were going through a lot. I was grateful to be healthy as we heard people were not even getting beds in hospitals. Some people were cribbing about being bored (during the lockdown) but life is about much more than that. We are so privileged as we have food of our choice, television, internet, electricity, etc so I had absolutely no complaints. However, when the lockdown went on for months I was scared and anxious as to when this will end. I haven’t met my parents for two years and was very nervous about my mom. I started waiting for the day when I could hug them after a shoot. It’s also made me a bit paranoid. But I also got some me-time after years and learnt photography, attended some online acting workshops, and learnt meditation.What’s your favourite song from Puaada?Sonam: Mine would be ‘Dil Mera Ponda Boliyan’.Ammy: (sings) ‘Aye Haye Jattiye Kamaal Laggi Jandi Hai’What were the challenges of shooting in Covid times?Sonam: It is difficult but all precautions have to be followed. We had to apply masks after applying makeup. It was more difficult for the team as they had to be in full PPE kits while doing the hair and makeup. I was already a hygiene freak, now I keep reminding people to wash their hands.Ammy: I have done three films after the Covid breakout. While our immunity is relatively good, it was scary returning home due to the fear of transmitting the virus to the elderly and the children.Are you excited about your Bollywood debuts?Ammy: I am very excited. I worked on Bhuj: The Pride of India with Ajay Devgn, and on 83.Sonam, you turned host with Dil Diyan Gallan. How was the experience?Sonam: I had not met so many people in last few years. So, I got an opportunity to meet friends, make some new ones, and meet people I admire such as Satinder Sartaaj and Gurlez Akhtar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ours-is-first-punjabi-film-to-hit-the-theatres-after-pandemic-101628334123625.html
