09-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Foreign national held with drugs worth ₹7 crore||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday intercepted a foreign national at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) who had allegedly swallowed capsules containing drugs worth at least ₹7 crore to deliver it in Mumbai. The suspect is connected to an international drug cartel. He was admitted to Sir JJ Hospital and after conducting medical procedure around 50 capsules of narcotics have been retrieved from his abdomen, said zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB. As per the medical reports, there are more capsules inside the suspect’s abdomen and a medical process is underway to retrieve those capsules. The suspect came via Qatar and he is currently under medical observation. “He seems to be carrying multiple drugs, but mostly appears cocaine and heroin. It will be confirmed after the test,” added Wankhede. “In such cases, during preliminary inquiry, we offer them food, and if they refuse, our suspicion gets fortified. The X-ray and CT scan tests were carried out in this case, following a court order,” said an NCB officer. This is an old modus operandi, mostly used by smugglers to avoid being caught at airports. The drug supplier does not eat anything because the movement in the abdomen could rupture the capsules, leading to death, added the officer. In a similar case, the NCB had arrested a Nigerian national outside a five-star hotel at Juhu in January, this year, and allegedly recovered 10-12 cocaine-filled capsules from his mouth. The suspect used to carry a bracket in his mouth where he hid the capsules filled with cocaine and then waited outside five-star hotels for customers, an NCB officer said. In 2013, in another similar case, the Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) of Mumbai customs had arrested two Tanzanian nationals at Mumbai airport for allegedly smuggling cocaine by ingesting capsules. One of them died on the way to hospital after the capsules exploded inside his abdomen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-foreign-national-held-with-drugs-worth-7-crore-101628533636865.html
09-08-2021||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray takes stock as fresh Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra dip to 174-day low||Maharashtra on Monday recorded its lowest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases in nearly six months (174 days) as it added 4,505 fresh infections, taking its tally to 6,357,833. The state had reported 3,663 cases on February 16. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray met the state’s Covid-19 task-force members to deliberate over further relaxations, including opening up malls, cinema halls, auditoriums, places of worship, and increased operational hours for restaurants and eateries. Besides that, CM discussed preparations for a possible third wave. The active case count in the state stood at 68,375 on Monday. The state also reported 68 deaths, pushing the toll to 134,064. Mumbai added 218 new cases, taking city’s tally to 737,715. Mumbai added three fatalities, pushing its toll to 15,954, and active cases were 4,599 on Monday. Thackeray took stock of the Covid-19 situation and sought a view from experts on further unlocking in restrictions, senior officials said. Last week, minister Aaditya Thackeray had hinted that not just local trains, the state will look at easing curbs for people, who have taken both jabs, in other activities as well. A statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said, “In the task force meeting, discussions were held on the possible third wave, the requirement of oxygen, increasing the pace of vaccination, boosting testing-tracking as well as on how to ease restrictions in the coming days, while maintaining caution, in other sectors.” The task force has been directed to prepare rules based on the instructions given by the CM, the statement added. A decision on further easing of relaxations are expected this week.An official said, “The task force has recommended caution as reopening now could hasten the third wave. The relaxations, if they are announced next, will be for double-vaccinated people in the first phase. The idea is to postpone the reopening of all activities for everybody. At the same time, they have recommended speeding up the vaccination drive.”A task-force member said that there was a discussion on whether malls should be allowed to reopen only after all the mall employees have been fully vaccinated. “Besides that, for extending restaurant timings, it was suggested that the staff should be fully vaccinated at the earliest,” said the member who attended the meeting.Meanwhile, state health department officials have partially attributed the decrease in daily numbers to lower tests. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 157,175 samples and had a positivity rate of 2.86%. State health department officials said as the tests have gone down by around 40,000 owing to the weekend, the number of cases have dipped correspondingly.Maharashtra is seeing a dip in emergence of Covid-19 cases on a weekly basis between May and August. As per the data analysed, the dip in state’s cases between May and June was 75.88%, while it dipped by 35.35% between June and July. Between July and August, it saw a decrease of 28.32%.Maharashtra added 95,108 fresh cases between June 1 and June 7, which dropped to 61,489 between July 1 and 7-- drop of 35%. Mumbai on the other hand saw a dip of 33.34% during the same period as it added 4,056 new cases between July 1 and 7. In the first seven days of August, the state added 44,075 new infections, while Mumbai added 2718, a drop of 28.32% and 32.99%, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-takes-stock-as-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-dip-to-174-day-low-101628533580104.html
09-08-2021||Other||Negligence on part of banks may prove costly to customers||Negligence by banks takes many forms and here is a case where a bank failed to pay the income tax authorities, the advance tax deposited by the customer, resulting in his having to pay heavy penalty. In its order of July 29, 2021, the apex consumer court held the bank guilty of providing deficient service and said the consumer was entitled to refund of the amount deposited by him, penalty paid to the tax authorities, travelling expenses incurred on account of his visits to the income tax offices, cost of litigation and in addition, compensation for the physical and mental harassment undergone.The case dates back to the income tax assessment year 2007-2008 , when Santosh Kumar Sethi, a resident of Noida, deposited ₹13,880 at one of the branches of Punjab National Bank towards advance tax, to be remitted to the tax authorities. The amount however was never deposited with the income tax, resulting in Sethi being asked by the tax authorities to pay penalty. First, in response to Sethi’s complaints in 2012, the bank alleged that it was not allowed to credit the amount by the tax authorities. Subsequently, to his repeated letters in 2012 and 2013, the bank insisted that the amount had been deposited with the income tax, but hinted that there could be some error in the assessment year in the challan and advised him to have it corrected. Consequently, Sethi travelled to Deoghar (where he was being assessed) and Dhanbad, Jharkhand, to meet the assessing authority and the income tax commissioner respectively, but was told that the amount had not been deposited at all. In 2014, after he got a demand notice from the tax authorities, the bank informed Sethi,, in response to an RTI query, that the amount had been deposited, but there was a clerical error on its part in the assessment year in the challan! While upholding the order of the Delhi District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, awarding ₹50,000 as compensation and ₹10,000 as costs of litigation, the apex consumer court pointed out that the bank had not provided any evidence in support of its claim that it had paid the amount to the tax authorities. On the other hand, the consumer had placed on record the letter of the Income Tax Commissioner dated September 18, 2014, stating that the money had not been deposited by the bank. (Santosh Kumar Sethi Vs Punjab National Bank, RP NO 1172 of 2017)The apex consumer court thus held the bank liable for the consequences of its failure to deposit the tax amount. However, I must point out that even if the bank had made the deposit, it would still be guilty of negligence for making a mistake, as per its admission, in the assessment year in the challan! Because first and foremost, when the consumer deposited the advance tax to be credited to the income tax authorities, the bank was duty bound to credit the amount without any mistakes. Failure to do so constituted deficiency. Next, having committed that error, the bank should have borne in mind its consequences and immediately informed the customer of it. Failure to do so was also sheer negligence. Third, the bank should have immediately made the effort to rectify the mistake in the assessment year made by it. It did not do that.Fourth, if for any reason the bank could not make the necessary corrections, it should have again informed the customer and made a fresh deposit, at its cost, after getting the customer’s approval. Or, it should have informed the customer of its failure to make the correction, refunded the amount along with consequent damages. In other words, the bank could easily have made amends for its mistake and ensured that the customer was not put to unnecessary harassment and made to pay penalty. It did not do any of those things, despite repeated letters from a distressed customer.Lastly, to an honest tax payer, any accusation of having evaded payment of tax would not only come as a shock, but also cause utmost anguish. The bank should have been sensitive to that. Thus the bank failed on many fronts and in fact it should have paid a bigger price for its negligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/negligence-on-part-of-banks-may-prove-costly-to-customers-101628533036281.html
09-08-2021||Other||Make sure you give correct details for buying insurance policy||Whenever you buy an insurance policy, make sure that you do not misrepresent facts, as that could really jeopardize your claim and cause you immense financial loss. A recent decision of the consumer court, upholding the repudiation of a claim pertaining to a motor vehicle insurance, drives home this point really hard. The central point in this case was the rejection of a claim made by Vinod Kumar, a resident of Mysore, following an accident involving his vehicle- a Volkswagon Jetta, on September 16, 2014. Purchased in 2012, the vehicle was insured with Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company from January 8, 2014 to January 8, 2015. Kumar had paid ₹30,003 towards the premiumIn response to Kumar’s complaint before the consumer court, the insurance company argued that the policy was vitiated on account of the policyholder giving false information at the time of purchasing the policy. The insurer’s case was that the policy holder had claimed that the car was insured the previous year with Reliance General Insurance and that he was entitled to a 20 per cent discount as ‘No Claim Bonus’ (NCB). However, the cheque issued by the consumer to Reliance General Insurance the previous year had been dishonoured and so the insurer had not issued the policy at all. Thus he neither had a vehicle policy the previous year nor was he entitled to NCB. So on grounds of misrepresentation and suppression of material facts, the policy stood vitiated and the insurer was not liable to indemnify the loss.The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission agreed with the lower consumer courts’ view that the insurer was justified in not honouring the claim. Quoting the Supreme court in Life Insurance Corporation of India Vs. Smt. Asha Goel, and Reliance Life Insurance Co Vs. Rekhaben Nareshbhai Rathod , the Commission said there was no illegality in upholding the repudiation of the claim .(Vinod Kumar Vs Manager, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company, RP No 2277 of 2019, decided on August 4, 2021)Thus the consumer not only lost the huge premium he had paid towards the insurance, but also the insurance money for repairing the car. On the other hand, if he had spoken the truth, he may not have got the 20 per cent discount on the premium, but his policy would be intact and the insurer would have had no ground for rejection of his claim.Consumers may not be aware that in case of lapse of motor vehicle policy by even one day, the vehicle has to be inspected by the insurer before issuing a policy. And even if the policy holder has not made any claim previously, if a comprehensive policy is allowed to lapse for over 90 days, the accrued benefit of ‘No Claims Bonus’ is lost. In other words, if you have a good NCB to your credit, it is important to ensure that there is no break in your vehicle insurance.So always pay your premium on time , preferably through an electronic payment mode and ensure that the policy is issued immediately. Under the Motor Vehicles Act, you cannot take your vehicle on a public road without a third party liability insurance. And remember, the contract of insurance is a contract of utmost good faith and both the parties to the contract have to ensure that there is no misinformation or non-disclosure of material facts.Usually when you change your insurer during renewal or take a fresh policy on a new car, in order to claim the NCB discount, you need to produce a certificate of proof from your previous insurer. In fact, if you look at the insurance regulator’s web page meant for policy holders, it says that the proof can be the renewal notice from the current insurer or your original expiring policy along with a certification from your previous insurer, saying that you have lodged no claim on the expiring policy. Obviously, in this case the insurer did not do due diligence and insist on that proof from the consumer! And in the bargain, earned a hefty premium, without having to fulfill its part of the contract of insurance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/make-sure-you-give-correct-details-for-buying-insurance-policy-101628532736304.html
09-08-2021||Other||Two women held for assaulting officials on Covid duty in outer Delhi||New Delhi: The city police on Monday said they arrested two women for allegedly assaulting a female civil defence volunteer and members of a team engaged in prosecuting violators of Covid-19 guidelines in the city, after a video of the assault, near Peeragarhi Metro station in outer Delh on Sunday evening, surfaced on social media. Police said the suspects assaulted the victims after one of them was challaned for not wearing a face mask.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh said that on Sunday, a librarian named Anand, who is presently attached with the office of sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Punjabi Bagh, was on Covid duty near the Metro station along with Ajmer Singh, a teacher, and the civil defence staff.Around 6pm, they stopped a woman who was riding a scooty without wearing a mask and asked her to pay the fine. The woman called her employer who argued with the team members and assaulted them. The team later filed a police complaint, the DCP said.“Based on the complaint, a case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code for assault, obstructing a public servant from performing duty and violating DDMA guidelines. Both the women -- Sadhna, who rode the scooty, and Meenu, her employer -- were arrested,” he added.Police said ₹2,000 is the challan amount to be paid for mask violation in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-women-held-for-assaulting-officials-on-covid-duty-in-outer-delhi-101628532436205.html
09-08-2021||Mumbai||May ease more curbs from Sept 1 if Covid cases fall: Maha task force member||A senior member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force said on Monday said if cases continue to witness a decline in the state, the government will consider easing more curbs starting September 1.Dr Shashank Joshi also spoke about the need to conduct a state-specific serosurvey to gauge the presence of antibodies among people of Maharashtra.“It is necessary to have a Maharashtra-specific sero-survey to have a better understanding of the situation in the state. Maharashtra is still dealing with a thick tail of COVID-19 cases and it is very notorious," he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.He further said the presence of antibodies, however, does not mean people can mingle among themselves and evade social distancing norms. To prove his point, the endocrinologist said in Brazil – one of the worst-affected countries, besides India and the United States, due to Covid-19, 70 per cent of its population developed antibodies and yet they “suffered severely in the second wave” of the pandemic.Referring to India’s single-day Covid-19 case count, Dr Joshi said it is ranging between 35,000 and 40,000, of which, Maharashtra is accountable for nearly 6,000. “Our state is still on the second spot (after Kerala) in terms of daily Covid-19 cases,” he added.Stating that the Maharashtra government’s efforts are aimed at “reducing the thick tail” of the coronavirus, he said the people are expected to be “more patient.”“We need to avoid the mistakes made between the first and second waves,” Dr Joshi said, adding that the state government is taking each step slowly and with utmost caution due to the above-mentioned reasons.Addressing the issue of reopening schools at a time, he said that it is “globally proven” that schools and religious gatherings have worked as “super spreaders” of the virus outbreak.“The US prematurely reopened schools and (now), it is not just reporting a higher number of cases, but deaths are also increasing there,” the doctor further said.Notably, Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwood on Friday said that schools in both rural and urban areas of the state will reopen for physical classes on August 17. While offline classes in rural areas will resume for classes 5 to 8, the same in urban regions will commence for students in classes 8 to 12, news agency ANI reported.He also spoke about Maharashtra not having enough Covid-19 vaccine doses to administer to its citizens. Dr Joshi said the state government’s goal is to inoculate maximum (adult) population with both the doses of coronavirus vaccines. “(More) relaxations in Mumbai could be introduced after 70 per cent of its population is covered,” Dr Joshi added.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said fully vaccinated people will be permitted to travel on Mumbai suburban trains from August 15. However, people who have taken the second dose of the vaccine must wait for 14 days before availing of the local train services.Also Read | Maharashtra will take calculated risk on relaxations: UddhavIn a tweet, Thackeray said the government is trying to maintain a balance between containing the virus spread and opening up financial activities. “I know that people are running out of patience due to the lockdown curbs, but we should not lower our guard as the Covid-19 crisis is not over as yet,” the tweet added.Maharashtra reported 4,505 new coronavirus cases and 68 fatalities on Monday, taking the respective toll to 63,57,833 and 1,34,064, according to data shared by the health department. This is an improvement when compared to Sunday’s figures when the state recorded 5,508 fresh cases and a total of 151 deaths. The state has 68,375 active cases and the total number of recoveries has reached 61,51,956, the health department data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/may-ease-more-curbs-from-sept-1-if-covid-cases-fall-maha-task-force-member-101628531692554.html
09-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar: 2 test Covid positive during travel surveillance||The Gautam Budh Nagar health department found two persons -- one each from Odisha and Assam -- positive for Covid-19 on Sunday during the surveillance of travellers coming to the district from high-risk states. They have been put in isolation and their contacts are being traced and tested, said officials on Monday.The officials said that 26 of the total 28 travellers traced by the department since August 1 have tested negative. While the focus has been on nine high-risk states identified by the Uttar Pradesh government, travellers from all the states are under scrutiny, according to the officials.“Surveillance teams are at their toes to identify and trace travellers entering Gautam Budh Nagar...,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO), GB Nagar.The surveillance drive started in the district on July 24, 2021, after the state government mandated travellers coming from other states having a weekly Covid-19 positivity rate of 3% or more to carry a negative RT-PCR report not older than four days, or a vaccination certificate indicating that they had been administered both the doses. The measures have been taken to prevent a possible third wave of Covid-19, the officials added.The Directorate of Medical & Health Services, Uttar Pradesh, had issued the last advisory for travellers entering the state on July 19, 2021. According to the advisory, travellers from Kerala, Maharashtra, Manipur, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura and Sikkim have been asked to follow the rules.The health department is relying on 600 surveillance teams comprising ASHA and Anganwadi workers. It has also asked various resident bodies in the district to inform about such passengers between August 1 and August 15. Health officials said that the apartment owners’ associations (AOAs) and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) can share information on WhatsApp number (9971208271). An option for self-notification of travellers on Integrated Command Control Centre helpline (18004192211) of the district has also been added.“A passenger from a high-risk state, who wants to notify himself to the district health department, can call on the ICCC helpline from Thursday,” said a health department official.Meanwhile, GB Nagar on Monday reported two fresh cases of Covid-19 and five new discharges, according to the state’s health bulletin. The state has 570 active cases, with 13 in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-2-test-covid-positive-during-travel-surveillance-101628531476178.html
09-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar reduces vaccination sites to just 16 as supply runs low||Twenty seven-year-old Deepak Singh, was a worried man on Monday afternoon. On Friday, this Sector 135 resident booked on the Co-WIN portal a vaccination slot for Monday at the community health centre (CHC) in Bisrakh. But come Monday, no vaccination was taking place there and he had to return home disappointed. Thirty-two-year-old Govind Paswan, who resides in Sector 22, also could not get his first dose vaccine at the employees’ state insurance corporation (ESIC) hospital in Sector 24, despite booking a slot there for Monday. The statewide shortage of vaccines affected the inoculation drive in Gautam Budh Nagar district on Monday as shots were available at only 16 government centres in the district, as opposed to at least 42 till last week. With the limited stock of vaccines, the district health department could administer only 3,868 shots on Monday – of which 1,805 were first doses. The situation is unlikely to improve this week, the district health officials said, as the state is only supplying limited quantities currently. Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said with the present supply, it will be impossible to run the vaccination drive at full swing. “At present, the district health department is left with around 10,000 doses of vaccines. With this available stock, we can run the drive for two more days, and that too not full-fledged. However, we’ve sent our requisition for vaccines to the state and hope to get adequate supply very soon. After that, we’ll be able to restart the drive in the district at full swing,” he said. Echoing similar views, Dr Neeraj Tyagi, said till adequate vials arrive in the district, the vaccination will take place with reduced number of booths, about 16 of them. “The reduction or increase in the number of booths is directly proportional to the stock of vaccines. There is nothing to panic about as getting slots on the Co-WIN portal is not in our control. Notice has been displayed at all booths where the vaccination is not taking place about the drive being curtailed on account of a supply shortage,” he said. Tyagi further said so far 1,737,103 people have been administered the vaccine in the district. “While 1,408,011 have taken the first shot and as many as 3,29,092 have received both the doses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-reduces-vaccination-sites-to-just-16-as-supply-runs-low-101628531416160.html
09-08-2021||Lucknow||Post-Covid patients suffer hormonal imbalance, Lucknow’s SGPGI OPD gets 10 such cases daily: Expert||Hormonal problems are being seen in patients who have recovered from Covid-19 infection, an expert has said.About 10 such patients are arriving with complaints of hormonal imbalance at the outpatient department (OPD) of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) daily in Lucknow, the expert said. The latest review article published in the Journal of Endocrine Society has revealed that SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the Covid-19 disease is not only affecting the pancreas, but also other endocrine glands, even leading to male sexual disorders, said professor Gyan Chand of SGPGIMS.Giving more details, he said, “The department of internal medicine at Loyola University Medical Centre, Maywood, Illinois (USA) and the department of medicine, division of endocrinology, Loyola University Health Care System, and endocrinology section, medical service, VA Hospital, Hines, Illinois have revealed that SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) virus is causing moderate to severe disease in about 15% of post-Covid patients.”“It has widespread effects throughout the body with myriad clinical manifestations, including the endocrine system. It is having an impact on the pathophysiology and management of diabetes (both outpatient and inpatient) as well as pituitary, adrenal, thyroid, bone, and gonadal function,” he added.The gonadal hormones were more affected in males resulting in altered sperm quality and reduced testosterone.He said these patients required proper treatment for four to six months.“In some cases, patients returning for treatment have reported widespread effects throughout the body with lesser-known clinical manifestations,” he added.Dr Gyan Chand also said, “It is known to everyone that Covid virus sticks to ACE-2 receptors. Hence, it is affecting all the endocrine glands.” [ACE2 receptor is the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2. It provides the entry point for the coronavirus to hook into and infect a wide range of human cells.]“There are several reports of scrotal discomfort, even severe scrotal pain in people once infected with Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/postcovid-patients-suffer-hormonal-imbalance-lucknow-s-sgpgi-opd-gets-10-such-cases-daily-says-expert-101628531116726.html
09-08-2021||Noida||1 held for robbery in Greater Noida village, 3 manage to flee||Four robbers allegedly barged into a house at a Greater Noida village and looted cash and jewellery worth ₹1.19 lakh. However, while they were trying to flee, one of them was caught by the neighbours, police said, adding that a member of the family concerned also suffered injuries in the incident that took place around 1am on Monday in Muchhkheda village.According to police, Lokesh Sharma, a farmer, and his family members heard a commotion when the suspects entered his house. “My son Sandeep was sleeping on the terrace at the time of the incident. When my other son, Prateek, and his wife reached the terrace, the suspects assaulted him with a knife. He has sustained injuries to his arms,” said Lokesh in his complaint.Police said that the suspects then tried to flee from the spot. Meanwhile, a few neighbours heard noises and came to the rescue of the victims, and managed to nab one of the robbers.“Three of the suspects escaped with the loot, while one of them was nabbed by the neighbours,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3.The arrested suspect, identified as Sonu, 22, had gone to Muchhkheda village to visit his aunt. Police suspect he was the informant. Police have identified other suspects too, but did not share any details.“Our teams are trying to trace the other suspects. They will be arrested soon,” Pandey added.A case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 394 was registered against the four suspects at the Dankaur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/1-held-for-robbery-in-greater-noida-village-3-manage-to-flee-101628530697004.html
09-08-2021||Noida||Three held for performing vehicle stunts, violating curfew guidelines||Police on Monday arrested three men for allegedly performing stunts with their SUVs in a Greater Noida village and violating the weekend curfew guidelines in the Gautam Budh Nagar district. According to police, the incident came to the fore on Sunday when a video showing the men performing driving stunts with three SUVs started doing rounds on social media. “The video was from the Jalpura area and was shot on Sunday. It was a direct violation of the ongoing weekend curfew,” said Bhubnesh Kumar Sharma, station house officer, Ecotech 3 police station. Police officials said that some locals also complained about the incident who claimed that the suspects were driving recklessly and performing stunts. The suspects were traced from the registration numbers of their vehicles, the officials said. The suspects were identified as Aryan Sharma and Brajesh Sharma, residents of Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram, and Siraj Dhingra, a resident of Noida’s Sector 49. Police said that they are not professionals and were performing stunts only for leisure. “They didn’t even think that they broke any rules. Their vehicles have been seized,” said the SHO. The trio was booked under relevant sections of the Epidemic Act and the Indian Penal Code. They were produced before a magistrate who sent them to jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-held-for-performing-vehicle-stunts-violating-curfew-guidelines-101628530696130.html
09-08-2021||Noida||BKU extends support to farmers of Ghaziabad’s 26 villages over equitable compensation||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Monday extended its support to the farmers whose land was acquired for the phase 4 of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) project. These farmers from 26 villages of Ghaziabad have been agitating for the past several years for an equal rate of land compensation and also demanding a service road along the expressway from Modinagar to Mohiuddinpur. The DME phase 4 is 32km long and connects Dasna in Ghaziabad to Meerut. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, who is spearheading the farmers’ protest at the UP Gate in Ghaziabad against the Centre’s three new farm laws, addressed a gathering of around 800 farmers at a panchayat near DME’s Bhojpur toll plaza. “We have been protesting against the farm laws for the past nine months. We will also support the farmers of 26 villages and pursue their demands for equal land compensation and the service road. You (the farmers) should continue the fight against the UP government and should ‘treat’ them when they come to seek votes,” Tikait said while addressing the panchayat. “This fight will be taken forward and this road (DME) will help us to take our fight (of demand for rollback of three farm laws) to different parts of the country. This region (western UP) has always helped us in our agitation. We will, along with affected farmers, meet NHAI officials and district administration officials,” he added. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that they have no issues if farmers come for discussion about the points raised on Monday. “The land compensation has been given in accordance with the Land Acquisition Act. The expressway manual guidelines have been followed for the DME and there is no provision of service road near to the expressway,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. Ghaziabad district magistrate RK Singh was not available for a comment on the issue. The phase 4, along with phase 2 (UP Gate to Dasna), were opened to the public in April this year. According to NHAI estimates, the six-lane phase 4 linking Ghaziabad to Meerut is used by about 40,000 passenger car units per day. Since November last year, hundreds of farmers have been continuing with their agitation at the UP Gate protest site, demanding rollback of three new farm laws and seeking a new law on minimum support price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bku-extends-support-to-farmers-of-ghaziabad-s-26-villages-over-equitable-compensation-101628530576114.html
09-08-2021||Gurugram||Green court asks MCG for plan to clear encroachments in Palam Vihar green belts||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) asked the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to prepare an action plan for clearing encroachments of green spaces in Palam Vihar and take action within one month.The green court issued the directions last week while hearing a petition filed by a resident, Vineet Yadav.While taking a note of concretisation of areas around trees, a bench headed by NGT chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel ordered, “...this Tribunal has already directed removal of concretisation within one-metre radius of the trunk of trees so that growth of the trees is not obstructed, we direct the municipal corporation, Gurugram, to take appropriate action in the matter in coordination with the forest department, Gurugram.”The bench further said that a joint meeting should be held within one month and an action plan prepared for the purpose. “Thereafter, further action be taken in accordance with law,” the order stated.The petitioner had approached the court against the encroachment of green belts on both sides of the roads as well as in front of plots and homes in Palam Vihar. According to the petitioner, encroachments have come up on a long strip of green belt along the Gurgaon-Delhi railway track at Palam Vihar.Officials said that approximately a one-kilometre stretch of the green belt is encroached upon by a private school, roadside vendors and people running food stalls.Jitendra Kumar, the joint commissioner of MCG’s Zone 2, where Palam Vihar falls, said, “In the past few months, we have been taking action on encroachments regularly, but still, many encroachments by small vendors are standing on the green belt. We will be following the orders of the NGT and have written to Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) today (Monday) also to conduct a joint mega drive within the next 15 days to remove all encroachments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/green-court-asks-mcg-for-plan-to-clear-encroachments-in-palam-vihar-green-belts-101628530462737.html
09-08-2021||Gurugram||Following demolition, urban forest to come up on 150 acres in Khori village||An urban forest spread over 150 acres will be developed in Faridabad’s Khori village, where illegal structures on Aravalli land were recently demolished, officials said on Monday. The Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority has started working to develop a restoration plan for the area. Officials said that talks are underway with experts to understand the species of plants and trees that can be planted in this region to restore the natural ecosystem of the Aravalli forests.Garima Mittal, the chief executive officer of FMDA, said, “A nagar van (city forest) was already approved by the state government, which will be built here as encroachments from the land have been cleared off. The urban forest will be developed over 150 acres, which will help us regain forests in the city. We are in talks with forest officials to identify what species of plants should be planted here so that the original ecosystem of the Aravallis can be restored.” Over the past few weeks, around 10,000 houses in Khori village were demolished after the Supreme Court on June 7 had ordered the eviction of thousands of slum dwellers encroaching on the Aravalli forest area, holding that “there cannot be a compromise or concession on forest land.” Meanwhile, debris from the village is still to be cleared completely. Officials said that the demolition drive in the village has been mostly completed, but as people are still taking their belongings to other places, it will take some time for the restoration work to start. As a part of the eco-restoration plan, the authority also released a helpline -- 01140844855 -- for citizens to contact and help with the restoration project as well as provide inputs. “Several NGOs [non-governmental organisations] and concerned citizens are interested in helping with the eco-restoration in Khori village. We have issued a number where people can share their ideas and all the inputs and ideas will be taken into account while making the final plan,” Mittal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/following-demolition-urban-forest-to-come-up-on-150-acres-in-khori-village-101628530461591.html
09-08-2021||Gurugram||No rain this week for Gurugram: IMD||After moderate rainfall over the weekend, the city is unlikely to receive further rain this week, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to the weekly forecast of IMD, the city is likely to witness a generally cloudy sky with a possibility of thunder or lightning by Friday. “The monsoon is shifting toward the foothills, due to which Delhi-NCR, over the next 10 days, might not receive rain. Humidity conditions will prevail as it will mostly be cloudy in this region,” an official from IMD Delhi said.According to the district-wise rainfall forecast issued by IMD Chandigarh, dry weather is likely to prevail in Gurugram over the next two days, after which light rain is likely at isolated places.Meanwhile, the city saw a slight dip in temperature on Monday, with both maximum and minimum temperatures dropping below normal. The maximum temperature was 32.4 degrees Celsius (°C), which was two degrees below normal while the minimum temperature was 23.5°C, three degrees below normal. The humidity level on Monday evening was 88%.Due to rain, the air quality in the city remained in the satisfactory category for the second consecutive day with an air quality index of 87 on Monday. According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi on Monday, the air quality in this region is likely to remain in the satisfactory category on Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/no-rain-this-week-for-gurugram-imd-101628530460173.html
09-08-2021||Gurugram||Pregnant women vaccinated in dedicated drive, to be held on 9th of every month||As many as 1,267 pregnant women took the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday in a special vaccination drive held at 34 government health centres. Of the total beneficiaries, 22 women reported symptoms such as fever and headache after taking the first vaccine shot, according to the data available with the health department.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “At least 22 women and 11 other people among general population reported minor side effects, such as fever and headache, which is a common symptom after taking the first shot of vaccine. Our health workers will be in contact with the (pregnant) women who reported symptoms.”As per an advisory issued by the union health department, pregnant women can get their vaccine jab at any stage of pregnancy. Officials said that in case a woman is infected with Covid-19 after taking the first shot, the second shot will be administered only after the delivery.Officials said that as part of a statewide initiative, vaccines will be administered to pregnant women on the ninth day of every month through special drives under the Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan. Under the government programme, all pregnant women registered with the health department get a free anti-natal check-up on the ninth day of every month.Officials said that the Covid-19 vaccination during the monthly check-up will help in the immunisation of women against the coronavirus infection. “At all the 34 designated government health centres, pregnant women were inoculated with Covaxin. On September 9, they will receive the second dose of Covaxin, which will complete their vaccine schedule under the Covid-19 immunisation programme,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.In July, the central government extended the vaccination drive against the Covid-19 to pregnant women while acting on the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation’s (NTAGI) recommendations. The health ministry issued guidelines for administering the Covid-19 vaccine to pregnant women, stating that after getting the vaccine injection, beneficiaries can get a mild fever, pain at the injection site or feel unwell for one to three days. It also stated that the side effects post-vaccination may include mild discomfort and soreness at the injection spot, accompanied by chills.On Monday, over 15,363 vaccine doses were administered, including 7,258 at government facilities and 8,105 at private hospitals. About 100 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine were administered as the first dose and 40 as the second dose.“Only if a woman tests Covid-19 positive during the pregnancy after taking the first dose will the second dose have to be given after the delivery. If the woman is not vaccinated and tests positive, the first vaccine shot has to be given after delivery in such cases too,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/pregnant-women-vaccinated-in-dedicated-drive-to-be-held-on-9th-of-every-month-101628530459034.html
09-08-2021||Gurugram||Ahata owner shoots dead employee in scuffle over unpaid salary||A 23-year-old man, owner of an ahata (closed drinking space), was arrested on Monday for allegedly shooting dead a 29-year-old employee on Sunday night over an argument about non-payment of salary. The incident took place at the ahata on Golf Course Extension Road in Sector 56 and the police received a call about the incident around 5.30am on Monday, following which a team found the body in a pool of blood. The suspect was identified as Anil Kundu of Titoli in Rohtak. He used to run the ahata operations and employed around 15 people. The deceased, Phool Kumar of Charkhi Dadri in Bhiwani, and Kundu were acquainted for many years, the police said.Aman Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (sadar), said that doctors at a nearby hospital declared Kumar brought dead. “There was a gunshot injury on his neck and preliminary investigation revealed he died on the spot late night. Kundu and three more, including Kumar, were having drinks when a scuffle broke out over pending salary. Kundu took out his licensed revolver and shot Kumar dead,” he said. Yadav said that Kumar had not received his salary for the past three months and despite repeated requests, Kundu did not pay him and made excuses that he was going through a financial crisis. Nasib Singh, Kumar’s father, said that his son had met Kundu in Titoli while he was visiting a maternal uncle. “In July, Kundu called my son and offered a job of a bouncer, to which he agreed. He often abused my son in front of other staff members and humiliated him. A fortnight ago, my son informed me about it, following which I had asked him to look for another job,” he said. A case under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act was registered at Sector 56 police station on Monday on a complaint from Kumar’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ahata-owner-shoots-dead-employee-in-scuffle-over-unpaid-salary-101628530457769.html
09-08-2021||Gurugram||Stalker booked for abetting suicide of 17-year-old in Pataudi||A 17-year-old girl committed suicide in Pataudi on Sunday over being harassed by a stalker, the police said. In a purported suicide note, the girl stated that a neighbour often molested her and harassed her by repeatedly asking her to marry him, the police said.An FIR under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Pataudi police station on Sunday based on a complaint by the girl’s father. The suspect is yet to be arrested.According to the complaint, the man waylaid the girl and her younger sister during their way to school, and often followed her to marketplaces and forcibly held her hand. He also used to call the girl at late night and harass her.The police said that on August 7, the suspect had called her and asked her to elope with him, following which she informed her father and they confronted the man.The police said the younger sister had informed her father about the incident, following which the suspect started threatening her. The girls’ father confronted the accused over the phone, but he continued to harass the girl, said Hitesh Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Manesar).“The suspect apologised and promised not to repeat the action, but continued to do so,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/stalker-booked-for-abetting-suicide-of-17-year-old-in-pataudi-101628530396698.html
09-08-2021||Other||2 die, over a dozen hospitalised in Lucknow due to drinking water contamination, allege locals||LUCKNOW Two children reportedly died while over a dozen others from the Balu Adda area in the city had to be admitted to hospital due to infection possibly caused by contaminated drinking water, alleged locals.Among the deceased were an infant and a 16-year-old boy. Both suffered from diarrhoea and vomiting, they said. The infant’s father, Hamza, said the child died while being taken to the hospital.“Residents said they were getting dirty water supply in the area and that they had written to the Jal Sansthan to get the leaking pipelines checked and repaired. They said the two deaths took place due to diarrohoea and vomiting,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, CMO, Lucknow, in a press statement. “The people’s medical history is not known in detail. It appears that the families could not contact for medical help in time. The cause of death is not yet known,” said Agrawal, who met the affected families on Monday. “We have deployed a medical team to screen each house in the area after getting information about people taking ill due to infection. Those unwell were admitted to the Civil Hospital or given medication,” he added. “Nagar nigam has sanitised the area while the medical team will camp there till Wednesday morning and refer serious cases to hospital. Two beds have been reserved at the Civil Hospital for this, apart from those already admitted,” said the CMO. According to Dr SK Nanda of Civil Hospital, 12 people, including 10 children, were undergoing treatment at present. Safi, 10, Muneer, 5, Iram, 5, Samreen, 5, Shivam, 17, Riya, 8, Rashmi 4, Shama Bano, 17 and Gauraiyya, 35 were among those admitted to the Civil Hospital. At least 12 others in the 4 to 35 years age group were being treated at home as their condition was stated to be stable. “Chlorine tablets have also been distributed to ensure that the water they drink is not contaminated. Our medical team is looking after those at home also and will refer any one getting severely ill,” said the CMO. “We collected samples of water from five spots of Balu Adda. But all contained adequate amount of chlorine and the water was found safe for use. Our team will visit the area again. Jal Sansthan leaves no stone unturned when it comes to ensuring safe potable water supply to houses,” said SK Varma, GM, Jal Sansthan. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-die-over-a-dozen-hospitalised-in-lucknow-due-to-drinking-water-contamination-allege-locals-101628528477518.html
09-08-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 655 new Covid cases, 18 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 655 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths in 24 hours on Monday. This took the progressive count to 1.097 million of which 1.064 million have recovered, 18,958 deaths and 14,149 are active cases currently in hospitals undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 49,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 398 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 333,112 and with 15 deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,330. Pune city reported 139 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 505,815 and reported no death on the day so the death toll stood at 8,905, while PCMC reported 118 new cases and the progressive count went up to 258,809. With three more deaths reported, the toll stood at 3,419. Pune also saw 49,121 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Monday and totally 6,599,866 vaccines have been administered including 4,911,266 first dose and 1,688,600 second dose. A total of 507 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 315 are government and 192 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-655-new-covid-cases-18-deaths-101628528475969.html
09-08-2021||Other||Chief electoral officer wants SPPU to start certificate course on elections, voting||PUUNE To encourage more students to enrol as voters and create awareness, there is a need to implement systematic voters’ education and electoral participation (SVEEP) in universities and colleges,” said Shrikant Deshpande, Maharashtra state chief electoral officer. He visited the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on Monday, along with other senior officials from the state election department, including Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh and SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar.Deshpande said, “A student coming to study at any university or college is a future voter after he/she completes 18 years of age. To create awareness about voting and democracy SVEEP programmes need to be held. At the university level various programmes should be had, right from creating voting awareness in the university, to active participation of NSS students. Also, start a certificate or credit-based course.”District collector Deshmukh said, “As part of voter awareness programme in the state, we are going to take several programmes and courses for university students which would start soon. We had a very good discussion with the university officials. SPPU is one of the prominent universities in the country and we are happy to tie up with them.”SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Karmalkar said, “We are the only state university whom the state election commission officials have approached for the SVEEP programme. We have advanced technology and the capability to give the best to students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chief-electoral-officer-wants-sppu-to-start-certificate-course-on-elections-voting-101628528356079.html
09-08-2021||Other||Students oppose merger of journalism dept with media & communication studies||PUNE: Several former and current students on Monday met vice chancellor professor Nitin Karmalkar to oppose the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU’s) recent decision to merge the department of communication and journalism with the department of media and communication studies on campus while placing it under the faculty of interdisciplinary studies.After over 15 minutes of heated argument with the protesting students, student union leaders and student organisations, Karmalkar assured them of reviewing their demands based upon which further action would be taken.Karmalkar refused to comment further on the issue and said, “Today, we had a detailed discussion with the students and their organisational representatives. We have got their letter putting forth their demand and we will now study it. Accordingly within 15 days, further steps about the institute will be taken.”The SPPU last week issued a circular that read, “The department of communication and journalism has been merged with the department of media and communication studies and renamed as the department of communication, journalism and media studies and placed under the faculty of interdisciplinary studies.” Interestingly however, the circular was not published on the SPPU official website as is the case with other important circulars that are made available in the public domain.The department of communication and journalism is popularly known as the Ranade Institute and is located on Fergusson college road near Deccan gymkhana. Established in 1964, it is among the most renowned journalism departments in the country with several veteran journalists among its alumni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-oppose-merger-of-journalism-dept-with-media-communication-studies-101628528236007.html
09-08-2021||Lucknow||ABVP to launch ‘ek gaon, ek tiranga’ campaign in UP||Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the Rashtriya Swayam Sevak Sangh (RSS), will launch ’Ek gaon, ek tiranga’ (one village, one Tri-colour) campaign, marking the 75th Independence Day on August 15. On the occasion, the ABVP volunteers will also hoist the Tri-colour at more than 3000 places across Uttar Pradesh, ABVP office-bearers said. ABVP has also set up a committee at the state and district level to give shape to this campaign. ABVP secretary Ankit Shukla said, “Celebrating the 75th Independence Day is a matter of great pride and, therefore, the ABVP has announced initiatives that also connect the common public and students with this festival of Independence.” Numerous programmes will be conducted at the birthplaces of freedom fighters, revolutionaries and to commemorate their sacrifices ABVP will take out a ‘’shobha yatra” too. The ABVP too would complete its 75 years in 2023 and to celebrate the occasion, a series of programmes have been launched. These include ‘Ritumati campaign’ to create awareness about menstrual hygiene and distribution of sanitary pads in rural areas and “Parishad ki Pathshala” – a campaign aimed at educating rural illiterates. At the ABVP’s national executive in Bhopal on August 1, the organisation’s national general secretary Nidhi Tripathi had announced yearlong activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/abvp-to-launch-ekr-gaon-ek-tiranga-campaign-in-up-101628528176674.html
09-08-2021||Other||Fire brigade rescue for 14-year-old stuck on third-floor grill||PUNE Officials of the fire brigade rescued a 14-year-old girl who fell from the terrace of a four-storied building in Shukrawar peth, and got stuck on the grill of a flat located on the third floor.The incident happened at 11:30am on Monday, when the girl had gone to the terrace to dry her hair, according to fire brigade officials. The girl is a Class 10 student and lives with her parents on the top floor of the building. The terrace above their house had concrete railings.“Her parents told us that she had washed her hair and had gone upstairs to dry it. They said she slipped and fell to the third floor of the building. She was standing on a grill where she landed. She was shaking and frozen due to fear,” said fire brigade official Sachin Mandavkar of the central fire station. Fire officials tethered a saree to a house on the fourth floor and used a ladder to reached the grill where the girl was stranded. The girl climbed down to safety. The incident was captured on video by onlookers. The rescue lasted for about 15-20 minutes, according to Mandavkar. Officials of Khadak police station were informed about the incident||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-brigade-rescue-for-14-year-old-stuck-on-third-floor-grill-101628527998399.html
09-08-2021||Other||‘Mad’ about murder: 2 held, 5 on the run in Pimpri||PUNE Two men have been arrested while at least five others are on the run from the Pimpri- Chinchwad police for the murder of a man who retaliated to being called “mad” by the assailants. The murder was committed around 3pm last Thursday in Milind nagar area of Pimpri, and registered on Sunday. The now-deceased man is suspected to be a mental- illness patient and was at a social gathering when the men started calling him “mad”, according to the complainant. Police are verifying medical documents in the case.The deceased man was identified as Manoj Raju Kasbe (25), while the complaint in the matter was lodged by his mother Pushpa Raju Kasbe (50), residents of Milind nagar in Pimpri.The two arrested were identified as Kalya alias Sachin Nikalje (40), and Shaukat Samir Shaikh (32), also residents of Milind nagar in Pimpri.“They are in police custody till Friday. His mother has told us that he had a mental illness. However, she is in no condition to provide the documentary evidence for it yet,” said inspector (crime) Badesab Naikawade, who is investigating the case.The deceased man is survived by his mother and brother.On Thursday, the group of men had called Manoj “mad” after which Manoj had retaliated verbally saying, he was not mad, according to the complaint.However, the men persisted on calling him mad which enraged the now-deceased man who took a wooden stick and started hitting them.The men then retaliated by ganging up on him with chairs, hockey sticks, stumps, and bamboos, causing grievous injuries to him, according to the police.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), rioting of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mad-about-murder-2-held-5-on-the-run-in-pimpri-101628527997834.html
09-08-2021||Other||Fake pharmacist promises anti-fungal drug, cheats man of Rs80,000||PUNE: A man from Ahmednagar duped a man from Thergaon of Rs80,000 by posing as a pharmacist who could provide an anti-fungal drug for Mucor Mycosis, a fungal infection seen in patients who have recovered from covid-19. He has been booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police after Tejesh Tanaji Andhare, 28, a resident of Thergaon, Pune, lodged a complaint in the matter.The accused man has been identified as Jaysingh alias Jayesh Kalyan Dole, a resident of Pimplekhed road in Arangaon, Jamkhed, Ahmednagar, according to the police. He is yet to be arrested.In May, Andhare was in need of an injection for a Mucor Mycosis patient and Dole, pretending to be one Panchal from Atik Private Limited, a pharmaceuticals company, promised to provide Andhare with Amphotericin-B, a drug used to treat Mucor Mycosis, for Rs80,000. On May 16 at around 11.15am, Andhare made a UPI transaction, transferring the said amount to Dole. Thereafter Dole disappeared, as per the complaintA case under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Wakad police station. Police sub-inspector S Jagtap of Wakad police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-pharmacist-promises-anti-fungal-drug-cheats-man-of-rs80000-101628527996677.html
09-08-2021||Other||Man in surgery after shots fired at car near Shivane graveyard||A man with a criminal record was shot at six times by a group of unidentified men who were following him on motorbikes on Sunday.The injured has been was identified as Kedar Bhalshankar (24), a resident of Warje Malwadi.Bhalshankar was travelling in a car with two other friends when a group of men on four bikes began following them.“They started following from Lande city. After crossing Nanded City, near the Shivane graveyard, they fired the first shot. They kept on firing at intervals until we reached the NDA road. One of the bullets went through the seat and hit the injured man’s spine. He is undergoing surgery,” said sub-inspector Ganesh Mane of Uttamnagar police station, who registered the case.The 24-year-old is undergoing surgery at a private hospital in Deccan, while the police are on a lookout for the assailants.The injured man’s friends went to Warje Malwadi police station to lodge a complaint, but the case was eventually registered at Uttamnagar police station.The police have retrieved CCTV footage from a few cameras along the route where the shots were fired.A case under Section 307 (attempted murder), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with relevant sections of the Arms Act has been registered at Uttamnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-in-surgery-after-shots-fired-at-car-near-shivane-graveyard-101628527997238.html
09-08-2021||Other||Speeding motorists killed in collision along Solapur highway||PUNE: Two persons riding separately were killed after their vehicles collided as one tried to overtake the other in the Wanowrie area of Pune in the evening on Saturday.The deceased riders have been identified as Mohammad Kaif Mohsin Shaikh, 20, a resident of Sayyad nagar in Hadapsar and Prasad Ramkrushna Rajam, 26, a resident of Shantinagar in Wanowrie, according to the police.Shaikh was riding a TVS Access scooter while Rajam was on a KTM motorbike, the police said. Rajam tried to overtake Shaikh along the Solapur highway when Shaikh took a turn without indicating the same, leading to a collision between the speeding vehicles near the Bhairoba nala police outpost at around 8.30pm. Rajam’s motorbike rammed into Shaikh’s scooter and Shaikh died on the spot while Rajam succumbed to his injuries at Sassoon hospital.The complainant in the case, hawaldar Sachin Pawar said, “Both of them were without helmets and both suffered head injuries. Rajam was alive so we rushed him to Sassoon but he succumbed to his injuries at the hospital. The traffic there started building up so we simply cleared it and the senior officers took over.” Police sub-inspector Bholenath Ahivale of Wanowrie police station is investigating the case.A case under sections 304(a) and 279 of the Indian Penal Code along with sections 119/177 and 184 of the Motor Vehicles Act has been registered against the deceased riders at the Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/speeding-motorists-killed-in-collision-along-solapur-highway-101628527995919.html
09-08-2021||Other||Between June 1 and August 9, Pune district has reported 28 per cent excess rainfall||PUNE Between June 1 and August 9, Pune district has reported 28 per cent excess rainfall. However, in August, the district has reported a 61 per cent deficit owing to a break in the southwest monsoon. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), rainfall activity will only resume after August 15.As per the weather department, Pune city, between June 1 and August 9 reported a 6.1 mm deficiency in rainfall. The city had received good rainfall in July. However, the second dry spell is likely to further increase the deficiency. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that eastern end of the monsoon trough continues to run close to the foothills of theHimalayas, while western end runs north of its normal position. “The entire monsoon trough is likely to shift close to foothills of the Himalayas by August 11, causing a weak monsoon spell over the country from August 10. A cyclonic circulation lies over east Uttar Pradesh and extends to the mid-tropospheric levels,” said Kashyapi.He added that rainfall activity is likely to be reduced in Maharashtra.“Subdued rainfall very likely over the rest of the plains of northwest India (Punjab, Haryana, West Rajasthan) and most parts of peninsular India, including Maharashtra and Gujarat,” said Kashyapi.He added that there is no warning for subdivisions in Maharashtra till August 13.“Marathwada, Vidarbha and Madhya (central) Maharashtra will have isolated, very light rainfall till August 13. During this time, rainfall is likely to be widespread in Konkan and Goa. However, intense or heavy rainfall spells are unlikely in the state till August 13,” said Kashyapi.The weather department has forecast that Pune city is likely to witness very light to light rainfall till August 15.“Partly cloudy skies with light rainfall are likely in the city till August 15. Day temperature may touch 31 degrees Celsius this week. However, night temperature is likely to be pleasant at 27 degrees Celsius,” said Kashyapi.According to data from IMD, Maharashtra state has received 10 per cent excess rainfall with 698 mm, between June 1 and August 9. Whereas, Madhya Maharashtra during the same time has received 20 per cent excess rainfall. Vidarbha has received two per cent deficiency rainfall, and Konkan and Goa have received 31 per cent excess rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/between-june-1-and-august-9-pune-district-has-reported-28-per-cent-excess-rainfall-101628527815928.html
09-08-2021||Other||Woman killed, girl injured due to lightning in Bihar’s Kaimur district||A woman was killed while a girl was critically injured due to lightning at Mokaram village under Bhagwanpur police station limits of Kaimur district on Monday, police said.The deceased was identified as Malati Devi (33). The injured girl was admitted to Sadar Hospital at Bhabua.Station house officer Rakesh Kumar Roshan said the body was sent to district hospital for postmortem examination. “Officials concerned have been informed for compensation and other help according to government rules,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-killed-girl-injured-due-to-lightning-in-bihar-s-kaimur-district-101628527757171.html
09-08-2021||Other||PMC floats tender for environment assessment of tunnel project||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will conduct a pre-feasibility and environment impact assessment (EIA) of a four-km tunnel that will link Pashan, Panchavati and Kothrud. The PMC, on Monday, floated a tender for for the same.The project was announced in 2017, to ease traffic problems on Paud road, Senapati Bapat road and in the Shivajinagar area. A few months ago, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar asked for work on the project to go faster.Currently, the distance from Kothrud to Pashan is eight-and-a-half kilometres, via Chandni chowk; the same distance via Senapati Bapat road is nine-and-a-half kilometres. When the tunnel is complete, this distance will be four km. The distance from Pashan road to Gokhalenagar is four-and-a-half kilometres and with the tunnel, the same distance will be 2.9km. The length of the tunnel from Kothrud to Panchavati will be 1,090m, while the Panchavati to Gokhalenagar section of the tunnel will be 580m. Indrabhan Randive, executive engineer, PMC project department, said, “The project will pass over a hill, as well as a forest area. Because of the environment aspects, PMC has decided to carry out the pre-feasibility and EIA.”“The consultant will have to conduct a topographical survey and aerial survey. At present, we have the NOC from the central and state government agencies, such as the Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE), National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), forest department, and the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-floats-tender-for-environment-assessment-of-tunnel-project-101628527755934.html
09-08-2021||Other||Fine for illegal felling of tree now ₹1 lakh||PUNE The state government, on Friday, issued an order amending the Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, 1975, to increase the fine for illegal felling of a tree from ₹5,000 to ₹1 lakh. The amendment also includes the classification of trees 50-years old or older as “heritage”. Other notable changes to the act are an increase in the number of trees to be planted in lieu for a tree that has been cut down and to plant native trees under expert guidance.The amendment has proposed making it mandatory to plant a trees equivalent to the age of the one cut down for development work. All trees should be by geo-tagged and the amendment has also proposed a census of trees every five years. Any permission for felling 200 trees or more has to be sought from the Maharashtra State Tree Authority. Ashoka Ghorpade, chief superintendent, PMC garden department, said,”State has made provisions in the Tree act to increase the fine to ₹1 lakh. It is a very important amendment which will help stop the illegal cutting of trees in urban areas.”The amendment also states that land owned by a local authority or by the government must be earmarked for plantation of trees, with the objective to preserve local species and improve green cover to the extent of not less than 33 per cent.Highlights of amendments to Tree Act* Conduct tree census every five years using new technology, such as GIS * New trees planted in the lieu of permission to fell a tree shall be geo-tagged and monitored using latest technologies available* Plant trees of same variety or local or native variety and of same age of tree cut down* Ensure compensatory plantation is carried out in all lands under jurisdiction of urban local authority* Ensure compensatory plantation for each naturally fallen tree is carried out by urban local authority||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fine-for-illegal-felling-of-tree-now-1-lakh-101628526615870.html
09-08-2021||Other||Vadgaon Budruk residents see red over trimming of trees||PUNE Residents of Shelke nagar, Vadgaon Budruk, have objected to the trimming of six trees near Paujai temple - two of which are 20-year-old – claiming that the builder pruned them for the upcoming construction of a new housing society without taking the necessary permission.Akshay Waghela, a resident, said, “We objected when a few people came to trim the trees stating that they had the necessary permission to do so while we got it confirmed from the tree inspector that they did not have permission.”Balasaheb Chavan, tree officer from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said, “We are getting more details on the incident. The tree falls under corporation land and one needs to take permission for trimming. We will make sure no other trees are cut or trimmed in this locality without permission.”Ravikant Waghchoure, a tree activist from the locality, said, “Such trimming only for the sake of housing society construction work should not be allowed. The branches of two of the trees were providing shade to so many in the neighbourhood.”The builder was not available for comment however the caretaker of the housing society said, “Permission was taken to trim the trees. Only a few branches were cut.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vadgaon-budruk-residents-see-red-over-trimming-of-trees-101628526435860.html
09-08-2021||Ranchi||Socio-economic reasons behind spread of Maoism in tribal areas, says Kariya Munda||Calling for introspection and research behind reasons for lack of development and mainstreaming of tribes across the country, former Union minister and veteran BJP leader Kariya Munda on Monday underlined that socio-economic reasons and not political causes are behind the spread of Maoism in tribal-dominated areas.The veteran tribal leader, who represented the reserved Khunti Lok Sabha seat seven times, was addressing the inaugural lecture on the occasion of World Indigenous People’s Day organised by Central University of Jharkhand in Ranchi. “The governments, policy makers and academia need to ponder and come out with answers over why tribal population could not be mainstreamed in past 75 years. Why real development did not reach tribal pockets? And this has not been a case in India only but also across the world. We need to find solutions to these problems and then only these kind of events would have any meaning,” said Munda, who was conferred the Padma Bhushan by the Narendra Modi goverment in 2019.The former deputy speaker of Lok Sabha further said that lack of developement helps “anti-social groups in influencing the youth” in joining their cadres. “The reality is that it’s not politics but socio-economic reasons that pushes tribals towards Maoism. Their settlement areas lack in basic development and opportunities, and when interest groups brainwash them with benefits, they join such forces,” said Munda. Deliberating on the way forward, Munda said while the academia need to research and come out with solutions, those in governance need to change their approach in implementation of schemes. “The current approach is target-oriented, while it should be result-oriented. For example, Swachh Bharat Mission scheme. Several districts were declared open defecation free, but the reality is that many toilets in rural areas did not last. The roads and bridges get washed away within a year of construction. So, every well-meaning person will have to ponder and contribute if we want to uplift the tribals,” said Munda. Speaking on the occasion, KB Das, who recently took over the charge of CUJ vice-chancellor, underlined that tribal lifestyle that is more sustainable. “There are around 500 million tribals across 90 countries. Out of that, 100 million live in India. The value system and living in consonance with nature and their indigenous wisdom has in fact given us a new model of sustainable development,” said Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/socioeconomic-reasons-behind-spread-of-maoism-in-tribal-areas-says-kariya-munda-101628526018004.html
09-08-2021||Other||Admin to appoint nodal officers to expedite work on oxygen plants in district||PUNE In order to expedite the installation of oxygen plants at public hospitals, Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar stated that nodal officers from municipal corporations and the district administration will be appointed to follow up. Until Aug 4, of 50 proposed oxygen generation plants, 19 have been installed at the various public hospitals in the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune rural. According to district officials, 34 more oxygen plants are in the pipeline. “In the second wave, we had to bring medical oxygen to Pune district from other states. In the third wave we shouldn’t have to do that. We should be able to produce medical oxygen as per our requirement. Now a total of 19 oxygen generations plants have become operational in the district. Of these 19 plants, eight are in PMC, eight are in rural areas and three are in PCMC,” said Ajit Pawar on Sunday, following the Covid review meeting. As 34 more oxygen generation plants are proposed, Pawar announced that the civic and district administration would take steps to expedite their installation process. “These 34 plants will soon be operational. We decided that a representative of the administration would follow up on work at the site,” said Ajit Pawar. Ravindra Binwade, additional municipal commissioner, PMC, said that by Monday evening the civic body would finalise the five 5 proposed plants where nodal officers would be appointed. “There are five proposed oxygen generation plants in PMC. We have appointed two nodal officers for four of them. The assistant health officers of PMC have been given this additional responsibility. Each one will look after for two plants,” said Binwade||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/admin-to-appoint-nodal-officers-to-expedite-work-on-oxygen-plants-in-district-101628526016548.html
09-08-2021||Other||Floodwaters from Ganga engulf villages, locals told to relocate||Floodwaters have entered hundreds of villages located near the banks of River Ganga, which continued to flow above the danger level (DL) on its course from Buxar to Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur on Monday. Locals’ miseries in state capital Patna have burgeoned further, as gushing currents of rivers Sone and Punpun engulfed fresh areas of diara and low-lying villages along its course. Hundreds of families of Nakta diara and Bindtoli in Patna have already shifted to safer places after their houses were completely submerged with floodwaters of Ganga. A senior officer of water resources department said those living along the banks of Ganga have been asked to evacuate fast, as the river has been maintaining a rising trend. Ganga was reported flowing around one metre above the DL at Gandhi Ghat in Patna, 33cm above DL at Buxar, 88cm at Hathidah and 73cm at Kahalgaon. Punpun was flowing around 50cm above the DL at Sripalpur. Sone was flowing above the DL at Maner. In Bhojpur district, dozens of villages have been disconnected from the district headquarters, as floodwaters from Ganga and Sone inundated a vast stretch of land. Standing crops and vegetables on the land along the rivers have also been washed away. The rising water from Ganga is also threatening to disrupt traffic on Ara-Buxar road, which is barely a few feet above the turbulent water. Executive engineer of Ara flood control department, Shambhu Kumar, said that the DL of Ganges is 53.08m, but on Monday, it reached up to 53.78m. “River Ganga has crossed the DL. The department and administration is keeping a strict watch,” he said. The floodwaters have also started to reach in dozens of villages spread over Barhara, Shahpur, Ara, Udwantnagar, Bihiya and Koilwar blocks, with Barhara block being the worst affected. Barhara CO (circle officer) Ram Bachan Ram said three boats have been pressed into service in the affected areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/floodwaters-from-ganga-engulf-villages-locals-told-to-relocate-101628525776322.html
09-08-2021||Patna||Snag in billing server affects 15 lakh consumers in Bihar||Around 15 lakh power consumers, across 35 districts of Bihar, including those in Patna, have neither received their energy bills for the previous month nor are they able to pay their bills already generated, following a technical snag in one of the two post-paid billing servers of the north and south Bihar power distribution companies in the state.The problem, which cropped up on July 30 in the SAP billing server of the two discoms in Patna, would take at least another four days to be rectified, said power officials.The technical snag has affected spot-billing of energy bills and online payment either through the “Bihar Bijli Bill Pay”, discoms’ mobile application, or online mode.The snag has affected at least 5-6 lakh consumers under the North Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited (NBPDCL) and 10-12 lakh consumers in the South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited (SBPDCL) across 63 towns in 35 districts, excluding Muzaffarpur, Gaya and Bhagalpur, said officials.Consumers, whose energy bills of the previous month had been generated, have not been able to make the payment due to the snag. This will pinch the consumers as they would not only lose the rebate, which the discoms extend for timely payment of energy bills, but also have to pay delayed payment surcharge (DPS) for payment after the due date. The discoms are yet to take a decision on waiver of DPS on energy bills in this case, rued consumers.However, the NBPDCL, on a contingency basis, has initiated door-to-door collection of the power bill.“We have extended the door-to-door collection of payment for energy bills even in urban areas. Earlier, this arrangement was confined only to rural areas, but following the snag in the server, we have extended the facility even to urban areas,” said an officer who requested anonymity.“This will facilitate payment of consumers whose bills have already been generated,” he added.Efforts to reach the top brass in the Bihar State Power Holding Company and the two discoms proved futile. Sanjeevan Sinha, managing director, SBPDCL, and Arvind Kumar, SBPDCL general manager (revenue) did not respond to phone calls or text messages.“We are trying to recover our server. We will let you know once it has been done,” said Chaturbhuj Mishra, chief data-based administrator of the SBPDCL, before he hung up.Box:Consumers across 63 towns in 35 districts, excluding Muzaffarpur, Gaya and Bhagalpur have been affectedSnag affected 5-6 lakh consumers under NBPDCL It affected 10-12 lakh consumers under SBPDCL .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/snag-in-billing-server-affects-15-lakh-consumers-in-bihar-101628525656426.html
09-08-2021||Patna||Nitish reiterates demand for caste census, says it’s in interest of all||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday once again reiterated his demand for caste census, saying it would be in the interest of the country and it was for the Centre to decide. “I have always been advocating it for a long time. My letter has also reached the prime Minister on August 4 itself in this regard,” he said, after his weekly “Janata ke durbar me mukhyamantri” programme to listen to people’s problems directly and address them. “If the PM gives time, we will also meet him. Other states are also discussing it. Our MPs also wanted to meet PM, but they were asked to meet the home minister and they met and presented their views,” he said. Kumar said only the Centre could decide on a caste-based census . “If we have to do it, it will be counting, not Census to get information. Census is done only at the national level. Some states have done it at their level. Karnataka did it. If we have to decide on caste census in Bihar, we will do it later after discussing. But we want it to be done at the national level so that it happens across the country,” he said. The last caste census was done in 1931, as per which backward castes consisted of 51.3%population in the state.In 2017, the Centre had set up Justice Rohini Commission, which favoured sub-categorisation of reservation for other backward castes (OBCs) in the government sector by splitting 27% quota into different categories of OBCs for equitable distribution of benefits among different sub-castes. After several extensions, it submitted its report, dividing 2633 OBC sub-castes in the central list into four sub-categories with 2%, 6%, 9% and 10% quota to add up to 27%. Before that, in 2011, socio-economic and caste census was done in 2011, though caste data could never be made public due to several discrepancies. To date, Census only makes count of population based on religion and of SC/ST population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-reiterates-demand-for-caste-census-says-it-s-in-interest-of-all-101628525536555.html
09-08-2021||Patna||Munger minor’s killing: 4 arrested, police say a case of ‘human sacrifice’||An eight-year-old girl, whose mutilated body was found on the banks of the Ganga in Bihar’s Munger district on August 5, was killed allegedly as part of a human sacrifice ritual devised by a local mystic, police said on Monday.The victim’s parents rejected the allegation and said that their daughter was raped and killed. An autopsy has ruled out rape. Police have arrested four people and charged them with kidnapping (Section 363 of the IPC) and murder (Section 302) .Munger superintendent of police (SP) JJ Reddy told reporters that Parvez Alam, who claims to be a tantric, told local villager Dilip Kumar Choudhary that he needed to sacrifice a girl to avert the possibility of his pregnant wife’s miscarriage.Choudhury, who was present at the press conference and is one of the four accused, said he had four children -- two sons and two daughters -- but wanted a fifth. He said he got in touch with Alam, a resident of Khagaria district.Alam, Choudhury claimed, asked for the eye of 10-year-old boy or a girl so that he could prepare an amulet for the woman “consecrated” with the blood and eyes of a minor. “We committed the crime on the instigation of Alam,” said the main accused, Dilip to police.The other two arrested accused people are Tanvir Alam and Dasrath Kumar who allegedly were accomplices of Alam and Choudhury, police said.The girl, a student of class 3, went missing on the evening of August 4 and her mutilated body was found on the banks of Ganga the next day.According to police, Choudhary, Tanvir and Dasrath assembled near a brick kiln and caught the girl when she was returning home after delivering lunch to her father, who is a fisherman.A complaint was lodged on August 4 evening when she did not reach home. Her body was found the next morning.The three dragged her inside the brick kiln and thrashed her before strangulating her and gouging her right eye. Her body also bore injury marks, giving rise to initial suspicion that she was raped, police said.The SP said police recovered bloodstained cloth and a pendant and sent it for forensic examination. “The medical board report did not confirm rape,” said Reddy.The police earlier detained 12 people in the case but all were freed after questioning. Alam was arrested from his home at Khagaria after Dilip Choudhary confessed to his crime.The girl’s mother and father trashed the police theory, claiming their child was raped before being killed.. “Police have cooked up a story. We need justice,” the father said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/munger-minor-s-killing-4-arrested-police-say-a-case-of-human-sacrifice-101628524696427.html
09-08-2021||Other||SGPC panel to probe removal of Kakars of Sikh candidates before exam||Amritsar The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has formed a committee to probe the incident of forcing Sikh candidates to remove Kakars (required articles of Sikh faith) before an exam for the recruitment of patwaris that the Punjab Government held at a college in Sector 32, Chandigarh.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “It is unfortunate that the sentiments of Gursikh candidates were hurt during the examination. The perpetrators of this objectionable act should be severely punished.”She added that SGPC had formed a panel under the leadership of general secretary, advocate Bhagwant Singh Sialka. SGPC executive committee members Ajmer Singh Khera, Amrik Singh Shahpur, and SGPC member Gurcharan Singh Grewal are also on the panel.Sialka said, “It is a serious matter as Sikh candidates were mentally harassed during the tests. The probe will start soon. I appeal to the aggrieved Sikh candidates to approach the SGPC so that the culprits could be punished.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpcpanel-to-probe-removal-of-kakars-of-sikh-candidates-before-exam-101628524036312.html
09-08-2021||Bangalore||Fight master of Kannada movie electrocuted during shoot in Bengaluru||A 35-year-old fight master was electrocuted on Monday while performing a stunt for a Kannada movie near a high tension wire in Ramanagara district, police said.The director and a few others have been detained for questioning in connection with the incident, police further said.Vivek was performing the stunt for the film 'Love you Rachchu' and standing on a crane near an 11-KV electric wire at Joganapalya village in the district.Somehow a metal wire came in contact with the wire and he got electrocuted, police said. They added that Vivek was rushed to the Rajarajeshwari Medical College and Hospital in Bengaluru where the doctors declared him dead.The hero of the movie Ajay Rao told reporters that he was away from the spot as he was not part of the scene that was shot.In 2016, two actors performing stunts drowned after jumping from a helicopter into the Thippagondanahalli reservoir while shooting for a movie 'Mastigudi' on the city outskirts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/fight-master-of-kannada-movie-electrocuted-during-shoot-in-bengaluru-101628523316449.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Zero waste kitchen: reduce, reuse, recycle||With the global pandemic bringing many changes in our life, many individuals are moving towards more responsible and sustainable food practices. Hence in an attempt to embrace the thriftiness and cut down on food wastage, the notion of zero waste kitchen is gaining popularity and finding more takers. “Wastage at the kitchen can be lowered through a variety of options, such as – buying local and seasonal fruits and vegetables, reducing, reusing, recycling, and proper planning and execution of both raw materials and food scraps and leftovers. I was encouraged to come up with recipes and menus to work on the concept. We have been conscious of reducing carbon footprints from all our kitchens from recycling waste and peels, to innovative recipes to ensure a sustainable and zero waste kitchens,” says Madhumita Mohanta, executive chef, The Lalit Great Eastern Kolkata.The term zero waste may sound intimidating but it is technically just a shift of habit – from buying to storage, from finishing food to recycling leftovers. “Each and everything can be used. It is the awareness which is important to ensure zero wastage. Potatoes are a commonly used vegetable in Indian kitchens. Its peels can be converted into an awesome pakoras or bhajiya. Crush the peels with garlic, chilies, fresh green coriander and seasoning. Dip in a light batter and fry. For beetroots, roast the peel and create a powder. If stored well, it can be used for a long duration. One can also make an aromate out of the same with beetroot peel garam masala. Raw banana peel can be used for chutney, watermelon skin for tutti frutti,” says chef Nishant Choubey.Moreover, adapting such practices cab also help gain more nutrition from your everyday food as there are many vegetables and fruits whose skin have nutritious value. “Potato skin contains B vitamins, vitamin C, iron, calcium, potassium and other nutrients. It gives crunchiness to the dish. There are many other fruits and vegetables which should be consumed with skin for the nutritious value. Most peels contain fiber, vitamins and minerals in them,” says Mohanta.On order to achieve zero waste kitchen, one can start with simple methods such as reducing the usage of plastic. Carry bags and jars while shopping. Super markets are convenient but the packaged food means a lot of waste. Buy fresh. “Introduce compost bin in your homes. Reuse vegetable and fruit peel for garnishing or some healthy recipes. Try eating whole foods and avoid packaged food. In case of gatherings, pass on the leftovers to NGOs or distribute it to the people who are in need,” says Mohanta. Even while preparing non-vegetarian food, one can use the leftovers. “If you are left with chicken/mutton pieces, grind it, add leftover daal and convert them into sumptuous Shami kebabs. Hari Mirch Keema can be made out of minced mutton Koftas. One can use gosht keema to fill bottle guards and believe you me they taste nostalgia. Prepare Yakhni with leftover mutton bones and then relish Yakhni pulao,” says Shazia Bukhari, culinary expert from Sheikh Shack.You would be surprised to know the fruit waste can be used to make disinfectant and soaps. “Our juice centre in Bangalore is a waste engineering centre. Our purpose has always been to engineer the waste. We do waste segregation and use separate bins to keep fruit pulp, skin peel, seed and other waste. Similarly, there is a collection bin only for citrus peels. We make bio enzymes out of all the citrus peels and use them to sanitize the place. As a result we do not buy any chemical disinfectants. The pulp from filtered fruit waste is used to make fruit soaps and use banana leaves, areca leaves and many other natural leaves to package these natural soaps. We are also exploring the idea of using seeds to make jewellery,” says Anand Raj, founder of Eat Raja, zero waste juice bar. Potato peels HalwaIngredients:KhowaSugarLeftover Potato peelsCashewAlmondsRaisinsGheeCardamom powderSilver leaf to decorateMethod:Cut almond into fine slicesGrate 50 gm Khowa, coarselyCut into thick julienne of 4 big potato peelsDeep fry 20 gms raisins and cashew nuts and keep asideWith the sugar, make syrup of one stringTake two cups of water in a heavy bottom container and bring to boil Put 1 bay leaf and a pinch of cardamom powderOnce it imparts aroma, add the potato peels and simmer for 5 - 7 minutes, until 40% doneStrain the water and spread the peels on a kitchen towel and let if dryHeat 2 tbls of ghee in that container, and once it’s a bit hot, add the boiled and dried peels, fry till it gets a brown tintAdd half cup of warm water and allow to simmerSlowly add 1/2 cup sugar syrup and incorporateCook this until the potato peels get a halwa consistencySlowly add the grated khowa, cardamom powder, fried dry fruits and mix wellServe hot or set in a tray, cool it down n cut in barfi shape and relishRecipe by chef Madhumita Mohanta||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/zero-waste-kitchen-reduce-reuse-recycle-101628523503602.html
09-08-2021||Other||17 suspected Covid patients off the radar, Kushinagar admn launches manhunt||LUCKNOW The administration in east UP’s Kushinagar district launched a manhunt to trace 17 suspected Covid patients, who were missing after their samples tested positive for Covid-19 in the RT-PCR test conducted at the government laboratory. Eleven employees, including laboratory staff, members of the village surveillance committee and staff posted at healthcare centres were suspended for dereliction of duty, said the district health department officer. On Saturday, samples of 20 people of Ramkola, Hata and Padrauna blocks in the district tested positive in the laboratory. Teams were deputed to trace these people for treatment, contact tracing and test others in the village, said Dr Suresh Pataria, chief medical officer (CMO), Kushinagar. While the cell phones of 17 people were found switched off, samples of three had been collected for re-test at the laboratory at Baba Raghav Das Medical College, Gorakhpur. During probe, it was found that the health workers, who collected the samples, had mentioned wrong addresses of the suspected positive cases. The teams sent by the district administration could not trace these suspected Covid patients on the addresses mentioned in health department records. Besides, the laboratory staff destroyed the samples of the 17 people, whereas it’s mandatory for the lab to store samples of positive cases. “There has been negligence in duty on part of members of the surveillance committee as well as the staff posted at the health centres in the three blocks,” he added. The district health department sent a report to the state health and family welfare department over the issue recommending strict action against the 11 employees, said the CMO. The health and family welfare department officer was monitoring the issue and the CMO had been directed to submit a report on the issue. In the last 24 hours, UP reported 23 fresh Covid cases while one person succumbed to the infection. There were 570 active cases in the state, of which 352 were in home isolation. “In the last 24 hours, 43 people have recovered, taking the total recovered data to 16,85,449. Even after decline in Covid cases, the surveillance teams are visiting villages and localities to survey households, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare. 7 fresh cases in Gkp village, alert soundedSeven fresh Covid cases were detected in Balua village in Campeerganj area of Gorakhpur district on Monday. Five of these were members of a family, including children in the 1-2 years age group. CMO (Gorakhpur) Dr Sudhakar Pandey said an alert had been sounded in the area and teams were dispatched for contact tracing. The samples of these people were collected at Dhani community health centre in Maharajaganj district. “We are in contact with the Maharajganj district health department to collect the details of the positive people,” he said. The district health department will gather information on the travel history of these Covid patients and their samples will be sent to the BRD Medical College, Gorakhpur for retest in the laboratory. Medical officer of Dhani CHC, Dr Neeraj Singh said the samples of 314 people were collected for RT-PCR and antigen test and seven of these tested positive for Covid. These people are under surveillance. Health teams have distributed medical kits and a contact tracing drive has been launched in villages of Gorakhpur- Maharajganj districts, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/17-suspected-covid-patients-off-the-radar-kushinagar-admn-launches-manhunt-101628521396355.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Parents’ consent, staggered time among SOPs for students visiting Delhi schools||The Delhi government on Monday issued guidelines and Covid-19 protocol to be followed by students of Classes 10, 11 and 12 and schools, including health and safety norms and staggered timing, as they can now go to schools. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday allowed these students to visit schools for admission and board examination related activities. “Students of class 10 to 12 are permitted to visit their schools for admission related work including counselling/guidance and practical activities related to board exams,” DDMA said in its order on Sunday.Students in Delhi will have to get parents’ consent in writing, not share books and stationery and authorities will have to ensure sanitisation of schools and conduct thermal scanning, according to the guidelines issued by the directorate of education.Also read | DDMA allows students of classes 10, 11 and 12 to return to school"A written consent is to be obtained from the parents of all students who are willing to visit the school. In case going to school for health services related matter, the child should be accompanied by parents or guardian,” the directorate of education said in an order. "Online classes and digital distance learning shall continue and those students who wish to continue their studies through online classes shall be allowed to do so," it also said.Heads of school will have to make specific schedules according to the capacity of the classrooms and labs while following Covid-appropriate behaviour. "All required measures and precautions like social distancing, wearing face mask etc need to be observed by everyone at all times. Students may be guided not to share books, copies and stationery items etc," the department added.The department has directed that there will be thermal scanning of all staff and students before they enter the school premises and anyone having a cold, cough, fever or flu-like symptoms will not be allowed to attend the school.Also read | Govt to track EWS students in Delhi’s private schools online"Proper sanitisation of school premises, including frequent sanitisation of common areas like washrooms etc, shall be ensured. The head of schools should ensure that all the teachers and staff are vaccinated on priority," it said.Last month, the government said that auditoriums and assembly halls in schools and educational institutions can be used for training and meeting purposes with 50 per cent occupancy.Delhi schools and colleges have remained shut since March last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Offline classes for students in Classes 9 to 12 resumed briefly in the Capital between January and February but were once again suspended because of the fourth wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parents-consent-staggered-time-among-sops-for-students-visiting-delhi-schools-101628520283332.html
09-08-2021||Lucknow||Like Kakori martyrs, people should unite for self-reliant India, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday paid tribute to the martyrs of the Kakori train action in which a train was robbed by freedom fighters at Kakori on the outskirts of Lucknow on August 9, 1925 during the struggle for India’s independence.Irrespective of caste, colour and creed, people should stand united just like in the freedom movement and help in making “aatmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India), he said.The chief minister also said the Kakori train action was the perfect example of unity where bravehearts from different religions came together under the leadership of Ram Prasad Bismil and fought in the nation’s interest.“In the same way, taking a cue from such patriotic acts of bravery, we should stand united and help India in achieving the goal of aatmanirbhar Bharat. The Amrit Mahotsav that is being observed to commemorate the 75th anniversary of freedom is all about celebrating this unity. I appeal to people, irrespective of their religion and caste or occupation to work together, in their own capacities and in the nation’s interest, to help in building aatmanirbhar Bharat,” he said.The chief minister was speaking at a programme organised to mark the anniversary of the Kakori train action.The function was organised under the Chauri Chaura Mahotsav that the UP government is observing to mark the Chauri Chaura incident which is going to complete 100 years on February 4, 2022. The incident was reported on February 4, 1922, when a large group of protesters barged into a police station in Chauri Chaura town of Gorakhpur and set it on fire, killing 22 policemen during the freedom movement. Three civilians also died.The chief minister said the Chauri Chaura Mahotsav was all about paying tribute to the freedom fighters who laid down their lives for the country.“I believe that our country never bowed before the British government. At some point or places, there were regular incidents of retaliation. Be it the Chauri Chaura episode, the Kakori train action, the freedom fighters of Meerut or so on. It’s time to pay tribute to the brave freedom fighters and we assure all possible support to their family members,” he added.Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel appreciated Amrit Mahotsav and blamed previous governments for burying such events and for manipulating history.“I am thankful to PM for introducing Amrit Mahotsav and the UP government that played an important role in paying tribute to the freedom fighters and for highlighting their acts of bravery in order to make the present generation aware of their selfless contributions,” the governor said.She said people should shun casteism and imbibe patriotism.The event also witnessed various cultural programmes where students from different schools and colleges performed, highlighting the Kakori train action episode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/like-kakori-martyrs-people-should-unite-for-self-reliant-india-says-yogi-adityanath-101628520796052.html
09-08-2021||Other||Corridor for devotees to see construction of Ram temple||LUCKNOW The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has created a special corridor from where devotees can witness the ongoing construction work of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Work on the foundation of the temple is on and devotees had often expressed their desire to witness the construction. A wall in the western part of the temple has been demolished where an iron grill has been put up to enable devotees to witness the construction work, said office-bearers of the trust. At present, devotees are allowed to move only up to the makeshift temple on the Ram Janmabhoomi campus. This temple is just a few metres away from the main entrance gate. “Devotees in large numbers wanted to see the construction work of Ram mandir. Considering their request, the trust has decided to allow devotees to see the ongoing work of the temple,” said Champat Rai, general secretary, Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. The sanctum sanctorum of the Ram temple in Ayodhya will be opened for devotees to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla by the end of 2023. The temple on the 70-acre campus would be completed by the end of 2025, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corridor-for-devotees-to-see-construction-of-ram-temple-101628516896092.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu attacks Capt govt over inaction in STF reports on drugs||Chandigarh Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday hit out at his own party’s government over the delay in action on the special task force (STF) reports on drugs, stating that if these reports are not made public, he will move a resolution in the next assembly session. Sidhu, who has been critical of the state government headed by Capt Amarinder Singh on this issue, said that punishing the culprits behind drug trade was the priority of the Congress under the 18-point agenda. The party’s central leadership has a given a to-do list to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for implementation before next year’s assembly elections in the state. He also asked what action had been taken against SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia. In a series of tweets, the PPCC chief said that the STF headed by ADGP Harpreet Sidhu had in February 2018 filed a “status report” in Punjab and Haryana high court, investigating statements and evidence recorded by ED that were submitted before the court in case of Bikramjit Singh Majithia and others. “What investigation had Punjab police done? What action has Punjab govt taken? Must be brought into public domain. Since submission of reports, what further action did the state take in 2.5 years? Govt must make itself accountable to the public with complete transparency,” he posted on Twitter. Sidhu said that he held a press conference in 2018, asking the government to immediately act upon the information shared by STF with the court, after investigating into incriminating evidence produced before the court by the Enforcement Directorate. “The high court had asked the Punjab government to proceed as per law on the STF report. On May 23, 2019, the government filed before the court an opinion-cum-status report that still awaits the light of day in sealed envelope. After 2.5 years of delay, how much more the people of Punjab should wait,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-attacks-capt-govt-over-inaction-in-stf-reports-on-drugs-101628516115189.html
09-08-2021||Other||11 bank staff in Rampur booked for siphoning off ₹19 lakh from beneficiaries’ accounts||LUCKNOW Eleven employees of two branches of the district cooperative bank in Rampur were booked for allegedly siphoning off ₹19 lakh from the accounts of various beneficiaries of social welfare schemes initiated by the government.The bank management ordered a probe in all 29 branches in Rampur and suspended 13 employees following an internal investigation in the last fortnight. More FIRs could be lodged in the case as the internal inquiry progresses, said officials.“We have ordered an internal probe headed by branch managers in every branch to identify employees involved in the fraud. The management will take further action against employees found guilty of fraud,” said Harendra Kumar, assistant registrar, cooperatives, on Monday.The accused employees also committed fraud by issuing loans in the name of people who died in the second wave of Covid, he added.In July, it was found that officials and staff of at least two branches of the cooperative bank were involved in siphoning off money of beneficiaries. Subsequently, FIRs were lodged against bank officials at Ganj and Patwai police stations of Rampur. According to the police, the FIRs were lodged on the complaint of Sanjay Gupta, deputy general manager (finance and accounts ) of the cooperative bank. As many as 11 bank employees were accused of siphoning off around ₹19 lakh from the accounts of beneficiaries.According to the Rampur police, the cases were under investigation. After the FIRs, five accused employees of the bank branch in Patwai returned ₹12.5 lakh to the bank. Sansar Singh, ASP (Rampur), said: “The police have recorded the statements of the accused and are in the process of examining transactions details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-bank-staff-in-rampur-booked-for-siphoning-off-rs-19-lakh-from-beneficiaries-accounts-101628514255862.html
09-08-2021||Lucknow||Man held for administering other injections as Covishield in UP’s Varanasi||An employee of government primary health centre in Pindra, Varanasi, has been arrested for administering Dexona injection to several people instead of anti-Covid vaccine, said police on Monday. A police officer said the man, Mohan Lal, an employee of the Pindra PHC, also charged ₹20- ₹50 to administer the injection which he claimed was Covishield.The officer said the matter came to light when a local man, who did not wish to be identified, took the shot and asked Lal for a certificate of vaccination. Lal then allegedly threatened him.The officer said the man then got suspicious and reported the matter to them.Also Watch | PM talks to farmers, releases PM-KISAN instalment as Oppn backs anti-farm stirSenior sub inspector Sanjit Bahadur Singh reached the spot and recovered two ampoules of injections from Lal. Lal has been taken in custody and PHC medical officer in-charge Dr HC Maurya informed.Dr Maurya said, “The recovered vial was Dexona injection and the ampoule was of Ranitidine.” A Dexona injection in the treatment of some diseases, while Ranitidine is an antacid. Whether Lal was also administering Ranitidine to people is a matter of probe, said the police.A police complaint has been filed against Lal, Dr Mauya said. Police confirmed a case was filed under sections 268 (public nuisance) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread disease or infection) of Indian Penal Code and Section 15 (2) ( B) of the Indian Medical Council Act on the complaint by a health employee the PHC.Police said Lal has confessed he charged between ₹20 and ₹50 for administering the injection while claiming it was Covishield. Circle officer Abhishek Pandey confirmed it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-held-for-administering-other-injections-as-covishield-in-up-s-varanasi-101628514015680.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs 39 new Covid-19 infections, lowest active cases this year||Delhi recorded 39 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and one related fatality, taking the overall tally to 14,36,800 and the death toll has risen to 25,067, according to the health department’s bulletin on Monday. The bulletin showed that the Capital’s active caseload has come down to 498, which is the lowest so far this year. In the last 24 hours, the positivity rate was recorded at 0.08 per cent and 76 Covid-19 patients recovered during the same period, the bulletin also showed.Delhi on April 20 registered the biggest spike in daily cases of Covid-19 at 28,395 since the pandemic began last year and the city registered the highest ever positivity rate of 36.24 per cent on April 26.Also read | Covid-19: Delhi to implement colour-coded action plan with 'immediate effect'On Sunday, there were 66 Covid-19 cases and zero deaths—which was the fifth time the national capital did not see a single person succumbing to the coronavirus disease during the second wave of the pandemic. Before that, there were no deaths on August 4, August 2, July 18 and July 24.According to the health bulletin on Monday, 14,11,235 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi, case fatality rate stands at 1.74 per cent and positivity rate is now 5.92 per cent.Also read | Schools in Delhi to reopen partially from tomorrow for class 10, 12: DDMAA total of 46,447 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, which were comparatively less than those conducted on Sunday. Cumulatively, 24,268,783 tests to detect Covid-19 have been conducted in the national capital so far.As many as 1,06,86,612 people have been vaccinated in Delhi so far, out of which 11,099 were inoculated in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-39-new-covid-19-infections-lowest-active-cases-this-year-101628512167810.html
09-08-2021||Pune||Monday musings: Relaxations given, but has the MVA government learnt its lessons?||PUNE After a back-and-forth for over two weeks, Pune has been unlocked again with the rider that a rise in Covid positivity rate beyond 7% will result in all relaxations rolled back immediately without any notice. The announcement came on the day when Pune reported three cases of the Delta plus variant, known for spreading faster than other coronavirus variants. As part of relief from Monday, Pune, along with Pimpri-Chinchwad, will see timings for essential and non-essential services extended up to 8 pm, while hotels and restaurants can operate till 10pm. The most distinct element of this announcement by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar is that weekend lockdown has finally gone away. This will be second time within two months that the government has had to relax restrictions that were brought back in July, days after the second wave waned, though the danger of the Delta-plus variant persisted. However to be able to get relief, traders had to fought hard and resorted to defiance, keeping shops open past the stipulated deadline of 4pm for the past four days. The entire issue could have been handled by the government in a much better way. It highlighted multiple things - starting with lack of coordination, shrugging off responsibility, and an inconsistency at the policy level. Initially, citizens were told that the government will take a call, although health minister Rajesh Tope announced that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will decide on relaxations for Maharashtra, based on a proposal sent in by his department. The proposal, however, considered Pune city as part of the district, even as the government’s previous orders clearly considered Pune, PCMC and the rural parts as three separate administrative units. The government’s original directive, as Tope had explained, was areas with a positivity rate less than that of state average would get relief. This was not followed in the case of Pune city. So when traders began a civil disobedience movement in Pune defying the 4pm deadline, the government changed tack saying that if the local administration recommends relief, the government will consider it. The government did not apply the same rules to Mumbai or other places where relaxations were given. This was a readymade issue for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to lap up and target the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. When asked, Ajit Pawar’s response to this was – anyone when asked about Pune should say the guardian minister will decide in consultation with CM. His response indicated one thing: Pawar asserted his position by sending the message to others that he will take the final call on Pune. Three constituents (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) form the MVA government, and it has adopted a specific working method with decisions related to Pune and rest of the western Maharashtra largely taken by Ajit Pawar, while the chief minister has largely remained silent about issues here. Even during the peak of Covid (Pune saw two peaks during the first and second wave), Thackeray visited the city only once. The MVA also largely ignored its own notification related to different levels, the purpose of which was to offer relaxations or bring back curbs based on which level – between 1 to 5 –districts fall under. If the government is pro-decentralisation, why then it did not allow PMC to decide for itself, when the local body had recommended relaxations two week ago, and Pawar too, had agreed to it. Finally, the confusion and delay resulted in discontent among citizens and the business community. The government realised this and offered relief. The responsibility now rests on shop keepers, business establishments and citizens to adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour. Any laxity in following the norms can cost Pune dearly, especially when only 21 per cent of the population here has been vaccinated fully. At the current speed, it may take four more months for the district to vaccinate its population with both doses. Yogesh Joshi can be contacted at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-relaxations-given-but-has-the-mva-government-learnt-its-lessons-101628509575896.html
09-08-2021||Pune||Pune man killed for objecting to 'mad' remark, two held||A 25-year-old man was allegedly killed by seven people after he objected to them calling him "mad" in Pimpri Chinchwad township in Pune district of Maharashtra, police said on Monday, adding two persons have been arrested.According to the police, the accused attacked the man with bamboo sticks, stumps, and a chair in the Milind Nagar area on August 5. "The accused used to tease Manoj Kasbe and call him 'mad'. On Thursday, the accused started teasing him again. Despite Kasbe's objections, the jeering continued. Kasbe lost his cool and hit one of the men with a stick, following which they started beating him with a plastic chair, bamboo sticks, and stumps. Kasbe was seriously injured and died later," a police officer said. An FIR was registered under section 302 (Punishment for murder) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against seven people, he said, adding that two of them were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-man-killed-for-objecting-to-mad-remark-two-held-101628505089611.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Toy story: We carry a piece of childhood, innocence within||“Mere saare khilone kahan hain (Where are all my toys)?” exclaimed my son. “I can’t see any of mine either,” said my daughter, who had followed him into the room. I had been spring cleaning in autumn, giving away stuff, story books, building blocks, board games and stuffed toys. The things that, it now seemed, I had wrongly assumed they had outgrown. My kids were home on an overdue visit, and we had decided to play Ludo, the real kind, with the colourful board, the six-faced dice and the flat round pawns. That’s when the outburst happened. My son had gone to retrieve the board game from his room. Luckily, I had not dispensed with it, knowing that it was a family favourite. They were still disappointed with the way it was relinquished to a corner of the cupboard, alone, with all its companions gone. To console them, I pointed out the stuff I had retained. I had kept my daughter’s first designer kit which had templates to draw outfits with prints, my son’s mechanical toy set that enabled him to screw together a truck and helicopter. Despite the space it occupied, I had kept my daughter’s life-size stuffed lion and my son’s oversized dog. I had preserved some of their notebooks and all their certificates. But to them, the room was half empty not half full. This is a familiar scene in households around the globe, albeit there might be a minuscule difference here. My daughter is a much-married designer and my son a software engineer at Mountain View! Long after they had left, I kept wondering what makes us cling to certain childhood paraphernalia. Psychologists opine that the fundamental difference lies in the perspective. For adults, all toys are store bought objects that engage and harness creativity, but children associate the entire experience of fun with some of them. They imbue these toys with joyful memories, making them more meaningful. So, the reason is partly nostalgia and partly “essentialism”, or the idea that objects are more than just their physical properties. Further research showed that they are aptly called transitional objects. Paediatric psychoanalyst Dr Donald Winnicott placed them in the “intermediate space” that opens up between mother and baby, once the baby is able to differentiate itself as an independent entity, separate from its mother. Whenever we feel vulnerable, insecure or anxious these cherished objects have the ability to reassure and provide a sense of security, which is why kids never outgrow them. Which brings me to the next question: Do we parents truly outgrow them? Frankly, we, with all our cynicism and disdain for childish sulks, are no better than our kids. Have you ever wondered why we choose toys for our kids with so much care? Why we linger in toy stores, touching and feeling the merchandise? Why we need to ‘try out’ the crazy ball or frisbee before handing it to our child? We are using toys to live our unfulfilled dreams. All of us carry a piece of childhood within; an innocence that refuses to be tainted by the business of living. Toys are our connection with that inner child. Do we need toys? Well, of course, toys are us! dr_manjugupta@icloud.com The writer is a Gharaunda-based gynaecologist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/toy-story-we-carry-a-piece-of-childhood-innocence-within-101628502435120.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Communal sloganeering at Jantar Mantar: Delhi Police registers FIR||The Delhi Police on Monday said they registered a first information report (FIR) in connection with a video in which some people are seen raising communal and inflammatory slogans near Jantar Mantar in central Delhi on Sunday. The video was circulated on social media with allegations that the communal sloganeering took place during a march for “Colonial Laws and Make Uniform Laws” organised on Sunday at Jantar Mantar by Supreme Court lawyer and former spokesperson of the Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Ashwini Upadhyay. Police said that permission was not granted to the organisers for holding the event.Upadhyay, however, has refuted the allegations, saying that no such inflammatory slogans were shouted during their event that started around 11am and was over by noon.Also Read | Opposition joins farmers’ protest at Jantar Mantar“We started our event at 11am and left after concluding it at noon, because the crowd had started swelling up. No inflammatory slogans were raised during our event. If the video is genuine, I believe that the sloganeering may have happened either before our event or afterwards. I learnt about the video around 8pm on Sunday, when it was circulated on social media and some people started tagging me with intent to defame me. I don’t know the people sloganeering in the video, have never met them, nor they were called for the event,” said Upadhyay.In the video that was circulated on social media on Sunday night, some people are seen raising anti-Muslim and inflammatory slogans on a road. A Delhi bus stop and yellow iron barricades used by the Delhi Police are seen behind the 15-16 people who are allegedly involved in the sloganeering. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video.A senior police officer who did not want to be named said that a case under Indian Penal Code’s sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) has been registered against unknown persons at the Connaught Place police station. Relevant sections of Delhi Disaster Management Act were also included in the FIR as Covid-19 guidelines were violated during the event that was organised despite the police having denied permission to the organisers.“We are verifying the authenticity of the video and trying to ascertain where exactly it was shot and when. Further legal action will be taken accordingly,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/communal-sloganeering-at-jantar-mantar-delhi-police-registers-fir-101628501177582.html
09-08-2021||Other||As Covid cases decline in Odisha, technical institutes set to reopen||All technical institutes in Odisha, including engineering colleges and industrial technical institutes, reopened on Monday after remaining closed for around six months due to the Covid pandemic.The state, for the first time in over four months, reported the number of Covid cases in three digits, a huge drop from the number of cases in May, when the second wave peaked. On Monday, Odisha reported 886 cases in the last 24 hours. On May 22, Odisha had reported 12,852 cases, its highest during the second wave. The state has around 200 technical institutes offering courses like MBA, MCA and engineering, while the number of ITI and diploma institutes is around 700.Odisha technical education minister Premananda Nayak said final year classes will resume on Monday with Covid protocols. “We will decide later on the resumption of other classes,” said Nayak.Also Read | Naveen Patnaik plans separate dept for western Odisha, BJP calls it ‘gimmick’Nayak said physical classes would be held in regular manner to cover all chapters of the syllabus irrespective of coverage of some chapters by online mode. “Whenever possible, the physical classroom teaching shall be recorded and shared with absentee students. Teachers/staff/students staying in active containment zones will not come to universities/ colleges. Facemask is mandatory,” he said.Students and staff have been asked to ensure complete vaccination before rejoining classes. Strict orders have been issued to maintain appropriate Covid protocols like social distancing, wearing of masks.So far physical sessions for classes 10 and 12 have begun in the state from July 28 while the same for the students of classes 9 and 11 would begin from August 16. The teaching hours for Class 9 and 11 students will be from 9am to 12.30pm excluding Sundays and public holidays.Classes for Post Graduate (PG) first year and Under Graduate (UG) and pre-Final year students would also open for physical classroom teaching from August 16 along with hostels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-covid-cases-decline-in-odisha-technical-institutes-set-to-reopen-101628500815142.html
09-08-2021||Mumbai||Renaming Khel Ratna award not people's wish, but 'political game': Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena on Monday criticised the Centre’s decision to change the name of the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award to Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award, saying the government was “indulging in political games”. An editorial in Saamana, Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece, remarked that the Centre could have honoured Dhyan Chand, India’s hockey legend, without insulting the sacrifice of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 6 announced that the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, the country’s highest sporting honour, will be renamed after decorated Olympian Major Dhyan Chand. “Respecting their [citizens across India] sentiment, the Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award,” he said in a tweet.Also Read | ‘Mr Modi, Come listen to us’: Derek O’Brien shares Oppn’s message on Parl logjam“Indira Gandhi was assassinated by terrorists. Rajiv Gandhi also lost his life in a terrorist attack. There can be political differences between the two. There is room for difference in democracy, but the sacrifice of the Prime Ministers, who have contributed immensely to the progress of the country, cannot become a subject of ridicule,” said the editorial in Saamana.It added that renaming the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award as Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award would be a “political game and not public sentiment.”“Major Dhyan Chand could have been honoured without insulting the sacrifice of Rajiv Gandhi. India has lost that tradition and culture,” it said.I have been getting many requests from citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. I thank them for their views. Respecting their sentiment, the Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award! Jai Hind! pic.twitter.com/zbStlMNHdqThe Saamana editorial raised questions over the Centre’s claims that the decision was taken due to “public sentiment”. Targeting the Centre, the Sena said, “Now the political players of BJP are saying that ‘Did Rajiv Gandhi ever hold a hockey stick in his hand?’ Their question is valid, but if the Sardar Patel Stadium in Ahmedabad was renamed after Narendra Modi, does he have any achievements in cricket?” It added that a similar standard can be applied to the Delhi cricket stadium that is named after late BJP leader Arun Jaitley.HT has reached out to BJP for a comment. This copy will be updated when the party responds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-call-centre-s-decision-to-rename-khel-ratna-after-dhyan-chand-political-101628498294663.html
09-08-2021||Lucknow||Three minor sisters burnt to death as cylinder catches fire in UP||Three minor sisters died of burn injuries when a Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinder caught fire in their house in Imamgarh village of Azamgarh district, Uttar Pradesh, late Sunday evening, police said on Monday. A senior police officer said there was reportedly a leakage in the gas pipe.Also Read | Uttar Pradesh: Faulty power meters go beyond permissible limitThe officer said at the time of the incident, the girls’ mother had stepped out to fetch water. The girls, 11, 6, and 4 years of age, were in the kitchen when the cylinder caught fire, trapping them inside. Hearing their cries for help, villagers rescued the girls who were rushed to the hospital. The older two were declared brought dead while the youngest succumbed to her injuries later.Police said they were probing the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/three-minor-sisters-burnt-to-death-as-cylinder-catches-fire-in-up-101628491514226.html
09-08-2021||Patna||5 including 2 children dead, 6 injured in road accident in Bihar||5 persons including two women and two children died and six others were injured early on Monday when an autorickshaw, in which the victims were travelling, collided with a truck on national highway 57 near Araria town in Bihar, police said.Four people died on the spot while the fifth died in the hospital and the injured were referred to Purnia district hospital for treatment, the police added. “Some of the injured are in a very critical condition” a police officer said.A 5 year old girl and a 3-year old boy, both from Mahendrapur in Purnia, were among the deceased. The autorickshaw carrying 10 passengers was going to Araria from Purnia when it collided with the truck coming from the opposite direction.Araria sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Pushkar Kumar said, “The truck driver managed to escape with the truck from the site of the accident.” He added that a hunt was on to trace the truck and its driver.Two weeks ago, four persons died and three were seriously injured when their car rammed into a stationary truck on NH-57 near Sheeshabari under Kasba police station of Purnia district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/5-including-2-children-dead-6-injured-in-road-accident-in-bihar-101628491334215.html
09-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Faulty power meters go beyond permissible limit||The Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) has identified more than 1.3 million electricity meters in the state as defective as of June 2021. This also includes 767,000 meters that have been faulty for over six months, causing revenue losses to the corporation which is forced to issue provisional bills to such consumers regardless of their actual power consumption.Finding the number of the identified defective meters to be ‘excessive’ and exceeding the permissible limit by far, UPPCL managing director Pankaj Kumar last month sent a circular to the discoms’ managing directors, asking them to launch a drive to ensure all the defective meters were replaced.533,590 defective meters, the highest in the state, are in the Varanasi discom followed by Agra (369,644), Lucknow (207,219) and Meerut (200,052) discoms.It was also found that the reading of 195,337 of the 767,349 meters found defective for over six months has never been done. In the Varanasi discom, as many as 105,306 meters were never read while the number of such meters was 47,421 in Agra discom, 33,816 in Lucknow discom and 8,794 in Meerut discom.It was further found that 606,915 consumers with defective meters have never paid even a single electricity bill since 2006. “This means that consumers are either not paying bills, or the power connections do not exist on the site or these consumers have subscribed to fresh connections,” Kumar said in the circular.As per the provisions, bills to a power consumer can be issued only for two billing cycles, after which the defective meter must be replaced within 15 days of the testing report. Moreover, consumers are also entitled under the same provisions to a compensation of ₹50 per day if the defective or the burnt meter is not replaced after 15 days of it being tested.Kumar mentioned all these provisions in the circular, asking MDs to fix the timeframe to replace all the faulty meters in keeping with the provisions that also say that not more than 3% of the meters vis-à-vis the number of consumers should be defective at one time. UPPCL has 29.7 million power connections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-faulty-power-meters-go-beyond-permissible-limit-101628486533959.html
09-08-2021||Patna||Bihar’s AKU awaits fulltime V-C since September last year||The vice chancellor (V-C) post in Bihar’s Aryabhatt Knowledge University (AKU) has been vacant since September 20, 2020.AKU’s advertisement seeking applications, issued by the Raj Bhavan, has been cancelled twice through the process, the latest being last month. Set up in 2010 to regulate all technical institutions by bringing them under one umbrella, AKU has been without a regular V-C since the term of Arun Kumar Agarwal ended. Former AKU pro-V-C Syed Mohammad Karim held the additional charge till his retirement a couple of months ago.Now, Lalit Narayan Mithila University V-C SP Singh holds the additional charge along with that of other universities.The Raj Bhavan invited applications for the appointment of V-C in January this year after cancelling the September 2020 advertisement “due to unavoidable reasons”. But before the process could be completed, the advertisement was cancelled and a fresh one issued on January 14, 2021 through a notification from Raj Bhavan. The last date for submitting applications was March 1.Also Read | Bihar to acquire documents in private collections linked to Quit India movementNow, the second advertisement has also been cancelled without any further notification. “The re-advertisement datedJanuary 14, 2021regarding submission of application form for the appointment of V-C in AKU is cancelled due to some unavoidable reasons,” said a July 10 letter from Robert L Chongthu, principal secretary to the governor.Sources in the department of education said that a lot would depend on the trifurcation of the AKU, regarding which Bills were also passed by the Bihar assembly during the just concluded monsoon session. After governor Phagu Chauhan’s nod, AKU would no more be a university like before to regulate all technical institutions -- there would be separate universities for health and engineering, besides one for sports with the chief minister, not the governor, as the chancellor of the proposed universities. “After the gazette notification, the process for the appointment of V-Cs in the new universities could begin afresh,” an official added. However, all the four Bills related to universities are yet to get gubernatorial nod. If the Governor does not approve of it, as had happened in 2015 when former Governor Keshri Nath Tripathi refused to give his nod to a Bill for the constitution of a university and college tribunal on the lines of the Central Administrative Tribunal to deal with the growing number of court cases, it could cause further delay. Despite former Advocate General and then education minister PK Shahi meeting Keshri in this regard, he remained unconvinced. The tribunal was in the pipeline for over six years. The only difference was that in 2015, the governor’s nod was sought ahead of placing the Bill before the Cabinet and the House and once refused, it could not be placed. However, sources said that such a requirement was restricted to money Bills only. At present, the government is keeping its fingers crossed, as none of the seven Bills passed during the monsoon session have been signed by the governor yet. “It usually comes after a week. The session ended on July 30 only,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-aku-awaits-fulltime-v-c-since-september-last-year-101628486053879.html
09-08-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray to hold Covid review meeting today, discussion on easing of curbs expected||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is scheduled to hold a virtual meeting with the state’s Covid taskforce at 8:30 pm on Monday, reported news agency ANI. Thackeray is expected to discuss easing of Covid-19 restrictions in the state in this meeting, ANI reported.The chief minister announced on Sunday that fully vaccinated people will be allowed to travel on local trains in Mumbai from August 15, and added that a 14-day gap should be maintained after receiving second dose.Thackeray had said on Saturday that his government was planning to relax more Covid curbs in the coming days.Thackeray had also said that a decision to relax restrictions on hotels, restaurants, malls, and religious places will be taken on Monday at the meeting with the state Covid-19 taskforce. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had also announced easing of restrictions in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad from August 9 but warned that if the positivity rate goes above 7 per cent, the curbs will be reimposed.Also Read: Maharashtra will take calculated risk on relaxations: UddhavThe state government has so far eased Covid-induced curbs in 14 districts with lowest Covid positivity rate, and allowed shops to remain open for business till 8pm. Schools and colleges have also been allowed to resume classes in rural and urban areas from August 17.Thackeray urged citizens to abide by Covid-19 preventative norms cautioning that restrictions will be reimposed if cases rise once again. “I am once again humbly requesting not to let your guard down and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said during his address on Sunday. He also briefed citizens on the preparations Maharashtra has made in anticipation of a third wave. Maharashtra has reported 5,508 new cases of Covid-19 and 151 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-to-hold-covid-review-meeting-today-discussion-on-easing-of-curbs-expected-101628484921769.html
09-08-2021||Mumbai||Body of Mumbai student who drowned in Haridwar recovered, 2 others remain untraced||The body of a 21-year-old medical student who drowned in the Ganga river at Tapovan in Haridwar earlier this week was brought to her residence in Mumbai on Sunday, her family members said. However, two friends of the deceased Madhushree Kursange who are also feared drowned remain untraced even four days after the incident, they said. "Kursange's body was brought to her residence in suburban Borivali to perform her last rites," her kin said, adding some of them had gone to Haridwar to claim the body. A group of five friends, including Kursange, Apoorva Kelkar, Melroy Dantes, Karan Mishra, and another girl, had gone to Tapovan in the northern state on a picnic last week.Mishra, who had witnessed the incident on August 4, had told PTI over the phone from Haridwar that he and another girl took a dip in the river and came out, but three others, including Kursange, entered the deep water to take another dip. "They couldn't return to the river bank due to the strong current of water and swept away. One of them shouted for help, but we couldn't do anything," he had said. All the students are residents of Mumbai and extended suburbs. Mishra also said that Kelkar and Dantes are yet to be traced in the Ganga river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/body-of-mumbai-student-who-drowned-in-haridwar-recovered-2-others-remain-untraced-101628481985100.html
09-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows fully vaccinated to use Mumbai locals from August 15||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced that people fully vaccinated against Covid-19 will be allowed to commute in local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) from August 15, but only 14 days after taking the second dose. A decision over relaxations for malls, theatres, restaurants and religious places will be taken on Monday, he said.Thackeray spoke about relaxations in Covid restrictions, the threat of the third Covid wave and the need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour in his tweets on Sunday evening.“The second wave of Covid-19 has not fully subsided. The threat of the third wave is still looming large. I know that people are running out of patience due to the lockdown curbs, but we should not lower our guard as the Covid-19 crisis is not over as yet. We are trying to strike a balance between keeping the virus in check and opening up financial activities,” Thackeray said in his tweet.The general commuters were banned from local trains in the first week of April after the second wave hit, only two months after the services had resumed on February 1 after nearly a year of the network remaining off limits for the general public beginning march 2020, due to the outbreak of the first wave of the pandemic. Only a few categories of emergency and essential services workers were allowed during the period.As per the new arrangement, fully vaccinated people will have to register themselves on a mobile application that is being developed by the government before they can travel on the local train network. The registration facility will also be available offline at the offices of the civic bodies and railway offices. In Mumbai, 1.9 million people will be eligible for this relaxation on August 15, having completed two weeks after receiving the second dose of the vaccine before August 1.The fully vaccinated commuters will be issued passes through the mobile application after registration and submission of their vaccination certificates. The passes will bear a QR code, which will enable them to access the local train network, a government official said.Maharashtra recorded 5,508 Covid cases and 151 deaths on Sunday, while Mumbai added 305 new cases and nine deaths, taking the city’s death toll to 15,951. The state tally of Covid-19 cases stands at 6.35 million and the death toll has touched 133,996.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-fully-vaccinated-people-to-use-mumbai-locals-from-august-15-101628477653374.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Rapid PCR test facility set up at Delhi's IGI Airport||A rapid PCR test facility for Covid-19 has been set up at Delhi's Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport to cater to passengers, especially those heading to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), which has made the such tests mandatory.After the UAE lifted restrictions on transit passenger traffic from the sub-continent, the flights resumed from cities like New Delhi, Chennai, Kochi, Bengaluru and Trivandrum from August 7, reports news agency ANI."Acting on the latest travel guidelines issued by United Arab Emirates (UAE), Genestrings Diagnostic Centre has set up Rapid PCR test facility at the Indira Gandhi International Airport here today. The testing facility will have about 50 Rapid PCR Machines based on ID NOW technology to begin with and is looking at doubling this capacity as the demand increases. Cost per test will be INR 5000 with reports in 45-60 minutes," Dr Gauri Agarwal, Founder-Director, Genestrings Diagnostic Centre told ANI.She further said that passengers of Indigo, Vistara, Air India, Emirates, Etihad, Fly-Dubai and others will hugely benefit by opening of sector, adding that his will help over 4 lakh passengers stranded due to lockdown.Here are the latest guidelines:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rapid-pcr-test-facility-set-up-at-delhi-s-igi-airport-101628475385510.html
09-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains allowed from Aug 15: 5-step guide on availing the facility||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Sunday that fully vaccinated citizens of Mumbai can travel in local trains from August 15. Another condition that the chief minister said is mandatory is a gap of 14 days from the second dose of Covid-19.The announcement is sure to bring cheer on the faces of commuters who use the local trains extensively. In fact, they are considered the lifeline of Mumbai.The suburban train services in the metropolis were suspended for general public in April this year when the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic was at its peak in the state.At present, only government employees and essential services staffers are allowed to travel in local trains.Here are the steps to be followed and things to keep in mind befor boarding local trains:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-allowed-from-aug-15-5-step-guide-on-availing-the-facility-101628472180047.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi's weekly markets to re-open from today||All weekly markets in the national capital will re-open from Monday, as the Delhi government eased Covid-19 curbs followin a decline in the number of cases. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made the announcement on Saturday, explaining that this is because his government is worried about people's livelihoods. No weekly market is allowed to function on roadsides, according to the current guidelines."Weekly markets are being opened from Monday. These are poor people. Government is quite concerned about their livelihoods. However, everyone's health and lives are also important. I urge everyone to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour after these markets are opened," Kejriwal tweeted.These markets were closed in the national capital after a lockdown was imposed on April 19 due to the spike in cases during the second Covid-19 wave. Later on, one weekly market in each municipal zone was allowed to open with proper adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and official guidelines.The decision from the Delhi government came a day after the meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Under DDMA guidelines, district authorities are expected to carry out random RT-PCR and rapid tests of vendors as well as customers thronging the markets.Delhi reported 66 fresh Covid-19 cases and zero deaths due to the infection on Sunday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.10 per cent, according to data shared by the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-weekly-markets-to-re-open-from-today-101628468739187.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools to reopen partially for classes 10-12 from today||Schools in Delhi will partially re-open for students of classes 10 to 12 from Monday. This follows an order from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Officials on Sunday said that the state education department is expected to release detailed guidelines and reopening protocol for schools and students."Students of class 10 to 12 in the city are permitted to visit their schools from August 9 (Monday) for admission-related work including counselling, guidance and practical activities for board exams. Health checkups and referral services situated in schools or conducted from there can resume. Children of all ages may visit these centres accompanied by their parents or guardians," the DDMA said in its order.The DDMA has specified that schools, coaching centres and colleges will remain closed for teaching purposes and online learning will be encouraged in all circumstances, except the exempted activities.The educational institutions in Delhi have been closed since March this year, when Covid-19 wreaked havoc in the national capital.The DDMA has also allowed the opening of weekly markets across Delhi from Monday with a rider that the vendors and visitors shall follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. "All weekly markets are allowed subject to strict compliance of guidelines issued by the government. No unauthorised weekly market is allowed to function,” the order read. The order added that roadside weekly markets will not be allowed.The Delhi government had last week sought feedback from students, teachers and parents about the reopening of schools and has received nearly 35,000 suggestions so far. "So far, 35000 suggestions have been received. Over 12,000 of them were received on day one itself. We will soon take a decision taking the feedback from all stakeholders into account," Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-to-reopen-partially-for-classes-10-12-from-today-101628466629085.html
09-08-2021||Mumbai||Fully vaccinated can now board Mumbai locals, says Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Sunday that fully vaccinated residents of Mumbai, who have completed 14 days after the second dose, can travel in local trains from August 15.“There will be an app for this where the person can get the pass to travel. There is also a system for those who don’t have smartphones. We will have an offline system too. We are also making this appeal to offices -- to stagger work timings and allow those who can WFH to continue,” he said during a live webcast.Mumbai has, so far, fully vaccinated 1.9 million people.Currently, local residents, except for those employed in a few essential sectors and government services, are not allowed to board Mumbai suburban trains.The CM also warned people against lowering their guards.“It’s (Covid) still here. We have seen Covid waves too. What we have learnt is that if we need to arrest the spread, we have to follow Covid protocols and increase vaccination. We have a capacity to vaccinate up to 15 lakh (1.5 million) in a day too as we have already vaccinated 8 lakh (800,000) in a day. We are improving on our health infrastructure. We have taken steps to prepare for a possible third wave...,” he informed.On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 5,508 new Covid cases and 151 deaths. Of this, Mumbai logged 305 and nine deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fully-vaccinated-can-now-board-mumbai-locals-says-maharashtra-cm-101628458551539.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Barfi with mask||No, you don’t commonly spot this delicacy on the streets. Certainly not with this combination—brown barfi with face masks.“I used to sell only barfi, and then the bimari arrived,” says stall owner Raju Kumar, referring to the pandemic. “Since I had some vacant space on my stall, I thought why not sell masks on the side?”The grey-haired seasoned street hawker sure knows how to make the tiny inches count. His stall is a mere wicker stand, topped with a metal platter containing the sweetmeat, each piece cracked at various places due to its brittle texture. The masks are clipped to the stand by plastic hooks. The idea isn’t original; his pandemic-era entrepreneurship is shared by many pavement traders. These days almost every paan kiosk in town has masks hanging beside long strips of sachets of fresheners. The barfi, though, is something unique, especially in this area of east Delhi’s Dilshad Garden, where no other stall owner boasts this tempting treat.“I make it myself, from the khoya of Aligarh… this khoya is of pure buffalo milk,” he reveals. Mr Kumar says it with hushed pride, as if suggesting that the khoya sourced by him is superior to made-in-Delhi khoya. These 20 kg of Aligarh import are delivered to him once every three days. The barfi seller lives with three other men, they all sell barfi, and the khoya is divided equally between themselves. “Each of us makes his own barfi, we all are from Darbhanga in Bihar.”The barfi that Mr Kumar sells on any given day are made the evening before “over the course of two hours.” The good thing is that there’s no old stock in his stall, for he starts his transaction at 7 in the morning and stays on the streets until the stock finishes. “Sometimes all gets over by afternoon, sometimes by 4 or 5 in the evening.”Now a masked customer arrives. He’s not buying mask but the other thing—one big-sized barfi is for 10 rupees, and two smaller versions are for 7 rupees. Mr Kumar uses cuttings of old newspapers as a serving plate. He places a barfi on one cutting and hands it over to the customer. The customer throws away the print edition remnant after finishing. The barfi has the shade of dark wet sand and is embedded with fat raisins. It is super-addictive and gives an instant sugar high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-barfi-with-mask-101628457500170.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Time stands nearly still for DDA’s plot allottees||In 1981, then 30-year-old Rakesh Khurana applied for a 90 square metre plot in the Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) Rohini Residential Scheme, that was part of the agency’s plan to develop the area as a residential hub. He was among the 80,000-odd successful applicants who were to get a plot in the next five years.Four decades later, Khurana, now in his 70s and has retired from a bank job, said the dream is all but over due to inordinate delays in allotment and lack of development in Sector 29, pocket D1, where he was allotted the plot in 2015.Like Khurana, nearly 25,000 applicants were given plots in Sectors 29-37 in Rohini between 2014 and 2018, almost 33 years after the scheme was launched. But very few allottees have constructed houses over the years.“There is no hospital or dispensary, local shopping complex, school etc nearby. They have erected poles but there are no streetlights,” said Raj Kumar Jain, 67, a chartered accountant, who took possession of his plot in Sector 30, pocket C1, in 2015.Another issue the allottees, most of whom are in their mid-60s or 70s, are facing is the cumbersome process to convert their plot from leasehold to freehold.Captain (retd) M S Uppal (76), who was allotted a plot in Sector 37 in 2018, said the plots were given on lease deed and to get complete ownership of the plot, allottees will have to get a freehold deed executed. For this, Uppal said, allottees have to construct a structure on the plot.“We are senior citizens and it is not possible for us to get a room or two constructed there, especially now during the Covid-19 pandemic. We have requested the DDA to simplify the process by taking conversion charges for the freehold process. Some special provisions should be made for us,” said Uppal, who is the president of the Rohini Residential Scheme 1981 Association that was formed in 2015, and has over 500 members.A senior DDA official said, “The freehold process has been streamlined and made online. We are making efforts to bring down the pendency. As for relaxing the norms for freehold process, no decision has been taken as yet.”The schemeThe Rohini Residential Scheme was part of the DDA’s larger plan to develop Rohini as a sub-city. The DDA had close to 1.17 lakh plots in the area in 1981. The agency received 82,384 applications, of which 80,587 applicants were found to be eligible.The plots were to be allotted within a period of five years. Till 1991, the DDA allotted 41,179 plots in various sectors. And between 1991 and 2002, just 1,248 people were allotted plots.Rahul Gupta filed a PIL against the DDA in the Delhi high court in 2009, when allotment to over 25,000-odd applicants was still pending. Gupta said, “Earlier, very little information about what went wrong with the scheme and what DDA was doing about it was available in the public domain. I filed a lot of RTIs regarding the scheme. We gave several representations to the central government, DDA etc. When nothing happened, I decided to file a PIL.”He added, “As DDA failed to fulfil their commitments made in the Delhi high court, I filed a PIL in the Supreme Court in 2012 demanding that developed plots be given to allottees, who have waited for nearly three decades.”DDA officials said the development in sectors 34-37 could start only in 2016 due to legal disputes.A K Jain, former planning commission at DDA, said, “It is a complex problem. The DDA received an unexpected number of applications for the scheme, as the cost of plots was less. DDA kept the scheme open ended and when it did try to close the scheme, it was challenged in the court. The DDA has done a lot to develop these sectors. Things will improve once people start moving in.”Poor planningAllottees say the development (or rather lack of it) in sectors 28-37 is an example of the agency’s poor planning.“They are planning for the city’s development in the next two decades, but DDA couldn’t develop just a few sectors in the last four decades. My plot is in an area which was developed in the last few years. It’s condition is better than most other sectors but I still can’t live there as there is no basic infrastructure,” said Uppal, who lives in Noida, while referring to the Master Plan 2041.Charanjit Singh, who was allotted a plot in Sector 28 in 2003, said, “Even today, very few houses have come up here. The situation has improved after the DDA constructed group housing complexes (with over 5,000 flats) here. But transportation is still a big issue. The nearest Metro station (Rithala) is almost 5-7 kms away.”A DDA official said, “Basic civic work, such as sewer and water pipeline, road network, streetlights etc have been done in all the sectors. But people have not started construction in these areas. Once people start living in these sectors, we will improve the facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/time-stands-nearly-still-for-dda-s-plot-allottees-101628457072787.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Structure at New India Garden may hit green hurdle: Experts||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) recently relaunched a design competition for an “iconic structure” to be constructed at the proposed New India garden on the western bank of Yamuna, although this could run afoul of both a 2015 National Green Tribunal ruling and a 2016 notification by what is now the Ministry of Jal Shakti.The garden and structure are part of the Central Vista project, which includes a new Parliament building, government offices, residences for the Prime Minister and the Vice President, and the relocation of the National Museum in North Block and South Block.The design competition was first launched last November and has received in excess of 100 entries -- these are displayed on its website -- but CPWD wants more “creative ideas” a CPWD official said on condition of anonymity.Located near the Purana Qila, the garden will be spread over 25 acres on the western bank of the river and have infotainment facilities, a “sphere of unity”. a walkway, an exhibit titled “Journey of India”, a “tech dome“ and an open-air theatre.The last date to submit the entries is October 18 and CPWD plans to complete the construction of the structure before August 15, 2022, which will mark India’s 75th year of independence.The plan could run into some problems arising from a NGT ruling of 2015, though.The National Green Tribunal in its judgement dated January 13, 2015 prohibited any construction activity in the demarcated floodplain area. It added that the floodplain needs to be defined on the basis of a so-called once-in-25-years-flood in the “ “interest of ecology, biodiversity and the river flow.” This basically means all area in the river bank, flooded by the river in the worst flood in the past 25 years will be declared part of the floodplain.NGT directed the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to prepare a map and physically demarcate the entire floodplain.Interestingly, the floodplain criteria is not rigid and subject to change if any public authority challenges regarding it in future, the bench headed by then NGT chairperson, Swatanter Kumar clarified — something that could provide a way out for CPWD.A senior DDA official who asked not to be identified, claimed that a major portion of the proposed gardenis not within the 25 year flood line. This according to its draft master plan MPD 2041There’s another issue — a ministry of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation notification of October 7, 2016 which applies to all of Ganga’s tributaries including the Yamuna. It defines “flood plain” as that on the bank flooded in a once-in-100-years-flood. It says the floodplain shall be a construction-free zone.In response to HT’s queries, a Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) spokesperson said that the proposed site doesn’t fall in the floodplain. A senior MoHUA official “The site is outside the floodplain. All necessary permissions will be taken before construction work starts.”The current zone ‘O’ or river zone regulations of DDA also state that recreational activity with construction not exceeding 0.5% of the area (with the permission of competent authority) will be allowed.Environmentalists fear that the Navbharat Udyan (or New India garden) could be detrimental to the Yamuna floodplain and also make the structures being built unstable because of the floodplain topography.As per the design brief available on CPWD’s website, the iconic structure can be maximum 134m in height. This is the Airport Authority of India’s height restriction in the area.In its design brief, the CPWD has cited locational constraints that participants should keep in mind while proposing the design. “It will be located on the western bank of river Yamuna. Hence, the foundation is to be sited in sandy soil with high water table.”Madhav Raman, architect and member of LokPath (a citizens’ collective), said the ambitious public project is risky, as the structure will be unstable due to soil liquefaction.“Like other rivers, Yamuna is exposed to climate change. Any construction on the floodplain is not safe and is prone to flooding. The site where this garden is proposed is in Zone O and is the narrowest stretch of the river in Delhi. The area is bound to get flooded during monsoon. The proposed garden is being developed as a public space and will see a footfall. Safety of public and public assets should be assessed before taking up such projects.”A senior CWPD official said, “CPWD will take all permissions. Maximum height mentioned as 134m, is as per the height allowed by AAI.”Interestingly, DDA has proposed to delineate Zone ‘O’ in the Master Plan of Delhi-2041. “In case of Yamuna, the delineation shall include its once-in-25 year floodplain or any other criteria mandated by a competent authority,” read the provision in MPD-2041.Zone ‘O’ has been split in two parts: river zone (active floodplain) and riverfront (regulated). The river zone is spread over 6295 hectares, while the regulated riverfront is 3,638 hectare in size. The plan remains a draft.“There are two issues that need to be understood. One is that DDA has its own floodplain restoration plans. It is planning to develop a biodiversity park which will stretch between the CWG village embankment and the Ring Road. In the west bank of Yamuna the CPWD is developing the Nav Bharat Udyan and in that garden they are planning to build an iconic structure. This entire area being developed by DDA and CPWD falls in zone ‘O’. No construction is permitted in zone ‘O’ as per the NGT judgement of 2015 and the current zonal regulations. We have raised objections to both what DDA and CPWD are doing. The NGT judgement is clear that nothing can be done on the floodplains without the permission of the NGT’s principal committee’s expert body. Also, Yamuna bank is part of the Ganga system. So, such constructions will be violation of the Ganga notification also,” said Manoj Mishra, convenor, Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan and petitioner in the Yamuna floodplain restoration case in NGT.As for DDA’s claim that the location does not fall in the floodplain, Mishra added that this is according to MPD 2041, which is a draft and “has no legal validity.”The DDA, which has put the draft plan in public domain, is aiming at notifying the draft MPD-2041 by year end, said a senior DDA official.A CPWD official said that they are in the process of finalising the design of the structure. “It is a government project and all necessary permissions will be taken before the construction work starts,” said a CPWD official.Raman added that MPD-2041 shows an overlap. “The same area is shown as a floodplain and also as a recreational space. In recreational space, you can construct a lot of things. The Yamuna, sadly, doesn’t flood according to the DDA’s zoning.”Experts also point to other recent constructions and events that NGT came down on. “NGT directed last year that the Millennium bus depot on the floodplains be shifted because it was an encroachment of the floodplain; NGT also made certain very strong observations about the Art of Living cultural event on Yamuna floodplains in 2016 because it involved levelling and temporary constructions. How can these constructions be allowed now?” asked Rahul Choudhary, an environmental lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/structure-at-new-india-garden-may-hit-green-hurdle-experts-101628454772575.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 187 fresh Covid infections||Himachal Pradesh recorded 187 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 2,07,887, while the death toll mounted to 3,518 after one more patient succumbed to the contagion. At 91, the highest cases were reported in Chamba, while 36 cases were reported in Mandi, 23 in Hamirpur, 16 in Kullu, 11 in Kangra, six in Bilaspur and one each in Shimla, Sirmaur, Solan and Una. Active cases have climbed to 1,962, while recoveries reached 2,02,366 after 172 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 46,615 cases followed by Mandi (28,439), Shimla (25,947), Solan (22,452), Sirmaur (15,384), Hamirpur (14,709), Una (13,491), Bilaspur (13,001), Chamba (12,508), Kullu (9,234), Kinnaur (3,323) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,784).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-187-fresh-covid-infections-101628453411875.html
09-08-2021||Other||J&K sees 122 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 122 fresh novel coronavirus infections and three virus-induced infections on Saturday . While Kashmir witnessed 79 cases and a fatality, Jammu saw 43 infections and two fatalities. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 129 with active positive cases climbing to 1,400.Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 344 followed by Jammu district with 134 active cases. The overall number of people who have recovered has reached 3,16,761 and the recovery rate has climbed to 98.2%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,22,550 and the death-toll to 4,389.Officials said 61,005 tests had been conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. Officials said with 29 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 15 in Budgam. As many as 16 districts had no or single-digit cases. Jammu district has the highest number of fatalities at 1,139 , followed by Srinagar with 834 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jksees-122-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-101628453051916.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ceiling on gatherings eased in J&K to facilitate I- Day celebrations||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday temporarily relaxed the ongoing 25-person ceiling on indoor and outdoor gatherings, which had been imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, to facilitate Independence Day celebrations in Union Territory. While the ceiling on public gatherings was relaxed, district officials have been asked to ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed. An order issued by the Jammu and Kashmir State Executive Committee and chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta said that while the maximum number of people permitted to attend any indoor or outdoor gathering shall remain restricted to 25. This ceiling “will be temporarily relaxed on August 15 only on account of Independence Day celebrations, subject to Covid-appropriate behaviour. ” The order added that night curfew will continue to remain in force in all the districts from 8pm to 7am.Though Covid cases in J&K continue to remain low, there has been a slight increase in daily cases, which had pushed the active cases over 1,400 on August 7 from a low of around 1,100 on July 27. This week, the daily cases have mostly hovered between 118 and 150, which is an increase from a low of 63 recorded on July 23. The order also said that Covid-containment measures should be continued in all the districts “in view of the uneven trend in daily cases”. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ceiling-on-gatherings-eased-in-j-k-to-facilitate-i-day-celebrations-101628452811862.html
09-08-2021||Other||TN survey shows vaccines hesitancy highest among elderly||A survey conducted by the Tamil Nadu government on Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy has found that the elderly population in the state was the most hesitant compared to other age categories.The survey was carried out by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine (DPH) in July to analyse people’s perception towards taking a vaccine across Tamil Nadu. As many as 95 clusters were chosen randomly in the state with each cluster consisting of 30 random houses. Vaccine hesitancy was highest among those who were above the age of 60, with 27.6% in the age group hesitant to take the jab, followed by those in the 18-45 age category with 16.9% hesitant and in the 45-60 age category with 18.2%. The number of people who were surveyed in each of these three categories were 488, 1596, and 771 respectively. The survey covered a cross section of people including professionals, unemployed, students, illiterate and those who are retired. About 2,855 people were surveyed and vaccine hesitancy was observed in 19.7% men and 18.4% of women. “This number is enough to conduct a rapid assessment to understand the problem of decision making,” said Dr K Kolandaswamy, former director of DPH. “The survey has shown what we have come to know anecdotally that there is vaccine hesitancy among the elderly, pregnant and lactating women.” Pregnant and lactating women were also included in the survey.Among those who were not yet vaccinated, 80.3% of males and 81.6% of females were ready to get inoculated, according to the survey released on Sunday. Vaccine hesitancy was higher among rural respondents (20.3%) compared to urban areas (17.5%). According to the survey, reasons for vaccine hesitancy were manifold among the respondents who were both vaccinated and had not taken it, the top reasons including fear of injections, fear of complications, confidence that they will not contract SARS-COV-2, being turned away due to short supply of vaccines and not being aware of where to get the jab.Based on the survey results, the public health department has decided to focus on awareness activities to address the misconceptions regarding Covid19 vaccine with special attention for people above 60 years. Strategies would be chalked out to counter the barriers. “The survey has shown us that we need to create a supply that is closer to their homes,” said Dr T S Selvavinayagam, director public health, who led the survey. “Most of these problems are easily addressable but the real challenge for us is the supply now.” He added that another survey will be conducted only if their performance in addressing hesitancy doesn’t work.The survey teams at each district were constituted and led by the respective deputy director of health services, while in Chennai, the survey was carried out by community medicine postgraduate students from Madras Medical College with support from Greater Chennai Corporation.“They visited houses and one family member was chosen randomly from each house. They were interviewed to understand their perception towards Covid19 vaccine, after verifying their vaccination status,” said a statement from the DPH.If the participant was vaccinated, the reason for their acceptance of the vaccine and getting vaccinated was recorded. If the participant was yet to be vaccinated, the reasons for not getting vaccinated and their willingness to get vaccinated in future was also recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tn-survey-shows-vaccines-hesitancy-highest-among-elderly-101628452573333.html
09-08-2021||Other||BJP tries to woo Dalits, backwards to bolster poll chances in 2023||BengaluruAfter overcoming a threat by its core support base, the Lingayats, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is now looking to intensify its outreach to Dalits and backward classes so as to get a majority on its own in the 2023 assembly elections in Karnataka, the party’s moves indicate.Lingayats had opposed the BJP move to remove BS Yediyurappa as chief minister. The BJP replaced Yediyurappa with Basavaraj Bommai, a Lingayat, to contain the resentment in the community.Three ministers from scheduled castes (SC) and one from the scheduled tribe (ST) have been inducted into the Bommai cabinet. On Thursday, the BJP inducted N Mahesh, a Dalit activist and the sole legislator of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) from Kollegala in Chamarajanagar, into the party fold, indicating its resolve to get the backing of the marginalised communities in the state.The three ministers from SC communities are Govind Karjol, who was a deputy chief minister in Yediyurappa’s cabinet, Prabhu Chauhan and S Angara. B Sriramulu is from the Valmiki community, classified as an ST.Despite the dropping of Arvind Limbavali from the Bovi community, the BJP is attempting to approach backward groups to join its fold as a way to undercut the Congress and retain power on its own in 2023.In Karnataka’s caste-centric politics, it is not uncommon for communities to back a leader or a party en masse, experts say.Analyses of voting patterns indicate that Dalits largely back the Congress or some Left parties. The BJP enjoys the backing of Lingayats and Brahmins, while the Vokkaligas, another dominant community, are largely seen to back former prime minister HD Deve Gowda-led Janata Dal (Secular). “The joining of Mahesh is an indication that the SC/ST communities want to come over to the BJP in a big way,” Yediyurappa said on Thursday. Though Yediyurappa was forced to step down last week, the 78-year-old remains the face of the BJP in Karnataka and has a high degree of acceptability across communities unlike his peers.The Narendra Modi-led central government also inducted A Narayanaswamy, a Dalit and member of parliament from Chitradurga, into the union cabinet.The move to get the backing of marginalised communities in Karnataka is to undercut the Congress, particularly Siddaramaiah, who had stormed into power in 2013 on the back of AHINDA (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits).The BJP is also looking at making inroads in the Old-Mysuru region, where its presence is limited to Bengaluru and a few isolated seats.On Friday, V Srinivas Prasad, the BJP member of Parliament from Chamarajanagar, decided that he would not contest the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Prasad, a prominent Dalit activist and former confidant of Siddaramaiah, had joined the BJP after he was shunted out of the Congress cabinet in 2017. In 2018, just before the Karnataka assembly elections, then national president and present union home minister Amit Shah had visited the Madara Channaiah Guru Peetha, a spiritual headquarters of the backward Madiga community, in a bid to get the backing of groups that had traditionally sided with the Congress.The BJP is also trying to blur caste lines to get the backing of backward communities. Analysts say induction of seven ministers from backward communities in Bommai’s cabinet is a move in that direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-tries-to-woo-dalits-backwards-to-bolster-poll-chances-in-2023-101628452512231.html
09-08-2021||Other||Covid cases rise, recoveries drop in Bengaluru, Karnataka||Bengaluru Since the beginning of August, Bengaluru has recorded 3,147 new Covid-19 infections with an average of around 400 per day, raising concerns of the imminent third wave hitting the southern state sooner than expected.What is more concerning is that the number of recoveries are lower than the new infections, which is adding to the number of active cases in the southern state and its largest city, Bengaluru.Between August 1 and August 8, there were 3,141 recoveries in Bengaluru and 13,034 across the state, indicating that new infections are seeing a surge which is higher than recoveries.Since the beginning of August, Karnataka has recorded 13,401 new infections, data shows.“The number (infections) is not coming down and it is static. We have to watch for another two weeks to see if the numbers remain the same or if there is movement,” Dr CN Manjunath, cardiologist and director of Sri Jayadeva. Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research said.Manjunath, who is also part of the state’s technical advisory committee (TAC), added that the committee has decided to monitor the situation for the next two weeks before they take any further decisions.The Basavaraj Bommai government has already placed weekend restrictions in all districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra, besides a state-wide night curfew.“The whole objective is to remind people that corona is very much alive and it is to sensitise the community and ensure they do not get complacent,” he added.Though Karnataka has blamed neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra for its surge; but has looked the other way when it comes to the blatant disregard for masks, social distancing and avoiding crowds in Bengaluru, which houses almost a quarter of the state’s population.The vaccination numbers too have seen a decline, which officials said will be fixed as and when the supplies come in.“It is a dynamic situation where stocks are replenished every few days,” said a senior health department official, requesting not to be named.Karnataka has so far administered 3,29,18,047 doses of Covid-19 vaccines of which the first and second dose account for 2,55,84,606 and 73,33,441 respectively. The state had administered 1,41,530 doses on Sunday till 7.30 pm, according to data on CoWin.The vaccination coverage is nowhere near the state’s own targets of getting the entire eligible population at least one dose of vaccine by the end of December.At the moment, Karnataka’s full coverage (persons who have received both doses) is around 10% of the state’s over 70 million population, data shows.Since the beginning of August, Karnataka has administered 2,310,702 doses of Covid-19 vaccines but most of this in Bengaluru and paid vaccination.In the coffee growing district of Kodagu, about 225 kms from Bengaluru, people have often been sent back after long hours of waiting due to shortage of vaccines.Similar scenes are witnessed in other parts of Karnataka.Bengaluru has 159 micro containment zones, with areas like Mahadevapura showing a sharp spike in new cases. The positivity rate is 0.62% and the case fatality rate is 1.24% for the past week, data shows.There are 99 wards that have over 10 cases and the recovery rate is 98.02%.However, experts said that the number of hospital admissions have not gone up by much. The three day moving average for hospital admissions in Bengaluru is around 17, according to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-cases-rise-recoveries-drop-in-bengaluru-karnataka-101628452331876.html
09-08-2021||Bangalore||Yediyurappa asks Bommai to take back cabinet rank||Former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday requested that all Cabinet privileges that was accorded to him by his successor, Basvaraj Bommai, be taken back after the move triggered a controversy in the state.Yediyurappa wrote to Bommai on Sunday, asking the latter only to give the same privileges accorded to his predecessors and not any equivalent to the cabinet rank.“I request you to provide me only those facilities that are given to an immediate former chief minister and withdraw the order giving me a Cabinet rank,” Yediyurappa said in his letter to Bommai on Sunday.The controversy erupted on Saturday after Bommai, a known loyalist of Yediyurappa, asked that the latter be given all privileges of a Cabinet rank minister even though the 78-year-old is just a legislator after stepping down from the top post on July 26.“They have given Yediyurappa a Cabinet rank. On one side they talk about austerity measures, reduce expenditure, committed expenditure is 102%. They (government) say that it has become difficult to pay interest, salaries, pensions and subsidies and on the other hand they are doing this,” Siddaramaiah, former chief minister and leader of the opposition said.He, however, said that it was a good thing that Yediyurappa was giving up the Cabinet rank, which has never been accorded to anyone who has held the position in Karnataka before.Bommai has tried to show his loyalty to Yediyurappa in more ways than one and meets the latter on a regular basis, indicating that the 78-year-old continues to remain in charge of the functioning of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yediyurappa-asks-bommai-to-take-back-cabinet-rank-101628452151807.html
09-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: The travails of former home minister Anil Deshmukh||When the Enforcement Directorate (ED) summoned Anil Deshmukh for the fourth time last week, the 71-year-old former home minister of Maharashtra sent a letter to their Ballad Pier office instead. “I am more than eager to associate with the purported enquiry/investigations being carried out by your office so as to lay bare the hollowness, falsity and lack of substance therein,” his letter, sent through his legal representative, read. He went on: “lt appears that the summons has been issued solely with an aim to create a prejudice so as to either serve the media or sensationalise the matter before the (Supreme) Court by alleging purported non-compliance thereof by me.” “The matter before the court” which Deshmukh referred to, was the petition that he had filed on July 5, seeking a stay on his arrest by the ED, which has been probing allegations of corruption raised by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. According to the ED, there was merit to Singh’s allegation that Deshmukh ran an extortion ring. As per a remand application filed by the anti-laundering investigation agency, Deshmukh used paper companies to route money collected from Mumbai bar owners as donations to an educational trust. The court had posted the hearing of Deshmukh’s petition to August 3, but the matter was adjourned. Deshmukh is clear: he isn’t going to attend any summons till the top court hears his petition. Meanwhile, on August 6, the ED conducted fresh raids on engineering college Nagpur Institute of Technology run by Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, a trust that is headed by Deshmukh. This raid followed two others in the past two months conducted in properties associated with the politician. What are the allegations against Deshmukh – a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) politician who had to resign from his state cabinet post – and what has been its political fallout for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition of which the NCP is part? To answer this, one must return to a crime scene, its first investigating officer, a heated discussion in the state assembly, and the transfer of Mumbai’s top cop a week later on March 17. A cop and a bomb scare On February 25, the Gamdevi police station received a call. A Scorpio had been found abandoned outside businessman Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence, Antilia, and its number plate was incorrect – the registration number actually belonged to a car in the billionaire’s security detail. Soon Carmichael Street was filled with policemen. The Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad discovered 20 sticks of gelatin – but no detonator or timer – in a bag in the SUV along with a crudely worded threatening note. As the case began to attract attention, Deshmukh, the then home minister, announced that assistant inspector Sachin Vaze who led the Crime Investigation Unit of the Mumbai crime branch would be leading the investigation. Within days, however, the state’s anti-terrorism squad (ATS) joined the investigation. And then, on March 5, the body of Mansukh Hiran, a Thane businessman, washed up at a creek in Thane, which turned the investigation on its head. The SUV parked outside Antilia had belonged to Hiran, who had reported it stolen on February 18. On March 9, former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis raised the matter in the Assembly. Holding Call Details Record in his hands, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader pointed out that Hiran and Sachin Vaze were closely associated and asked that the state probe Vaze’s involvement in Hiran’s death. He based his claims on the statement that Hiran’s wife had given to the ATS, which had taken over the probe into Hiran’s death. She had told them that she suspected Vaze might have had a role to play in her husband’s death. Things happened quickly after this admission. Vaze was removed from the case, transferred out of the CIU, and called for questioning by the National Investigation Authority (NIA) which was handed over the investigation by the Union home ministry on March 8. Vaze, who joined the police force in 1990 as a sub inspector, has a chequered past. He attained notoriety and fame as an encounter specialist in the 90s and 2000s. In 2004, he was suspended pending investigation for his alleged involvement in the custodial killing of purported terror suspect Khwaja Yunus. Three years later, he resigned and briefly joined the Shiv Sena before starting a business. In June 2020, Param Bir Singh reinstated him to make up for a shortfall of police personnel in the pandemic.Singh, a 1988-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was appointed as Mumbai’s police commissioner on February 29, 2020. On March 13, Vaze was arrested for masterminding the bomb scare. An NIA official told HT that Vaze did so to regain his “lost glory”. Vaze, who is currently in custody, denied all charges. An explosive letter By mid-March, the lead investigator in the Antilia bomb scare case was now the prime accused in it. A state agency was also probing his role in Hiran’s murder. During its investigation, the NIA discovered police vehicles that were purportedly used in the commission of the crime. Amid sharp attack by the Opposition, the Maharashtra government transferred Singh on March 17, who was deputed as Commandant, Maharashtra Home Guards while Hemant Nagrale took over as the city’s police commissioner. It was presented as a routine transfer, and not as a fallout to the Antilia and Hiran murder probes. Yet, a day later, Deshmukh said at an event organised by a media channel: “The transfer of the Mumbai commissioner was to ensure that the ongoing probe by the National Investigation Agency and the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) is not hampered.” Singh’s reaction was swift. On March 20, he shot off a letter to the Governor of Maharashtra, the chief minister and senior bureaucrats, levelling serious allegations of corruption against Deshmukh. Singh alleged that Deshmukh summoned Mumbai Police officers including the then deputy commissioner of police (enforcement) Raju Bhujbal, assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil (social service branch) and Vaze and gave them a target of ₹100 crore, which was to be collected each month from dance bars, hookah parlours and bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh strongly denied all charges levied against him. The NCP too stood behind him: party supremo Sharad Pawar held press conferences to clarify that the allegations were “incorrect” and the party would not seek his resignation. Singh did not stop at the letter. He moved the Supreme Court on March 23, seeking an impartial probe by an independent agency like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Apex court, however, refused to entertain the plea and asked him to approach the Bombay HC. Others like advocate Jayashri Patil joined Singh in petitioning for a CBI probe. On April 5, the HC ordered CBI to undertake a preliminary enquiry to ascertain if there was any substance in the allegations. In a strongly worded judgment, the court noted: “There can be no independent probe if it is given to the police where Deshmukh is the home minister. The interest of justice will be done if the director of CBI is allowed to conduct a preliminary inquiry. Such an inquiry be conducted in accordance with law and be concluded within 15 days. Once the preliminary inquiry is complete, it will be at the discretion of director CBI to decide on the further course of action.” The same day Deshmukh resigned. He also moved the SC against this order. Two investigations If a central agency probes a sitting minister based on allegations, what would that hold out for the stability of the state government: this was the question at the heart of Deshmukh’s plea. He sought an immediate stay on the order stating that a preliminary inquiry by the CBI would lead to irreparable loss to his reputation. He also maintained that the HC order ignored that there was no substantial evidence in the allegations made by Singh. Pointing out that the CBI is a Central government agency, he argued that if the court accepted statements without substantive evidence then this could pave the way to destabilise state governments in future. The Maharashtra government too filed a petition arguing that the high court bypassed the investigation agencies in the state and showed no confidence in the Mumbai Police, which affected their morale. Both the petitions were rejected by the Apex court on April 8. CBI conducted a preliminary enquiry and registered a First Information Report on April 21 against Deshmukh and others for “attempting to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of duty.” The agency also carried out searches at Deshmukh’s residence in Mumbai and Nagpur. On May 3, Deshmukh moved the Bombay HC to quash the CBI’s FIR contending that it was registered without the consent of the state government, as mandated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 and without prior approval as required under section 17C of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The HC dismissed the petition on July 22. Deshmukh’s lawyer Kamlesh Ghumre refused to comment on the HC order. And while there has been no further movement on the CBI probe since then, another investigation was initiated against Deshmukh. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on May 11 registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) against the NCP leader to probe the money laundering aspects of the case. ED officials recorded statements of hoteliers and orchestra bar owners from Mumbai. They even recorded former assistant inspector Sachin Vaze’s statements twice in May. On June 26, the agency arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde, claiming that they had accepted money collected by Vaze from some bar owners. The two were booked under various provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Deshmukh moved the Supreme Court on July 5 questioning the agency’s probe and repeated summons issued to him and his son. The NCP leader has also sought orders restraining the agency from taking any coercive steps against him – this is the case that is before the Supreme Court. Following the paper trailAccording to the ED, Vaze who is lodged in Taloja jail in connection with his role in the Antilia bomb scare and Hiran murder case, disclosed that he had collected ₹4.7 crore from bar owners for “smooth functioning of bars” and handed the money to Shinde in two installments in January and February 2021. “On behalf of 60 bar owners, Shri Jaya Poojari and Shri Mahesh Shetty, bar owner/ manager had paid ₹40 lakh to Sachin Vaze in December 2020 as ‘good luck’ money,” ED had said in one of its the remand applications. Subsequent to Vaze’s meetings with bar owners, “in January and February 2021, orchestra bar owners from Zone I to Zone VII of Mumbai police paid sum of ₹1.64 crore to Vaze and orchestra bars owners from Zone VIII to Zone XII paid him ₹2.66 crore during this period.” ED claimed that while collecting money from bar owners, Vaze told them that part of the money was to go to “No.1”, whom ED officials suspect referred to the then home minister. The agency also claimed that Deshmukh had used shell companies to route the money as donations to an educational trust headed by Deshmukh which runs engineering and polytechnic colleges in Nagpur. The money, according to ED, was first sent to a Delhi-based sibling duo, known as the Jain brothers who reportedly created shell companies to house cash received as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, a trust controlled by Deshmukh and his family. Both Deshmukh’s son, Hrishikesh and personal assistant, Shinde are associated with the trust.The ED contended that they identified 24 private entities controlled by Deshmukh family -- directly and indirectly -- and found that huge sums of money had moved among them without any rationale.“From the analysis of the bank accounts of these companies, it is clear that there is no rationale for the transfers and can thus be said that these series of transactions were meant for inflating balance sheets and layering of money from one company to other,” ED had said in the remand application submitted to the special PMLA court. In July, the anti-money laundering agency provisionally attached Deshmukh’s properties worth ₹4.20 crore, including the NCP leader’s flat at Worli valued at about ₹1.54 crore and 25 land parcels Dhutum village in Uran-- held in the name of Deshmukh’s wife Aarti and a company named Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd – with a book value of ₹2.67 crore.According to ED officers, Deshmukh acquired 50% ownership in M/s Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd including its assets, i.e. land and shops, “totally valued at approximately ₹5.34 crore (book value) by merely paying ₹17.95 lakh, that too after a substantial gap.”ED has issued summons to Deshmukh and Hrishikesh and claimed that the father-son duo has not honoured any of the summons yet. Deshmukh’s lawyer, Kamlesh Ghumre however visited the agency’s office as Deshmukh’s representative. Political battlefield NCP leaders believe that the allegations against Deshmukh are part of the efforts of the Opposition party, which is in power in the Centre, to defame the state coalition government, which also comprises the Shiv Sena and Congress. NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik maintained that the charges against Deshmukh are politically motivated. “The allegations made by Param Bir Singh against Anil Deshmukh ji are baseless. They were made only after Singh was transferred out from his position as Mumbai commissioner of police. The BJP is misusing central agencies to create trouble for Deshmukh but we are hopeful that he will get justice from the judiciary. NCP is with Deshmukh in these testing times,” Malik said. “Even if the NCP decides not to back Deshmukh, this vindictive politics of the BJP will not end with him as they want to target other senior MVA leaders to defame the state government,” said another senior NCP minister who did not wish to be named. “In the beginning, Deshmukh promised to cooperate with the central agencies in the probe but did not do so. He also approached courts at times but did not get any relief thus far,” BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said. Political analyst Hemant Desai said the political fight may end up being more posturing than anything else. “It will be difficult for the investigation agency to prove Deshmukh’s direct involvement in the extortion accusations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-the-travails-of-former-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101628452091925.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kullu scuffle: IPS Gaurav, CM’s PSO Balwant reinstated||The suspension of IPS officer Gaurav Singh and the chief minister’s personal security officer Balwant Singh, who were involved in an ugly scuffle during the visit of Union minister Nitin Gadkari to Kullu in June, has been revoked. Gaurav’s reinstatement order was issued by the home department while Balwant’s services were restored by the director general of police. They will report to the Shimla DGP’s office till they receive their new posting. What had happened? The incident took place on June 23 when Gadkari arrived on a tour to Kullu. Gaurav, who was then the Kullu superintendent of police (SP) had allowed people affected by the Chandigarh-Manali four-laning project to protest peacefully at the Bhunter airport. The Union minister met the protesters and listened to their grievances. However, this did not go down well with the chief minister who pointed it out to his additional superintendent of police of his security detail, Brijesh Sood.Sood raised the matter with Gaurav, which led to a heated verbal exchange. However, things turned ugly when Singh slapped Sood. Seeing this, the chief minister’s PSO Balwant Singh kicked the IPS officer. The entire incident was caught on camera and shared widely on social media, prompting state police chief Sanjay Kundu to remove all three from their duties and order an inquiry.Gaurav and Balwant were suspended, while Sood was attached to the police headquarters, only to be reinstated after 10 days.In the probe that followed, Gaurav said that Sood had abused him and made last-minute changes in the motorcade in violation of the security protocol. Sood refuted the allegations and maintained that his concern was the CM’s security. Balwant said he lost temper when the IPS officer slapped his boss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kullu-scuffle-ips-gaurav-cm-s-pso-balwant-reinstated-101628452031777.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University prof appointed V-C of University of Ladakh||Professor SK Mehta of Panjab University’s department of chemistry has been appointed as the vice-chancellor (V-C) of University of Ladakh.“In a communication received from the lieutenant governor of the UT of Ladakh, professor SK Mehta, a renowned scientist of international repute, has been appointed as the vice-chancellor of the University of Ladakh for a period of three years,” PU said in an official communique.Dr Mehta is a fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry and has served as the director of PU’s Sophisticated Analytical Instrumentation Facility (SAIF). He has more than 360 publications in international journals of repute to his name, 8,400 citations and is an author of as many as 15 books/chapters. He has been nominated as a member of several national committees.Dr Mehta is a recipient of the Haryana Vigyan Ratna award, renowned fellowships, a bronze medal from the Chemical Research Society of India, an author’s award by the Royal Society of Chemistry, UK, and STE award and Professor WU Malik Memorial Award of the Indian Council of Chemists for his outstanding contribution in research.The PU professor has been a visiting scientist to several countries including the UK, Germany, Japan, USA and France, and has guided 10 post-doctoral, 45 PhD and 50 masters students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-prof-appointed-v-c-of-university-of-ladakh-101628451973157.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Senate polls: Former PUTA presidents, deans in fray||Six candidates are in fray from the constituency of professors of the university’s teaching departments for the election of two members to the Panjab University (PU) senate.Two candidates, Akshaya Kumar and Rajat Sandhir, have previously served as presidents of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA). The other candidates include Jatinder Grover of the education department, who is also former dean faculty of education; Malkiat Chand Sidhu of botany department and former dean faculty of dairying, animal husbandry and agriculture; Sukesh Sharma of the biochemistry department; and Sanjay Kaushik of University Business School (UBS), who is also PU’s dean college development council.The constituency of professors of PU teaching departments is throwing up prospects of a multi-cornered contest in which Rajat Sandhir and Jatinder Grover have been fielded by the Goyal group; Sanjay Kaushik and Sukesh Sharma are aligned with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP); and Akshaya Kumar and Malkiat Chand Sidhu are contesting independently.Akshaya Kumar, a former two-time PUTA president, said, “There is gross centralisation of powers and PU needs larger participation of professors who have worked for the varsity all these years. I will ensure that professors who have enhanced the credentials of PU are given a dignified space in decision-making.”Voting tomorrow, counting on August 12Voting for the constituencies of professors and associate/assistant professors of PU teaching departments will take place on August 10 and counting will be held on August 12. The professors’ constituency has 279 voters while the constituency of associate/assistant professors has 439 voters.Rajat Sandhir, a former senator, said, “My agenda is teacher and institution centric. I will work to restore the golden legacy of the university. My appeal to colleagues would be to vote keeping in mind past performance.”Jatinder Grover said, “I will try that more faculty is appointed and more funds are received from the Centre for the upliftment of the university.”From the constituency of associate/assistant professors of PU teaching departments, seven candidates are in fray for the election of two members to the senate. A multi-cornered contest is also expected from this constituency.While Parveen Goyal and Parveen Kumar have been fileded by the Goyal group, Dinesh Kumar, Navreet and Samarjit Sihotra are contesting independently. Suman Mor and Ajay Ranga are aligned with the BJP group.Polling will be held at PU auditorium; regional centre, Sri Muktsar Sahib; PU rural centre, Kauni, Sri Muktsar Sahib; regional centre, Ludhiana; and SS Giri PU Regional Centre, Hoshiarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senate-polls-former-puta-presidents-deans-in-fray-101628451972145.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents complain of inflated water bills||Even after the Chandigarh administration stayed the hike in water tariff, many residents complain they continue to get high water bills. According to Gursewak Singh Brar, a resident of Sector 8, he received an “unreasonable” bill of ₹9,000 for two months, and he ended up clearing it for the fear of late payment charges. “The only response I got after complaining to the municipal officials was that there is nothing they could do about it,” he said.Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations, Chandigarh, said residents who were getting bills amounting to ₹500 earlier are now being charged ₹3,000. “It seems the MC staff has randomly put the charges on bills without checking the meters. We have made several complaints, but nobody bothers,” he said, adding that the federation is considering to take legal recourse.The Chandigarh administration in May notified a stay on the hiked water tariff, putting off the increased charges till the next fiscal in view of the pandemic. It was in September 2020 that it had notified up to 200% hike in water tariff, which led to a public outcry and criticism from the opposition. The MC General House had even passed resolutions, asking the administration to roll back the hike. Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, said: “Residents’ miseries are not going to end as the administration has already notified to restart the hike in water tariff from April 2022. It seems in the absence of a strong opposition in the MC House, the ruling dispensation has lost all empathy for its citizens.”The municipal corporation, on its part, claims that all complaints regarding the high charges have been addressed. “In most cases, the inflated bills were due to internal leakages at the consumer’s end. In cases where it was observed that the meter readings were taken wrongly, we have rectified the bills,” said Narinder Pal Sharma, MC chief engineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-residents-complain-of-inflated-water-bills-101628451851754.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||23% adult population fully vaccinated in Mohali||Mohali has vaccinated 23% of its eligible population, while 91% has received the first shot since the Covid vaccination drive began in the district. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “Vaccine availability is an issue, but we are hoping to meet the target by October this year.” Out of Mohali’s total eligible population, around 1.73 lakh people have been fully inoculated since March, while 6.8 lakh have received the first dose. According to the figures available at CoWIN and COVA apps, of the 8.44 lakh Mohali residents inoculated, the maximum (at 4.85 lakh) are from the 18-45 age group, followed by the 45-60 age bracket with 1.77 lakh vaccinations and 1.3 lakh senior citizens, who have got the jab. Health workers were the first ones to be vaccinated when the drive began in January this year. The second phase of the drive for senior citizens and comorbid people aged above 45 began on March 1; for all people above 45 years on March 23, and for the 18-45 age bracket, the third phase of inoculation began from May 1. Notably, out of the total number, 4.75 lakh are men and 3.18 lakh women. In Mohali, vaccines are being administered at 61 government sites and seven private hospitals. On vaccine supply, DC Dayalan said, “We are running short of doses as the supply is very erratic.” Dr Vikrant Nagra, nodal officer for the vaccination in Mohali, said, “We are facing problems in rural areas of the district as people there are not coming forward due to some hesitancy. We are now holding camps in the villages also, but the response from urban areas is very good.” He further said that they have ample supply of Covaxin does, but people are not opting for it and demanding Covishield instead. Both Covishield and Covaxin are being offered in the district. While the second dose of Covishield is being provided only after 84 days as per central government guidelines, Covaxin’s second jab is being administered after 28 days. Among the population covered so far, 6.5 lakh have received Covishield and around 1.30 lakh Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/23-adult-population-fully-vaccinated-in-mohali-101628451791928.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Uptick in Mohali, no new case in Panchkula||With an uptick in fresh Covid-19 cases in Mohali, the tricity’s daily tally reached 13 on Sunday. As many as nine people tested positive in Mohali, followed by four in Chandigarh. Panchkula reported no new case for the second straight day. Also, the tricity recorded no Covid-related casualty for the eighth day in a row.In Mohali district, four cases surfaced in Mohali city, two in Dhakoli and one each in Dera Bassi, Boothgarh and Kharar.In Chandigarh, the cases are spread across Sectors 43 and 45 besides Behlana and Mauli Jagran. At 80, the active cases in the tricity also saw a slight rise. While Mohali has 45 active cases, Chandigarh has 25 and Panchkula has 10.So far, 68,492 people in Mohali have tested positive, of which 67,390 have successfully beaten the virus and 1,057 have died.In Chandigarh, 61,143 out of the 61,978 total patients have recovered and 811 have succumbed to the virus. Of the 30,650 infections in Panchkula so far, 30,264 have recovered and 376 have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-uptick-in-mohali-no-new-case-in-panchkula-101628451671842.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman civil servant dies by suicide||A 45-year-old Indian Postal Services officer reportedly died by suicide at her house in Sector 18 on Sunday evening. She is survived by her husband, Nitin Kumar Yadav, who is a senior Haryana-cadre Indian Administrative Services officer, and a daughter, who studies in Class 12. Yadav is one of the contenders for the post of next Chandigarh home secretary.According to police, the woman had bolted herself in the room and did not open it when the servant went to give her tea around 5:30pm. When the servant looked through the window, she was found hanging from the ceiling fan’s hook with a duppatta. Her husband and daughter were also at home when the incident took place. A call was made to the police control room and senior officials reached the spot. The police then opened the door and took the body to hospital. No suicide note was found. According to police, the woman was suffering from depression, for which she was undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, for the past two years. During this period, she had not been attending work too, said police.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhwoman-civil-servant-dies-by-suicide-101628451312989.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Manimahesh Yatra called off this year too||The annual Manimahesh pilgrimage will only be carried out symbolically for the second year in a row with the priest and a handful of devotees performing the rituals subject to a negative RT-PCR test. The 14-day pilgrimage to the glacier-fed Manimahesh Lake in the tribal Bharmour subdivision of Chamba is scheduled to start on August 29, coinciding with Janmashtmi, the festival celebrating the birth of Lord Krishna. It will conclude on September 12, on the occasion of Radhaashtmi (the birthday of Lord Krishna’s consort Radha).Chamba deputy commissioner DC Rana says, “A priest will perform the rituals at the lake provided that a RT-PCR test carried out within 72 hours returns negative. The rituals will be limited and only 25 people will be allowed at the chhari yatra (mace procession).” “The number of devotees coming to the district with mace processions from Bhaderwah of Jammu-Kashmir will also be limited,” the DC said , adding that a negative RT-PCR report is also mandatory for those participating in the mace procession.Police check posts will be set up at all entry points to the district to stop pilgrims coming from other states.Every year, lakhs of pilgrims trek to the oval-shaped lake, located at a height of 13,500ft above the sea level, to catch a glimpse of Mount Kailash, believed to be the abode of Lord Shiva, and offer prayers.The uphill journey starts from Hadsar, a small hamlet, which is about 12km from Bharmour town, and is considered as arduous as the trek to the Amarnath cave shrine in Jammu and Kashmir.Lord Shiva is the presiding deity of this Yatra. A rock formation in the shape of a Shivling on Kailash is considered to be the manifestation of Lord Shiva. Mount Kailash is considered to be invincible. No one so far has been able to scale the peak. Lore has it that devotees are only able to catch a glimpse of the peak if the Lord is pleased. The Shrikhand Yatra of Kullu, Kinner Kailash Yatra of Kinnaur and Minjar Fair of Chamba were also cancelled due to the pandemic this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manimahesh-yatra-called-off-this-year-too-101628451071851.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Jaggu Bhagwanpuria aide held for giving shelter to gangster Kandowalia’s killers||A Batala-based man linked to notorious gangster Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggu Bhagwanpuria was arrested for allegedly providing shelter to the four assailants wanted for killing history sheeter Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia. The arrested accused was identified as Nanit Sharma, alias Saurav. The police have also named five more Batala residents — Ladi, Sukhraj Malhi, Jagtar Singh, Prabhjot Chatha and Lali — for helping the four killers escape after Kandowalia was gunned down at a private hospital in Amritsar on August 3. All the six are also accused of getting one of the four assailants injured in retaliatory firing treated at a private hospital in Batala.Deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “Nanit, who runs a fruit shop in Batala, said he and Sukhraj Malhi are old friends of gangster Mandeep Singh, alias Toofan, a close associate of Bhagwanpuria. On August 3, Nanit and Malhi were having dinner at a dhaba when Toofan called them informing them that he along with others had killed Kandowalia. Toofan also asked Nanit to arrange treatment for Happy Shah, the one who was injured in the retaliatory fire,”He said, “Nanit and Sukhraj further contacted Ladi, Jagtar, Prabhjot and Lali for arranging treatment for Happy. They got Happy treated at Johal Hospital in Batala. They also helped the Kandowalia killers escape thereafter.”Toofan and Happy Shah have also been booked for killing Kandowalia, the DCP added. “Our teams are working to nab all the four assailants who killed Kandowalia. Our investigation to ascertain the role of the Batala hospital is still going on,” he said. Kandowalia, who was facing nearly 15 criminal cases, including that of murder and attempt to murder, was fired upon by four unidentified assailants at a private hospital where he had gone to enquire about his cousin sister’s health. The assailants pumped six bullets into his body.In the firing that was opened by the assailants on August 3, an associate of Kandowalia, Tejbir Singh Teji, a Student Organization of India (SOI) leader, and the hospital’s guard Arun Kumar were also injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jaggu-bhagwanpuria-aide-held-for-giving-shelter-to-gangster-kandowalia-s-killers-101628450955057.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||13 more cattle succumb to foot and mouth disease in Ludhiana village||At least 13 more cattle heads succumbed to the foot and mouth disease at Ber Kalan village in Payal subdivision of Ludhiana district in the last 24 hours. The animal husbandry department officials are on their toes as 60 cattle have died of the disease in the village so far. Over 500 animals have been infected with the highly contagious disease since its outbreak last week. Fourteen department teams are treating and vaccinating the animals in nearly a dozen villages in the surrounding area. The vaccination is being carried out in a radius of 3 km from the epicentre of the disease outbreak. Veterinarians have advised the dairy farmers to keep the infected animals in isolation. Animal husbandry deputy director PS Walia said, “Regular vaccination drives are being conducted in the area to stop the disease spread. A large number of animals have recovered after being treated. The cattle which show symptoms like fever, sores and blisters on feet should be isolated and treatment should be started from a certified veterinarian. The symptoms should not be ignored.”Will take up issue of relief with CM, says MLA Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha visited Ber Kalan on Sunday and assured the residents that he will take up the issue with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for providing compensation to those who have lost their livestock. He also visited the house of dairy farmer Nazar Singh (55) who committed suicide after losing three buffalos to the disease. Lakha said, “The villagers have also sought establishment of a veterinary dispensary in the area. Compensation will also be sought for Nazar Singh’s family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13-more-cattle-succumb-to-foot-and-mouth-disease-in-ludhiana-village-101628450951865.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||5 years on, Punjab’s first solid waste management plant yet to run to capacity||Punjab’s first solid waste management plant in Bathinda is still to run to its full capacity even as it has been five years since it started operations as a cluster model to be replicated across the state to address the problem of processing municipal waste. Managed by Delhi-based Jindal Infrastructure Transportation and Fabrication (JITF), the plant was to generate electricity and produce manure from the municipal waste. But since the waste from 17 urban local bodies (other than Bathinda) was not transported to the processing site, the plant never ran at its full capacity since 2016. The project under the public-private partnership (PPP) mode was designed to manage 350 tonnes of municipal waste every day from the cluster of 18 urban local bodies of southern Punjab districts of Mansa, Muktsar and Fazilka besides Bathinda.But the project, conceived and executed by the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government, ran into rough weather after the promoter and the Bathinda municipal corporation got entangled in arbitration in 2019 over claims for its poor working.JITF director VS Luthra was unavailable for comments.Company officials said their main contention was non-payment of tipping fee by the MC for collection of garbage and non-availability of additional land for the second phase of the sanitary landfill site. “The firm demanded ₹758 crore from the municipality for causing it a loss due to non-execution of work and investment of ₹100 crore in machinery,” said an official. The civic body, on the other hand, has sought damages of ₹872 crore from the company for its alleged inability to run the plant as per agreement. MC superintending engineer HS Bhullar said a three-member panel of arbitrators heard the matter last on April 20 this year and the next date is yet to be announced. “The civic body is collecting about 120 tonnes of waste and transporting it to the processing site daily. It is the duty of the JITF to collect the waste from rest of the municipal bodies. In the absence of sufficient material, JITF has failed to start the waste-to-energy project,” said Bhullar.Officials said when the project was initiated in 2011, it faced opposition from the residents of the areas around the project site. “For more than three decades, a large open space on the Bathinda-Mansa road was used for dumping waste. When the administration initiated a scientific disposal project, a section of people opposed the project, claiming that the method was hazardous. The construction work started only in 2015 after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) gave it a clearance,” said the source.Following an agitation in the run-up to the last assembly elections, Manpreet Badal (now finance minister) had announced to shift the plant to a new site. But the MC took no step in the last four-and-a-half years to find an alternate project site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-years-on-punjab-s-first-solid-waste-management-plant-yet-to-run-to-capacity-101628450894568.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Registration of voters for SGPC elections to start in 2 weeks||The registration of voters for the long-pending Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) general house elections is set to start within two weeks, gurdwara elections chief commissioner Justice (retd) SS Saron said. “We will address the demands raised by individuals and organisations. For example, there is demand for reducing the voter age limit from 21 to 18. After going through these demands, we will send our recommendations to the Union government for approval. We will ask the deputy commissioners to review pro formas for voter registration and update them,” he said.About the poll schedule, he said, “That is the prerogative of the Centre under the Sikh Gurdwara Act, 1925.” Saron, who was appointed the chief commissioner in October 2020, added, “The Covid-19 outbreak delayed the election process. Also, we cannot update the electoral rolls. We have to look into the process in light of the new legislation which barred sehajdhari Sikhs (Sikhs with shorn hair) from voting. We will also have to enroll more voters if the age limit is relaxed. It is a long process and a lot of work will have to be done before polling.” Also, the chief commissioner will have to look into the two court cases — one related to challenging the enactment of a separate committee for management of gurdwaras by the Haryana government and other of the sehajdhari Sikh voting rights issue. The cases are pending in the Supreme Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court.It has been 10 years since the elections were held due to a dispute over voting rights to the sehajdhari Sikhs. Of a total of 191 members of the SGPC general house, 170 members are elected by the adult Sikhs with ballot papers. Fifteen are nominated to the house as co-opted members. In December 2011, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had nullified the polls as it restored the voting rights of sehajdhari Sikhs by quashing the 2003 notification of the central government. Based on that notification, sehajdhari Sikhs were not allowed to vote in the 2011 gurdwara body elections, but the court in a hearing made it clear that the poll results would be subject to the verdict in the sehajdhari voting rights case.In February 2012, the SGPC moved the Supreme Court challenging the HC order. In 2016, the apex court while reinstating the 2011 SGPC House referred to an amendment by Parliament where the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925, was amended to deny voting rights to sehajdhari Sikhs with retrospective effect from 2003. The SGPC manages historic gurdwaras in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/registration-of-voters-for-sgpc-elections-to-start-in-2-weeks-101628450891764.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Seven car vanity numbers allotted illegally in Panipat, FIR registered||At least seven fancy registration numbers were allotted wrongly in Panipat district using user IDs of Panipat and Samalkha SDMs.The matter came to light in a complaint filed by the superintendent of state transport commissioner to the Panipat superintendent of police. As per the complaint, the fancy numbers — HR06 AY 007, HR06 AY 0005, HR60L - 0003, HR60L - 0005, HR60L - 0006, HR60L 0007 and HR60L 0009 — were allotted wrongly by using the user IDs of Panipat and Samalkha SDMs.Even the IP addresses used to allot these numbers were found related to the offices of the SDMs. It is pertinent to mention that the state transport commissioner is competent to issue the registration numbers from 0001 to 0100 and the said preferential marks on the beginning or opening of any series are uploaded on the Parivahan portal by these offices for the information of the general public.The SDO-cum-registering authority concerned of Samalkha and Panipat have the rights to upload the registration marks from 0101 to 9999 of the same series on the portal. However, the matter was referred to NIC, Haryana and it was informed that the uploading of fancy numbers on the portals concerned can only be done by using state admin user id and RTO cannot add any series on its own.“It is requested that an FIR may be registered in the matter regarding uploading of preferential marks under series HR06AY and HR60L by the said registering authorities beyond jurisdiction,” reads the complaint .Samalkha SDM Vijender Hooda said, “I will have to go through the complaint to give any details on this issue, but I can tell that the state transport commissioner is the competent authority to issue the registration marks from 0001 to 0100 and the district and SDM offices could allot registration marks from 0101 to 9999 of the same series on the portal.”As per officials, these fancy numbers are paid and buyers have to deposit a fixed fee to get these numbers on their vehicles. Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the FIR has been registered under sections 420 and 409 of the IPC and Section 66 D of the IT Act.When asked if the police could approach the people to whom these numbers were allotted, the SP said that any information in this regard will be provided only after the investigation is completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-car-vanity-numbers-allotted-illegally-in-panipat-fir-registered-101628450773862.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana lifts curbs on shops, restaurants, malls||The Haryana government on Sunday lifted the restrictions imposed on the shops, restaurants, hotels and the shopping malls regarding the time limits during which they were allowed to open. Now, there will be no such timing restriction to open and close the shops in the state, according to the order chief secretary Vijai Vardhan has issued while extending the lockdown for another fortnight from August 9 to August 23 morning as a “preventive and precautionary” measure to contain the pandemic. The fresh guidelines will come into force from Monday.Last week the state government had permitted all shops to operate from 9am to 10pm and the shopping malls were allowed to open from 10am to 10pm. The timings for restaurants and bars in shopping malls was 10am to 11pm, and standalone restaurants were permitted to operate 8am to 11pm. Haryana had initially declared lockdown from May 3 and started unlocking the restrictions after the coronavirus cases began decreasing. As per the order that removes “restriction on timings”, the curbs regarding the 50% seating capacity will remain in place. The restaurants and bars, including in hotels and in malls, gyms and spas, club houses, restaurants, bars of the golf courses will have to follow the norms of allowing guests up to 50% of the seating capacity. The rules regarding adopting requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid-appropriate behavioural norms will remain in place. Similarly, the government has allowed all shops and malls to open without any timing restriction. The orders say that the swimming pools will be allowed to open after adopting requisite social distancing norms while advising “all swimmers/practitioners/eligible visitors and staff to preferably get vaccinated with both doses of the Covid vaccine”. The relaxations given vide earlier orders will continue. The gathering in indoor spaces will continue to be allowed up to 50% of the hall capacity with a ceiling of maximum 100 persons whereas in open spaces gatherings will be allowed up to 200 persons. The religious places cannot let enter more than 50 persons at one time, while cinema halls in malls and standalone have been permitted to open with maximum 50% seating capacity. The order reiterates that “No Mask-No Service” principle will be strictly observed in the state. People with face cover/mask will be allowed to board public/private transport and enter any other government and private establishment for availing any services. 19 fresh Covid cases reportedHaryana’s Covid tally increased to 7,70,079 with 19 fresh cases on Sunday, while one more fatality due to the disease pushed the death toll to 9,649, according to a health department bulletin.Of the fresh cases, five were reported from Faridabad and three from Gurugram, the bulletin stated.The latest death was reported from Kaithal, it said.There are 679 active cases in Haryana. So far, 7,59,751 people have recovered from the disease. The recovery rate stands at 98.66%, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-lifts-curbs-on-shops-restaurants-malls-101628450772863.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police constable recruitment exam: Three more held for paper leak||KARNAL
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sukhna Lake nears danger mark after 30mm rain||After a sunny start to the day, the sky got cloudy by the afternoon and Chandigarh received around 30 mm rain within two hours on Sunday.Chances for light to moderate rain up to 30 mm will continue in the coming days as well, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). With the fresh spell, the level of Sukhna Lake has also gone up to 1162.3 feet, close to the danger mark of 1163 feet, when its floodgates are required to be opened to release the excess water. Waterlogging was also reported in some parts of the city.“Scattered rains are taking place in the region and it is hard to predict on which particular days it will rain in Chandigarh. A warning for rain has been given for the next few days, though intermittent rains are expected,” said an IMD official.Meanwhile, maximum temperature in the city went up from Saturday’s 34°C to 34.7°C. Minimum temperature went up from 26.6°C to 27.4°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 35°C and 36°C while minimum temperature will remain around 27°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sukhna-lake-nears-danger-mark-after-30mm-rain-101628450712519.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Speeding SUV runs over drunk man in Sector 26||A Chandimandir man, aged around 25, was killed after being hit by a speeding SUV in Sector 26 late on Saturday night. The victim has been identified as Pradeep, who was a dog trainer. He was drunk at the time of the incident, said police. The Toyota Fortuner that hit him sped away after the incident. According to police, Pradeep was visiting a nightclub in Sector 26 along with his two friends on Saturday night. After getting drunk, they allegedly had an altercation with the club management and some guests and were evicted from the premises around 10:30 pm. Eyewitnesses said the trio even threw stones at the establishment and were chased away. Later, as Pradeep stepped on to the slip road near the roundabout between Sector 26 and the grain market, he was hit by a Fortuner. He was taken to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where he was declared brought dead.Police have registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the unidentified driver and are going through the area’s CCTV footage to identify the vehicle.Meanwhile, as police came to know that the nightclub — ASOD — was operating beyond the premissible time of 10:30 pm, a case was registered against its management under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC. Pregnant woman among 8 hurt in Mohali pileupEight persons, including a pregnant woman, were injured in a pileup involving four cars on the Landran road in Mohali on Sunday.According to police, a Maruti 800 car coming from the Ludhiana side in an attempt to overtake an Hyundai Accent had a head-on collision with a Maruti Alto coming from the opposite direction.The first car then hit the Accent, which drifted off the road into a trench. Meanwhile, another Maruti Swift car following the Alto also rammed into it. All the cars had two occupants each, including two women, one of whom is pregnant. Police said one of the women sustained fractures in her legs and another man suffered chest injuries. They have been admitted to the civil hospital. The others were discharged after first aid. In another accident, around 10 passengers sustained minor injuries as a Chandigarh Transport Undertaking bus rammed into a parked truck on the main highway in Mullanpur. The CTU bus after hitting the truck went off road and got stuck in the mud on the divider.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-speeding-suv-runs-over-drunk-man-in-sector-26-101628450531685.html
09-08-2021||Other||2015 sacrilege cases: SAD (A)’s panthic gathering gets tepid response||Faridkot Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) on Sunday held a ‘panthic’ gathering at Bargari village in Faridkot district, to protest against the delay in justice for 2015 sacrilege incidents and subsequent police firing on protesters. They also blamed the special investigation team (SIT) for not naming Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh as the accused in a case registered in connection with the 2015 Bargari sacrilege incident while filing a charge-sheet in a Faridkot court. Apart from SAD (A) leaders, only Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan and actor Sonia Mann joined the protest. Organisations part of the Bargari sacrilege stayed away, despite the call. SAD (A) president Simranjit Singh Mann claimed, “Even after six years, nothing has been done in sacrilege cases. Arrest warrants has been issued against three dera men, Sandeep Bretta, Harsh Dhuri and Pardeep Kaler, but police have failed to find them.” After the protest, 36th five-member group of SAD (A) leaders, along with others, marched from the gurudwara to the Dana Mandi at Bargari only to be detained by the police. SAD (A) has also announced that August 15 will be observed as a Black Day to protest against the delay in justice in sacrilege cases and to support farmer agitation. Mann also appealed to people to hoist black flags on their houses and tie black turbans in protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2015-sacrilege-cases-sad-a-s-panthic-gathering-gets-tepid-response-101628450411838.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Bishnoi gang vows to avenge Youth Akali leader’s murder||A day after Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera, aka Vicky Middukhera, 33, was shot dead in broad daylight in Sector 71, Mohali, on Saturday, the Lawrence Bishnoi gang reportedly vowed to avenge his death.Hours after the murder on Saturday, the rival Davinder Bambiha gang had taken responsibility for the attack in a Facebook post. It claimed that Vicky was killed as he was allegedly acting as an “informer” for the Bishnoi gang. On Sunday, a Facebook page purportedly run by the Bishnoi gang posted a message, pledging to take revenge for Vicky’s death. The post in Hindi says that Vicky Middukhera was “our brother and had nothing to do with criminal activities”. According to a senior police officer privy to the investigations, Vicky had for long been on the hit list of gangsters, owing to his support to Bishnoi since their days in student politics as both were at one point affiliated to the Students Organisation of Panjab University. Both Bambiha and Bishnoi gangs are running extortion racket in the region. Bishnoi is calling the shots from behind bars while Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, is running the Bambiha gang from abroad.According to senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali, Satinder Singh, who is heading the investigations, Lucky, who is from Khuda Lahora in Chandigarh, is the main suspect. “He is at present in Armenia,” he said. Lucky was an aide of the slain gangster Davinder Bambiha, and according to sources he is running the gang after another aide, Dilpreet Singh Dahan, was arrested in a police encounter in Chandigarh three years ago.Lucky’s name had earlier cropped up in the murder of Gurlal Brar, an aide of Bishnoi who was shot dead outside a nightclub in Chandigarh last year. A day before Vicky’s murder, police in the neighbouring Panchkula district had also arrested two sharp shooters of the Bambiha gang, who were allegedly planning to eliminate Bishnoi gang members.Vicky sustained 12 bullet injuriesAccording to Vicky’s postmortem, he had sustained 12 bullet injuries. The postmortem was conducted by a three-member panel of doctors led by Dr Charanpreet Kaur at the civil hospital in Phase 6.Dr Kaur said the victim sustained 12 bullet injuries, out of which 10 pierced through and two were recovered from his body. Some of the bullets were fired from point-blank range, and hit his chest, stomach and temple, she said.“The victim died within minutes of the attack as his liver and lungs were ruptured,” said the doctor.According to the CCTV footage and eyewitness account, the four assailants had come in a white Hyundai i20 car and were waiting for Vicky who was visiting a property dealer at the Mataur market in Sector 71.Two of them chased Vicky and fired at him repeatedly as he was about to sit in his SUV around 10:30am on Saturday. According to police, a .30 bore pistol was used in the crime and at least 20 rounds were fired.“We have conducted raids at eight possible hideouts, but got no lead. Based on the CCTV footage, we are trying to match the pictures of the shooters with criminals in our old records,” said SSP Satinder Singh.Also, the Mohali registration number fixed on the assailants’ car has turned out to be fake. “The car owner had put the vehicle on sale online. It seems the shooters picked up the number from there,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bishnoi-gang-vows-to-avenge-youth-akali-leader-s-murder-101628450231931.html
09-08-2021||Other||Rift in Batala Cong; mayor accuses ex-MLA of blocking development||Batala The Congress unit of Batala has fallen victim to factionalism, with the mayor, Sukhdeep Singh Teja, accusing the former MLA, Ashwani Sekhri, of acting as a hurdle to the development of the city. Earlier this week, Sekhri has been appointed as the chairman of the Punjab Health Systems Corporation. “The state government had floated tenders for development works that included the construction of new bridges, roads and three rest houses in Batala. Sekhri, using his influence, ensured that these tenders were cancelled,” Teja, a close aide of Punjab cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, told a press conference.“We were informed about the cancellation of the tenders by the deputy commissioner’s office,” said Teja, adding that, “Instead of acting as a roadblock, Sekhri should bring more funds from the state government for this industrial town.”Sekhri has rubbished all allegations and denied having any knowledge about any tenders. Terming the allegations as baseless, Sekhri added that he had sought ₹50 crore for laying sewerage in inner localities, and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had assured approval to the scheme within 10 days. “I have been working in this constituency for the last 35 years and will leave no stone unturned for the development of my constituency,” Sekhri claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rift-in-batala-cong-mayor-accuses-ex-mla-of-blocking-development-101628450171645.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Default in coal purchase payment: Power tribunal tells PSPCL to pay ₹500 crore to TSPL||In another blow to Power State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) has ordered it to pay ₹472 crore with interest to Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) for default in payment for purchase of imported coal in 2017.Earlier, the PSPCL lost a case of coal washing charges and it had to pay ₹3,200 crore to private thermal plants. In the recent case, the PSPCL disallowed payment of alternative coal (imported coal) cost to be arranged by the TSPL to run the plant at full capacity during the 2017 (June to September) paddy season. Besides, the corporation also did not pay the deemed capacity charges from September 2016 to May 2017 and October 2017 onwards. The total default was around ₹478 crore. Allowing the TSPL petition, the APTEL has asked the PSPCL to pay the said amount with interest, which will be around ₹500 crore.In 2019, the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) disallowed two appeals filed by the TSPL wherein it was said the as the linked coal provided by the PSPCL is not sufficient to run the plant at full capacity, the corporation should either pay cost of imported coal or capacity charges. Flowing this, the corporation approached the APTEL.Setting aside the PSERC order, the APTEL directed the PSPCL to make the payment of differential amount as sought by the TSPL with late fee surcharge according to provisions of the power purchase agreement (PPA) from the date of billing till payments are made along with deemed capacity charges from October 2017 onwards.Officials privy to the development said poor drafting of the PPA has again gone against the PSPCL. Citing the PPA, the tribunal said it is the obligation of the corporation to arrange for the fuel for the generating station. Though the TSPL was required to pursue the matter with the ministry of coal, Mahanadi Coalfields Limited and other departments, the obligation of arranging fuel lies with the PSPCL, the tribunal said. One of the reasons for less coal supplied by Mahanadi Coalfields Limited was lesser requisition by the TSPL (from April 17, 2017 to June 10, 2017) due to force majeure, due to fire in the coal handling plant. Due to this, the TSPL was unable to send requisition of 6.9 lakh MT of coal. The APTEL said the imported coal was procured by the TSPL due the circumstances beyond its control, thus it should have been paid for it.The failure of the PSPCL to discharge its obligation affected the TSPL adversely. Hence, the TSPL is justified in claiming deemed capacity charges between September 2016 to May 2017 and October 2017 till 2018, the tribunal said. Following the tribunal order, the PSPCL has decided to challenge the tribunal order in a higher court, said an official. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Parsad was not available for comments. President of the PSEB Engineers’ Association Jasvir Singh Dhiman said there were serious lapses on the part of the PSPCL in executing these projects due to which the consumers of the state are suffering. The government had promised to issue a white paper on the issue, but to no avail. All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) spokesman VK Gupta said that officials who drafted the PPAs should be held responsible for coal linkage issue related costs and other weak provisions of power pacts, which has led to a loss of over ₹10,000 crore to the consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/default-in-coal-purchase-payment-power-tribunal-tells-pspcl-to-pay-rs-500-crore-to-tspl-101628449932050.html
09-08-2021||Other||8.5 lakh farmers in Punjab can avail Ayushman health insurance scheme this fiscal||Chandigarh The Punjab government has decided to bring nearly 8.5 lakh farmers and their families under the ambit of health insurance cover in line with the ‘Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana’ for 2021-22 fiscal. Farmers having ‘J’ forms and ‘sugarcane weighment slips’ would be eligible for the scheme. To facilitate farmers, the Punjab Mandi Board has launched a dedicated portal. Now, farmers do not need to visit market committee office to apply manually as was the case earlier. Interested farmers can apply on Mandi Board’s portal https://emandikaran-pb.in, with uploading of required documents. Mandi board secretary Ravi Bhagat added that eligible farmers can apply online on portal to avail the health facilities from empanelled hospitals from August 20. Punjab Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh said the board would pay the premium for the insurance cover for farmers to get cashless treatment facility of up to ₹5 lakh per annum. He added that these farmers and their families will now be covered with effect from August 20. He also added that the number of farmers covered under health insurance scheme during the last year of the scheme stood at around 5 lakh based on ‘J’ forms and ‘sugarcane weighment slips’. Now, the number of farmers has reached nearly 8.5 lakh with 7.9 lakh farmers having ‘J’ forms registered with the mandi board and 55,000 cane growers. Lal Singh added that these 5 lakh farmers, who have already been registered under Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna during last year, need not re-apply on the portal, as they will be extended the benefit for next year based on earlier documents, but remaining 3.5 lakh farmers registered as ‘J’ form holders and ‘Sugarcane Weighment Slips’ after October 1, 2020, would have to apply on the portal for availing health insurance. He added that apart from the family head, husband/wife, father/mother, unmarried children, divorced daughter and her minor children, widowed daughter-in-law and her minor children would be eligible. For more information, toll free number 104 or the website mandiboard.nic.in can be referred to. Thess farmers can approach any of the 642 empanelled private hospitals and 208 government hospitals for treatment facility of up to ₹5 lakh for 1,579 diseases, including major surgical treatments such as heart surgery, cancer treatment, joint replacement and accident cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/85-lakh-farmers-in-punjab-can-avail-ayushman-health-insurance-scheme-this-fiscal-101628449871586.html
09-08-2021||Noida||Noida: PVVNL plans 48 sub-stations to meet rising power demand||Expecting an increase of over 30% in power demand in Gautam Budh Nagar by 2026, the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) has decided to improve the supply infrastructure in the district. PVVNL officials said that the district needs about 50 new power sub-stations to meet the rising demand and a proposal in this regard will soon be sent to the state government. The power distribution company has also invited suggestions from people’s representatives, consumers and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to improve the distribution system, the officials said.According to the officials, the power demand in GB Nagar is set to increase from around 1500 megawatt (MW) per day at present to over 2000 MW per day in the next five years.PVVNL’s Noida divisional chief engineer, Virendra Nath Singh, said that the new infrastructure will cater to the power needs of the district in 2026. “Apart from Noida, the consumption of power is all set to go up in Greater Noida authority and Yamuna Expressway authority areas as several new projects are taking shape there. So, we are making a proposal for 48 new power sub-stations in these areas,” he said. Singh further said that the discom is also making a proposal for underground cabling of all the supply lines from all 33/11 kva power sub-stations. “At present, all supply lines from the 80 sub-stations are not underground. Besides, we are planning to connect all the power sub-stations with double lines. If anyone wants to give any suggestions for the betterment of present power infrastructure, they can drop their written messages in the boxes at their nearest sub-stations,” he said. The chief engineer also said that the PVVNL headquarters will send the proposal to the state government by the end of this week. “The state government will forward the proposal to the central government. Once it is cleared by the central power ministry, the overhauling work will begin. The central government will bear 60% of the total cost of overhauling the power infrastructure, while the remaining 40% expenses will be shouldered by the state government,” Singh said. It may be noted that to avert power cuts during peak hours, the PVVNL headquarters, in March 2021, had released ₹26 crore for upgradation work in GB Nagar, including the replacement of dilapidated poles, old transmission lines and open pillar boxes. “A Meerut-based agency has been awarded a contract to replace 17,500 poles, 990 air circuit breakers between transformers and low transmission power lines, and 11 kilovolt (kv) vacuum circuit breakers. The agency is also replacing 100km of 11kv wires, 80km of insulated conductor wires and 200 pillar boxes, besides taking up chemical earthing in different areas and societies of GB Nagar,” said a senior official at PVVNL’s managing director office in Meerut, preferring anonymity. He also said that the work of replacing 300 poles, 10km of 11kv wires and 5km of insulated conductor wires in sectors 29 and 31 is about to complete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-pvvnl-plans-48-sub-stations-to-meet-rising-power-demand-101628449811061.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal sale of Pearls Group assets: New SIT formed , IG Aulakh named head||JALANDHARPunjab Police have reconstituted the special investigation team (SIT) probing the illegal sale of assets of PACL India Limited, known as Pearls Group and appointed Ferozepur range inspector general (IG) of police Jatinder Singh Aulakh as its new head. Besides Aulakh, Ranjit Singh, commandant 36th battalion, Bahadurgarh, Ratan Singh Brar, Ferozepur superintendent of police (investigation), and Gurmeet Singh, Ferozepur deputy SP (headquarters), are its other members. The Punjab Police’s bureau of investigation issued the formal orders for the reconstitution of the probe team on August 3. Earlier, the SIT was headed by Tarn Taran SP (headquarters) Gurnam Singh, while Jalalabad DSP Palwinder Singh Sandhu and Zira DSP Rajwinder Singh Randhawa were its members. They were working under the supervision of then deputy inspector general of police Hardial Singh Mann, who retired from service and joined the Punjab Public Service Commission as a member. The earlier SIT has filed five chargesheets in a Zira court against 57 accused so far. Despite the Supreme Court ban in 2016, the Pearls Group disposed of properties worth ₹1,200 crore bought with investors’ money till a case was registered against it in 2020. Punjab Police made this valuation claim in the chargesheet against Harsatinder Singh Hayer, the son-in-law of Pearls Group owner Nirmal Singh Bhangu, after the SIT found that the properties were disposed of by either selling or illegally transferring them despite the ban. The case was registered under various sections, including cheating and criminal conspiracy, at the Zira police station in Ferozepur district in 2020Harsatinder Singh, who was arrested by the SIT in May this year, has filed a bail plea with the district courts, Ferozepur, which has fixed the hearing for August 9. The additional district and sessions court of Ferozepur had already dismissed bail plea of more than a dozen of accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-sale-of-pearls-group-assets-new-sit-formed-ig-aulakh-named-head-101628449751696.html
09-08-2021||Noida||Moderate rain in city today, slight spike in mercury: IMD||NOIDA: Noida and adjoining regions received moderate rainfall on Sunday and are likely to witness showers on Monday too, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD).However, temperatures slightly increased in Noida despite the 10mm rainfall it received on Sunday, against 1mm on Saturday, according to the IMD.“Noida may receive light rainfall on Monday, with maximum and minimum temperatures at 34°C and 26°C, respectively -- a slight increase in the maximum temperature,” said an IMD official on Sunday.On Sunday, Noida recorded maximum and minimum temperatures at 33.6 degrees Celsius (°C) and 26.4°C, respectively, against 32.3°C and 27.7°C on Saturday.At Safdarjung monitoring station, which is considered average for the national capital region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 33.4°C and 26.8°C -- a degree below the season’s average and the season’s average, respectively. On Sunday, the humidity levels oscillated between 96% and 83%.Meanwhile, weather analysts said that drizzling is likely to continue till Monday, ahead of “break monsoon” or “weak monsoon” conditions, which may prevail from August 10 or 11. In “break monsoon” conditions, the monsoon trough is solely confined to the Himalayan foothill regions. Monsoon trough -- a low-pressure line that oscillates north to south and brings rainfall along -- is moving northward after passing over the national capital, according to the analysts.“The monsoon trough is passing over Delhi. The trough line will move towards the foothills of Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, leading to a good amount of rainfall in that region, but a dry spell in the national capital region (NCR) from August 10, leading to a break monsoon condition... Temperatures are likely to rise again... It is likely to rain again around August 15, with the return of the trough line,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/moderate-rain-in-city-today-slight-spike-in-mercury-imd-101628449691182.html
09-08-2021||Noida||Woman’s body found from Noida house, probe on||The decomposed body of a 36-year-old woman has been found in a house in Noida’s Sarfabad village, police said. A case of murder against an unidentified suspect was registered on Sunday at Sector 49 police station.The woman was identified as Fatima, a native of West Bengal, who lived in the rented accommodation. The incident came to fore late Friday evening, when the victim’s neighbours complained of foul smell from the house.“The neighbours informed police about the foul smell coming from the house. A police team reached the spot, and entered the house by breaking the main gate and found the decomposed body of Fatima,” said Vinod Kumar Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sector 49 police station.The police team had noticed a few marks around Fatima’s neck, suggesting that she was allegedly murdered.“Autopsy report confirmed that the woman was strangled two days before her body was found by the police. Earlier, Fatima used to live in Noida’s Sorkha, and had moved to Sarfabad nearly 10 days ago,” said SHO Singh.Based on a complaint filed by the victim’s landlord, a case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder) was registered.The victim’s family was informed, and her eldest son, who lives in Gurugram, has claimed her body, police said, adding that the family has not mentioned any personal enmity or does not suspect anyone. However, a male friend of Fatima, who had helped her out with the Sarfabad accommodation, is at large, and police are trying to trace him, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/womans-body-found-from-noida-house-probe-on-101628449631063.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Missing wheat: Three officials suspended, chargesheet filed against 2||The Punjab food and civil supplies department on Sunday ordered suspension of three officials and charge-sheeted two after large stocks of wheat were found missing from the Jandiala Guru godowns of Pungrian. Those suspended include district food and supplies officer (DFSO) Amarinder Singh, assistant food and supplies officer (AFSO) Arshdeep Singh and inspector Jasdev Singh. Departmental proceedings have been initiated against them. The department issued chargesheet against district food and civil supplies controller (DFSC) Raj RIshi Mehra and his predecessor Jasjit Kaur. It has also been decided to refer the case to the state vigilance department for further investigation. In a release, food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said that the department has deputed a central vigilance committee (CVC) for physical verification of Pungrain wheat stocks. Reportedly, Jasdev Singh is absconding and a case has been registered against him. Ashu said the CVC has constituted teams to verify the wheat stocks in various godowns and plinths of Pungrain at Jandiala Guru. According to the preliminary report, 184,344 bags of the crop years 2018-19, 2020-21 & 2021-22 have been found short, the cost of which is approximately ₹20 crore. At least 87,000 quintal wheat has been found missing. The CVC, in its preliminary report, has also apprehended that there might be bogus purchase of wheat and embezzlement of wheat distributed under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). The vigilance team has been directed to undertake an inquiry of the case and verify the central pool wheat stocks of RMS 2018-19 onwards and also report regarding distribution of wheat under the NFSA and PMGKY.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-wheat-three-officials-suspended-chargesheet-filed-against-2-101628449511618.html
09-08-2021||Other||AAP holds meeting with traders in Sangrur||Sangrur The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s trade wing held a meeting with the business community of the city on Sunday. Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, trade wing Punjab president Raman Mittal and senior assistant president Anil Thakur led the discussion. The AAP leaders said the party would prepare a blueprint after taking suggestions from all trade associations of Punjab. Cheema said, “If the AAP forms the next government, industry would be provided cheapest power in the country and that too round the clock. This will help revive the declining industry of Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-holds-meeting-with-traders-in-sangrur-101628449332233.html
09-08-2021||Noida||New wooden bridge at Okhla sanctuary in two weeks||The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department said on Sunday that the work on a new bridge over a small stream at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary will be completed in the next two weeks.The 50-metre wooden bridge is being built after dismantling the 20 years old bamboo bridge which caused troubles to birders. The bamboo bridge had broken a few months ago and the birders had been demanding for a new bridge.The bridge near the lake connects a part of the sanctuary with the two watch towers and the grassland area.Officials said that the new bridge will have a wooden framework rather than bamboo structure.“We understand that visitors had been facing issues due to the broken bridge. The new bridge will be stronger and will have an iron base with wooden framework. It will be completed within next two weeks. Apart from that, two water ATMs are being installed at the gates of the sanctuary and a new toilet is being constructed near gate number two,” said PK Srivastav, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar. When asked about developing a parking area for the sanctuary, the officials said that “they are working on it”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/new-wooden-bridge-at-okhla-sanctuary-in-two-weeks-101628449330951.html
09-08-2021||Other||HC: Nothing illegal in FIR under Gangster Act on the basis of single case||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has held that the lodging of a First Information Report (FIR) under Gangster Act on the basis of the involvement of a person in a single criminal case is valid and permissible under law. While dismissing the bunch of 12 writ petitions filed by Ritesh Kumar alias Rikki and others, a division bench comprising justices Pritinker Diwaker and Samit Gopal said, “In a petition under Article 226 (writ jurisdiction) of the Constitution of India, the high court cannot adjudicate the correctness of the allegations in the impugned first information reports or the cases on the basis of which the impugned first information reports have been lodged”. The plea of the petitioners was that they had been made accused in the impugned FIRs which had been lodged under the provisions of the Gangster Act on the basis of their involvement in a solitary case. Therefore, the impugned FIRs were illegal and against the essence of the Gangster Act. The petitioners’ counsel argued, “The said First Information Report could not have been lodged on the basis of a solitary case and as such the writ petitions should be allowed and the respective impugned FIRs should be quashed.” After hearing concerned parties, the court dismissed the bunch of petitions as it didn’t find any illegality in the FIRs registered. The court gave this decision on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-nothing-illegal-in-fir-under-gangster-act-on-the-basis-of-single-case-101628449272200.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||SAD names in-charges for 12 Punjab assembly segments||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday announced constituency in-charges for 12 assembly constituencies of which seven are new faces. The in-charges include Harmeet Singh Sandhu (Tarn Taran), Darshan Singh Shivalik (Gill), Harpal Juneja (Patiala-Urban), Chandan Grewal (Jalandhar-Central), SR Kler (Jagraon), Charanjit Singh Brar (Rajpura), Rohit ‘Montu’ Vohra (Ferozepur City), Kulwant Singh Keetu (Barnala), Malkit AR (Jandiala), Satnam Rahi (Bhadaur), Talbir Singh Gill (Amritsar-South) and Kabir Das (Nabha). Sukhbir met the newly appointed in-charges separately and later held a joint meeting. He urged them to spread awareness about the 13-point programme announced by the SAD-BSP alliance, which it was committed to fulfil once it formed the government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-names-in-charges-for-12-punjab-assembly-segments-101628449213469.html
09-08-2021||Other||Fire breaks out at Noida factory||Noida: A fire broke out at a factory in Noida Sector 63 on late Sunday night. The fire soon intensified and spread to another factory in the neighbourhood, officials said, adding that nobody was injured in the incident. Arun Kumar, chief fire safety officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said the incident took place around 9pm in a factory located in H block. “The factory manufactures leather products like belts and bags. Due to inflammable items’ presence, the fire soon intensified and spread to another factory in the neighbourhood. The another factory manufactures cotton products,” he said.Kumar said that 15 fire tenders were pressed into action. “We have managed to control the fire after two-hour struggle. No injury has been reported so far,” he said.The police officials said it appears that the fire originated due to short circuit. A team from Phase 3 police station is also deployed at the spot, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-breaks-out-at-noida-factory-101628449211010.html
09-08-2021||Noida||Four killed, 20 injured in two accidents on nearby highways||Four persons died and 20 others, including a 55-year-old woman sub-inspector of the Delhi Police, were injured in two separate accidents -- one took place on the Yamuna Expressway and the other on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway -- on Sunday.Police said that four persons were returning from Mathura to Delhi in a Honda City car when one of the front tyres got punctured near Salarpur underpass in Dankaur around 12:30pm. “The four occupants deboarded the car and one of them started replacing the tyre when a speeding vehicle coming in the same direction ran over them,” said Arvind Pathak, station house officer, Dankaur police station.According to police, all the four persons -- Bhaskar Sharma, 25, his mother Kanchan Sharma, 62, Kanchan’s younger sister Poonam Sharma, 55, and Poonam’s daughter Bhavya Sharma, 19 -- were critically wounded in the incident while the driver of the unidentified vehicle managed to escape. Some passersby informed police and a team from Dankaur police station reached the spot, Pathak said, adding that the four victims were admitted to a private hospital in Greater Noida where Bhaskar, Kanchan and Bhavya succumbed to injuries.The condition of Poonam Sharma, a sub-inspector of the Delhi Police, is critical, a senior police official said.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said the Delhi-based family was returning after visiting temples in Mathura. “The four victims were rushed to a private hospital where three of them died. Poonam Sharma is undergoing treatment in the hospital’s intensive care unit,” he said.While Bhaskar and Kanchan were residents of Delhi’s Vikaspuri, Poonam is a resident of BSES Colony in New Delhi, police said.Police said that the three bodies have been sent for a post-mortem. “We have registered a case against unknown person under Section 304-A (death due to negligence) and Section 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code. We are scanning the footage from the CCTV camera to identify the suspect and his vehicle,” Pathak said.In the second accident, a 35-year-old woman died while 19 others were injured after a bus carrying over 60 passengers hit a stationary truck on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Dadri around 8am. The bus going from Punjab to Bihar was badly damaged and the passengers were trapped, officials said, adding that a police team reached the spot and rescued them.Pradeep Tripathi, SHO of Dadri police station, said the bus bearing Punjab registration number was going to Muzaffarpur. “A truck loaded with iron bars was parked on the expressway. It seems that the bus driver could not spot the truck and hit the vehicle from behind,” he said.Police said all the victims were rushed to the Noida district hospital where a woman succumbed to injuries. The woman was travelling alone and her identity has not been ascertained yet, police said.The injured were identified as Mani Lal Mathur, Bablu, Zubair Ansari, Shyam Pandit, Naresh Kumar, Milan, Sonu Kumar, Manilal, Vinod, Jitendra, Vijay, Mausam Kumar, Sunil Das, Rasool, Raj Kumar, Mehruddin, Anirudh and Vasu.Most of the injured persons are residents of Supaul, Madhepura, Muzaffarpur, and Sitamarhi of Bihar and they worked in various factories in Punjab, police said, adding that they have not received any complaint in the case.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday offered condolences to the families of the victims who died in the accidents in Greater Noida. “CM Yogi Adityanath instructed the administration to provide proper treatment to those injured in the accidents and to provide all possible help and relief to the affected people,” the CM’s office said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-killed-20-injured-in-two-accidents-on-yamuna-expressway-eastern-peripheral-expressway-101628449151011.html
09-08-2021||Other||Democracy being muzzled; media, judiciary have to resist govt’s dictatorial attitude: Sardesai||Rupnagar Expressing grave concern over citizens critical of government policies being tried for sedition or for anti-national activities, senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai said that the powerful were forgetting that the government and the country was not the same thing. “Democracy in the country is at risk these days due to the dictatorial attitude of the rulers and a weak opposition,” said Sardesai, in town to address media persons at an event that District Press Clubs Association, Rupnagar, had organised on Sunday.“The Central government and many states are leaving no stone unturned to damage the democratic set-up. The media and the judiciary, the pillars of democracy, have failed to do what was expected of them during such times,” he added. He added that he was optimistic that the country will weather such challenges, as this was not the first time when the country had witnessed such a situation. “Since Independence, the country has gone through such circumstances several times and the masses have always shown the door to people responsible for it,” he claimed.In the current scenario, he claimed that the economy and Covid-19 pandemic were key challenges facing the country, but unfortunately no on had the time to discuss these issues in Parliament. “Bills are being passed without debate. It seems Parliament has been turned into cabinet meeting, where only the government will put its point of view; others would not be allowed to speak,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/democracy-being-muzzled-media-judiciary-have-to-resist-govt-s-dictatorial-attitude-sardesai-101628449031641.html
09-08-2021||Other||Expedite relief measures in flood-hit areas: Yogi||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the district magistrates of Etawah, Auraiya and Jalaun districts to launch relief and rescue operations expeditiously in flood-affected areas. The chief minister reviewed the situation in the flood-affected districts in a meeting held at his official residence on Sunday. He directed the Jal Shakti minister to review the flood situation and relief and rescue work with the officials of the local administration by conducting an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas of Varanasi and Ballia districts. Special attention should be given to preparations related to flood control and relief and rescue operations in the sensitive districts, he said, adding that arrangements should be made in advance to deal with emergencies. The district magistrates and superintendents of police were directed to visit the sensitive spots in the flood-affected areas. The flood control rooms should be made operational, regular monitoring of the flood situation and patrolling should be conducted in the flood hit areas, he said. Food packets should be distributed in the flood-hit areas after identifying the marooned villages and localities. The district administration should set up community kitchens and dry ration kits should be distributed among the people, he said. Yogi said the availability of boats should be ensured in the flood-affected areas. Establishment of flood posts, arrangement for petromax lamps and effective patrolling on the embankments should be made. All assistance should be given to the flood victims, providing them relief material on schedule. The medical facilities should be improved and the medical teams should be posted in the area in view of the spread of infectious diseases due to flood. Adequate arrangements should be made for the treatment of animals, apart from providing medicines and fodder. Regular supply of essential commodities like petrol, diesel, kerosene and edible items should be maintained in the flood-hit areas, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/expedite-relief-measures-in-flood-hit-areas-yogi-101628448312109.html
09-08-2021||Other||DGP inaugurates modern police hospital in Kanpur||Lucknow: UP director general of police (DGP) Mukul Goel on Sunday inaugurated the police hospital in Kanpur city which was recently upgraded with the efforts of VAMASARTHI Kanpur chapter, an organisation run by the wives of police officers. The L-1 hospital provided health support to police officials during the second wave and was upgraded in preparations for the third wave. The hospital is equipped with modern facilities, including isolations wards and beds with oxygen support. Some of the beds also have oxygen concentrator. “The health of patients is monitored round the clock by trained health professionals. The hospital also provides health advisory to people in home isolation via telemedicine facility,” said Jyotsana Arun of VAMASARTHI’s Kanpur chapter. She said the hospital was upgraded with help from Muthoot Finance under corporate social responsibility. The hospital was currently providing facilities of OPD, Covid-19 testing and vaccination. Specialised doctors also visited the hospital on regular intervals, she added. The DGP inspected the hospital and praised the effort to modernise it. “The hospital will prove essential in providing relief to police personnel during the next wave of Covid-19 and even after it. There is a need to build such facilities for police personnel across the state,” he said. The state police chief said that police personnel worked as the frontline workers during the first and second wave of Covid-19 in the state. “Uttar Pradesh police also lost many of his personnel while managing the Covid-19 crisis since last year. Despite these police will continue to fight the challenges ahead. Hospitals like this which is easily accessible to police personnel and their families will prove essential in supporting them in difficult times,” said the DGP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dgp-inaugurates-modern-police-hospital-in-kanpur-101628447773310.html
09-08-2021||Gurugram||Drone survey of Aravallis delayed due to pending permissions, rain||Almost a week after the district administration decided to conduct a drone survey of the Aravallis to identify encroachments and illegal constructions, such as farmhouses, the survey is yet to take off in some areas due to rain and lack of requisite permissions, officials said.“Many parts of the Aravallis in Gurugram come under prohibited areas, so several permissions are needed for conducting a drone survey. We have finalised the agency and four teams are deployed, but certain permissions are still pending. So, a complete survey has not started,” a senior official of the district administration said, wishing not to be identified. The official cited above said that while the survey has started in some parts of the Aravallis under the Sohna forest range, it was affected on Saturday due to rainfall. The official said that the survey is yet to take off in areas under the Gurugram forest range and that notices have been sent to owners of over 70 illegal structures constructed in the Aravallis.Rajeev Tejyan, divisional forest officer of Gurugram, did not respond to calls and messages on Sunday. Last Tuesday, officials decided to conduct a drone survey of 33 villages located along the Aravallis to identify illegal structures and farmhouses in protected areas. The district administration officials said after the identification of such properties, notices will be sent to the owners and demolitions will be carried out to clear the protected area. According to forest department officials, the drone survey will cover over 6,800 hectares of land protected under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA). The action against illegal structures in the forest areas of Gurugram is being taken on the lines of Faridabad, where the Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal directed the authorities to remove illegal constructions in the Aravallis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/drone-survey-of-aravallis-delayed-due-to-pending-permissions-rain-101628447771819.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Drug peddler escapes from police custody in Ludhiana||A man, arrested for drug peddling on Friday, escaped the Siar police post after shoving an assistant sub-inspector on Saturday.After the incident, the Malaud police lodged an FIR against Lukman of Albelpura village of Mandi Ahmadgarh, who, along with his accomplice Shehzad Ali, was arrested for drug peddling on August 6.They were produced before the court on Saturday and remanded in two-day police custody for questioning.ASI Tarvinder Kumar, who is investigating the case, said Lukman and Shehzad were brought to the Siar police post for questioning at the time of the incident.In the afternoon, when ASI Parminder Singh and ASI Harbans Singh were taking them to the mess, Lukman pushed the latter and fled, he added.A case under Section 224 (Resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against Lukman. A hunt is on to nab him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-peddler-escapes-from-police-custody-in-ludhiana-101628447711631.html
09-08-2021||Gurugram||Moderate rain causes heavy waterlogging||The city received a spell of light to moderate rainfall on Sunday following which waterlogging was reported from several areas in the city. However, the rainfall brought a much-needed respite from the heat as temperatures have been rising over the past week.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city received 40mm of rainfall between 8.30pm on Saturday and 8.30pm on Sunday, with heavy rain at isolated places and light to moderate rain at most places.Even as the underpasses and major roads remained largely unaffected by the rain, waterlogging was reported from Sushant Lok, Iffco Chowk, Maharana Pratap Chowk, Narsinghpur, Signature Tower, sectors 9, 10, 45 and 46. Vehicular movement on roads was not affected due to low traffic on Sunday.TL Sharma, the chief engineer of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), said, “Despite heavy rain on Sunday, major waterlogging was not reported from anywhere. We received a few complaints of waterlogging in Sector 9-10, which is a sensitive point and complaints from Sector 45-46. But mostly, the water cleared out on its own at most places in the city.”Officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority also said that they did not receive any major complaints regarding waterlogging on Sunday.On Sunday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 32.5 degrees Celsius (°C) and a minimum temperature of 24°C, with both recordings two degrees below normal, according to the IMD. However, the humidity remained high, with Gurugram recording 97%humidity on Sunday evening.A weather warning bulletin issued by the IMD’s meteorological centre in Chandigarh had predicted heavy rain at isolated places in Gurugram on Sunday and the city was on a “yellow” alert. From Monday, the weather department predicted one or two spells of rain or thundershowers.According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, one or two spells of rain or thundershowers are likely till August 10.Meanwhile, the air quality in the city improved on Sunday to satisfactory category from moderate category recorded on Saturday. On Sunday, Gurugram reported an air quality index (AQI) of 94 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. On Saturday, the city had reported an AQI of 111.Over the next five days, air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain largely in the moderate to the satisfactory category, according to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/moderate-rain-causes-heavy-waterlogging-101628447592649.html
09-08-2021||Gurugram||Night curfew ends, curbs relaxed further as Haryana extends lockdown||Extending the ongoing lockdown till August 23, the Haryana government on Sunday ended the night curfew and announced further relaxations, including reopening of swimming pools and doing away with time limits for shops and markets.Officials said that relaxations issued so far will also stay in force and that mask discipline will be strictly enforced. There would be no service in government or private establishments to people who are not wearing masks.A spokesperson for the district administration said that all directions will be implemented strictly, particularly regarding the mask discipline. “Covid-appropriate behaviour will be enforced strictly,” said the spokesperson.According to the new lockdown order issued by Vijai Vardhan, chief secretary, Haryana, restrictions on timings imposed on the opening of shops, markets and malls were lifted. The night curfew that was in force so far was been lifted.However, the order reiterated that the managements of shops and malls will have to strictly follow Covid-19 safety protocols and ensure that visitors comply with norms.Even as sports facilities were allowed to open for professional athletes, the government allowed the reopening of swimming pools to the public with necessary safety protocols. The government order also removed the restricted timings for restaurants, bars, gyms and spas, but these will continue to operate at 50% capacity.“It is also advised ‘no mask no service’ rule will be observed in the state. People with face cover/mask will only be allowed to board private and public transport, and enter any government or private establishment for availing of any service or goods,” the order issued by Vardhan stated.The order also stated that establishments running swimming pools must ensure that all swimmers and participants are preferably vaccinated. Religious places are allowed to open with 50 persons at a time, stated the order.The order also directed the vice-chancellors of universities to prepare a plan for reopening institutions from the next academic session. It also directed that measures should be taken to ensure the immediate vaccination of hostel students, day scholars and all concerned.The order also allowed all corporate offices to operate with full attendance, as was in effect earlier. However, the restrictions on social functions such as weddings, funerals and cremations remain capped at 100 persons. In open spaces, a gathering of 200 persons is allowed, as was the case till Saturday.Universities and colleges are allowed to open for doubt-clearing sessions, practical classes, examinations and offline exams, the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/night-curfew-ends-curbs-relaxed-further-as-haryana-extends-lockdown-101628447591544.html
09-08-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case: MCOCA applied to Chhota Rajan’s henchman, aides||The anti-extortion cell (AEC) of the Mumbai crime branch invoked the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against gangster Chhota Rajan’s henchman Yusuf Suleiman Kadri alias Yusuf Bachkana and two others of his gang in connection with an extortion case. The AEC has moved the proposal to joint commissioner of police (crime branch) Milind Bharambe in the last week of July. Following the proposal, all three accused Bachkana, and his two associates Habiba Khan and Prakash Kunchikurve were produced again in the sessions court and remanded in police custody till August 11. Under MCOCA, an accused cannot obtain bail easily. The trio has been arrested for threatening a Ghatkopar-based developer and demanding ₹50 lakh from him.Police claimed Bachkana was a sharp-shooter for Chhota Rajan. Later, he became close to Ravi Pujari and started allegedly making extortion calls to businessmen in Mumbai and other cities. He used to send his men to threaten businessmen on the directions of Pujari, but due to lack of evidence, was acquitted in most cases, added the officer. The case against Bachkana was filed in June for allegedly threatening and demanding ₹50 lakh from inside the Karnataka jail where Bachkana has been serving a life sentence. The AEC took his custody on a production warrant from jail and arrested Bachkana on July 20 and his two associates – Khan and Kunchikurve – for helping him.The crime branch official said they learnt that apart from the Ghatkopar developer, Bachkana had targeted two more private developers of Mumbai with the help of Khan and demanded ₹25 lakh from each of them. “We have recorded the statement of the victims and instead of registering separate cases, they have been made witness and their statements have been merged in the Ghatkopar case,” added the crime branch officer. “There are chances that many more gang members are involved and few more might be arrested in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-mcoca-applied-to-chhota-rajan-s-henchman-aides-101628447413580.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||DMRC to develop internal road below Trilokpuri section to improve congestion||After flagging off the missing 290-metre link between Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake and Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 stations on the Pink Line, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is now working on developing a road between Vasundhara Road and Khudi Ram Bose Marg near the former station to decongest areas around the metro corridor.DMRC on Sunday said the internal road, below the Metro viaduct, will improve the flow of traffic and decongest the area.Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said the road will be 160 metres long and 16 metres wide (excluding the median, footpath, boundary wall, etc). Work on it is likely to be completed by October this year, said officials.“At present, even though the section is opened, the road network in the internal pockets of Trilokpuri is not maintained and this impairs last-mile connectivity with Metro stations. Our aim is to develop a multimodal system that is interconnected so that passengers are not stranded once they leave the Metro station,” a senior Metro official said.According to traffic police estimates, the stretch connecting Vasundhara Road and Khudi Ram Bose Marg, will significantly help minimise traffic woes in the internal roads in neighbouring areas.The DMRC on Friday inaugurated the 290-metre missing link between Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake and Mayur Vihar pocket-1 on the Pink Line (connecting Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar). While the corridor was opened in 2019, this section could not be completed because of land acquisition issues. The section, which was earlier set to be opened from September last year, was delayed further because of construction restrictions and the lack of available labourers and construction material because of the Covid-19 pandemic.“DMRC has maintained a tradition of developing peripheral areas around the viaducts and tunnels which it has constructed as part of the Metro network. For example, the rotary at Mandi House was beautified and the road widened when the station was built,” the Metro said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-to-develop-internal-road-below-trilokpuri-section-to-improve-congestion-101628447412364.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||5 arrested for taking away jewels from shop by posing as CBI officials||Five people were arrested for their alleged involvement in at least three cheating cases in which they impersonated officials of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and stole gold and cash from victims in Karol Bagh between March and June, said police on Sunday.Police recovered five fake identity cards of the CBI and seven mobile phones that the suspects used in the crimes, along with three gold chains, which they allegedly stole from an employee of a jewellery shop in Karol Bagh on June 27.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh, “All five belong to a family, which had migrated from Iran to India decades ago and settled in a residential area near Bhopal railway station in Madhya Pradesh . The locality is known as Irani Mohalla and hence, the syndicate is known as ‘Irani gang’.”The arrested men were identified as Mohammad Ali alias Sabir Hussain (52), his brother Anwar Ali (45), their cousin Shoukat Ali Jafri (55), brother-in-law Mohammad Kabil (45) and their nephew Mukhtiyar Hussain (35). “Sabir is the kingpin of the gang and impersonated a senior CBI officer during the crimes. The other members posed as Sabir’s subordinates in the CBI,” said the DCP.Elaborating on the gang’s modus operandi, Singh said the suspects first identified the main jewellery markets in various states, collected information about suppliers and agents and then targeted them. They identified themselves as CBI officers and stole cash or gold on the pretext of checking the bags of the victims for unaccounted money, foreign currency, firearms or drugs, said police.On June 27, the Karol Bagh police received a call that four to five men, who claimed to be from the CBI, stole 300 grams of gold chains from the employee of a jewellery showroom . The employee told police that the suspects stopped him to check his bag and took away the gold chains. A case was registered and during investigation, police learnt that two similar cases of cheating, where the victims were duped of ₹12.5 lakh and ₹2 lakh, were reported from Karol Bagh in March and May.“The investigating team scanned CCTV cameras from Karol Bagh market to Hanuman Chambery on Pusa Road, covering nearly 1km stretch. Five men were seen following the jeweller’s employee. They were identified as members of the Irani gang from Bhopal,” said Singh.A police team visited Bhopal’s Irani Mohalla but the suspects were found missing. Investigators collected data of passengers travelling between Delhi and Bhopal via train and found that the suspects travelled to Delhi on June 26 and returned on June 30. It was further learnt that they would be travelling to Allahabad from Bhopal on August 1 in a train. “Our team searched the train at Jhansi railway station in Uttar Pradesh, caught all the five suspects and brought them to Delhi,” said the DCP.“They have been found to be involved in over 25 such crimes in Delhi, UP and West Bengal. They were declared proclaimed offenders in more than 10 cases,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-arrested-for-taking-away-jewels-from-shop-by-posing-as-cbi-officials-101628447357470.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Man dies after jumping off building during Outer Delhi flat eviction drive||A 25-year-old man died and another suffered fractures in his leg after they jumped off a building, from a height of nearly 25 feet, to avoid arrest in outer Delhi’s Vijay Vihar on Friday night, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said the two, along with four others, including a local property dealer identified as Manjeet, went to a house in Vijay Vihar, B-block, to evict a tenant from a fifth-floor flat allegedly at the behest of property owner, Atul Govil. The tenant, who is living in the flat for the past few years, was not vacating the property despite the owner’s repeated notices, the police said.“Govil tasked Manjeet to vacate the flat and find a new tenant. Manjeet roped in one Rajesh, who brought four men from Haryana’s Sonepat to do the job,” said the DCP.Around 8pm on Friday, Manjeet and Rajesh reached the building with the four hired men. Two of them stayed outside the building, and four went to the flat. But, it was locked.The four men allegedly broke the flat’s lock, removed the tenant’s belongings and put a new lock on the main door. Meanwhile, the tenant’s sister, who lives in the same locality, learnt about it and informed Vijay Vihar police station, the police said.Four policemen reached the building and caught the two suspects waiting outside. They then went inside the building and asked the four suspects to surrender.“The four men panicked and rushed to the adjacent buildings by scaling the railings on the building’s terrace,” said a police officer, who did not wish to be named.Two of them managed to escape, but two others got stuck on the terrace of the second building. To avoid getting caught, they jumped from the terrace of the building, said the officer.“The one who jumped off the building first, identified as Saurabh, died on the spot. Prime facie, it appears Saurabh sustained injuries because of the fall. His associate, Ankit, fractured his right leg. He was arrested,” said Tayal.Apart from Ankit, the other two arrested men were identified as Manjeet and Keshav. Their interrogation led to the arrest of the flat owner, Atul Govil. “We are now looking for Rajesh and the other suspect,” said the DCP.Police said they are verifying the antecedents of the arrested men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-dies-after-jumping-off-building-during-outer-delhi-flat-eviction-drive-101628447355403.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s weekly markets, a window to the city’s culture, back in business||New Delhi: As it started raining on Sunday afternoon, Mohammad Ishmail quickly ran into his four-square-metre residence at the Jagdamba Camp slum cluster near Chirag Dilli to check if the roof was leaking once again. Inside, there was a mattress with no bedsheet, a plastic chair, a table made of plywood and an intriguing assortment of plastic soap cases, tiny mirrors, pocket-sized combs, cheap wallets and razors lay spread over a thin rug on the floor.“There is more inside the trunk,” said the 38-year-old pointing towards a metal trunk that looked heavy, as he quickly fixed a plastic sheet covering a tiny hole on the tin-ceiling of his residence in the slum.Ishmail is a travelling merchant, who keeps moving from one weekly market – popularly called Hafta Bazar – to another in the city in usual times for a living. At a hyperlocal level, most such Hafta Bazars are often named after the day of the week on which they operate – such as Mangal Bazar for weekly markets operating on Tuesdays, Budh Bazar for those operating on Wednesdays, and so on.Most such markets are closed for months in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic.Ishmail expects to be back in business from Monday, and the products that lay spread on the floor were fished out of the same trunk. He said, “Tomorrow, I shall be at the Mehrauli hafta bazar selling these goods. You can find me there. On Tuesdays, I am at Usmanpur. Wednesdays in Chirag Delhi. It is good that the government has finally taken a decision in our favour.”On Sunday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued an order allowing all weekly markets in the city to operate from this Monday – essentially putting into implementation an announcement by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal the previous day, stressing on how these markets have to be preserved as large number of poor people depend on them for their livelihood.On August 2, the Delhi High Court asked the city government to consider reopening of weekly markets.As Delhi witnessed its worst Covid-19 wave, which left the city’s health infrastructure overwhelmed, the government implemented a lockdown on April 19. As Covid-19 cases started to decline, the government started with a phased relaxation process from May 31 and by mid-June they allowed one weekly market to operate per day per municipal zone.Delhi has 12 municipal zones, said a senior official in the government’s revenue department, which essentially means 84 weekly markets have more or less been functional in the city for the last two months.“But Delhi has more than 2,500 small and big weekly markets in total . From traders to suppliers and labourers, they engage lakhs of people. Around 250 such markets are quite prominent in the city including the ones in Shastri Park, Red Fort, Yamuna Pushta, Mandawali, Vasant Kunj and Karkardooma. So, the one market per day per municipal zone means many of them were suspended and the traders associated with those markets were in distress,” said Arbind Singh, national coordinator of the National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI), an advocacy group.The lockdown imposed because of the pandemic threw thousands into distress and Ishmail was among them. He recalled how he had to send his wife, who is a domestic worker, and nine-year-old son, to his extended family which resides at a village in Bihar’s East Champaran district.Not having the weekly markets functional near their residences was trouble for customers too.“Not having the weekly market functional in the neighbourhood was quite a problem. They offer a wide range of household essentials and we depend on that. But, yes, people should follow Covid-19 regulations without any compromise,” said Ganga Devi, a resident of New Ashok Nagar neighbourhood in east Delhi where three weekly markets in the vicinity have been non-functional for the last two months.Weekly markets in Delhi sell a wide range of products – rolling pins, kitchen knives, plastic toys, woollens, toiletries, garments, bangles, lipsticks, face creams, razors, stationeries, vegetables, fruits, spices, cooking oil, pickles, papad and what not. They largely cater to lower-income group households.“I see them more as a cultural thing,” said Rana Safvi, a Delhi-based historian and writer. “Where do you find bangle sellers in Delhi these days who used to walk around in localities selling their merchandise? In the weekly markets, you see such merchants. Traditionally a lot of them offered space to village residents in Delhi to display handmade products. While those rural areas turned into urban villages, such weekly markets remained. In most of them, the traders know their regular clients and they often form a bond.”It is quite likely that such bonds between merchants and clients have helped the former read the demographic demands better and innovate. For instance, several weekly markets in the city which function in areas inhabited by large numbers of people from Bengali and Odiya communities sell fish, several of them located in areas inhabited by North-East Indian communities sell packed dried fish and bamboo shoots.Film-maker and writer Sohail Hashmi highlighted historical roots of Delhi’s weekly markets. He said, “When contending armies fought for the control of Delhi, the residents of its villages had to suffer violence. It is said that Mohammad bin Tughlaq once erected a wall around his new capital city of Bijay Mandal, which is located near current-day localities Begum Pur, Sarvodya enclave and Sarvapriya Vihar. It would be a wall that would enclose within its folds his fort and all the surrounding villages and their lands. He named it Jahan Panah. A large part of the wall was demolished around 20 years ago to widen the Aurobindo Marg. Another part of the wall runs along the present-day Jahapanah Forest. The Sat Pula on the Saket-Sheikh Sarai Road near the Chirag Dilli drain too was a part of the wall but no trace of it remains there now. Tughlaq, however, died before the wall could be completed.``“The villages enclosed within the walls and those in its peripheries continued to exist for centuries producing all that they needed to survive or buying what they did not, from the weekly markets, held on fixed days of the week near each village. These markets were run by small travelling salesmen who set up shop at a new location each day of the week, coming back to each location once a week. Each travelling merchant catered to a fixed set of six or seven villages within a specific part of what were then the environs of Delhi. Much has changed in the wares that the hafta bazaar merchants sell today; the customers have also changed and yet much remains in these markets that needs to be preserved,” said Hashmi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-weekly-markets-a-window-to-the-city-s-culture-back-in-business-from-monday-101628447354871.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||DDMA allows students of classes 10, 11 and 12 to return to school||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday allowed students of classes 10, 11 and 12 to visit schools for admission and board-exam related activities, in what is the first easing of restrictions on educational institutions, which have been broadly shut since March last year due to the pandemic, in the Capital since the fourth wave of infections.The state education department is expected to release an order on Monday detailing the guidelines and reopening protocol for schools and students, and these students can attend classes for these activities from Tuesday, if schools are prepared with the protocols, said officials.DDMA issued the rules as part of a general order on Covid-19 curbs on Sunday that also allowed spas and weekly markets to reopen in Delhi, subject to their adherence to public health restrictions.“Students of class 10 to 12 are permitted to visit their schools for admission related work including counselling/guidance and practical activities related to board exams,” said the DDMA order on Sunday, adding that the directorate of education will “issue appropriate guidelines” on the same to “ensure that Covid-appropriate protocols are followed and children’s safety is ensured.”The order, however, specifies that all educational institutes in the Capital including schools, colleges, and coaching centres will remain closed and online learning will be encouraged in all circumstances except the exempted activities.“Health checkup and referral services situated in schools or conducted from there [schools] can resume. Children of all ages may visit such centres accompanied by their parent or guardian,” the order also said. Several government schools have health centres for children.Schools and colleges in the national capital have been shut since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Offline classes for students in classes 9 to 12 briefly resumed in a staggered manner between January and February before being suspended again due to the fourth wave of the pandemic in the Capital. Sunday’s order, however, allows only class 10 and 12 students to come for practical activities and class 11 students to come for admission-related work.A senior education department official said, “Along with preparation for board exams next year, the Class 10 results have also been released, and students need to choose their subject combination to complete Class 11 admission formalities as well. The DDMA order allows students of classes 10 to 12 to return to schools immediately. So we will issue the guidelines tomorrow [Monday]. Schools can follow the guidelines, make necessary arrangements and call students from Tuesday if they wish to do so.”A senior state government official on Friday told HT that deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia reportedly told a DDMA meeting that a significant majority of parents who attended a mega parent-teacher meeting (PTM) of government schools were in favour of reopening schools.Around 90% of 800,000 parents who attended the two-week parent-teacher meeting were in favour of resuming classes, said the government official.On July 28, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also asked parents, students, teachers, and all stakeholders to email their suggestions on reopening of schools and colleges. HT reported on Saturday that of the 33,000 people who wrote to the campaign, 68% respondents wanted schools to reopen and 83% voted for colleges to reopen.On Friday, DDMA decided to set up a committee, including officials from the education and health departments, to work out a strategy to reopen educational institutions.Several states, including Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Odisha, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat, have either partially reopened schools or are in the process of doing so this month.With the Capital’s Covid-19 caseload at a nearly 16-month low, schools and parents have asked the government if schools will reopen for senior students soon. This is mainly because of the two-term board examination introduced by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) this year to prepare for an “unprecedented situation” arising due to the pandemic next year. The first set of board examinations for Class 10 and 12 students is set to take place between November and December this year.While most government school principals are keen on initiating in-person classes for students, several private school principals said convincing parents to send their children to school amid the impending third wave will be a challenge.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said teachers want students to come to school in a staggered manner due to academic loss and Covid fatigue, which is affecting their mental health.“Some students are worried about their health, but others are confident of the Covid-19 protocols implemented by the schools earlier this year and wouldn’t mind coming back to school. Parents too have been non-committal because children haven’t vaccinated, and there are apprehensions of a third wave. Once the order comes in, we will formulate a policy and that might inspire some confidence among them,” she said.Principals of government school also welcomed the move. “Calling students in smaller groups will be a good option since the caseload is low. We have around 900 students in class 12 and around 1,000 students in class 10 so care has to be taken to call these students in smaller batches. Children are often not able to grasp everything taught in online classes or even attend those classes regularly so it is a good move to allow them to visit schools and interact with their teachers,” said Sujata Tamta, head of school at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, Molarband.Not all parents, however, are confident of the move because children are not eligible for Covid-19 vaccine jabs, which in India are limited to adults.“The decision is taken on the basis of responses collected from government schools where there has been no proper teaching-learning in the past one year. It is understandable that parents want their children to go to schools. But parents in most private schools are not keen on sending their children for in-person classes,” said Aprajita Gautam, president of the Delhi Parents Association.“Private schools welcome the decision taken by DDMA. We are hopeful that the complete reopening [of schools] is being discussed and will be a reality soon. We all will together ensure safety of our students. We look forward to full and positive support by our parents,” said Bharat Arora, general secretary, Action Committee of Unaided Private Schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-allows-students-of-classes-10-11-and-12-to-return-to-school-for-admission-board-exam-related-work-101628447351503.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 2 in raincoats, who robbed gold finance companies with toy guns, arrested||Two people who robbed gold finance companies, wearing raincoats and with toy pistols, have been arrested, the police said on Sunday.The police said they were involved in two robbery cases reported from Greater Kailash and Kalkaji between January and July. Two raincoats, two toy pistols, a scooter that the suspects, Dheeraj Chaudhary and Pankaj Chaudhary, used during the crimes were seized along with ₹4,000 in cash.“Both of them are originally from Bihar’s Madhubani district. Dheeraj lives in Panipat. They used to travel to Delhi from Bihar and Panipat, meet at Badarpur, committed robberies and returned to their respective places. In both the robberies, they used toy pistol, wore raincoats, masks and gloves to hide their faces and avoid leaving any finger prints at the crime scene,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.On July 30, an employee of a gold finance company reported that two people wearing raincoats entered the company’s office in Greater Kailash Enclave-II, held the office boy on gunpoint and took away around ₹75,000. A case of robbery was registered and CCTV cameras were checked. The police learnt that the suspects had a white scooter. and were also seen roaming around areas in Kalkaji Market, Lajpat Nagar market, Nizamuddin and GK-1 market in separate CCTV footage from these areas. The same suspects committed a similar robbery in Kalkaji in January.“Our teams scanned the footage from cameras installed on the routes that the suspects took. They found that the suspects met each other and started from Badarpur Chowk. Their identities were established through technical investigation and human intelligence network. They were caught from Panipat and Noida between Friday and Saturday,” said a senior police officer.The two told the police that they were inspired by the TV crime shows, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-two-in-raincoats-who-robbed-gold-finance-companies-with-toy-guns-arrested-101628447290896.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Govt to track EWS students in Delhi’s private schools online||In order to track the retention and dropouts of marginalised students in Delhi’s private schools, the state education department has put in place an online system to track the attendance of students admitted under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS), Disadvantaged Groups (DG), and Children With Special Needs (CWSN) reserved categories.According to the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 25% of seats in entry-level classes — nursery, kindergarten and Class 1 — in all private schools are to be reserved for the EWS/DG categories, a provision that includes 3% reservation under CWSN category as well. Students admitted under these categories are entitled to free textbooks, writing material, and uniforms till Class 8, for which the government reimburses a fixed amount to the schools.Officials told HT that the online attendance system will initially record data for students admitted in the 2021-22 academic session and gradually be expanded for other classes. The department is also planning to integrate the platform with a similar reimbursement system planned to streamline the process.In a notice issued to all private schools on August 3, deputy direction of education (private school branch) Yogesh Pal Singh said, “All concerned private unaided recognised schools are hereby directed to update the attendance of admitted students under EWS/DG and CWSN category regularly on the link. Non-compliance of the direction shall be viewed seriously.”Schools can access the attendance module on the education department’s official website.According to state department data, around 32,500 out of the 126,000 applicants this year have been allotted seats in Delhi’s private schools. Of these, approximately 19,500 students have completed the admission procedure so far. The last date for applicants to report for admission to private schools has been extended to August 16.A senior official of the education department said, “In order to have inclusive education as envisaged in the RTE Act, the education department needs to monitor how many of these EWS students continue in school. Until now, it was difficult to track the number of EWS dropouts from private schools. Collecting data on attendance will help us form targeted interventions to reduce dropouts and check for the retention of these students. We also plan to integrate this with the reimbursement system to ensure streamlining of the process.”The DoE centrally conducts admissions to seats under the EWS/DG categories through a computerised draw of lots. The department prepares a list of EWS students allotted to private schools.Several parents said schools have denied admission to their ward this year, despite being allotted a seat. This is due to the prevalent practice under which schools admit one EWS student from the government’s allotted list for every three general category students admitted by them. This year, however, there have been little to no admissions under the general category for several private schools due to the Covid-19 pandemic — leading schools to turn away EWS parents.Though deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia asked all private schools in the Capital to admit allotted EWS students, a circular released by the education department later allowed schools to file for an exemption if they wished. Several activists working in the sector said some schools used this as a loophole.“An attendance system will work when physical classes start. Right now, everything is online and most of these students don’t have the means to attend the classes. The government should first ensure admissions in these schools. The exemption order has emboldened schools to find an excuse to deny admission to EWS students. Parents have been approaching us with repeated complaints of either not getting admission or being denied the free books,” said Ekramul Haque, who runs NGO Mission Taleem working on underprivileged children.SK Bhattacharya, president of Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools (ACURPS), said, “We can send attendance on a monthly basis, but it will be a challenge to do it on an everyday level. Besides, why focus on only EWS students in private schools and not marginalised students in all schools? We have to wait to understand the intention behind this new development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-to-track-ews-students-in-delhi-s-private-schools-online-101628447232138.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launches free food scheme for homeless||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday launched a food distribution programme for the homeless living in government shelter homes across the city.The drive was launched at a shelter in Sarai Kale Khan, where Kejriwal said that the Delhi government runs 209 night shelters across the city and free cooked meals will be provided to nearly 6,000 people here. This number will go up to 12,000 as more people live in shelter homes during winters.Under the programme, the Delhi government along with Akshaya Patra Foundation will distribute free cooked meals to the homeless at all of its shelter homes across the city.“The poorest of the poor live in these shelters homes. They are not the vote bank of any party so no government paid attention to them. This is the first work of any responsible government to pay attention towards the poor. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government is a responsible government and we have worked a lot for the poor. I am happy to start this initiative,” Kejriwal said.He added that earlier high court used to scold the governments for dismal condition of shelter homes, but the AAP government worked a lot on this front to improve the situation of these homes. “In the last six years, we have improved the condition of shelter homes. I personally conducted inspections to improve the situation of toilets and potable water in shelter homes. And today, the condition is good,” he said.“The real dharma is feeding the poor which Akshay Patra is doing. We are happy that free cooked meals will be distributed permanently at all Delhi shelter homes in association with Akshay Patra Foundation,” Kejriwal said.The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) runs 209 shelter home across the city that caters to nearly 12,000 people. The government has been providing free food to the homeless since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020.The event was presided by Madhu Pandit Dasa, Chairman, The Akshaya Patra Foundation, and Chanchalapathi Dasa, Vice-Chairman of the organisation. Delhi Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain was also present on the occasion.Dasa said, “Akshaya Patra is conscious of its responsibility towards society. We have always strived to assist the government’s efforts to bring relief to people during emergencies. We will continue with this as long as we can.” The event was followed by a ceremonial serving of meals to poor children at the shelter home complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal-launches-free-food-scheme-for-homeless-in-the-capital-101628447050875.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||DDA to notify changes in land pooling policy soon||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will soon notify changes in the land pooling policy, which was notified in 2018, such as provisions for plotted development, transferable development rights etc. in areas where land pooling will be implemented.The proposed modifications were put up for public scrutiny in May and last week, and DDA held a public hearing on it. “We will soon finalise the recommendations based on the public hearing and table it in the authority meeting next month. Once approved, it will be sent to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry for final notification,” said a senior DDA official aware of the development.The land pooling policy is aimed at meeting the growing housing demand by providing close to 17 lakh dwelling units in 95 urbanised villages located in urban extension of the city.The land-owning agency, which has got hundreds of land owners agreeing to pool over 6,500 hectares of land under the policy so far, plans to develop 15 priority sectors in three planning zones N, P-II and L (near Rohini, Alipur and Bakkarwala respectively).To make these sectors operational, DDA officials said, some changes have been made in the policy.Till now, only group housing complexes were allowed in land pooling areas for residential development. A senior DDA official said, “We have now allowed plotted development as well. For plotted development, the minimum area has to be 5,000 sq.m and the size of plots will range between 100- 300 sq.m.”The draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041 has provision for heritage transferable development rights (Heritage TDR) which allows owners of heritage property owners to sell unutilised Floor Area Ratio of their property (which is calculated by deducting the existing FAR of the property from the FAR allowed in the area for the type of land use).A senior DDA official said, “All plots, except plotted housing, will be allowed to utilise TDR up to a maximum of 10% of the permissible FAR of the plot in land pooling area. But TDR can be used only in TDR receiving areas which DDA will identify.”The land owning agency will come up with regulations for the use of TDR. The DDA plans to set up a portal to facilitate the sale and purchase of TDR, said an official.DDA has modified the development control norms for land pooling areas making it mandatory for developer entities to provide walking and cycling networks. It has made it mandatory for all commercial, industrial, public and semi-public plots and vertical-mix plots located on 24m or more wide roads to have active frontages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-to-notify-changes-in-land-pooling-policy-soon-101628446993124.html
09-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 curbs, relaxations, now brought under colour-coded action plan||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday directed all district administrations to strictly adhere to the graded response action plan (GRAP) to help the government take decisions on restrictions and relaxations in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.The government will now issue daily alerts twice in the day, first in the morning and evening, informing about the level of alert according to the colour-coded system under the GRAP so that corresponding prescribed actions can be taken up .“The permitted, prohibited and restricted activities shall be as per level of alerts specified in the graded response action plan with immediate effect and till further orders… GNCTD shall be responsible to broadcast daily morning and evening press bulletin regarding the level of alert… Secretary (I&P), district magistrates and deputy commissioners, as well as all authorities concerned shall ensure that the alert should be immediately disseminated extensively,” the DDMA said in an order issued on Sunday, a copy of which HT has seen.The graded response action plan, which harks back to a similar mechanism to fight air pollution during pre-winter months, was drafted by an expert committee formed by the Delhi government and approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on July 8. It classifies outbreak severity into four bands – yellow, amber, orange and red – with each representing a more severe outbreak and, thus, stricter curbs than the one preceding it.According to the plan, private offices, malls, weekly markets and the Metro will be shut down in Delhi if the test positivity rate (TPR) rises above 2%, and the city will be put under a curfew if the number breaches 5%, according to a new Covid-19 action plan approved by authorities that sets clear thresholds for curbs that kick in from as low as 0.5% TPR in order to scuttle an outbreak.The colour-coded classifications take into account three factors: the test positivity rate over two consecutive days, new cases over a seven-day period, and the average weekly hospital occupancy rate.According to the plan, seen by HT, the first category of the curbs are triggered when the positivity rate crosses 0.5%, or new cases over a week exceeds 1,500, or if there are more than 500 oxygen beds occupied on average over a seven-day period.Once any of these thresholds are breached, the city will be put under the yellow alert mechanism in which non-essential shops are allowed to open only on an odd-even basis, a night curfew comes into force, and offices are required to move half of their staff to a work-from-home function.Currently, the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, based on any of parameters, does not necessitate any alert even though schools, colleges and education institutes remain closed; political, cultural, religious, academic and all form of large gatherings remain prohibited; public transport is limited to seating capacities of vehicles; and there are restrictions applicable on economic activities such as 50% capacity for restaurants and bars, no visitors in religious places, maximum caps on marriage and funeral events, etc.If test positivity, case numbers and hospitalisations rise further, the amber alert comes into effect. In this scenario, some venues and activities are completely halted: parks need to close, barber shops cannot open, and dining in at restaurants will be prohibited (as will the opening of bars). Amber alert is when TPR rises above 1%, or if there are more than 3,500 cases over a week, or if oxygen bed occupancy surpasses 700.The next alert level, orange, takes effect if TPR breaches 2%, the number of new cases in a week goes beyond 9,000, or if the average number of oxygen beds occupied over the week goes beyond 3,000. In this scenario, private offices, malls, Metro rail services and weekly markets will be shut down.In the most severe red alert category (if TPR is above 5%, cumulative weekly case above 16,000 or hospital occupancy above 3,000), there will be a 24-hour curfew with people allowed outside only for essential services. In this scenario, all offices engaged in non-essential work need to shift to a completely work-from-home functioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-covid-19-curbs-relaxations-now-brought-under-colour-coded-action-plan-101628446931946.html
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Three years on, martyr Sukhdev’s ancestral house still lies forgotten in Ludhiana||With less than a week left for the Independence Day, while the administration is gearing up for celebrations, the ancestral house of freedom fighter Sukhdev Thapar continues to remain forgotten in the narrow lanes of Naughara Mohalla near Chaura Bazaar.Having stood the test of time so far, the building’s walls are gradually losing strength, water is seeping into the structure due to leaking water pipes and heaps of garbage lie strewn around the structure, reflecting the administration’s apathy towards its legacy.This, despite chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announcing a ₹1-crore grant in 2018 for the beautification of the 70 square yards building and a direct passage from Chaura Bazaar.For three years, the martyr’s kin and members of the Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust have been making rounds of government offices to get the work kick-started, but in vain.“Even in 2013, the central government had announced a grant of ₹81 lakh for the building’s maintenance and a direct approach road after we moved the Punjab and Haryana high court. But only ₹12 lakh were spent,” said Ashok Thapar, president, Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust.“The house is immensely special because this is where Sukhdev Thapar was born on May 15, 1907. As it’s over 150 years old, it requires extensive repairs. Even the monument clerk deputed by the archaeology department of the state government rarely visits the building. It is the last memory of the martyr and his heritage. At least the garbage should be cleared from the house,” he added. According to the trust members, besides repairs, a direct approach road to the house was also important so that more people could visit the historical landmark. Currently, people have to negotiate narrow lanes to reach the site, while many don’t even know it exists.Trust’s secretary Tribhuvan Thapar said the government on July 14 had issued a notification for conducting social impact assessment before acquiring land for creating the direct approach road. It had directed the authorities to complete this in 15 days, but the process had yet to be started, he added. Sukhdev Thapar, commonly known as Sukhdev, was executed along with Bhagat Singh and Rajguru by the British colonial government on March 23, 1931.Despite several attempts, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma was not available for comments.Meanwhile, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We are already working on the social impact assessment. I will direct the officials to expedite the process. The sanitation staff will clean the area around the house soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-years-on-martyr-sukhdev-s-ancestral-house-lies-forgotten-in-ludhiana-101628446273016.html
09-08-2021||Pune||PMC starts debris collection centres in 10 ward offices||PUNE: With only ten spaces available to set up collection centres for construction and demolition (C&D) waste in the city area, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is on the lookout for five more spaces in the remaining ward offices to set up other such centres.Ajit Deshmukh, deputy municipal commissioner of the solid waste department, PMC, said, “We now want open land measuring 10,000 to 15,000 square feet as collection centre for the debris. However, we have got open land in 10 ward office jurisdictions where we have started the service of collecting and transporting C&D waste to the Wagholi plant for processing. We are searching for five more spaces in the remaining ward office jurisdictions.”Meanwhile, the solid waste department has announced a toll-free helpline (18002339595) for lifting and transporting C&D waste to open land reserved by the corporation to avoid illegal dumping along riversides and in riverbeds, nullahs and open grounds. With the city generating over 200 tonne of C&D waste every day, the decision has been taken in keeping with the larger objective of the “Swachh Sarvekshan 2020”. The PMC has finalised a rate of Rs19 per kilometre per tonne for lifting and ferrying the C&D waste. The civic body will in turn pay the contractor Rs195 per tonne of C&D waste for recycling at the Wagholi plant. However, the corporation has decided to offer the service free-of-cost to citizens while charging from builders and developers.“The contractor has started the Wagholi plant operations. The plant has the capacity to process 200 tonne of waste per day and the company will produce bricks and construction-related material as byproduct,” Deshmukh said.The PMC has been trying to find a solution to the problem of C&D waste for a while now and in 2016, it announced a project for recycling the same and acquired government land for the purpose at Wagholi. Already, the civic body has imposed a ban on dumping debris in open spaces, riverbeds, nullahs and quarries with any such activities attracting a fine of Rs25,000. However, people have been dumping debris at night to avoid the penalty. Ward offices - C&D collection centresNagar road and Kharadi - KharadiShivaji nagar-Ghole road - Vadarwadi, Gondhal chowk, Paul estate, JanwadiKothrud-Bhavdhan - SutarwadiDhankawadi-Sahakarnagar - AmbegaonSinhagad road –Mahadevnagar, ward 34 near canal, pharshi oil, Dattawadi, Janata vasahatWarje-Karvenagar - survey number 86Hadapsar - survey number 49 and 51, KalepadalWanwadi-Ramtekadi - HM royal parking, Amenity space KondhwaKondhwa-Yewalewadi - HM royal parking, Amenity space KondhwaKasba-Vishrambaughwada - Dambar kothi, near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj statueNo collection at Yerwada-Kalad, Dhole Patil road, Aundh-Baner, Bhavani peth and Bibvewadi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-starts-construction-and-demolition-collection-centres-in-10-ward-offices-101628440690560.html
09-08-2021||Pune||Pune sees rollback of Covid curbs, with rider||PUNE Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad will once again be return to normalcy for a third time in 12 months, after deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Sunday, extended timings for shops, restaurants and public gardens. The new guidelines will be effective Monday, with the most distinct element being weekend curbs rolled back after almost six months. According to the announcement by Pawar, all shops in the two cities will now be open till 8pm, from the existing deadline of 4pm. Hotels and restaurants are allowed to operate dine-in facilities at 50% capacity till 10 pm. Pawar also offered major relief to malls, which have been allowed to reopen till 8pm for fully vaccinated customers and staff members. Gardens, which were open in the mornings, have also been allowed to operate between 4pm and 7pm. Sports activities in PMC and PCMC have also been allowed to resume throughout the day, except for swimming and sports which require close contact. On Sunday evening, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporations issued identical orders formalising the relaxations. According to these orders, both corporations will have a night curfew between 11pm and 5am, while assembly of more than five persons has been prohibited after 11pm. Beauty parlours, saloons, spas, wellness centres and gyms have also been allowed to operate till 8pm at 50% capacity and with prior appointments. While allowing shop owners to operate on weekends, the administration has asked them to follow their previous weekly days of closure. This means areas like Laxmi road and Tulsibaug will remain closed every Monday. Curbs in the rural parts have also been eased partially. Rural areas in Pune district, that covers 13 tehsils, have been moved from level 4 restrictions to level 3, as previously announced by the state government. The announcement of relaxations came with a warning from Pawar. The deputy chief minister warned that the relaxations would be withdrawn if the positivity rate exceeds 7%. “The decision on relaxations in PMC and PCMC has been taken because the positivity rate has been dropped. All people have to use masks and follow Covid appropriate behaviour,” said the guardian minister. The decision for offering relaxations came after a week of confusion, political blame-game and defiance by traders in Pune, who violated the 4pm deadline and kept shutters open till 7pm for the past four days. Commenting on agitation by traders, Pawar said, “Nobody should try to break the rules. Administration has some responsibilities. No government likes to put curbs as it impacts tax collection and we also have to generate salaries and pensions of staff. But, health of citizens is most important.” On their part, traders and hoteliers welcomed the decision saying they will abide by the rules. The existing curbs were re-imposed in July after parts of state reported the Delta-plus Covid variant, forcing the government go into extra-cautious mode and roll back relaxations offered in June, when thee second wave had waned. According to the administration, the positivity rate in PMC areas stands at 3.3%, while in PCMC it is at 3.5% and in the rural areas it is at 5.5%. While public representatives from rural parts too demanded relief on the lines of city areas, Pawar said these may get some relief next week, if the positivity rate drops below 5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-pcmc-unlocked-again-malls-reopened-shop-timings-extended-to-8pm-restaurants-till-10pm-101628438770318.html
09-08-2021||Pune||Feast on last day of Ashadh in Pune; sale of 400 tonnes of chicken, 1,200 goats||Pune: On the last day of Hindu calendar’s Ashadh month, over 400 tonnes of chicken, 1,200 goats and fish were sold in the city on Sunday. From Monday, the holy month of Shravan begins when many Hindus do not eat non-vegetarian food and consume liquor. Since early morning, long queues were seen outside chicken, mutton and fish shops across the city. Many preferred to buy cooked food from restaurants and home-cooked deliveries. The last day of Ashadh is also popularly known as the “Akhad special party” celebrated with drinks and non-veg food. “The import volume of chicken has been high since last two months and rates were also stable till last week. Later, it dropped by around ₹40 per kg, but today since morning the rate per kg remained stable at ₹210 and over 400 tonnes of chicken were sold in Pune city on Sunday. The sale figure in rest of the district was 250-300 tonnes,” said Rupesh Pardeshi, president of Pune district broiler association. There was a huge demand for the goat mutton. “Mutton shop owners were prepared for it and brought extra goats for today. More than 1,200 goats were brought to the city on Saturday at various mutton shops and the rate was between ₹700 and ₹740 per kg. Compared to last year, this time there was good sale of mutton, as Covid restrictions were relaxed and people now prefer mutton,” said Prabhakar Kamble, president, Mutton Shopkeepers Association, Pune. Thakur Pardeshi, one of the fish shop owners in the city, said, “Supply was less compared to demand in the city today. Kingfish, pamphlet, mackerel and prawn were in high demand. With less supply, the rates were hiked by around 20 per cent.” Many sought home-cooked non-vegetarian food. Sagar Abnawe said, “We ordered food from one of our friends who cooks at home and does home delivery. We ordered chicken and variety of fish dishes and enjoyed with the family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/feast-on-last-day-of-ashadh-in-pune-sale-of-400-tonnes-of-chicken-1-200-goats-101628437690376.html
