10-08-2021||Delhi||CBSE offline compartment, improvement exams from Aug 25||New Delhi: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday said that it will conduct offline exams for classes 10 and 12 students in the improvement, compartment and “private” categories from August 25. The exams will go on till September 8 for Class 10, and September 16 for Class 12.The board used an alternate assessment system -- based on internal marks -- to score students of classes 10 and 12 after exams were cancelled this year due to the pandemic. However, the assessment scheme excluded private or patrachar students due to the unavailability of internal exam performances.The board will conduct three-hour examinations -- from 10.30am to 1.30pm -- in 19 subjects for Class 12, and 10 subjects for Class 10. According to a notification issued by the board on Tuesday, among those who are eligible to appear for these exams are students who are placed under compartment -- ie, failed in one or two subjects; who are not satisfied with their marks given through alternate assessment scheme and have requested improvement tests; whose result could not be prepared on the basis of new assessment criteria; and those who failed in their “sixth subject”. Besides, exams will be conducted for those enrolled under private and patrachar (correspondence) categories, and those who were placed under compartment category in 2019 and 2020. “The centres will be fixed keeping in view the Covid protocols and students will also be required to follow the same strictly. In each centre, a smaller number of candidates will be allotted to implement social distancing norms strictly,” said CBSE controller examination Sanyam Bhardwaj in the notification.Candidates who are already registered with the board will be able to appear in these exams and no fresh applications will be accepted. “Candidates will be informed about the date of downloading of the admit cards in due course through the CBSE website. In case of any discrepancy in the admit card, candidates/schools should contact the regional office of the board. It would be the responsibility of the candidate to download admit cards within the stipulated time schedule,” the notification added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cbse-offline-compartment-improvement-exams-from-aug-25-101628620104796.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Assailants out to kidnap Ludhiana man pick up brother instead||A group of assailants attacked a 25-year-old man and kidnapped him in a car only to realise they had picked up the target’s brother.On removing the mask of the victim, Jatin Rajbar, the accused realised they had the wrong man and threw him out of their moving car, before fleeing.A resident of Dev Vihar, Kanija village, Jatin said when he returned home from work on Monday he was shocked to see some people pelting his house with stones.When he confronted them, the group of around 15 men started assaulting him with iron rods, fracturing his arm. Some of the men forced him into a car and drove off, but threw him out a while later after finding out that he wasn’t the man they were looking for, but his brother. Soon after, the accused issued threats to his brother Roshan Kumar via a phone call. Jatin told the police that the assailants and his brother had a scuffle around five months back and they were still holding a grudge. Following his complaint, the Meharban police lodged an FIR under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 365 (kidnapping), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code against one Rahul and his unidentified accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/assailants-out-to-kidnap-ludhiana-man-pick-up-brother-instead-101628619684239.html
10-08-2021||Other||Ganga flowing above danger mark in Kashi, many take refuge in shelter camps||: The level of the river Ganga in Varanasi continued to rise on Tuesday. The Ganga was flowing at 71.83 metres, a few centimeters above the danger mark of 71.26 metres at 4pm. With water level continuing to rise in the Ganga and flood situation turning grim, a total of 2848 flood affected people have taken shelter in over 21 flood relief centres and flood outposts in Varanasi. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said the situation was being monitored and help was being provided to the needy and flood affected people. A total of 30921people from 58 villages, mohallas and wards in the district were affected, said district administration in a press statement. At present, 2848 flood affected people were living in flood relief centers. A total of 1353 dry ration kits have been distributed in the district so far. A total of 85 boats, including 31 motorboats, 39 medium, 15 small boats were being operated to shift people from flood-hit areas to the relief camps and to help the flood victims as well as to monitor the flood area. Moreover, UP minister Neelkanth Tiwari on Tuesday said that relief material would continue to be distributed among flood affected people until flood water recedes. Minister distributed flood relief material among affected people. Commissioner of police A Satish Ganesh and district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma accompanied him. According to a press statement, hundreds of relief packets were distributed by 6 boats including NDRF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ganga-flowing-above-danger-mark-in-kashi-many-take-refuge-in-shelter-camps-101628619623338.html
10-08-2021||Other||Ganga, Yamuna rise in Prayagraj, people fear repeat of past floods||: The Ganga and the Yamuna are flowing above the danger mark and many in the city are spending sleepless nights as they fear a repeat of previous floods of 2013 and 2019 or the worst ever flood of 1978. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been pressed into action. The water level of both the rivers was increasing by around 3cm each hour and continuous showers have made things worse for the people. The Ganga at Phaphamau (as recorded at 6pm on Tuesday) was flowing one meter above the 84.74m danger mark, officials said. “At Chhatnag too, the Ganga level was 85.03m at 6pm and still rising,” officials said. Yamuna too had risen in the past 24 hours and its water level at 10pm (Monday) was 85.21m and had risen to 85.68m by Tuesday 6pm. “The entire Gaughat, Baradari of Balaughat, parts of Kareli area were all submerged in flood water that had entered ground floor of many houses located on the banks of the Ganga. Boats are being to supply necessary items in these localities,” locals said. Local residents of Bagraha, Daraganj, Salori, Beli gaon, Mehenduari goan, Ganga nagar, parts of Rajapur, Ashok Nagar said with flood water all around them, they were virtually cut off. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams had been pressed into action, officials said. The local administration too along with NDRF teams were busy shifting people to safer places or providing necessary items to those stranded. “We are providing all the help needed by the flood affected people. Every two hours we take rounds of the flood-hit localities asking if anyone wants to move to safer places. For now, people have shifted to first floors of their houses,” NDRF, inspector Dinkar Tripathi who is leading the rescue team. One team of NDRF having 25 personnel with two boats have been pressed into service to help flood victims, many of whom now fear a repeat of floods like in 2013 or 2019 or the worst ever floods of 1978. “We still remember that localities like Mumforganj, Kydganj, Muttuganj, Alopibag, Khatghar, Bairana, Kareli etc were all flooded. Without the help of the then district magistrate Bhure Lal and the SSP Ajay Raj Sharma as well as Allahabad University, college and social organisations, the city could have suffered much more,” said Anand Dey, a resident of Kydganj. “The flood of 1978 was so intense that waves of river Yamuna were hitting the road of the bridge. The Ganga and Yamuna had inundated almost every locality of the city and people of Allahapur used to sit in the boats from the first floor of their houses,” said veteran city politician Shyam Krishna Pandey. “The then DM had not slept for four days and four nights continuously and assured that the relief items reach everyone affected by the floods,” he recalled. Congress MLA from city North, Anugrah Narayan Singh said, “The flood water from Ganga had crossed the present pump house of the Stanley road of Mumfordganj because of which the entire locality was inundated and boats were pressed into service”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ganga-yamuna-rise-in-prayagraj-people-fear-repeat-of-past-floods-101628619263817.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity sees uptick in weekly Covid cases||With 66 fresh infections reported this week (ending August 9), the Covid-19 case tally in tricity witnessed a slight uptick for the first time since June.In the previous week, tricity had reported just 47 cases. Experts, however, feel that it is too early to consider it as another peak.In Mohali, the case tally reached 34 this week, against 19 cases reported last week. Panchkula, too, recorded a slight hike from four cases to nine cases. The cases in Chandigarh, however, have remained fairly consistent, with only 23 to 24 fresh infections being reported in the last four weeks.Meanwhile, no Covid death was reported this week, against the two deaths last week.It was in April and May this year when the cases had started increasing every week in tricity, but the peak had started flattening in June. In the first week of June, a total of 1,918 infections were reported in tricity, along with 58 casualties; of these 874 cases were reported in Mohali alone.So far in August, till Monday, 38 cases were reported from Mohali, followed by 28 in Chandigarh and 10 in Panchkula.Dr Sanjeev Palta, the nodal officer of ICU management at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, said, “Covid cases have started increasing in tricity and neighbouring states. This is because people are not following social distancing, not wearing masks, and are still hesitant in getting vaccinated. This is a warning sign.”Director of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) Dr Jagat Ram said, “People’s lenient behaviour will invite a third wave soon. They must follow the rules. If the cases keep on increasing in the next few weeks, we may face a difficult situation again.”Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said, “We are expecting a third wave and now cases are on a rise. Even as sampling has increased, more cases are surfacing. We are requesting people to follow all precautions.”Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Mukta Arora said, “It is too early to say that a third wave has hit the tricity area or Panchkula, but there is no denying that cases have started increasing. People must adhere to Covid-safety protocols to avert another peak.”Tricity reports 18 cases on TuesdayThe upward trend in cases continued on Tuesday with the tricity reporting 18 fresh infections, against the seven reported on Monday. Mohali reported nine cases, Chandigarh five, and after reporting no fresh infection for three straight days, Panchkula witnessed four new ones.No death, however, was reported in tricity for the 10th consecutive day.In Mohali district, Kharar and Dhakoli reported three cases each, while one case surfaced in Boothgarh, Gharuan and Mohali each. In Panchkula, three cases were from Sector 26 and one from Sector 20. The infected people in Chandigarh are residents of Sector 12, 32, 42, 46 and PGIMER campus. So far, 68,502 people in Mohali have tested positive, of which 67,398 have successfully beaten the virus and 1,057 have died.In Chandigarh, 61,150 out of the 61,992 total patients have recovered and 811 have succumbed to the virus. Of the 30,654 people infected in Panchkula so far, 30,267 have recovered and 376 have lost their lives.Around 7.29 lakh people in Chandigarh are eligible for vaccination. Till Tuesday, a total of 97% people had received their first shot, while 31% had received both the jabs.Whereas in Mohali, 24% of the eligible 7.43 lakh population has been jabbed twice while 92% have received the first shot.In Panchkula, of the 3.8 lakh eligible people, 84% have received the first dose and 36% have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-sees-uptick-in-weekly-covid-cases-101628619083771.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PEC gets new director||Baldev Setia has been appointed the new director of Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh. The appointment comes months after Dheeraj Sanghi resigned as the PEC director in December last year. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday approved Setia’s name, which was recommended along with two others by the search-cum-selection committee headed by adviser Dharam Pal. The panel had interviewed 36 candidates on August 5, and shortlisted three. Setia has been serving as a professor in the civil engineering department of the National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, since 2006 and has more than 35 years of experience in teaching, research, consultancy and administration.A graduate in civil engineering and postgraduate in water resources engineering from the same institute, he went on to complete his doctorate from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, in 1998.On his appointment, Setia said: “PEC is a 100-year-old institute and has a number of strengths, including its strong alumni base and qualified faculty. Improving the research environment in the institute will be among my priorities.”Setia has held important other important positions as well, and is presently the nodal officer of the Indian Institute of Information Technology, Sonepat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pec-gets-new-director-101628618603028.html
10-08-2021||Noida||Priest stabbed inside Dasna temple premises, critical||Ghaziabad: Unidentified persons stabbed and critically injured a 50-year-old priest who was visiting the Dasna Devi Temple in Ghaziabad early Tuesday, police said. They said the victim, Nareshanand Swami from Bihar’s Samastipur, was sleeping at the temple when he was stabbed. He was rushed to the Yashoda Hospital where he is reported to be critical, police said. The temple authorities said the attack took place around 3.30am, despite the presence of police guards. “It seems that the assailants scaled the wall and entered the temple. They attacked the priest and he suffered injuries to his throat, abdomen and other parts of the body. We have four policemen posted within the temple complex, and more at the main entrance. It appears that the assailants came to attack our chief priest, Yati Narsimhanand Saraswati, but he was asleep in another room,” said Anil Yadav, one of the temple caretakers.Saraswati has been in news since March this year when a Muslim boy was allegedly roughed up on the temple premises when he purportedly went inside to drink water.Following this, Saraswati was given police security after he claimed a threat to his life. “Swami ji (the victim) arrived at the temple on August 7. Despite police security, this happened. I was asleep at the time of the incident and caretakers informed me about it later. Such attacks within a temple have taken place several times,” said Saraswati, the chief priest.CCTV cameras on the temple premises were not working at the time of the incident, said police. “We have our own CCTV cameras outside the temple and those are being scanned. We have a provincial armed constabulary deployed at the main gate, and another set of police guards inside and outside the temple,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).“Four police guards provide security cover to the chief priest. He also has private bodyguards... An investigation in the case is underway,” the officer added.An attempt to murder case will be registered at the Masuri police station if a complaint is given, said police.“The priest was operated on, and is in the ICU,” said Dr Sangita Garg, Yashoda Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/priest-stabbed-inside-dasna-temple-premises-critical-101628618542456.html
10-08-2021||Noida||RRTS project: Ghaziabad development authority prepares framework for seven influence zones||The Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) has prepared a framework for seven influence zones and two special development areas (SDAs) along the 82-km route of regional rapid transit system (RRTS) high speed rail project that will link Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut and likely to be commissioned in 2025.Authority officials said that the influence zones will fall under a 1.5-km radius centred at each of the seven proposed RRTS stations in Ghaziabad — Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Guldhar, Duhai, Muradnagar, Modinagar (South) and Modinagar (North). The SDAs will be adjacent plots at Guldhar (250 hectares) and Duhai (400 hectares) close to the Delhi Meerut Road and will form a larger township, they added.“Under the influence zone, we will allow mixed land use and commercial activities upon payment of impact fee for which rules are being framed. The idea behind the influence zones and SDAs is planned development,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, the authority’s chief architect and town planner (CATP).Influence zones will be used to enhance economic activity around areas by creating walkable communities and easier access to transport.“The influence zones and SDAs will be incorporated under the Master Plan 2031, which will come into effect next year. The two SDAs will have different zones for residential, commercial, industrial and other categories. Extra purchasable floor-area ratio (FAR) of 2 to 2.5 will also be available for different land uses,” the CATP added.The city’s Master Plan 2031 is also in its final stage and will incorporate different plans for Ghaziabad, Loni, Modinagar and Muradnagar.The proposals will now be sent to GDA board for approval and will later be notified by the state government, which had ordered for the proposals to plan development around RRTS stations, said officials.Under the RRTS project, which is pegged at ₹30,274 crore, the NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC) is also developing the 17-km priority route from Sahibabad to Duhai where a major maintenance and parking depot for the RRTS trains is also coming up. This section is scheduled to open in March 2023, but officials said that they are hoping to complete it by the end of 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rrts-project-ghaziabad-development-authority-prepares-framework-for-seven-influence-zones-101628618483874.html
10-08-2021||Noida||Escrow account for Noida International Airport opened||The Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), Noida International Airport Limited (Nial) and the State Bank of India (SBI) on Tuesday signed an agreement to open and fund an escrow account for developing the proposed Noida international airport in Jewar along the 165km Yamuna Expressway.“We have signed the financing agreement, which is required to open an escrow account that will be used for the mega project. This is a milestone. YIAPL has raised ₹3,725 crore from SBI to be repaid over a period of 20 years at an interest rateas per the existing rules with a one-year moratorium after the completion of the project. This is one of the largest funding ventures for an Indian greenfield airport,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of Nial.The project is being funded on a 65:35 debt-to-equity ratio, said officials. Airport concessionaire Zurich Airport International AG (ZAIA), a fully owned subsidiary of Flughafen Zurich AG, is the main shareholder of YIAPL and will inject ₹2,005 crore as equity into the project to start the work. More funding through the equity route is likely in the future.The YIAPL has taken possession of 1,334 hectares in Jewar where the airport is proposed to be built and has started work to mobilise resources. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath are likely to lay the foundation stone of the project but the date and venue are yet to be decided. Nial officials said that the ceremony could be held either this month or next.Christoph Schnellmann, CEO of YIAPL, said, “We are delighted to have signed the financing agreements with SBI and Nial to develop the airport. This marks the financial close (a technical term referring to the financing agreement) for the project, and we now eagerly look forward to the development of the airport in close collaboration with our partners, including Nial and SBI. This partnership will boost economic growth and employment in the state of Uttar Pradesh and will bolster the Indian aviation growth story”.The airport is scheduled to become operational by 2024 and officials are busy in preparations of foundation laying event scheduled ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/escrow-account-for-noida-international-airport-opened-101628618483179.html
10-08-2021||Noida||Man held for impersonating police officer, extortion||A 26-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly impersonating a police officer and extorting money from roadside vendors in the city. According to police, on Sunday, a video was shared on social media, showing a man in police uniform extorting money from a roadside food vendor, consuming the items and refusing to pay the vendor. Following this, a probe was launched and the video was found to have originated from Sector 39 police jurisdiction. The suspect was identified as Saurav, a Jalaun native currently living at Chhalera village in Noida’s Sector 44. “He would dress up in police uniform, claim to be from the crime branch and then extort benefits from local vendors or try to intimidate them claiming to be a police officer,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. Saurav had been extorting money in this manner for the past few months, police said, adding that he was nabbed from Chhalera. A khaki uniform set, two fake badges of UP Police and a motorcycle were recovered from him. Police said that he had recently purchased the motorcycle for ₹2,900 and changed its number plate to avoid getting caught. The suspect was booked for cheating and impersonation under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-for-impersonating-police-officer-extortion-101628618482446.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Only 4% leasehold properties find buyers||Similar to its previous attempts at selling leasehold properties, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has failed to get a positive response in its latest auction on Tuesday. Out of 189 leasehold properties on offer, it got buyers for just eight. The housing board had put up 38 dwelling units and 151 commercial properties on auction. In all, 15 e-bids were received for just five residential units. Their cumulative reserve price was ₹2.46 crore while the highest bids for these units totalled ₹2.77 crore. Three commercial units also found takers with five bids in all.“The board has received about 12.6% above the reserve price for residential units and about 6.5% above the reserve price for commercial units,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer (CEO), CHB. Few takers for leasehold propertiesThe CHB, in the past four months, has conducted four e-auctions for its 121 freehold residential properties and has been able to sell 87, earning ₹70.59 crore. In the same period, excluding the Tuesday auction, it has been able to sell only two residential and nine commercial leasehold properties, earning ₹1.74 crore and ₹4.73 crore, respectively. The CHB is selling those properties on leasehold that are constructed on the land allotted by Chandigarh administration on leasehold basis. Similarly, the residential properties constructed on the land allotted on freehold basis are being sold on freehold. “In leasehold properties, the allottee is required to pay a yearly ground rent at the rate of 2.5% of the consideration amount for 33 years, followed by 3.75% for next 33 years and 5% for the subsequent 33 years. Since this is a substantial amount and ownership rights are inferior than in the case of freehold, people prefer to go for the latter properties,” said Garg. Also, the conversion of leasehold property to freehold is a costly affair. “The conversion charges for residential properties may range from 12% to 15% of the consideration amount. However, the conversion is not permitted in the case of commercial properties,” said the board CEO. UT urges Centre to allow conversion The Chandigarh administration has once again written to the Centre for its approval to allow conversion of leasehold properties to freehold in the case of commercial and industrial plots. Earlier, it has sought the approval in April this year. Around 70% commercial and industrial plots in the city are leasehold. The ownership rights are with the government agencies, such as the UT estate office, municipal corporation and the CHB. A large number of them are lying vacant as there are no takers for leasehold properties, and the administration is losing crores of rupees in revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-only-4-leasehold-properties-find-buyers-101628618363040.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||20 students found Covid positive at two govt schools in Ludhiana||Just second week into reopening amid the Covid-19 pandemic, two government schools in Ludhiana on Tuesday confirmed that their 20 students had contracted the infection.Swinging into action, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma ordered suspension of in-person classes at the two schools till August 24.However, the schools will remain open to enable the health department to collect samples from all teachers and students.According to health officials, 80 random samples were collected from Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Basti Jodhewal, and Government High School (GHS), Kailash Nagar, for rapid antigen tests on Monday.“Among them eight students tested positive at GSSS, Basti Jodhewal, and 12 at GHS, Kailash Nagar. All students and teachers of both schools will be tested now,” said Dr Ramesh Bhagat, district epidemiologist.Rajesh Kumar, principal of GSSS, Basti Jodhewal, said of the 500 students enrolled in the school, only 150 were attending offline classes: “The school is running in two shifts. Students of Classes 6 to 10 attend the morning shift and those of Classes 11 and 12 come in the afternoon shift. The positive students are all from Class 11.”All infected students are under home quarantine and their health is being monitored.As reopening of schools was considered to be a trigger of the second Covid wave earlier this year, the health department had recently started collecting 10,000 samples from schools across the state everyday to monitor the spread of infection among students.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the situation was being monitored closely and contact tracing of infected students was being carried out on a war footing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/20-students-found-covid-positive-at-two-govt-schools-in-ludhiana-101628618123008.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Restaurant manager rapes 16-year-old customer after building rapport||A restaurant manager is on the run after raping a 16-year-old customer who had dined at his establishment just a day ago.The accused, Deepak Kumar, not only threatened the minor girl to stay mum but also forced her to consume an emergency contraceptive pill after raping her at a hotel, the police said.Investigators shared that Kumar met the girl for the first time on August 6 when she and her friends visited his restaurant near Fountain Chowk.Offering to share future restaurant deals with her, Kumar took her phone number before she left.The girl told the police that over the next few hours, Kumar got in touch with her through texts and calls, and also invited her for dinner on August 7.She agreed to meet him and after dinner he took her to a hotel on Mall Road. There he snatched her mobile phone and deleted the conversations between them, before raping her.Forced to consume a contraceptive pill after the sexual assault, the girl approached the police on August 9 and lodged a complaint.“A case under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was immediately registered,” said assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Visakha Singh, who is investigating the case for Division Number 7 police.She added that the girl’s father, an inspector with the Ludhiana municipal corporation, had died around a year ago. Since then, her mother had gotten married again, and the girl and her 13-year-old brother had started living with their grandmother.“We have launched a manhunt to arrest the accused. Raids are being conducted,” the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-restaurant-manager-rapes-16-year-old-customer-after-building-rapport-101628617943025.html
10-08-2021||Bangalore||HC asks Centre to respond to Karnataka’s request for 3.5m vaccine doses per week||The Karnataka high court on Tuesday directed the Centre to consider Karnataka’s request for 3.5 million doses of Covid vaccines per week in order to vaccinate all residents above 18 years of age within three months. The state told the court that the demand was based on its capability to vaccinate 500,000 eligible population daily. It stated that as of August 5, it had received a total of 27 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine including 24 million Covishield and 3.49 million Covaxin doses. It is also said that the state had administered 32 million doses as of August 5 to 49.7 million eligible recipients. A division bench of chief justice Abhay Oka and justice Aravind Kumar said, “If some state government is able to achieve the tall target, the Government of India shall welcome that and assist it.” The court suggested that, “There is no clarity on the efficacy of Covaxin and Covishiled, if the vaccines are effective for a limited period, necessary provisions shall be made for providing further doses in the action plan.” The court also directed the Centre to respond on this point. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday gave a slew of directions to the state police including maintaining a tight vigil in the districts bordering neighbouring states where the Covid-19 cases are rising, having zero tolerance towards crime and crack down on drug cases while hailing the police force for “exemplary” work during a review meeting at the Vidhana Soudha. “Action has to be taken to prevent the possible Covid third wave. Precautions have to be taken at the border districts. Senior officers will have to work more responsibly. Inspection at the check posts in borders will be mandatory,” a statement issued by the chief minister’s office said. Revenue minister R Ashok, in charge of pandemic management in Bengaluru, said on Monday that tough measures will be imposed in the city to contain the virus after August 15. When quizzed whether this would mean weekend curfews and closure of economic activity, he said nothing can be ruled out and decisions will be taken based on the evolving situation. “The vaccination rate in the city is good, which we hope will reduce the number of hospitalisations and deaths in the city, even if the cases shoot up,” he said.Meanwhile, after clamping restrictions on people arriving from Kerala, the Chamarajanagar district administration made it mandatory for travellers from Tamil Nadu to furnish negative Covid-19 reports not older than 72 hours at the time of arrival from Sunday onwards. The decision comes in the wake of fresh reports of rise in Covid cases in the neighbouring state. The district administration has intensified screening of people at Punajanur checkpost, Naal Road near Ardhanipura and the checkpost at Palar in Hanur taluk on the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/hc-asks-centre-to-respond-to-karnataka-s-request-for-3-5m-vaccine-doses-per-week-101628617403092.html
10-08-2021||Noida||Warm, dry days in Noida till Aug 15, predicts IMD||The ‘break’ in monsoon is likely to prevail for the next few days in Noida and adjoining areas and the in the region is likely to be warm and dry till then, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday. Weather analysts said the cool moist easterly winds have been replaced by warm dry westerly that will cause a spike in mercury levels, although it will reduce humidity, at least till August 15.Officials said that the monsoon trough line, a low pressure line that oscillates north to south and bring rains, has shifted to the Himalayan foothills.“It will stay there for a few days and cause heavy rains there, but lead to a ‘break monsoon’ or weak monsoon condition. Winds also have changed their direction, so the moisture content may drop as well. The break monsoon usually happens every season so there’s nothing unusual about it,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD“The monsoon axis is likely to return after August 15. So the earliest that region could see the rain will be around August 15,”said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.On Tuesday, the IMD recorded maximum and minimum temperatures of 33.6°C and 26.3°C, respectively, for Noida. On Tuesday this was 33.4°C and 25.1°C, respectively. The humidity oscillated between 89 to 57%.“On Wednesday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 36 and 27 degrees Celsius,” said an official from IMD.At Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the national Capital region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 35.8°C, one degree above the season’s average, and 25°C, two degrees below the season’s average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/warm-dry-days-in-noida-till-aug-15-predicts-imd-101628617042232.html
10-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida authority to make five dedicated vending zones for street vendors||The Greater Noida authority has decided to make five dedicated vending zones for street vendors in the city. Officials said that the motive behind the dedicated zones is to make sure that the squatters are discouraged from operating at a public space at their will, thereby causing nuisance.The authority has earmarked the space for vending zones in sectors 36, Delta 2, Alpha 2, Beta 2 and Beta 1, the officials said. In these vending zones, a total of 205 platforms will be constructed where street vendors can station their carts, they said. “We will select an agency in the next two months for the vending zone project. We aim to ready the vending zones and the platforms by end of this year. The platforms will be allotted to licensed vendors via lucky draw next year. We want to remove all squatters from footpaths, markets and other public spaces,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The city at present has about 1,000 street vendors, the officials said, adding that the vendors will have to register themselves with the authority to be eligible for the platforms. The authority will develop 40 platforms in Sector 36, 45 in Delta 2, 35 in Alpha 2, 45 in Beta 2 and 40 in Beta 1. The authority will also build toilets and create a parking space at each of the five sites, the officials said.“We have started preparation of estimates for this project and soon a tender will be issued to select an agency,” said Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-authority-to-make-five-dedicated-vending-zones-for-street-vendors-101628616802223.html
10-08-2021||Noida||Three held for prostitution following raid at Noida hotel||Three people, including two women, were nabbed by the Noida police on Tuesday afternoon for allegedly running a prostitution ring from a hotel in Sector 15. According to police officials, they had a tip-off that a sex racket was being run from the hotel, following which a raid was conducted at the establishment. “When our teams went there, a man and two women were found indulging in illegal acts in one of the rooms,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. Police also found some contraceptives in the room. The man was identified as Satendra (36), a junior engineer with a government department posted in Aligarh, they said. The police officials said that he had booked the services of the women through a Delhi-based escort agency online. “The women are also in their mid thirties and are from Delhi’s Kalkaji. We are interrogating them to identify the escort service that was employing them. Due action will be taken against all involved,” said Singh. According to police, prima facie the hotel staff do not appear to be involved in the racket. The trio was booked under relevant sections of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and under Section 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The Noida police have busted more than 10 sex rackets so far this year. There was a crackdown on spas involved in such illicit activities in March following which over 200 such establishments were shut down. Most of them were offering sex services online. Besides, raids have been conducted at guest houses in residential areas, local beauty parlours and hotels in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-held-for-prostitution-following-raid-at-noida-hotel-101628616683496.html
10-08-2021||Noida||4 booked for carjacking on Yamuna Expressway||Greater Noida: Police have booked four persons for allegedly robbing a 30-year-old man of his car on the Yamuna Expressway at 10pm on Monday.The victim -- Chandrashekhar Yadav -- is a native of Bihar and works as a contractual driver in New Delhi, and the suspects are yet to be identified, said police.Arvind Pathak, station house officer (SHO), Dankaur police station, said that Yadav was travelling from Delhi to Rajasthan’s Jodhpur in a Hyundai Creta car on Monday night. “Yadav was carrying some official documents and bills. When he reached the Dankaur area, four persons in another car overtook him and stopped him at gunpoint. Two of the suspects snatched Yadav’s cellphone, threw him out of his car and escaped with the vehicle.Police are scanning CCTV footage near the expressway to trace and nab the suspects. A case has been registered against the four men under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 392 (robbery) at the Dankaur police station on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/4-booked-for-carjacking-on-yamuna-expressway-101628616622778.html
10-08-2021||Noida||Man wanted for 14 years in murder case arrested in Greater Noida West||A 35-year-old man wanted in a 2007 murder case in Kanpur was arrested in Greater Noida West on Tuesday, said police. Saurabh Singh had allegedly murdered a cab driver in a bid to rob his car in Kanpur.Additional deputy commissioner of police (Noida Central) Elamaran said police acted on a tip about Singh. “The suspect was near Chaar Murti walking towards Surajpur when a police team found him. Upon frisking him, the team recovered a passport, two countrymade guns, 14 live cartridges, a fake Aadhaar card, two bank passbooks and two mobile phones from him,” he said. Elamaran said that Singh had been in hiding in Noida and Ghaziabad since the murder under a new identity -- he went by the name Anand P Shrivastava, although he had not taken it legally. The officer said that the fake Aadhaar card carried his new name and that he used it to make other government IDs. Police said that they have found only one case of murder against the suspect. “He has not committed any other crime in Noida. A fresh case under Section 3/25 of Arms Act was registered against him after police found illegal weapon from his possession. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said Elamaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-wanted-for-14-years-in-murder-case-arrested-in-greater-noida-west-101628616622170.html
10-08-2021||Noida||Noida: 40K defaulters set to lose power||After a series of reliefs following the Covid-19 outbreak in Gautam Budh Nagar district, the power distribution company (discom) in Noida – Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) – has resumed disconnecting supply to defaulters. From Sunday, it began taking action against nearly 40,000 consumers who owed it a total of ₹200 crore. In May, the PVVNL had decided to suspend the drive after state energy minister Shrikant Sharma intervened and told them to put it off till the Covid crisis had subsided. PVVNL (Noida) chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said that the dues had been pending since the last one year. “We had already issued several notices to these consumers and yet they have not made any payment. Out of these 40,000 defaulters, over 1,500 have outstanding bills ranging between ₹1 lakh and ₹20 lakh each. Similarly, we have 12,000 others who have not cleared their dues ranging from ₹50,000 to ₹99,000, while the rest owe us between ₹10,000 and ₹49,000,” he said. Singh said that supply to nearly 500 consumers had been disconnected since Sunday. “Since we began the process, over 300 defaulters have cleared their dues amounting to nearly ₹35 lakh so far,” he said. PVVNL has around 325,000 consumers in Gautam Budh Nagar district, which gives it ₹300 crore every month. “Earlier, we began a disconnection drive in December. On instruction from the energy minister, we suspended it in May. If we keep providing power to these defaulters, the discom will be under heavy loss,” he said. The chief engineer further said that the discom will accept only offline applications for converting single-point electricity connections in high-rises to multi-point connections. “We got six complaints that the software we deployed to digitise application process was faulty. It resulted in debiting the amount without processing the application properly. We’ve decided to go on with offline applications till the software is fixed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-40k-defaulters-set-to-lose-power-101628616562287.html
10-08-2021||Other||PM: People’s lives could have been bettered decades ago||Lucknow: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday targeted the non-BJP governments that ruled the country since independence, saying certain conditions and situations could have been changed decades ago to make the lives of people better. “We are entering the 75th year of independence and when we see the progress made in the past seven and a half decades, we realise that certain conditions and situations could have been changed long ago,” said Modi after launching Ujjwala 2.0 (Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana), distributing LPG connections at a programme in Mahoba in Uttar Peadesh’s Bundelkhand region via videoconferencing. Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Hardeep Singh Puri and chief minister Yogi Adityanath also attended the programme. Yogi made a token distribution of LPG connections on the occasion. Modi, who interacted with Ujjwala scheme’s five beneficiaries, including one from Gorakhpur, used the occasion to point out how his government had worked to fulfill basic needs of the people. He said the people had to wait for decades to get their basic needs fulfilled and the women, especially the poor, had to suffer the most. “How can a family and society progress and realise big dreams if it has to struggle for basic needs?” he asked. “Our sisters and daughters will be able to contribute to nation building only if their problems of kitchen and home are taken care of. We have worked in mission mode to resolve such issues,” he said. He referred to the forthcoming festival of Raksha Bandhan to connect with the women, saying he was delighted to get blessings of his sisters well in advance. He also used the occasion to connect with the people of Bundelkhand, saying Ujjwala 2.0 was being launched from Mahoba, the land of the brave, and said the region was also the land of Major Dhyanchand after whom the highest award for sportspersons had been named to inspire lakhs of youths. He said by their exemplary performance at the Tokyo Olympics, the country’s sportspersons had given an indication about the future in the sports sector. Giving statistical details about achievements of his government, he said under the first phase of Ujjwala scheme, LPG connections had been given to 8 crore women from the poor and deprived sections of society. He said India was close to achieving 100 per cent coverage on gas connection front and the number of gas connections given in the past seven years was higher than the total connections in the country till 2014. He said a self-declaration of address would work to get an LPG connection in other states under Ujjwala 2.0, which would help migrant workers and added that efforts were also being made to supply piped natural gas. The Prime Minister said expeditious work was being done to give PNG connections in UP and north-eastern states. A target to give PNG connections to 21 lakh households in over 50 districts of Uttar Pradesh had been set in the first phase. Efforts were also being made to boost use of CNG for transportation, he said. The World Biofuel Day on Tuesday was a reminder about the targets on clean energy front, the PM said and added that India was close to achieving the target of 10 per cent blending of ethanol in petrol and would achieve 20 per cent blending in coming years. Vehicles would use 100 per cent ethanol in future. Modi said Uttar Pradesh’s farmers would be benefitted the most with the option of making ethanol from sugarcane. Ethanol of about ₹7 lakh crore was bought from producers last year, he said. A number of units linked to ethanol and biofuel had come up in the state and plants were being set up in 70 districts to make compressed biogas. He said three big complexes were also coming up to make biogas from ‘parali’ (stubble), including two in Badaun and Gorakhpur in UP and another in Bhatinda in Punjab. Another scheme Goverdhan Yojana was about making biogas from cow dung. Lauding the Yogi government, Modi said it had set up a large number of gaushalas (cow shelters) and efforts had also been made to protect crops of farmers. ‘LPG connection has made life easy’ As Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with beneficiaries of Ujjwala scheme, Kiran Devi from Gorakhpur informed how an LPG connection had made her life easy and requested him for financial help. “Our money is stuck up due to lockdown. I request you for some help,” Kiran Devi told the Prime Minister.She was among five beneficiaries of Ujjwala scheme from different states with whom the PM virtually interacted at the programme organized in Mahoba to launch Ujjawala 2.0. The PM, however, probably did not hear her and asked her more about benefits of Ujjwala scheme and whether or not she and the others were getting benefits of scheme of free ration distribution. She had joined the interaction with her daughter and wished the PM a long life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-people-s-lives-could-have-been-bettered-decades-ago-101628616324607.html
10-08-2021||Noida||1,000 LPM oxygen plant inaugurated at Noida Covid Hospital in Sector 39||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Tuesday inaugurated an 1,000 litre per minute (LPM) oxygen generation plant at the 240-bed Noida Covid Hospital in Sector 39.The plant was donated by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and was set up with technical and knowledge support from PATH, a non-profit organisation that works to accelerate health equity.“The establishment of this oxygen generation plant is a key step in our mission to meet the demand of medical oxygen and help affected people of the district to receive the right treatment to recover from Covid-19. We hope to establish more such plants in the future to continue our ongoing battle against the coronavirus pandemic,” said district magistrate Suhas LY. By removing nitrogen from compressed air, the plant will be able to produce a continuous stream of medical oxygen at 93% purity and will now be able to support 300 beds daily with uninterrupted supply at peak requirement, said officials.“We are assuming we may have to increase beds in case another Covid crisis hits us. Hence, the oxygen capacity at the hospital is being ramped up. The total oxygen generation capacity of the hospital has now been increased to 2,500 LPM. We already had two oxygen plants donated by Maruti Suzuki and the IIT-D Alumni Association,” said Dr Sushma Chandra, Chief Medical Superintendent, Noida Covid Hospital.“The GB Nagar administration is leveraging its partnerships with non-profit organisations in order to improve state oxygen generation capacity to ramp up medical infrastructure,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/1000-lpm-oxygen-plant-inaugurated-at-noida-covid-hospital-in-sector-39-101628616322152.html
10-08-2021||Noida||Vaccination of homeless in GB Nagar to be held on August 26||The social welfare department of Gautam Budh Nagar will organise a special Covid-19 vaccination camp for beggars and homeless at Vikas Bhawan in Surajpur on August 26. The move comes after the Uttar Pradesh government recently directed for inoculating such people on priority. “The aim of the government is to ensure that all sections of the society are covered with vaccination. Currently, no target has been set by the government, but we are looking to vaccinate as many people as possible,” said Shailendra Bahadur Singh, district social welfare officer (DSWO), GB Nagar.He said that people can get registered for the vaccinations by contacting the mobile number 8860517148 or visit room number 118 at Vikas Bhawan.“The district administration is spreading the word through public aided systems and volunteers in rural areas as well. This vaccination camp will be for those who do not have their own identification documents that are needed for registration to get vaccinated. We are also inviting NGOs that work with the destitute/homeless/beggars to mobilise them and get them registered here for vaccination,” said Singh.For now, the vaccination camp has been organised for a day but if there are more beneficiaries left after the first day, the camp can be extended for one or two more days, added Singh.According to the district immunisation officer, Dr Neeraj Tyagi, sufficient number of vaccine vials will be provided to the social welfare department for the special camp.“Earlier too, the department has carried out successful vaccinations of senior citizens, specially abled, transgender people and homeless women (at women’s shelter home). This vaccination camp will be organised on the same line,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccination-of-homeless-in-gb-nagar-to-be-held-on-august-26-101628616262187.html
10-08-2021||Gurugram||Admin develops calculator to promote rainwater harvesting||The district authorities have developed a rainwater harvesting (RWH) calculator, which will provide design specifications and a list of vendors, to encourage conservation of rainwater in the city. GuruJal society, an integrated water management initiative of the district administration, has developed the calculator based on the records of rainfall for the past 30 years in the district. Osho Kalia, a senior member of the GuruJal team, said, “Gurugram has immense potential for groundwater recharge. In order to promote water conservation, we have developed an RWH calculator based on the records of rainfall for the past 30 years in the district. The calculator provides design specifications and a list of vendors that can be accessed through the website that may build the suggested designs.” The portal allows users to input specifications of their premises, location and the total area available to harvest rainwater, based on which the calculations are made. According to the records of the Central Ground Water Board, of the 1,258 square kilometre area of the district, the total area available for artificial recharge and augmentation is 1,190 square kilometres. Recently, a report filed by GuruJal stated that the majority of the 84 rainwater harvesting units checked by the district administration in July, after the city received intermittent spells of rainfall, were choked. According to the report, rainwater harvesting units in areas under nine residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) were checked, with 54% of 84 drains found dirty and choked. Further, the report stated that 33% of the drains need to be cleaned and 13% are in good condition. The inspections were conducted on July 15 and 22. The district administration has been trying to promote rainwater harvesting in the district to increase the groundwater level. In July, Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, during a statewide review meeting of work done under Jal Shakti Abhiyan, had said that a target of installing 2,106 rainwater harvesting structures is set for the district, with 405 structures already having been built.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/admin-develops-calculator-to-promote-rainwater-harvesting-101628616142710.html
10-08-2021||Gurugram||Bandhwari landfill: Citizens allege leachate spill, officials say it is rainwater||Following rainfall over the past two weeks, leachate from the Bandhwari landfill has spilt onto Aravalli land and formed a pond on the rear side of the site, city-based environmentalists alleged. However, officials denied that it was leachate and said that it was contaminated rainwater, with an inspection scheduled for Wednesday in this regard.Vaishali Chandra, a city-based environmentalist who visited the site on Tuesday, said that leachate was spilling out, with streams flowing into the adjacent forest area and towards Bandhwari village. “Once again leachate water is being discharged from Bandhwari landfill into the surrounding Aravalli forests, harming both the wildlife and life of local villagers. So much leachate is being discharged that a pondage has formed near the landfill. Streams carrying this dirty water was flowing at least 200-300 metres inside the forest area,” said Chandra. Officials of Ecogreen Energy, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s concessionaire for waste management at Bandhwari landfill, denied the allegation and said that it was dirty water. Sanjeev Sharma, the spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy, said, “There was no leachate spill from the landfill on Tuesday. There was contaminated water (rainwater mixed with fresh waste) that accumulated on the ground, but no leachate. As the city received heavy rain in the past few days, it is that very water which is flowing out from the waste.”Meanwhile, taking note of the situation, officials from the regional office of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said that they will conduct an inspection on Wednesday. Kuldeep Singh, regional officer for Gurugram North, HSPCB, said, “We have received a complaint regarding spilling of leachate from the landfill and a team will visit the site on Wednesday morning for an inspection. After the inspection, necessary action will be taken.” The Bandhwari landfill receives around 2,000 tonnes of waste every day from Gurugram and Faridabad. Municipal solid waste from both these cities is being dumped at the site since 2015. As per a report by the Central Pollution Control Board submitted to the National Green Tribunal in September 2020, approximately 3.1 million tonnes of waste is dumped at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bandhwari-landfill-citizens-allege-leachate-spill-officials-say-it-is-rainwater-101628616086290.html
10-08-2021||Gurugram||Three farmhouses on Aravalli land razed in Faridabad||The Faridabad forest department on Tuesday demolished three illegal farmhouses in the Aravallis, weeks after the Supreme Court ordered the removal of all illegal structures from forest land.Raj Kumar, divisional forest officer for Faridabad, said, “Following the orders of the Supreme Court, we started a demolition drive in the Aravallis today and demolished three farmhouses. This drive will continue over the next few days and illegal structures will be razed.” In the third week of July, the Supreme Court, while hearing a case about the demolition of Khori village in Faridabad, observed that “the direction to remove all unauthorised structures standing on the forest land applies to all such structures without any exception.” Last week, the forest department started preparations to raze illegal structures, including farmhouses, banquet halls and institutes from Aravalli land. In Faridabad, officials had estimated that around 120-130 illegal structures are currently standing on land notified under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA). According to directives of the Supreme Court, the PLPA attracts protection under the Forest Conservation Act of 1980, which states that “no state government or other authority shall make, except with the prior approval of the central government, any order directing that any forest land or any portion thereof may be used for any non-forest purpose.” In Gurugram, notices are being sent to farmhouse owners and a drone survey is likely to start from next week. After the survey, a demolition drive will be conducted in Gurugram too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-farmhouses-on-aravalli-land-razed-in-faridabad-101628616085170.html
10-08-2021||Gurugram||DTCP seeks registry, power connection details of Sai Lane Colony, illegal housing in Sector 65||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Tuesday sought plot registry details of Sai Lane Colony and another colony in Sector 65, where registrations were done for illegal housings despite lack of land-use change permissions. The department also sought details of electricity connections to residences, questioning on what basis the same was issued.Around 135 flats have been constructed in violation of rules and without permission in Sai Lane Colony of Old Gurugram, while over 100 flats have been built on agricultural land in Sector 65, DTCP officials said. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that while notices have already been served to owners, developers and property dealers, they are seeking details from the revenue department regarding the registry of these illegal properties. “We have also sought details from the power utility, to find out on what basis electricity connections were released to these flats owners,” he said. “We have sought details of the property deeds registered by the revenue department and also an explanation as to how these properties could be registered as these were developed without CLU [change of land use] permissions or licence from DTCP. As per Haryana urban development rules, clearance has to be obtained from the department for registration of property smaller than two acres in controlled areas,” said Bhath. A letter sent to the revenue and electricity departments states, ”After perusal of revenue documents, it has been found that unauthorised colony has been carved out in the revenue estate of Gurugram village without any permission from competent authority and raised unauthorised construction of independent flats/floors and sold to individuals and sale deeds executed.”Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement), said action was initiated against the colony developed in Sector 65 last year and a number of flats were sealed and constructed stopped. “A case has also been registered against the property developers and landowners who were engaged in the sale of such flats. We have also issued notice to people involved in Sai Lane and action would be initiated against them as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-seeks-registry-power-connection-details-of-sai-lane-colony-illegal-housing-in-sector-65-101628616084028.html
10-08-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Hospitals directed to constitute committee to monitor oxygen use||The district health department on Tuesday directed all private hospitals having at least 50 beds to set up an oxygen audit committee for monitoring the current oxygen requirement, its usage and wastage, in the backdrop of the state government extending the deadline for installation of Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generating plants in hospitals to December 2021.The audit committee will have to provide the details on oxygen supply and consumption, the status of setting up oxygen PSA plant and the total number of oxygen-supported beds by August 20. Officials said that this will help keep a tab on the medical oxygen situation in the district and avoid a repeat of the circumstances experienced during the second Covid-19 wave in April and May.In an order issued by the health department, hospitals will form a five-member committee comprising a medical superintendent, anaesthetist, physician, nurse and technical support staff or oxygen supervisor. Also, each hospital will have to designate a nurse specifically for monitoring oxygen. “The committee will ensure optimal usage of oxygen, prevent wastage due to leakage and adoption of good oxygen therapy practices,” an order in this regard stated.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “The details submitted by hospitals will help us in estimating and making future projections on the requirement of oxygen supply if there is a surge in coronavirus infection in the coming months. It will help us in keeping a tab on the wastage of oxygen and devise ways it can be prevented. The next course of action will be decided only after the details are submitted by August 20 and analysed by our team.”In April and May, various private hospitals of the city grappled with a lack of liquid oxygen supply due to a sharp rise in coronavirus cases. Refilling cylinders became an impossible task due to the short supply of oxygen, as the demand increased from around 25 metric tonnes (MT) a day to almost 48 MT in a short span. Currently, the daily requirement of oxygen across the district is 10-12 MT, as per the rough estimates made by the health department. In May, hospitals having a capacity of at least 50 beds were directed to install PSA oxygen plants. Currently, of 43 hospitals, only five private hospitals have fully functional oxygen plants, according to the health department data. The remaining hospitals are in the process of installing it and are likely to set it up in August and September. Dr Vikram Singh, director of Aarvy Hospital in Civil Lines, said, “The PSA oxygen plant set up in the facility got functional on Tuesday. It is sufficient to refill 130 D-type oxygen cylinders. The daily requirement during the second Covid-19 wave was around 92-100 cylinders. Taking that requirement into consideration, the plant is sufficient enough for 70 oxygen beds in the hospitals,” said Singh. He said that they would be submitting the details based on the format shared by the health department. It includes details like the total number of oxygen supported beds for adults and children along with the intensive care unit (ICU) and paediatric ICUs with and without a ventilator support system. According to Yadav, Civil Hospital in Sector 10 also has a sufficient supply of medical oxygen due to the installation of a 750 LPM (litres per minute) oxygen plant. Additionally, a 1,000-LPM plant is likely to be installed by this week. Besides these, a 1.2 MT liquid oxygen tank is also available with the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-hospitals-directed-to-constitute-committee-to-monitor-oxygen-use-101628616082798.html
10-08-2021||Noida||Saturdays to be reserved for second Covid dose in Uttar Pradesh||In order to increase the number of individuals fully vaccinated against Covid-19, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday said that all Saturdays starting August 14 will be reserved only for those needing their second shot of either Covishield, Covaxin or Sputnik V — the three vaccines that are in use in the state at the moment. The order will be applicable at both government and private vaccination centres.The vaccine coverage was expanded to all adults on May 1 and the first dose for most people was the Covishield vaccine, which was more in supply. With a three-month waiting period for the vaccine, it was expected that the number of people lining up for their second dose would increase from August. “It (the decision) is because many people whose are scheduled to get their second dose have not appeared at the vaccination centres in time. It may be because they face issues with regard to booking their slots. So, we have reserved Saturdays only for them. The other weekdays from Monday to Friday will be used for administration of both the first and the second dose,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). There are no vaccinations at government centres on Sunday. “From 9am to 11am on Saturday, the preference will be for those who booked their second dose by way of booking online. Thereafter, (it’ll be opened to) anyone needing the second dose who wish to walk-in and get the jab.”The state government also issue a government order to this effect adding that the routine immunisation for children will be unaffected on Saturdays. According to the figures from the Co-Win portal, Uttar Pradesh till 6pm on Tuesday had administered nearly 55 million doses of which the first dose was 46 million first dose and just over 8.6 million were second doses. On Monday, ACS Prasad said that the government wished to expedite the coverage of the second dose and special focus is being given for the purpose. “We have received directions about expediting of the second dose coverage and we will devote Saturday for second dose beneficiaries. The second dose for the age group 18-45 years is also due now and we are making efforts to cater to them with maximum coverage,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar. The district’s second dose coverage was about 19% (333,610 second doses) of the total 1.7 million doses administered so far, as per the Co-Win portal till 6pm on Tuesday. Likewise, the coverage for Ghaziabad district was about 18% (299,758 second doses) out of the total 1.6 million administered. “We are also encouraging and making calls to beneficiaries through our Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre. Further, even on regular days we have reserved 60% doses for beneficiaries who need to get their second dose,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination in Ghaziabad. The government order also said that special vaccination centres will be opened at the social welfare department for vaccination of destitute, beggars and vagabonds. Likewise, similar centres will be opened up at the offices of basic education officer and district inspector of schools for vaccination of teachers, school staff, bus drivers and cleaners. It is also directed that such centres should come up latest by August 11. The UP government has already issued conditional directions for reopening of secondary schools (classes 9 to 12) for physical classes from August 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/saturdays-to-be-reserved-for-second-covid-dose-in-uttar-pradesh-101628615422142.html
10-08-2021||Other||Stray dogs on the increase as residents allege civic sterlisation plan not happening||PUNE Residents of Hinjewadi, Balewadi, Bibwewadi, Baner, Kondhwa and the peth areas are reporting an increase in the number of stray dogs in these areas.The allegation is that because of Covid, the civic drive to sterilise strays has taken a back seat.“The stray dog situation in and around DP road in Aundh is going from bad to worse. Most of these dogs are diseased, have rashes and keep vomiting on the road. They also make horrible and strange sound in the night,” said Vivek Shesh, a resident of Aundh.He also hinted that part of rising problem is because animal lovers feed the strays.“There is no long-term plan to address the stray dog menace. They keep proliferating even though PMC has a huge budget for sterilisation,” said Deepak Gogate.In June, PMC had announced 15 vans to catch strays and had set up seven sterilisation centres in the city.“Areas on the outskirts of the city limits or cremation grounds close to the road are the worst. A pack of dogs will often rush towards you or a passing vehicle, which is very dangerous. This is happening very often in the Hinjewadi area,” said Ravindra Sinha, a resident.“PMC has one dog van while we have help from NGOs who help us with sterilisation areas,” said Mukadam Vishal Kamble, PMC Zone 2. “The sterilising of strays is done throughout the city, but the population of dogs varies,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stray-dogs-on-the-increase-as-residents-allege-civic-sterlisation-plan-not-happening-101628614942011.html
10-08-2021||Other||Doc in dock for attacking sleeping wife at home||PUNE: An Ayurveda doctor was remanded to two days of police custody on Tuesday for attacking his wife while she was sleeping in their house in the Munjaba vasti area of Dhanori, Pune.The arrested man and his wife and the complainant in this case have been identified as Dr Ravi Dhadwad and Dr Pallavi Dhadwad, respectively; both are in their 30s. Both have their own private practice and a three-year-old daughter, according to the police. The child was asleep when the man attacked his sleeping wife during the early hours of Monday.Police sub-inspector Shubhangi Magdum of the Vishrantwadi police station who is investigating the case said, “He attacked her while she was sleeping after which she woke up and ran out to dial 100 for police. The police reached the place by which time he was absconding. She was taken to a nearby hospital.” After being admitted, Dr Pallavi Dhadwad was treated and kept in the hospital for a day. She has sustained minor injuries on her back and right hand, according to the police.PSI Magdum said, “They had a fight about domestic issues after the complainant told the man that she wanted to visit her parents’ place. That led to the quarrel between them. We will investigate further during police custody.”The man returned home in the evening on Monday, hours after the alleged attack, when he was arrested from the couple’s home by the police. A case under section 326 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the man at Vishrantwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doc-in-dock-for-attacking-sleeping-wife-at-home-101628614822562.html
10-08-2021||Other||Dead, bound body of engineer washes ashore on banks of Indrayani; probe underway||PUNE: The body of an engineer was found on the banks of the Indrayani river in the north Kelgaon area of Khed taluka, Pune, at around 2.30pm on Monday. The body washed ashore behind the Lord Vitthal temple in the area, with the limbs bound with thin red and yellow ropes. According to the police, the limbs were tied together before throwing the body into the river.The deceased has been identified as Vinayak Balasaheb Borude, 24, a resident of Goregaon in Parner area of Ahmednagar. He is survived by two younger siblings and parents who stay in Ahmednagar.Assistant police inspector Yogesh Gaikwad of Alandi police station who is investigating the case said, “There was a washed-up Aadhaar card in Borude’s pocket which helped identify him. He graduated from a local engineering college in 2019 and worked with a company in Chakan till January but he quit the same month and was unemployed ever since. His parents and acquaintances say that he was not the kind to have enemies.”The doctors have preserved Borude’s viscera for further analysis after post-mortem to identify the cause of death. A case under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Alandi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dead-bound-body-of-engineer-washes-ashore-on-banks-of-indrayani-probe-underway-101628614821978.html
10-08-2021||Kolkata||Eyes on 2023, TMC wants to revamp Tripura unit by Dec 31||Days after three Trinamool Congress (TMC) youth front leaders were allegedly attacked by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in Tripura and arrested by the local police for violating pandemic restrictions, West Bengal’s ruling party has decided to revamp its organisation in the north-eastern state by December 31. The deadline has been set by TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee who visited Tripura twice last week, a senior party leader told HT on condition of anonymity. The youth leaders were sent to carry out organizational work. I-Pac, the company formed by election strategist Prashant Kishor, is collecting data on the ground. “Abhishek Banerjee is in charge of the mission that aims to overthrow the BJP government in the next assembly polls in 2023. Right now, we have no organizational committee in Tripura. Banerjee wants new committees to be set up down to the polling booth level by December 31. If this target is achieved, we will have enough time to pose a challenge to the BJP,” the TMC leader quoted above said. To ensure that this work continues without break, Banerjee has created a travel roster for six TMC leaders from Bengal. They are education minister Bratya Basu, law minister Moloy Ghatak, Lok Sabha member Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, state general secretary Kunal Ghosh, TMC’s trade union front president Ritabrata Banerjee and former legislator Samir Chakraborty. Each one of them will spend three days in Tripura and leave the state when the next person marked in the roster arrives. “People of Tripura want a change. We have felt their pulse,” Kunal Ghosh, who went to Agartala on Sunday, said. Mukul Roy, who left the BJP and returned to the ruling party on June 11, played the key role in building the TMC’s base in Tripura by breaking the Congress. “Roy has not been given any responsibility yet because of his age and health condition,” said a third TMC leader who did not want to be named. The Tripura assembly has 60 seats, of which, 43 are in control of BJP and its allies. Under Roy’s leadership, Sudip Roy Barman, who was leader of the Opposition in the Tripura assembly during the Left regime and who is the son of former Congress chief minister Samir Ranjan Barman, left the Congress and joined TMC in 2016 along with five MLAs. Barman joined the BJP with his followers in 2017 when Mukul Roy switched sides. After Roy joined the BJP, the TMC made Sabyasachi Dutta, the former mayor of Salt Lake township in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata, in charge of the Tripura unit, but he, too, joined the BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. After this, Ashish Lal Singh, the son of Tripura’s first chief minister Sachindra Lal Singh, remained the TMC’s only face in Tripura. BJP leaders in Tripura said the TMC is aware that it cannot win the state polls and its real aim is to secure 6% votes ,a criteria for being recognised as a national party. Though the TMC is recognised as a national party because of its seat share in the Lok Sabha, its presence is negligible outside Bengal. In June, Abhishek Banerjee announced that the TMC will contest assembly polls in other states and take the BJP head on. “The TMC tried twice to win elections in Tripura but failed. On both occasions, TMC leaders arrived 12 or 18 months before the polls and left after the results were announced. They are following the same routine. But this time around, people are questioning their intentions, the staged attack and the drama surrounding it,” said Subrata Chakraborty, the BJP spokesperson in Tripura. “This is a democratic state where anybody is free to come and go. However, people have taken note of the social media videos in which the TMC youth leaders can be seen using slang language against chief minister Biplab Deb,” said Chakraborty. Leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), who ruled Tripura from 1978 to 1988 and again from 1993 to 2018, have condemned the attack on the youth TMC leaders. “The CPI(M) may tacitly support the TMC but it won’t help them. The Left parties were completely wiped out in the autonomous district council elections,” said Chakraborty. CPI(M)’s Tripura state secretary Gautam Das said, “There is no question of helping the TMC. We have only said that every party has the right to carry out organizational work because the Constitution guarantees that freedom. The BJP is running a dictatorial government in Tripura. No other party is allowed to work. Our workers were murdered after the state polls. Many party offices were burnt down.” Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay said, “The TMC can make a breakthrough in Tripura only if there is an exodus from the BJP because Biplab Deb came to power using the anti-incumbency factor against the CPI(M).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/eyes-on-2023-tmc-wants-to-revamp-tripura-unit-by-dec-31-101628614763393.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Diarrhoea outbreak in Zirakpur: Source of contamination found||As many as 55 fresh cases of diarrhoea were reported on Tuesday from three localities in Zirakpur’s Baltana area: Ekta Vihar, Ravindra Enclave and Harmilap Nagar. The outbreak, which has infected around 230 people, also left a 30-year-old man and a three-year-old girl dead in the past three days. Meanwhile, the civic authorities have found the source of contamination of water at Ekta Vihar and fixed it. Fresh supply of water has been resumed. Girish Verma, executive officer, municipal council, Zirakpur, said: “There are sewage pipes passing near the water tank in Ekta Vihar. Around eight years back, there was a leakage in the sewage pipe and the contractor, instead of replacing the pipe, had used a rubber pipe to plug the leakage.” The present contamination started as both sewage and water pipes developed a leakage, he said.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said medical camps were being held in all the three colonies and the health department was keeping a close eye on the situation. She said medical teams and ambulances have been stationed in the area and free medicines are being provided to the affected people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/diarrhoea-outbreak-55-more-cases-source-of-contamination-found-plugged-101628614762019.html
10-08-2021||Other||New director reviews work on new terminal at Pune airport||PUNE: In what will bring cheer to air passengers in Pune, the work on expansion of the Pune International Airport at Lohegaon by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has picked up pace and is going on in full swing. Among the highlights of the Pune airport expansion project is the construction of a new terminal building at a cost of Rs400 crore. Santosh Dhoke, who took charge as the director of the Pune airport last week, reviewed the ongoing work on the terminal building on Monday.“As I have taken charge of the Pune airport, it is my responsibility to check and inspect the ongoing projects part of which is the new terminal building. All are ongoing work proposals at the Pune airport and I have reviewed the progress of the work. Instructions have been given to the engineers and contractors to expedite the work to meet the given deadline. Our focus is not to miss deadlines as that will help us complete the work till September 2022,” said Dhoke.“There are several issues and challenges we are facing in terms of the infrastructure and due to the pandemic. But the work is going on very well now and we are coordinating with the Indian Air Force (IAF) for the no-objection certificates (NOCs) required,” he said.The Pune airport expansion project includes the construction of a new terminal building at a cost of Rs400 crore; a multilevel car parking at a cost of Rs120 crore; and a new cargo complex at a cost of about Rs300 crore. The new terminal building is being constructed on a 40,000 square metre plot towards the eastern side of the existing terminal building. Once the new terminal building comes up, the airport will cover a total area of 64,300 square metres. The new terminal building will have five new aerobridges. Once it becomes operational, the airport will have a total 10 aerobridges. Work on the new integrated terminal building worth Rs358.89 crore has been awarded to a company named ITD Cementation India Ltd whereas the company, Egis, based in France, has been appointed as consultant for the new terminal building work.Prior to taking charge as director of the Pune airport last week, Dhoke served as airport director at Shrinagar airport for two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-director-reviews-work-on-new-terminal-at-pune-airport-101628614461971.html
10-08-2021||Other||Lt Gen Arvind Walia assumes command as Chief of Staff, Southern Command||PUNE Lieutenant General Arvind Walia, on Tuesday, assumed the appointment of Chief of Staff at headquarters Southern Command, with laying a wreath to honour fallen soldiers at the National War Memorial in Pune.General Walia is an alumnus of the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, where he received the prestigious Silver Medal. An officer the Corps of Engineers, General Walia has comprehensive and well-rounded operational experience through varied command and staff appointments. He has commanded an independent squadron in the desert sector, his regiment in Jammu and Kashmir and an engineers’ brigade along the Western front.He is a graduate of the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, College of Defence Management, Secunderabad, and the National Defence College, New Delhi. His academic record includes a BE in Civil Engineering from BITS Pilani, an MSC in Defeence and Strategic Studies from Madras University, a Master’s of Management from Osmania University and an MPhil from both Osmania University and Madras University. He has been an instructor at College of Defence Management, Secunderabad and National Defence College, Delhi. General Walia and his wife, Anita Walia, were accorded a warm welcome by military officials in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lt-gen-arvind-walia-assumes-command-as-chief-of-staff-southern-command-101628614162090.html
10-08-2021||Other||Faeces potential source for transmission of Covid-19: NIV study||PUNE A study conducted by a Pune hospital and the National Institute of Virology (NIV), claims to confirm the probability of consistent person-to-person transmission of the novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and prolonged viral excretion by Covid-19 patients, after negative conversion of pharyngeal swabs. As per the study the presence of Sars-Cov-2 RNA was demonstrated in the faeces of Covid-19 patients, suggesting the possibility of transmission via the faecal-oral route.As per the study, a family that had four members was admitted for Covid-19 treatment. The index case was a 37-year old male healthcare worker in the Covid-19 ward. He was living with his wife (34-years old) and two children (8- and 6-years old). The index patient showed fever, nasal discharge and generalised weakness at the onset of symptoms. He was admitted to hospital and diagnosed with Covid-19 by real-time reverse transcriptase–polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR). Stool and urine samples were collected to check if the virus could be detected in specimens from non-respiratory sites. Additional stool samples were collected from the index case on days number 14, 21, 32, 40, 48 and 55, after the onset of symptoms, to determine the duration of excretion of the virus in faeces.The index patient continued to excrete the virus in his stool until 48 days, despite throat/nasal swabs showing negative Viral RNA. A rather surprising finding from the study was detection of viral RNA from the faecal specimens of patients, though none of them had diarrhoea as part of their symptoms.Dr Sampada Patwardhan, associated with Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital said, “The study was basically by NIV to find transmission pattern of four patients in a family cluster from Pune city. All four members presented with different clinical features after being infected with Covid-19. The index case contracted this infection from the hospital and subsequently infected other members in the family. When we say that the virus is present in the faeces and that it could spread through the faecal-oral method it means that the aerosolation of the faeces either through open defecation, flushing of the toilet and sharing of public toilets in huge clusters, could prove to be means of transmission.”Dr Patwardhan further explained, “The virus is attached to receptors heavily present in the respiratory system, which is why initial symptoms are related to respiration. However, receptors are also heavily present in the large intestine and so symptoms like diarrhoea are also prevalent. We are not denying that the family could not have been infected from the index person via other methods, but the transmission of the virus through faeces is also probable.”The study has been authored by Sujata Ranshing, Enteric Viruses Group, ICMR-National Institute of Virolog; Mallika Lavania, National Influenza Centre; Varsha Potdar, (NIV); Dr Sampada Patwardhan, department of microbiology, Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital; Dr Parikshit S Prayag, infectious disease, Deenanath Mangeshkar; Dr Sameer Jog, critical care centre, Deenanath Mangeshkar; Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director, Deenanath Mangeshkar; Dr Pradeep Sawant, Dr Manohar Shinde and Dr Nutan Chavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/faeces-potential-source-for-transmission-of-covid-19-niv-study-101628613981990.html
10-08-2021||Ranchi||JPSC exam result: HC division bench orders status quo, interim relief to 326 candidates||In interim relief to 326 candidates who were declared successful in the sixth civil services exam conducted by Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC), the division bench of the Jharkhand high court (HC) on Tuesday ordered status quo after hearing a bunch of petitions challenging the court’s earlier verdict in June. Delivering its verdict on a writ petition against the published result, the single bench on this June 7 quashed the merit list of the sixth civil services examination through which 326 candidates were appointed in different cadre jobs. The HC at the time also directed the commission to issue a fresh merit list after making the required corrections within eight weeks. The HC bench earlier found that the JPSC committed error by adding marks obtained by the candidates in mains qualifying papers (Hindi and English) to prepare the final merit list. It also directed the state government to make cadre allocation of the successful candidates as per the new revised list within next four weeks. However, the verdict was challenged by several successful candidates, pleading that the declared result was as per the exam rules published in the advertisement issued by the JPSC. On Tuesday, the division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Sujit Narayan Prasad ordered status quo in the matter. “After hearing our argument, the court has ordered a status quo till the next hearing on September 28. The court has also ordered to send notices to all concerned, including those who filed writ petition challenging the result, besides the state government and the JPSC,” said Sandeep Gadodia, counsel for successful candidate Shishir Tigga and 45 others. Senior Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan and senior counsel Anil Sinha also argued on behalf of other applicants, who filed separate petitions. Gadodia said they argued that the merit list was prepared as per the published job advertisement. “The advertisement clearly mentioned that the total marks of the mains papers adds to 1,050, including the first paper (Hindi and English). Accordingly, marks of paper one was added while preparing the merit list,” he said. The counsel further argued that even if there was any ambiguity in the advertisement, the benefits went to all candidates, including the unsuccessful ones. “The result has been published as per the advertisement. Moreover, it’s not as if the marks of paper one (Hindi and English) were only added to the marks of the successful candidates,” said Gadodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jpsc-exam-result-hc-division-bench-orders-status-quo-interim-relief-to-326-candidates-101628613922816.html
10-08-2021||Other||Katihar mayor’s murder: case: Two accused surrender before top cop||Two prime accused in the Katihar mayor murder case surrendered before inspector general of police (Purnia range) Suresh Kumar Choudhary on Tuesday, the police said.The two were identified as Sanni Srivasatava and Shrikant Srivasatava. Katihar superintendent of police (SP) Vikash Kumar said, “So far, 14 arrests have been made in the case, of which 10 were named in the first information report (FIR). The other two will be apprehended soon.”Katihar mayor Shivraj Paswan was shot dead near his home in the town on July 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/katihar-mayor-s-murder-case-two-accused-surrender-before-top-cop-101628613742538.html
10-08-2021||Patna||Siwan: Minor’s body recovered, 1 held||In yet another incident of crime against a minor, police recovered body of a missing five-year-old girl from a bush close to her house under Pachrukhi police station area of Siwan in the wee hours of Tuesday. One person was arrested in this connection, officials said.The arrested person confessed to his crime, Siwan superintendent of police (SP) Abhinav Kumar said, adding that a murder case was lodged against him.Following the body’s recovery, irate locals attacked the police team and damaged one of their vehicles. Police said prima facie, it appears that the minor was sexually assaulted and then killed. The body, which was found covered in a bedsheet, was sent for postmortem examination, officials said. Her family members also alleged sexual assault, as some objectionable items were recovered from near the girl’s body. As per available information, the minor went missing when she went to attend a funeral service near her house on Monday evening. Her family members along with other villagers launched a search operation but could not trace her. Police said that when the victim’s body was recovered, villagers caught a suspect and handed him over to the police. The suspect, identified as Pradip Singh, a resident of Ramgarh village under Siswan police station, came to attend the funeral. During interrogation, he confessed to the crime and said he lured the minor on the pretext of sweets and chocolates and took her to a secluded place and attempted to sexually assault her. When she raised an alarm, Pradip strangulated her to death on the spot and dumped the body in a farm field. Assuring speedy trail in the case, the SP said, “Concerned SHO is investigating the matter. A case of murder has already been registered. Police is awaiting the autopsy report to confirm rape.”The state till September 2020 has witnessed 2,406 cases of murders and 1,106 rape cases. The Bihar Police headquarters officials, quoting National Crime Records Bureau’s (NCRB) 2019 data said Bihar ranks 31 in rape cases in the country. The national ratio for rape is 4.9, while in Bihar it is 1.3. Similarly, as far as crime against women is concerned, Bihar ranks 28th, as per NCRB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/siwan-minor-s-body-recovered-1-held-101628613562723.html
10-08-2021||Other||Drunk govt clerk opens fire over small dispute, held||A government employee posted as a clerk in the Bikramganj block office was arrested on Monday night allegedly for firing blanks in an inebriated state over a parking dispute with a neighbour at the Gaurakshani locality in Sasaram. No one was injured in the incident, police said.The accused, identified as Vijay Kumar, claimed to be the district president of a state-level employees association, said police.Late on Monday night, locals informed the superintendent of police (SP) Ashish Bharti about the incident. A police team was rushed to the spot and arrested him with two firearms. A medical test confirmed that he was drunk, police said. According to the police, Kumar owns licences of a rifle, a pistol and a revolver. He had also posted photographs depicting himself as a don on social media.A case has been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Arms Act and Excise Act with the town police station.The investigating officer has been directed to send a request to the district magistrate for cancelling Kumar’s licences of firearms, SP Ashish Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drunk-govt-clerk-opens-fire-over-small-dispute-held-101628613502676.html
10-08-2021||Other||TV channel reporter’s body found in pond in East Champaran||Police recovered the body of a TV news channel’s reporter from a pond at a village in Bihar’s East Champaran district on Tuesday, three days after he went missing. Santosh Kumar, subdivisional police officer (SDPO), Areraj, said the body of Manish Kumar Singh was recovered from the pond after some villagers spotted a pair of shoes on the banks and noticed foul smell emanating from the pond at Mathlohiyar Gadditola under Harshidih police station limits of Areraj subdivision. “The body is being sent for autopsy. Two people have been arrested and further investigation is underway,” the SDPO said, adding that the motive behind the murder was not clear yet. The two arrested, identified as Amrendra Kumar and Asjad Alam, are also local reporters and Singh was last seen with them, police said, citing a CCTV footage. Singh went missing on Saturday evening after which his father filed a police complaint.Police have registered a case in which 13 people, including the two arrested local reporters, have been made named accused. Pramod Kumar Paswan, station house officer (SHO), Harshidih police station, said search for other accused was underway.Singh’s father Sanjay Singh, who is associated with a vernacular newspaper, said his son was murdered because of a land dispute. “His throat was slit and he was stabbed at places on his body,” he said. Singh didn’t elaborate what the dispute was. He also accused police of laxity. “ Despite recovery of Manish’s bag, mike and blue tooth devices from Amrendra Kumar’s house, police did not look serious to rescue him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tvchannel-reporter-s-body-found-in-pond-in-east-champaran-101628613322598.html
10-08-2021||Patna||Experts hail SC order on tainted lawmakers||The Supreme Court’s decision on Tuesday to impose fines on eight political parties for committing contempt of court by flouting the directions in its February 2020 judgment for publication of criminal antecedents of candidates during the Bihar assembly polls last year may turn out to be a decisive step to ensure a cleaner election, according to political observers.In the new Bihar Legislative Assembly formed after elections late last year, 163 (68%) of the 241 newly elected leaders from all parties had declared criminal cases, says the report of the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) & Election Watch, which was released after the results. Two candidates could not be analysed. The Rashtriya Janata Dal was the party with the highest number tainted but winning candidates ( 73%), followed by BJP (64%), JD-U (47%) and Congress (17%).The Election Commission (EC) guidelines, issued in the light of the Supreme Court order, required candidates and parties to mandatorily publicise pending criminal cases through advertisements in a local and a national newspaper, besides official social media platforms of the political party, and explain reasons for fielding them. However, the compliance was low and the EC served show cause notices to over 100 such candidates and later issued a general notice for all to comply, failing which it was reported as violation, an EC official had said soon after election.Former advocate general PK Shahi said the apex court order could lead to compliance of its order and EC guidelines in future. “The court has taken the extreme step of imposing fine because its orders were not being followed. The objective is to let the voters know which candidate is facing what kind of cases prior to election so that they could make an informed choice. Now disclosure will be compulsory,” he said. “This a welcome step, and should ensure compliance in future. The political parties will have to take it seriously. Compliance to EC guidelines remained disappointing even though the information is required to be furnished within 48 hours of the selection of candidates and not less than two weeks before the first date for filing of nomination,” said political analyst Prof NK Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/experts-hail-sc-order-on-tainted-lawmakers-101628613202971.html
10-08-2021||Patna||In fresh blow, Chirag asked to vacate 12 Janpath bungalow||Lok Janshakti Party MP Chirag Paswan and other occupants of the 12 Janpath bungalow in the national capital have been issued an eviction notice by the union housing and urban affairs ministry, asking them to vacate the accommodation that had been allotted to his late father and former union minister (late) Ram Vilas Paswan, officials said on Tuesday.Ram Vilas Paswan, who died on October 8 last year, lived in the bungalow for over three decades.The order to vacate the house was first issued on July 14 by the directorate of estates under the ministry of urban affairs. “Notice for eviction was given as they (Chirag Paswan) are no longer eligible to stay in the accommodation,” a spokesperson for the ministry said. The two-time MP from Jamui, who has been allotted a house in North Avenue, has always lived at 12 Janpath along with his father and mother . Chirag wasn’t available for comment, but his aides said he has sought some time to vacate the house. A LJP leader close to Chirag, not willing to be quoted, confirmed that a fresh notice had been sent to him again, but he wants to stay there till the first death anniversary of his father. The LJP leader said Chirag had a meeting with the union urban development minister Hardeep Puri in this regard. The eviction notice comes as a fresh blow for Chirag, who was upstaged in his party by his uncle and Lok Sabha MP Pashupati Kumar Paras a few months back. Paras, who enjoys support of five of the six MPs of the party, declared himself as leader of the real LJP and was included in the union cabinet recently.LJP sources said that after the induction of over 40 new faces in union cabinet, houses are being allotted to all of them. In such a situation, the 12 Janpath bungalow was allotted to Ram Vilas Paswan’s brother Paras, but he refused, after which it was allotted in another minister’s name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/in-fresh-blow-chirag-asked-to-vacate-12-janpath-bungalow-101628613022427.html
10-08-2021||Patna||Cabinet meet: Decks cleared for new municipal building tribunal||The Bihar state cabinet on Tuesday approved a proposal to reconstitute the Bihar Municipal Building Tribunal by revising qualifications and rules for appointment of its chairman and members.In June the Patna high court had set 10-day deadline to resolve the issues so that the appellate authority become functional. The tribunal has not been working for the past several years and hence all the disputes arising out of construction of buildings in municipal areas had to be dealt with by the high court.Briefing reporters after the cabinet meeting, additional chief secretary (cabinet) Sanjay Kumar said the cabinet, chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar, also approved a proposal to build a high-level bridge on the river Sone, connecting Bihar’s Rohtas district and Jharkhand’s Garhwa district, at the cost of ₹210 crore with Central government assistance. The two-lane bridge would also improve Bihar’s connectivity with Uttar Pradesh upon its completion, likely in March 2024.A proposal to ease traffic congestion on the approach to JP Setu with the national highway 119 (Vaishali-Chapra stretch) by widening it and strengthening the service road also got the cabinet nod. A sum of ₹598 crore would be spent on building the approach roads, which also include rail over bridges and culverts. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cabinet-meet-decks-cleared-for-new-municipal-building-tribunal-101628612903666.html
10-08-2021||Other||PMC gives nod to SWaCH contract||PUNE: Relenting to pressure from social worker Baba Adhav, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has finally given its nod to continuing the contract with SWaCH for door-to-door garbage collection. The standing committee of the civic body on Tuesday gave its permission to continue the contract with SWaCH. SWaCH is a cooperative model that emerged in Pune city, and has garnered appreciation from all over the country.Hemant Rasne, chairman of the standing committee of the PMC, said, “We gave our nod for the SWaCH proposal. Earlier, social leader Baba Adhav agitated for it and even held a meeting with corporation officials.” Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We put forth a clear proposal in front of the standing committee and got a nod on Tuesday.”With the earlier agreement between the PMC and SWaCH having ended, the corporation was initially planning to appoint a private contractor for door-to-door garbage collection but later decided to keep that on hold. In 2005, a pilot programme implemented by the Kagad Kach Patra Kashtakari Panchayat in collaboration with the department of adult education of the SNDT Women’s University enabled 1,500 waste-pickers to become service providers and collect door-to-door waste from households in Pune city. This improved their working conditions and livelihoods considerably while also bridging the gap between the households and the municipal waste collection service. The pilot became operational in 2006 and SWaCH was formed in 2007.In 2008, the PMC signed a five-year agreement with SWaCH for decentralised door-to-door waste collection from households, shops, offices and small commercial establishments, renewing it in 2016. The members of the cooperative work in pairs and are in charge of door-to-door waste collection for about 200 to 250 households. The waste-pickers collect segregated waste (separated as wet or organic and dry namely, plastic, glass, paper etc.) from households and commercial establishments. They further separate it as recyclables to be sold in the recycling market and non-recyclables to be dropped off at feeder points. The model is energy-efficient and benefits the environment as SWaCH waste-pickers recycle the waste and reduce the quantity of waste sent to landfills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-gives-nod-to-swach-contract-101628612842003.html
10-08-2021||Other||SC clears proposal for PMC to pay advocate fees for PILs in HC||PUNE Though the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the High Court against the state government, the standing committee, on Tuesday, passed a resolution to allow the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to pay the advocate’s fees for the same.Two cases have been filed in the High Court against the state government. In one case, PMC has challenged the metropolitan committee, and in other, PMC has objected to the PMRDA development plan for 23 villages merged into its limits.The standing committee on Tuesday agreed to bear the advocate’s cost for both complaints.While asking that if the PMC is filing a case against the state government and the political party filed the case, how can PMC bear the cost for it?Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “PMC is a part of this complaint. The general body approved the proposal for a DP by the PMC and published the intention for it. The elected member had given the proposal in front of the standing committee to approve the fees for the advocate.”Rasane added, “Now the administration will take a call on it and check the legality for executing the proposal or not.”Meanwhile, the Bombay High Court has stayed the metropolitan planning committee of the PMRDA, headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sc-clears-proposal-for-pmc-to-pay-advocate-fees-for-pils-in-hc-101628612541837.html
10-08-2021||Patna||Nitish inaugurates projects worth ₹2.7K cr, takes a jibe at states high on publicity||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday inaugurated a slew of health schemes and hospital projects worth ₹2,705.35 crore and took a swipe at states giving little compensation for Covid-19 deaths but doing a huge publicity about it.Speaking on the occasion, Kumar said some states were giving only ₹50,000 as compensation and coming up with newspaper advertisements, whereas Bihar was giving a one-time compensation of ₹4 lakh since the beginning of the first wave of the pandemic, but did not advertise in the media. The CM then directed his officials to upload the work done by the health department on the social media, by putting it in perspective of what the situation was in 2005 (when he took over the reins of Bihar) and the progress the state had made now.Kumar also asked his officials to scale up Covid-19 tests to 2 lakh per day. He said from performing 20,000 Covid-19 tests a day during the first wave, the state had crossed 1.70 lakh tests in a single day.The state had administered 2.74 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine by August 8 against a target to inoculate an adult population of 7.22 crore by December.Health minister Mangal Pandey, referring to the oxygen crisis during the second wave of the pandemic, said 122 oxygen generation plants would be ready by August 31 at different hospitals and subdivisional hospitals in the state. Deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi also spoke on the occasion.Among the projects the CM graced through virtual mode were the foundation stone laying ceremony of a 1,200-bed and a 500-bed hospital at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), inauguration of a state cancer institute at the institute, eSanjeevani OPD (tele-consultation with doctor from home) and eSanjeevani.in module (visiting any of the 2,319 designated health sub-centres and talking through virtual mode to medical officers and getting medicines prescribed by them).Commending the role of “Jeevika didis” (women’s self-help group), the CM also extended “Didi Ki Rasoi” (canteen for in-patients) to 32 other district and subdivisional hospitals in the state. The canteens aim to provide quality and nutritious breakfast and meals to in-patients for a package rate of ₹150 per day per patient, and the government bears its cost. The service was earlier confined to seven district hospitals and one subdivisional hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-inaugurates-projects-worth-2-7k-cr-takes-a-jibe-at-states-high-on-publicity-101628612482667.html
10-08-2021||Other||SC postpones decisions on controversial proposals||The Standing Committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday postponed a decision on two controversial proposals – renting of electric cars and a plan to rent out amenity places.To increase revenue, PMC plans to rent out amenity places in the city reserved for the developing public amenities.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane backs the proposal.Even more controversial is the proposal to hire the 38 electric cars, with drivers, for eight years, paying ₹23 crore. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) opposes this proposal.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “We postponed both proposals and will take a decision on it at the next standing committee meeting.”PMC has lost ₹60 lakh; Velankar Civic activist Vivek Velankar blamed the general body of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for not approving a lease of its food testing laboratory. Velankar said, “PMC erected a food testing lab by spending ₹7.70 crore in Kondhwa. As PMC did not have technical manpower, it wasn’t able to run it. Later PMC handed it over to the food hygiene and health lab and was to get ₹52.80 lakh per annum. In five years PMC only fot ₹12.78 lakh income.”PMC floated a tender and got the a proposal for ₹30 lakh rent per annum. The proposal for renting out this lab has been in front of the general body for the last two years. “Effectively, PMC has lost two years’ rent which is ₹60 lakh,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sc-postpones-decisions-on-controversial-proposals-101628612301832.html
10-08-2021||Other||WL-SOS, foresters rescue 24 reptiles from Agra snake charmers||Agra In an anti-poaching operation, the Wildlife SOS and the Uttar Pradesh forest department jointly rescued 24 snakes from snake charmers outside five different temples here. The snakes are currently under the care and treatment of Wildlife SOS, a non government organization for animal welfare. A total of 16 cobras, 4 Indian rat snakes, and four common sand boas were rescued from snake charmers from outside Kailash, Balkeshwar, Mankameshwar, Rajeshwar and Rawli temples and transferred to the Wildlife SOS rescue facility. All snakes were found to be starved and dehydrated. The mouth of a harmless, non-venomous rat snake had been stitched. Veterinarians from Wildlife SOS immediately removed the stitches from the rat snake’s mouth and hydrated all snakes as the first step. The NGO is treating and observing all reptile, determining if they are fit enough to be released into their natural habitat. The month of ‘Shravan’ or ‘Sawan’ which started on July 25, is highly auspicious for devotees of Lord Shiva, also known as the Lord of the Snakes. The Mondays of this month, known as “Shravan Somvar,” have special significance, with devotees observing fast on the day or flocking to temples to receive blessings. Taking advantage of Lord Shiva’s association with snakes and people’s innocent reverence, snake charmers (saperas) often lure devotees with snake displays and promises of blessings. With the intent of gaining alms, some snake charmers even encourage devotees to offer milk to the snake, which is detrimental to the reptile’s health. Wildlife SOS and the forest department urged tourists and locals to steer clear of snake charmers and discourage exploitation of snakes for display or entertainment. Snake charming promoted the illegal possession of protected wildlife species and was an illegal offence under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, they said. Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder & CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “These snakes are kept in the most dreadful conditions and the gruesome reality of snake charming needs to be exposed. Snakes are injured and mutilated to the point that they often can’t return to their natural habitat. Our team is dedicated to ensuring that these snakes receive all the medical attention needed.” Dr. Ilayaraja, deputy director veterinary services, Wildlife SOS, said, “The rat snake with the stitched mouth was exhibiting aggressive behaviour due to pain. We carefully removed the stitches and no major bleeding or swelling has been found since. No animal deserves such barbaric treatment.” Akhilesh Pandey, divisional forest officer, Agra, said, “Snake charming is an illegal and punishable offence that has been going on for years. To combat this, the forest department teams up with Wildlife SOS to rescue snakes from snake charmers every year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wlsos-foresters-rescue-24-reptiles-from-agra-snake-charmers-101628611521912.html
10-08-2021||Patna||Big DA hike in works for Bihar govt staff||Bihar government employees are likely to get a substantial hike in dearness allowance (DA), from the existing 17% to 28%, on the lines of central government employees who got the benefit recently effective since July, officials familiar with the matter said.They said the state’s finance department has initiated the process to send a proposal to this effect to the state cabinet for approval.There has been no hike in DA for Bihar government employees since January 2020 as part of austerity measures following the outbreak of Coronavirus pandemic, as was the case with central government employees. Sources said the enhanced DA, if approved in August, would be effective from July and a month’s arrears would be paid to employees. The hike in DA is expected to cost the state exchequer around ₹2,500 crore, said a senior state official. “The jump is quite substantial. It will be also be for pensioners.”Bihar’s total salary bill every month, including regular state government employees, contractual staff , university employees and other ad hoc staff, comes to around ₹4,500 crore. Officials in the state’s finance department say revenue collections over the last few months have not been very low despite the lockdown while the flow of the central devolutions by way of state’s share in central taxes and GST settlements was good.When contacted, principal secretary (finance) S Siddharth said he was not aware of any proposal to hike DA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/big-da-hike-in-works-for-bihar-govt-staff-101628611462367.html
10-08-2021||Other||Diarrhoea wreaks havoc in Lucknow’s Balu Adda, 50 more hospitalised||LUCKNOW Diarrhoea continued to wreak havoc in Balu Adda area of the city as more than 50 people, who took ill, were admitted to various hospitals on Tuesday. Of these, 11 patients were taken to the Civil Hospital in a serious condition. A few patients were discharged after their health improved, said officials of the health department.On Monday, two boys died and 80 people were hospitalised following outbreak of diarrhoea in Balu Adda. Locals alleged that they were getting contaminated water supply for the last few months despite complaints to civic authorities in this regard.The health department team remained alert in the diarrhoea-affected area and free medicines were provided to the victims. So far, more than 130 people from Balu Adda had been hospitalised due to diarrhoea in the last three days.UP law minister Brajesh Pathak visited Balu Adda on Tuesday and met the families affected by diarrhoea. Locals shared their problems with him. “The contractor of the LMC is laying sewer lines along the water lines. He has breached the water line at several points. We brought this to the notice of officials, but they ignored our complaint. As a result, the area is suffering outbreak of diarrhoea,” shared Susheela Devi, a resident. Another resident told the minister that locals got only two hours of water supply, and that too contaminated.The minister expressed his anger over the state of affairs in the area and directed officials to address all the complaints of locals.Meanwhile, Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia visited the Civil Hospital where the diarrhoea victims were undergoing treatment.Mayor orders inquiry against contractorMayor Sanyukta Bhatia visited Balu Adda on Tuesday and found a contractor laying sewer lines in violation of norms, according to which, sewer lines should be laid at least six feet away from water pipelines. The mayor directed LMC officials to initiate an inquiry against the contractor.“I have asked the municipal commissioner to set up an inquiry against the contractor who has breached the pipeline. An FIR is a must against such elements,” said Bhatia. Water fit for consumption Meanwhile, samples of water supplied to Balu Addu were found to have traces of chlorine and fit for consumption. The samples were collected by teams of CMO, LMC and Jal Sansthan on Tuesday. Jal Sansthan GM SK Varma said, “Our team is stationed in Balu Adda and they are checking water connection in every household. Till now, every sample has been found safe.”Avinash Srivastava, executive engineer, Jal Sansthan said, “We used to check water quality regularly. Today too, we have checked water samples taken from more than 12 points. They all were found safe for drinking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/diarrhoea-wreaks-havoc-in-lucknow-s-balu-adda-50-more-hospitalised-101628610563663.html
10-08-2021||Pune||Police station in Pune offers refuge to Bangladeshi couple awaiting passage home||A room in the premises of a police station in Maharashtra's Pune city has become a temporary shelter for a Bangladeshi couple, who are desperately waiting to return to their home country and reunite with their three children, whom they left behind in search of a livelihood in India. The couple has spent over two years in jail for entering the country illegally, and the court has ordered the police to make necessary arrangements to send them back home, an official said on Tuesday. Speaking to PTI, the couple said an agent had brought them to Pune from Bangladesh in February 2019, with the promise of getting them jobs with a company. However, they got a rude shock, when the woman was asked to work in the red-light area in Budhwar Peth. "When I resisted and refused to work in the area, the agent got my husband arrested, as neither of us had a valid passport or visa. After I somehow managed to flee the place and reached the police station, I was also arrested for entering the country without valid documents," the woman recounted. A court later convicted the couple and sentenced them to two years and three months in jail. "The agent brought us here promising a job in a company. If we had known that we would get in trouble here, we would not have crossed the border without passports and visa. The agent, who had brought us here, got us arrested. But after spending over two years in jail, we now want to go back to our country and be with our children," the woman said. Inspector Rajendra Landage of Faraskhana police station said the couple, hailing from Satkhira district of Bangladesh, had been arrested and charged under relevant sections of The Foreigners Act and The Passport Act. "Following their release, the court ordered the police to make necessary arrangements to send the couple back to their country. While we are trying to get in touch with the Bangladesh embassy through the Pune police’s special branch, it has been two months since the couple was given an accommodation inside the police station," the official said. The police personnel have been taking care of the couple's needs by providing them food and other daily essentials. "On the occasion of Bakri Eid, we even gave them a set of new clothes and they celebrated the festival with our staff," Landage said, adding that the Bangladesh embassy has been apprised of the couple, but the police are yet to hear from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-station-in-pune-offers-refuge-to-bangladeshi-couple-awaiting-passage-home-101628608266125.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||There is a momo for every mood||Delhi has an unwavering love for momos and it is said that over the years, momos have picked up a character of their own. Be it summer, winter, monsoon or any other season, Delhiites love momos unconditionally. On International Momos Day, we bring you the humongous varieties of momos for every mood, tweaked from their original form. · For a get-together party, choose tandoori momos. They are non-greasy, marinated to perfection and have a lot of crunchiness. Mocktails and cocktails go well with them.· For the traditional festive mood, pick up sweet or savoury coconut momos. Coconut wards off mental fatigue and anxiety and helps to elevate mood. The oil in the coconut filling oozes out thus making the stuffing juicy and helps the other ingredients to cook well. Goes best with coconut dip.· If you are feeling gloomy, go for the creamy cheese momos. They are a powerhouse of protein, calcium and vitamin A and help beat the blues. Afghani Malai Momos can also be tried. They are luscious, creamy, drizzled and cooked with whisked curd, fresh cream, cheese, cilantro and freshly ground spices.· You want to binge watch the movies or series or you love the weather as it’s raining heavily, a bowl full of soup momos is a must try. It’s not just a comfort food but has a burst of flavour. One can also try kothey momo (half steamed and half pan-fried) or jhol momos (dunked in a bowl of jhol achar)· Choose colourful momos for happiness. There are red, yellow, green coloured momos, they are healthy and perfect to cheer you up! Prepared with broccoli, kale, spinach, arugula, okra, brussel sprouts, fenugreek leaves, beetroot and many others.· Want to try something out of the box? There’s black momos. Black is associated with dense, bitter flavours but chocolate momos or oreo momos are also a must try. Food blogger Mehak Dhawan shares the places in Delhi that are best to have momos. She says, “Butter chicken momo and biryani momos at Lodhi knights. Momo biryani is a great combination of juicy tandoori momos tossed in a flavourful rice combination. Kothe, aloo and nutella momos at Yeti Restaurant. Jhol momos at Lha Kitchen. Afghani tandoori momo at Dilli 19, Indus Flavour. Classic chicken wheat momo at Brown Sugar. Chicken kurkure momos at The Tummy Section, The Shawarma Junction. Cheese momo at Momos Point.” Inputs by chef Reetu Uday KugajiAuthor tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/there-is-a-momo-for-every-mood-101628608883687.html
10-08-2021||Pune||Pune reports 969 new Covid cases, 16 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 969 new Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths in 24 hours on Tuesday. This took the progressive count to 1.098 million of which 1.065 million have recovered, 18,976 deaths and 13,892 are active cases currently in hospitals or home isolation. Pune also saw over 28,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 584 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 333,696, and with six deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,336. Pune city reported 247 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 506,062, and reported five more deaths on the day and the toll stood at 8,910. PCMC reported 138 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 258,947 and with five more deaths reported the toll stood at 3,424. Pune also saw 28,098 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and totally 6,629,648 vaccines have been administered in total, including 4,933,165 first dose and 1,669,484 are second dose. A total of 358 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 162 are government and 196 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-969-new-covid-cases-16-deaths-101628608701652.html
10-08-2021||Pune||BHR credit society fraud: Main accused arrested from Nashik||PUNE: Sunil Zawar, the main accused in the Bhaichand Hirachand Raisoni (BHR) co-operative credit society fraud, was arrested from Nashik by Economic offences wing (EOW) officials on Tuesday. The case against 15-20 people was registered at Deccan police station in Pune in November 2020. “There are two allegations, one is that the tendering process for the BHR property that was to be liquidated was managed among the accused and the second is that the beneficiaries were asked to sign documents saying they have received their money in full while only 36% of their amount was returned to them,” said Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police (EOW) and cyber crime of Pune police. So far, 18 people have been arrested from various places in Maharashtra. Barring 2-3, rest have been granted bail, including Zawar’s son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bhr-credit-society-fraud-main-accused-arrested-from-nashik-101628608221528.html
10-08-2021||Other||Covid continues to cast a cloud on tazia makers||LUCKNOW There seems no respite for the artisans engaged in the rare trade of Tazia making in Lucknow as it’s the second consecutive year when there are no takers for tazia – the replicas of the mausoleum of Imam Hussain in Iraq that are buried during Moharram to commemorate the martyrdom of Hussain in the battle of Karbala. The over two-month-long Moharram is likely to begin from August 11. This year too, the district administration has denied permission for the processions in wake of the ongoing pandemic and the possible third wave of Covid, which has added to the woes of tazia makers. Those engaged in making tazia said the situation has further pushed this fading trade towards oblivion and left artisans hand to mouth.“We were ready with the tazias thinking that the situation will be normal by Moharram. But, following the confusion over tazia processions, people seem to be avoiding keeping tazia at home, which used to be the tradition during Moharram,” said Sarfaraz Mirza, a tazia maker at Rauza-e-Kazmain – the structure in Old City said to be a replica of the tomb of Hazrat Musa Al-Kazim and his grandson, the ninth Imam Hazrat Taqi al-Jawwad in Iraq. The compound of Rauza-e-Kazmain houses more than 90 families engaged in tazia making and also serves as a biggest ‘mandi’ of tazias of all shapes and sizes. “We generally start making tazias much before Moharram. This is team work in which the entire family gets involved,” said Begum Tahira, a traditional tazia maker.She said each family prepares around 1,500 to 2,000 tazias, depending upon the amount they want to put in. These tazias prepared from bamboo sticks, glossy paper and other decorative items range from ₹10 to ₹40,000. Faiyaz Haider, another tazia maker, said the pandemic situation has made things worse for those engaged in this trade.. Mohd Shahenshah, one of the oldest tazia makers, said Kazmain is a hub of the finest tazia makers. In Lucknow, the tazias are buried in Tal Katora Karbala, in Purana Najaf and Kala Imambada while people of Sunni faith bury it at Phool Katora in Mahanagar area of Lucknow. BOX IMPORTANCE OF TAZIA Nawab Jafar Mir Abdullah, a member of the Royal family of Awadh, said during Moharram, those of Shia sect house tazias at their respective imambaras in their houses. “Those who do not have enough space often convert a small portion of their house to keep tazia, commemorating the martyrdom of Imam Hussain in battle of Karbala,” he said. “Tazias are mostly buried on the 10th Moharram while some of the families bury it on Chehellum – the 40th day of the martyrdom of Imam Hussain while some bury it on the last day of Moharram,” added Abdullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-continues-to-cast-a-cloud-on-tazia-makers-101628606486351.html
10-08-2021||Bhopal||MP Assembly clears bill on death penalty, life term in spurious liquor cases||The Madhya Pradesh Assembly on Tuesday passed a bill prescribing the capital punishment and life imprisonment in cases related to deaths caused by consumption of spurious liquor. The bill amending the state Excise Act to enhance punishment in spurious liquor cases was presented by state finance and excise minister Jagdish Devda, and the legislation comes in the wake of death of a dozen people recently. Assembly speaker Girish Gautam declared the bill passed without any discussion amid sloganeering by Congress legislators, who were demanding the implementation of the 27 per cent quota for OBCs in jobs and education announced by the erstwhile Kamal Nath government. The Madhya Pradesh Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was proposed by the state government in the backdrop of death of at least seven people after drinking spurious liquor in Mandsaur last month. Later, five persons died following liquor consumption in Indore. Under the bill, provisions of life imprisonment and the death penalty have been made in cases related to deaths due to spurious liquor besides imposing a fine of ₹20 lakh on culprits, a Public Relations Department official said. Before, there was a provision of imprisonment up to 10 years in such cases. Earlier this month, state home minister Narottam Mishra had said that punishment has been increased, ranging from 10 years to a maximum of 14 years from the present one year to six years, in addition to fine of up to ₹10 lakh, in cases of "physical damage" caused to victims after drinking poisonous alcohol. He had said in case of seizure of spurious liquor, the jail term for culprits has also been increased between six and ten years from the present six months to a maximum of four years. The amendment in the bill also proposed that people who attack police and excise department teams while they are seizing illicit liquor will be arrested without a warrant. The scope of punishment has been increased in several other provisions as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-assembly-clears-bill-on-death-penalty-life-term-in-spurious-liquor-cases-101628605138319.html
10-08-2021||Other||President Kovind to visit Ayodhya by special train||LUCKNOW Ram Nath Kovind will become the first Indian President to visit Ayodhya when he reaches the temple town on a special train on August 29 to offers prayers at the makeshift temple at Ram Janmabhoomi. He will be accorded a warm welcome by the seers’ community at a special function proposed at the Ram Katha Park, said office bearers of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust.The President is also likely to offer prayers at the Hanuman Garhi temple and visit Kanak Bhawan. Kovind will witness the ongoing construction work of Ram Mandir, they said. The presidential train will arrive at Lucknow’s Charbagh railway station from New Delhi and thereon leave for Ayodhya. It will cover a distance of 135km in around 2 hours and 20 minutes. According to the Lucknow administration, the President will leave for Ayodhya from Charbagh railway station around 9.10am on August 29. The Presidential train is expected to reach the Ayodhya railway station around 11.30am. After reaching Ayodhya, the President will leave for Ram Janmabhoomi and offer prayers at the makeshift Ram temple. Champat Rai, general secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, is likely to accompany the President to the Ram Janmabhoomi. Rai is expected to apprise Kovind about the ongoing construction work of the temple. The President will return to Lucknow the same day. The Presidential train will leave Ayodhya around 3.50pm and is expected to reach Lucknow around 6.20pm. All railway stations between Lucknow and Ayodhya will be put on high alert. In Lucknow, the President will stay at the Raj Bhawan. This will be Kovind’s second visit to Uttar Pradesh by a Presidential train. On June 25, he had come to his home town Kanpur. THE SCHEDULEAUG 26: The President will reach Lucknow. He will be the chief guest at the ninth convocation ceremony at the Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University. AUG 28: Kovind will leave for Gorakhpur, where he will lay the foundation of Ayush University and will also inaugurate a hospital of the Gorakhnath University. He will return to Lucknow the same day. AUG 29: The President will go to Ayodhya on a special train and offer prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/president-kovind-to-visit-ayodhya-by-special-train-101628605822024.html
10-08-2021||Ranchi||Covid RT-PCR test mandatory for security personnel in Jharkhand to resume duties||Jharkhand government has announced that security personnel from paramilitary forces and police who are on leave will have to mandatorily undergo RT-PCR test as well as seven-day quarantine when they resume their duties in the state, state health Minister Banna Gupta said on Monday.Also Read | Covid-19: Kerala, Maharashtra continue to top list of worst-hit Indian states"In view of the expected third wave, security personnel from paramilitary forces and police who are on leave will have to mandatorily undergo RT-PCR test and 7-day quarantine when they return," Gupta told ANI."Precautionary measures such as testing, tracing...with regards to people travelling via train from Kerala and Maharashtra are also being taken," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid-rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-security-personnel-in-jharkhand-to-resume-duties-101628603716394.html
10-08-2021||Pune||Ayurveda proponent Balaji Tambe passes away in Pune||Pune: Dr Balaji Tambe, an Ayurveda practitioner and proponent of Yoga, died at a private hospital in Pune on Tuesday following a brief illness, family members said. He was 81. The founder of “Atmasantulana Village”, a holistic healing centre near Lonavla, Tambe had written various books on spirituality, Yoga and Ayurveda. He is survived by wife, two sons and daughters-in-law, and four granddaughters. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray condoled his death, saying with the help of Ayurveda and Yoga, he brought about change in many people’s lives. “With the demise of Dr Tambe, we have lost a true proponent of Ayurveda, Yoga. His contribution will be remembered,” said Thackeray. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari expressed grief over Tambe’s death. “Saddened to know about the demise of Ayurvedacharya Shri Balaji Tambe. He dedicated his entire life to promote and popularise Ayurveda and Yoga. Through his lucid writings and talks he showed the path of an exalted and healthy life to the people of all ages till last,” Koshyari said in his message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ayurveda-proponent-balaji-tambe-passes-away-in-pune-101628603241134.html
10-08-2021||Lucknow||Sweetshops flooded with monsoon delights||The sweet shops in the state capital are full of sawan delights these days. Seasons’ special and the most sought-after sweets are varieties of ghewar, pheni and andarsey ki goli. Sweet shops are innovating with ghewar toppings, its portion size and packaging to catch people’s attention. Ram Asrey Sweets, a 206-year-old sweet shop, has introduced blueberry, orange, coconut, mango, rose toppings to their existing flavours of chocolate, pista, paneer, badam, saffron, malai and regular. Its owner Pankaj Gupta is candid in saying that 90% of the business is of plain and malai-kesar ghewar. “We can easily use top-end dry fruits and real-gold foil and make it worth multi-thousand but all that is gimmick. I tell my customers to buy plain one, which has more shelf-life, and then add any home-made malai or rabri and garnish with dry fruit as per taste,” Gupta says. He recalls that as a kid he used to savour it with milk. Chhappan Bhog, another sweet shop in city, has come up with is innovative packaging and sizes. “Mini ghewars, due to its single-use portion size, is in huge demand. Gift hampers comprising of all three sawan special items are selling like hot cakes,” says Ravindra Gupta. Telling us about the sweets connection with tradition he adds, “The most auspicious day is Teej, when family members take the sweet to their daughter’s home. The maximum sale of these delicacies is seen on Teej and then on Raksha Bandhan,” he says. The tradition of ghewar comes from Rajasthan and Braj region as sawan or rainy season is celebrated in these otherwise dry areas, he adds. Not just sweetshops but small eateries in lanes and bylanes prepare andarsey ki goli all day long in small portion. Deepak Sahu who runs a makeshift roadside stall in Chowk exclusively during this season admits that he is doing good business. “Only from July to October, I do these sawan special delicacies and remaining months take up catering assignments or set-up chaat stall. Despite have all top sweet shops in this hub, we have customers coming in big cars. We have customers coming from Agra, Varanasi and Delhi also. Our sweets are also in big demand just like big shops, the only difference is we prepare them in refined oil where as they make in ghee,” he says. He serves two types of pheni, jaggery and sugar andarsa (big ones), andarsa goli, khoya andarsa goli, milk cake, khoya barfi and pedey while ghewar is made on orders. “Main reason for this delicacy to sell in this season is its connection with rains. The more it rains and better these delicacies taste. Pheni and ghewar is made from refined flour while andarsa is made from rice. But the natural blend of sponginess and crispness comes from the moisture,” says Utkarsh Gupta of Classic Radhey Lal Sweets. Advocate Prateek Saxena says ghewar and andarsa is his weakness. “I have controlled diabetes but when I see ghewar, I put all dieting plans aside and always take a big portion. Akhirkaar saal main sirf kuch hi dino main khane ko milti hai!” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sweetshops-flooded-with-monsoon-delights-101628603122364.html
10-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Char Dham priests to launch state wide protest against shrine board||Priest and temple committees of Uttarakhand Char Dham shrines and 47 other temples have announced a state wide agitation from August 17 to protest the alleged delay in scrapping the Char Dham Devasthanam Board (CDDB), constituted by the state government in 2019.Along with the ongoing agitation on the issue being held at shrines of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri, the priest community will also stage protests in other district headquarters and state capital Dehradun as part of the state wide agitation.The protesting group has also decided to oppose all local public representatives who favour the continuance of the Char Dham Devasthanam Board, enacted in June 2020 by the then chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat led government.“New chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami is also dilly-dallying by saying a high-powered committee will look into the situation arising after the formation of the CDDB and related legal aspects. State government is misleading us and is not serious about concerns of the priest community..,” said Krishan Kant Kothiyal, president of the Char Dham Teerth Purohit Hak-Hakookdhari Mahapanchayat, the flag-bearing organisation against the constitution of the board.Krishan Kant Kothiyal suggested that the constitution of the board was tantamount to unfair interference.“Only priests, teerth purohits, pandas and stakeholders of Char Dham shrines and forty- seven other temples are being targeted and brought under this Char Dham Devasthanam Act. Why are we being targeted when the tradition of managing the Char Dhams by local priests and stakeholders has been going on for decades,” said Kothiyal.The Mahapanchayat office-bearers also claimed they had support from Jyotish-Dwarka-Sharda Peeth Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati, who currently holds religious seat of Shankaracharya of Shri Badrinath Dham as well as Dwarka Dham.Meanwhile, at the Kedarnath shrine, agitation of teerth purohits against Devasthanam Board continued on the 58th consecutive day with over twenty local priests associated with the BJP giving up their membership of the party.Kedar Sabha president Vinod Shukla said all teerth purohits will give up anything to ensure the board gets abolished.“We were not also consulted by the government and party office bearers which shows the side-lining of the teerth purohits by the BJP, so we don’t feel right to be associated with such a party,” said Mukesh Shukla, a Teerth purohit.In April, the then chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat had announced that the state government will review the formation of the board following protests by several Hindu akhadas, seers, priests of Char Dham and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leaders looking to safeguard the interest of local priests, who have been traditionally managing these shrines.The Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Bill was passed by Uttarakhand government in December 2019 to create a governing body for the famous holy Hindu shrines of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Gangotri, known as Char Dham, and nearly 50 other temples in the state. The priests associated with these temples have protested against the board alleging it was a ploy to take over control of the shrines.A SC ruling in response to a 2020 public interest litigation challenging the constitutional validity of the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, 2019 had clarified that the ownership of the temple properties would vest in Char Dham shrines and power of the board will be confined only to the administration and management of the properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-char-dham-priests-to-launch-state-wide-protest-against-shrine-board-101628602521802.html
10-08-2021||Gurugram||DTCP pulls up 22 persons over illegal construction in Sai Colony||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Monday issued a show-cause notice to 22 people who were, directly and indirectly, involved in the construction, development and sale of 135 flats at Sai Lane in Old Gurugram. The department has directed the individuals to stop further construction and asked them to explain, by August 13, why no action should be taken and the plot restored to its original condition.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that they had received a complaint about illegal construction of flats in the revenue estate of Gurugram village, for which requisite permissions were not taken from DTCP or other agencies. “No permission has been taken concerning the change of land use and these flats have been constructed in violation of rules. We have issued a show-cause notice to 22 persons and asked them to explain the violations,” he said, adding that vacant flats will be sealed and no further construction is being allowed.Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement), said that the project comprises 19 buildings, with 135 flats already constructed. People have already started living here and the department will seek directions from its headquarters in Chandigarh for action concerning occupied flats, he said.According to DTCP officials, the Sai Lane Colony on Old Railway Road has been constructed on around 5,000 square yards. Till 2014, this plot was owned by a trust and it was sold to a private company, following which construction of flats started after 2015.Bhath said that if a satisfactory reply is not received, a final notice will be given to the violators and action will be taken as per rules. “After this matter came to notice of director, DTCP, he issued strict instructions to the enforcement department that no such constructions will be allowed in controlled areas. Construction of a large number of flats and subdivision of floors will not be allowed in any area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-pulls-up-22-persons-over-illegal-construction-in-sai-colony-101628601021651.html
10-08-2021||Bangalore||Lighthouse: RSS and its ways to influence Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu has been on the radar of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) for a while, more intensely since the passing away of influential leaders like Jayalalithaa and Karunanidhi. The National Council meeting of the RSS was held in Coimbatore for the first time in the state in the organisation’s 92-year-old history in March 2017. This meeting of Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS), the highest decision-making and policy formulation body of the RSS, was inaugurated by Mohan Bhagwat himself. Tamil Nadu and Punjab are two states which have been resisting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) strongly due to their insistence on preservation of their distinct identity. The RSS, which found it difficult to organise rallies or demonstrations in Tamil Nadu under the late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s regime, conducted its route march in Chennai after a gap of 16 years in January, 2017. Today, there are nearly 2,200 shakas operating currently in Tamil Nadu and 600 shakas have been established in the last few years alone. There are 100,000 shakas operating today throughout the country. This figure indicates an increase of nearly 100 % during the period between 2010 and 2020.Also Read | In pics: TN fishermen protest against Indian Marine Fisheries BillThere are also front organisations like Hindu Munnani (Hindu Front) and associate political parties like Hindu Mahasabha which are also quite active at the grassroots. Shakas are a regular feature in rural areas of Tamil Nadu, especially in the Coimbatore-Nilgiris zone. The RSS leadership in Tamil Nadu believes that the growth of organisation would automatically impact on the voters’ mobilisation in favour of the BJP. The RSS is responsible for coordinating sympathetic private school & college managements and select private universities with strong affiliations to the organisation in Tamil Nadu under common socio-cultural and religious grouping with a long-term strategy of political functions for the BJP. These institutions are part of the ideological and political lobbying network with the presence of powerful RSS members on board who hold high positions in the Union government and other critical national institutions, including the Reserve Bank of India.There are increasing numbers of students’ scholarships available for the organisation and party members studying in the colleges and universities. The RSS is also active at the grassroots with the networking of influential north Indian traders and business community along with the facilitation of ration cards & voter identity for the vast number of migrant labour from North in metropolis and big cities in Tamil Nadu. All these networking happen in the name of hosting nationalist and religious events in the semi-urban and urban areas as well as by organising weekend get-togethers of influential business persons/groups.The donations for temples and financing of rural religious festivals are increasingly becoming common. The RSS local units are advised to identify temples longing for financial support and organise activities to engage the local community, especially the women.One of the foremost strategies of the RSS is to take over temples and its management through penetration into the temple committees. There is a concerted campaign by the RSS and its affiliate organisations in the state against the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) of the government of Tamil Nadu.This is a twin headed policy drive for RSS and BJP in the state with mutual benefits of organisational growth and political outreach for the party. The strategy includes the politics of provocation like saffronisation of poet-philosopher Thiruvalluvar and adoption of celebrated deity Murugan as part of its propaganda machinery which are desperate acts to absorb the popular attention of the masses. Religious chants were liberally mixed with the election campaign during the Assembly Elections 2021 by the BJP, including the Prime Minister himself during his election campaigns in Tamil Nadu.There is a special focus to draw more women’s support and the RSS is directly involved in organising Lakshmi Pooja on full moon days and on special occasions through its local units in different parts of the state. Vinayaka Chathurthi and Krishna Jayanthi festivals are slowly being surrendered to the initiatives of RSS in Tamil Nadu like elsewhere in the country. Mohan Bhagwat, the RSS chief did find a cause to join the Pongal festival in Tamil Nadu in January 2021 with state assembly elections only a few months away. RSS is also trying to absorb local deities and cults as part of its new drive to thrust a dominant Hindu paradigm as well as distort the local beliefs and indigenous practices as though they have no roots. There are also reverse attempts by generating Tamil identity such as Tamil Divine Society (Tamil Deivega Sangam) initiatives as a mask to cover the saffronisation of Tamil Hindu society as well as to defy its image as a north-centric politico-religious outfit.BJP’s attempts to gain greater influence in Tamil Nadu politics through caste and communal politics will continue as core strategies in the near future. Despite the presence of a strong Dravidian movement and social bases, RSS and its affiliates will continue to engage and conduct politics in Tamil Nadu with an assurance of power at the Union remains unchallenged. Prof.Ramu Manivannan is a scholar-social activist in areas of education, human rights and sustainable development through an initiative “Multiversity”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lighthouserss-and-its-ways-to-influence-tamil-nadu-101628600421549.html
10-08-2021||Other||Odisha announces sports infra project worth ₹693.35 crore||Continuing with the policy of sports promotion, the Odisha Cabinet on Monday approved the State Sports Infrastructure Development Project worth ₹693.35 crore, under which 89 multi-purpose indoor stadiums will be built in the next 18 months.Odisha chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra said the stadiums will be used for multiple sports, including badminton, table tennis, weightlifting, and other activities such as yoga and exercise sessions. They will also be used for local sports that are popular in their respective areas. “The government has put a special focus on sports and the development of related infrastructure,” said Mohapatra, adding that the blueprint of the project has been prepared after due consultation with public representatives and sportspersons.The stadiums will be designed to withstand a wind speed of up to 200kmph so that in the event of natural calamities like flood, cyclone, the stadiums can be used as cyclone shelters. During pandemic, the stadiums under Notified Area Councils will be turned into 50-bedded hospitals, and the ones under municipal areas will turn into 100-bedded hospitals. The proposed stadiums will also be used for training purposes, meetings and conducting various examinations.Also Read | Odisha farmers stare at possible drought as 21 districts get deficient rainfallThe state government has earlier taken a number of initiatives for the promotion of sports in the state including hockey. In 2018, it signed a ₹100 crore deal with Hockey India to sponsor senior men’s and women’s hockey team for five years. To promote sports among tribals, Odisha in December 2017 organised a tribal sports meet to encourage the young tribal boys and girls to take part in various individual and team games. The meet, considered the first such meet in the country, saw the engagement of 131,003 athletes. The first-of-its-kind competition was organised at the block, district and state level across seven sports disciplines - Football, Archery, Hockey, Kho-Kho, Kabaddi, Athletics and Volleyball.Slowly coming up as a major sports centre of the country, Odisha in December 2018 successfully hosted the 2018 Hockey World Cup in Bhubaneswar. It is now building its biggest hockey stadium in Rourkela ahead of the World Cup Hockey in 2023 that would be held in Bhubaneswar’s Kalinga Stadium and Rourkela. In 2019, the state hosted FIH Men’s Series Finals and Olympic Hockey Qualifiers. Despite the pandemic last year, Odisha hosted FIH Pro League in 2020. To further strengthen the hockey ecosystem in Sundargarh, the government is planning to lay synthetic hockey turf in each of the 17 blocks of the district.In July 2017, Odisha became the talking point of international sports bodies, when the state government organised the 22nd Asian Athletics Championship hosting over 560 athletes from 41 countries which earned it praise from world athletics federation president Sebastian Coe. In 2019, it hosted the 21st Commonwealth Table Tennis Championship at the Jawaharlal Indoor Stadium in Cuttack. In 2020, it announced the sponsorship the Indian men’s and women’s national rugby team for the next three years and its facilitation of high performance training and conditioning of the players. The state is a strategic partner of the AIFF and has been shortlisted as venue for FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup and AFC Asian Women’s Cup in 2022.Just before the pandemic hit India last year, the first-ever Khelo India University Games was held in Odisha, in which 4,000 athletes from 176 universities participated in 211 events in 17 sports over a period of 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-announces-sports-infra-project-worth-rs-693-35-crore-101628599882072.html
10-08-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh tractor accident: Jawan, part of rescue team, finds mother among those killed||Four persons died when a tractor fell into a roadside pool on Monday along a stretch between Tetam and Katekalyan. DSP Anju Kumari and a team of police personnel who were close by, reached the spot as soon as they received the information. In a tragic turn of events, Vasu Kawasi (21), a resident of Tetam and a jawan of District Reserve Guard that was deployed to secure the road for the movement of DSP Kumari, received a call on his walkie-talkie that a tractor fell into a pond just a kilometre from where he was . Vasu Kawasi’s mother Phule Kawasi was one of the accident victims.The area is Maoist-dominated and the road is guarded for the movement of security forces. When DSP Kumari and the team realised the victims were from Tetam, they contacted Kawasi to join the rescue effort.Also Read | Chhattisgarh releases its first tribal atlas to mark World Tribal Day“When I got the information , I was around a kilometre away from the accident spot. They told me that the residents were from my village. I never imagined that my mother was one among them,” said Kawasi. “ When I reached the spot, I joined the rescue operation but then spotted my mother’s body, which had been taken out of the pond earlier by my fellow jawans,” said Kawasi. Kumari said that it was heartbreaking when Kawasi saw his mother’s body. “We rescued most people but his mother died in the accident,” said Kumari. Police said that the driver of the tractor was allegedly drunk and lost control of the vehicle. Four persons, identified as Kosa Madvi (35), Dasai Kawasi (16), Dinesh Markam (9) and Phule Kawasi (40), were trapped inside the vehicle and died in the accident. Police said about 30 villagers from Tetam were on their way to attend World Indigenous Day celebrations, organised by Sarva Adivasi Samaj in Katekalyan, on a tractor when the accident took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-die-in-chhattisgarh-tractor-accident-rescue-staff-s-mother-among-those-killed-101628598441940.html
10-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan offers interest-free loans to poor hit by Covid pandemic||Rajasthan government has announced a scheme to provide an interest-free loan of ₹50,000 to street vendors, cobblers, carpenters, rickshaw pullers, painters etc with the aim to assist around 5 lakh poor people hit by the Covid pandemic.The state finance department issued a circular last week regarding the scheme named Indira Gandhi Urban Credit Card Scheme- 2021 in compliance with the budget announcement made by chief minister Ashok Gehlot.The scheme aims to create employment or self-employment opportunities in the urban areas of the state. Loans under the scheme can be sanctioned till March 31, 2022 and the loan moratorium period will be 3 months and the loan repayment period will be 12 months.“The objective behind the scheme is to provide interest-free micro-credit facility without any guarantee; developing and encouraging small traders; promoting self-employment; finances for daily requirement; and reducing the impact of Covid19,” states the circular.5 lakh beneficiaries between 18-40 age group will be given loans under the scheme on a first come first serve basis, the government circular said. Those with a monthly income of ₹15,000 and more or monthly family income of ₹50,000 and more will not be eligible for the scheme.The beneficiaries will be identified at the district level on the basis of certificates issued to the vendors by the urban local bodies. The applications received at the portal will be screened and forwarded to the district collector for processing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-to-provide-interest-free-loan-to-street-vendors-cobblers-rickshaw-pullers-101628597361275.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Black and white memories from good old school days||The moment we stepped into our classroom in school, our vibrant rainbow-like life would fuse into two fundamental colours, black and white. My little daughter was bemused to learn that in our school days, a large blackboard attached to the wall was used by teachers for writing on with a white chalk. Her jaw-dropping expression was justified for Covid has confined her initial phase of learning to an internet-enabled tablet. She is accustomed to studying from tech-savvy teachers, scribbling words on a smart board with multicoloured markers and rubbing them off with gentle swipes of their hands. My daughter’s imploring entreaty, soaked in inquisitiveness to get a deeper insight into traditional teaching modules, consumed me with nostalgia. Also read: Why Canada again extended ban on direct flights from India | ExplainedBack in our school days, fetching a chalk box from the staffroom was deemed a privileged obligation and whoever was entrusted with the task, would perform it with utmost devotion, solemnity, and sincerity. Flaunting the prized possession in hand, the student would strut back into the classroom with squared shoulders and keep it safe on the ledge of the blackboard beside a duster. That small piece of chalk was our teachers’ chief weapon, using which they would stroke their knowledge all over that big black canvas, whitening it up radiantly with their priceless lessons, life-changing thoughts, and righteous morals. Their prudently frugal approach in consuming resources at hand with minimum wastage often came to the fore. The rising cadence of the squeak of the tapering chalk, grating heavily on our auditory nerves, would fail to persuade them into replacing that minuscule old and worn-out piece with a new one until the very last vestige of it was put to use. Rubbing off the blackboard clean with a duster was another task every student yearned wistfully to undertake with the covert aim to earn brownie points from their teachers. One heart-warming memory that exercised a coveted edge over many was our queer manner of wishing our mathematics teacher on her birthday. Once when she entered the classroom, she was shocked to note that no one stood up to greet her. Hardly did she spell out her annoyance to our impudence than the whole classroom shouted in a chorus to look back and sprung a pleasant surprise on her. Spinning around, she felt overwhelmed at the scintillating sight of the blackboard chalked all over with birthday wishes and testimonies beautified with drawings of balloons, buntings, fairy lights, tinsels, and streamers. Reading out each message under her breath with a smile on her lips, and to acknowledge our pure gesture, she decided not to rub the blackboard off and oddly went for oral revision through her period. Having struggled to sustain the sweeping change, that complementary pair of hard black board and soft white chalk swapped colours by turning, as if by magic, into a white board and a black marker, while their third buddy, the duster, bravely survived the test of time. The smooth flow of the soft tip of that new marker on a finely polished whiteboard permanently silenced the crude rasping scrape of the chalk but contrastingly our peer group, driven by emotional adherence, often silently wished within to have continued with the old school of thought. The inseparable duo has merrily slipped into the folklore of yore, however even years later my heart palpably feels a sense of close even-handed attachment with both as their mere mention rekindles a host of beautiful memories and priceless pleasures of our unforgettable school days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-and-white-memories-from-good-old-school-days-101628597001438.html
10-08-2021||Kolkata||Three killed in accident in Bengal’s Murshidabad||Three people, who were on their way to get Covid vaccines, died in Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Tuesday morning when their scooter was hit by a speeding truck on National Highway 34, police said. The three were identified as Indrajit Saha, 30, a plumber, his wife Supriya, 29, and her father, Gopal Dutta, 55. They were pronounced dead on arrival at the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital. Also Read | Amit Shah behind attacks on TMC leaders in Tripura: MamataPolice said the three were on their way to a hospital in Berhampore town for their second dose. The truck was seized from the spot but the driver managed to escape, an officer from Berhampore police station said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/three-killed-in-accident-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-101628596521394.html
10-08-2021||Dehradun||Earthquake measuring 3.8 on Richter scale hits Uttarakhand’s capital Dehradun||An earthquake measuring 3.8 on the Richter scale was felt in Uttarakhand’s Dehradun district on Tuesday afternoon, according to the National Center for Seismology, which monitors earthquake activity in the country on a 24X7 basis. The earthquake struck at 1.42 pm and was located 35 km north of Dehradun and 10 km beneath the surface of the earth, the center said. No loss of life or property has been reported so far.The Himalayas being the youngest mountain chain (around 50 million years old) in the world, which is still rising (around 5 mm per year) due to the Indian plate folding under the Tibetan plate, Uttarakhand reports high seismic activity, with most areas falling under Seismic Zones 4 and 5. Earlier this year, on January 8, an earthquake measuring 3.3 on the Richter scale was reported in Bageshwar district. On December 1, 2020, an earthquake hit Haridwar after a gap of 40 years. Experts pointed out that it was caused due to stress release in the Himalayan Frontal Fault, located in the area. In February 2020, Bageshwar was hit by an earthquake measuring 4.7 on the Richter scale. On December 8, 2019 Joshimath area was hit by an earthquake measuring 3.2 on the Richter scale. On November 12, 2019, an earthquake measuring 4.5 was felt in Pithoragarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/earthquake-measuring-3-8-on-richter-scale-hits-uttarakhand-s-capital-dehradun-101628595564576.html
10-08-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Parking the problem in a no-parking zone in Pune is not the answer||We don’t have to be nostalgic for the good ol’ times before Covid. They are back again, with a vengeance. Our streets are again full of parked vehicles leaving little space to walk, cycle or even drive. Parking is a problem in Pune – too many parked vehicles spilling onto footpaths and carriageways, and no prioritisation of spaces for people with disabilities, emergency needs and public transport. Instead of clamouring for more parking, we need to stop and ask for managing existing parking spaces well. The issue A vehicle typically needs three different parking spaces – at the owner’s place, at the workplace, and other places a person might drive to. The increase in private vehicles implies that parking-space demand also increases. However, city- and street-space is precious and limited. It meets many other needs – mobility of people using environment-friendly travel modes, street vendors’ livelihoods, vegetation, and civic services like waste management. PMC is implementing excellent street designs, such as in Aundh and on JM road. But, the beautiful public space created for walking and cycling is quickly taken over by parked vehicles. We cannot first build huge parking lots and then try to manage parking space. There will never be enough space and money to build parking lots. Parking lots occupy land that could have been playgrounds and gardens, woefully in short supply. Pune’s progressive parking policy A progressive approach is already detailed out in Pune’s Parking Policy, approved by the PMC General Body in 2016, but not yet implemented. It recognises parking as an essential component of the transportation system that if not managed properly, can create a public nuisance. The policy has three crucial components. The first is designation of three parking zones based on the current demand for parking: A – high parking demand; B - medium parking demand; and C - low parking demand. The second component is fixing parking charges in these zones, and the third is creation and management of parking facilities with a view to reducing parking demand and dependence on personal motor vehicles.A basic fee for different vehicle types and parking duration is recommended. Over and above the base rate, dynamic pricing is suggested. Short-duration parking is to be cheaper. Commodities are cheaper if you buy in bulk, but good parking management works the other way. You should pay at a higher rate if you are parking longer – this encourages you to vacate your slot quickly. People who need to park their vehicle for the whole day, say when they drive to work, could use cheaper parking which may be a short walk from their offices. Where off-street parking is available, on-street parking should be significantly more expensive, to encourage people to use parking structures. The idea is that folks who want to use personal motor vehicles must pay the full value of the parking space they occupy. In turn, revenue from parking fees, expected to be several crores of rupees a year, must be used to improve public transport facilities. Special parking plans are supposed to be created for hospitals, railway stations, bus stations and tourism sites. Areas with extensive freight movement may also need special plans. PMPML buses, ambulances, school buses are exempt from parking charges. Autorickshaw stands are already designated in some areas, and the Parking Policy supports the demarcation of such stands where needed. And yes, since Pune was and aims to be a city of cycles, if you pedal, you may park for free! A Pune parking app is expected to be developed to let drivers know about parking availability and charges. Apart from these provisions, attention is needed for managing parking needs of residents in localities with older houses, apartments, and informal settlements without their own parking spaces. In addition, delivery vans, autos, and cabs may also need special space allocation. Further, in the Development Control Rules, presently, residential and commercial buildings are required to provide a certain minimum amount of parking – as if the city confesses that it cannot provide good public transport, so people should fend for themselves and hence, will need ample parking. Progressive cities around the world put an upper limit on parking space and use precious urban space for better facilities for walking, cycling and public transport. Urgent, systematic implementation needed With rising congestion, poor air quality, concerns about road safety and difficulty of parking when really needed in an emergency, the public is facing the consequence of non-implementation of the parking policy. In the core city and many segments of the arterial roads, there is a crying need to prioritise de-congestion, mobility, and efficient use of road space. However, if a limited stretch of road is designated as a no-parking zone, the adjoining areas become clogged with parking. Instead of a piecemeal approach, the city authorities must initiate a structured approach of area-based parking management plans with stakeholders’ participation as recommended in the parking policy. These plans should include user communication mechanisms, strengthening public transport and non-motorised transport facilities as required, clear definition of parking and no-parking spaces, parking charges, and enforcement. What can you do? The first thing is to recognise that “parking is not a right”. Those who drive should try to locate off-street parking and be prepared to pay the fee. As citizens and neighbourhood groups, we need to demand that our elected representatives implement the already-approved, forward-looking Pune Parking Policy. We should participate in processes to organise and regulate parking spaces. Alongside, we should assess public transport and demand for better services, universal accessibility, and last-mile connectivity, where ever needed. The sooner we, individually and as a city, limit the occupation of our streets with parked vehicles and shift to walking, cycling, and public transport, the better it is for our collective good. Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-parking-the-problem-in-a-no-parking-zone-in-pune-is-not-the-answer-101628594481634.html
10-08-2021||Patna||Each of 839 Tika Express in Bihar vaccinating 171 persons daily: Govt||Bihar government told Patna high court on Tuesday that it was running 121 ‘Tika Express’ or Covid vaccination centers on wheels in urban areas of the state for the benefit of the elderly and those living in remote and inaccessible areas, and similarly, 718 ‘Tika Express’ were catering to the beneficiaries in distant and inaccessible rural areas.Additional chief secretary, department of health, Pratyaya Amrit told the court that the vehicles deployed for ‘Tika Express’ have been outsourced for rural areas and those for urban areas have been hired by development agencies like CARE (Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere) and UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund).“Approximately 200 doses are provided to each Tika Express and on an average, 171 persons are vaccinated each day by each Tika Express which has one vaccinator and one verifier,” Pratyaya Amrit informed the court.As per the affidavit, contractual or regular ANMs (auxiliary nursing midwife) have been deputed as vaccinators on these mobile centres after training. It adds that while the verifiers for urban areas have been hired from CARE, those for rural areas are from the government.“The government is running three 24X7 vaccination centres in Patna and 9 am to 9 pm centres in all the districts,” the state government told the court.The senior government officer also informed the court about the steps taken to fill up vacancies in the health sector. “The counselling for filling up 2,590 posts of general medical officers and 3,706 vacant positions of specialist doctors has been completed and the appointment process is likely to be completed soon. Under the National Health Mission (NHM), 171 doctors have been recently appointed, appointment of 163 nursing tutors is being completed and the counselling for filling up 4,102 positions of general nursing and midwifery (GNM)is going on and likely to be completed soon,” he said.The affidavit said that the state government has 1,198 ambulances to provide services across the state, while 250 more basic life support ambulances are in the pipeline to augment the referral transport capacity.Besides, the government officer also provided details of various facilities and status of manpower, vaccination and basic infrastructure in Buxar, Aurangabad, Jamui and Bhagalpur as was sought by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/each-of-839-tika-express-in-bihar-vaccinating-171-persons-daily-govt-tells-court-101628594301328.html
10-08-2021||Gurugram||Haryana govt discontinues Covid-19 night curfew till August 23||The Haryana government on Monday announced the night curfew imposed in the state has been discontinued for a fortnight till August 23, a day after easing restrictions on timings imposed on commercial establishments following the drop in the number of new Covid-19 cases. The state government also extended the lockdown-like restrictions with the relaxations till August 23.“Night curfew imposed in the state (from 11.00pm to 05.00am) has been discontinued with immediate effect till August 23,” the order released by the Haryana state disaster management authority said. The order also said, “that gatherings of invitees at Dist/Sub-Divisional level Independence Day functions in the state shall not be of more than 1,000 persons subject to strict observance of COVID norms."The Haryana government on Sunday announced a set of new relaxations under which curbs on timing on the opening of shops, bars, restaurants and malls were lifted. Before this, shops were allowed to operate between 9am to 8pm and malls between 10am to 8pm, while restaurants and bars were allowed to operate between 10am to 11pm. The Haryana government, however, asked owners of these establishments to operate with 50 per cent of their capacity. These new guidelines came into force Monday morning onwards. The order passed on Sunday night also said that Haryana will still follow the ‘no mask-no service’ rule in all commercial establishments.Haryana has been observing lockdown-like restrictions under the Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana. The government said that if it feels necessary it may impose an order prohibiting gatherings under Section 144 of the CrPC.Haryana’s Covid-19 tally has risen to 770,079 with 19 fresh cases on Sunday. The death toll rose to 9,649 with one Covid-19 related fatality, according to data shared in the health bulletin. Haryana has logged 759,751 recoveries so far and its recovery rate stands at 98.66 per cent. The state has 679 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-govt-discontinues-covid-19-night-curfew-till-august-23-101628528806760.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Beyond Tokyo: Making India the best sporting nation||We must congratulate our national superheroes for winning seven Olympic medals, including a gold, two silver and four bronze, in the Tokyo Olympics. It’s a much to be celebrated achievement because some lost glory has been restored after decades and the first gold medal in track and field events has been won. Also, for the first time our women’s hockey team reached the semi-finals, giving a lot of hope for the future. The euphoria across the nation is as expected and it’s heartening to see governments announcing cash rewards and incentives to the medal winners, sending the right message to budding sportspersons to pursue sports as a career. It’s also time to do some serious thinking and analyse our sports achievements vis-a-vis other countries. Also read: The goal was to inspire women, we created a legacy: Women’s hockey coach MarijneOur overall rank in the Tokyo Olympics medal tally is 48. We are a nation of 139 crore with more than 30 crore youth of Olympic participation age, which is almost equal to the population of the US, which has won the highest number of gold medals (39) and the total number of medals (113) in the Tokyo Olympics. Even smaller countries, a few smaller than some of our states, have performed better by winning more medals. Targets for next three Olympics Before the euphoria dies down and we get back to our routines, there is a need to formulate policies and create structures for ensuring that India emerges as the best sporting nation in the next few Olympics. As an immediate measure, we can fix some targets based on our present performance and capabilities The following, to my mind can be achievable targets for the next three Olympics.1. In the 2024 Olympics at Paris, we may ensure that all those sportspersons who had qualified this time should win medals in their respective events, especially those who had reached the last 16 of their competitions, as they are well exposed to the requirement of winning. We may add as many more sports to qualify for the next games so that our participation increases. 2. For the 2028 Olympics in Los Angeles, our target should be to ensure participation in almost all events that are organised in the Olympics along with ensuring the continuity of the principle of winning medals for all previously participated events.3.In the 2032 Olympics in Brisbane, we should target top positions as the highest gold medals and total medals winning nation.Systems and structuresThe next important question is how these targets can be achieved and what kind of systems and structures should be created. My suggestions are the following: 1.There should be centres of excellence for each major sport or a group of similar games. For example, A centre of excellence each for hockey, football, volleyball and handball, for athletics (running events), throws (javelin, hammer, shotput), wrestling and boxing besides water sports. These can be 15 to 20 and each major Indian state should have one such centre. 2. These centres of excellence should have players at three age levels, namely below 15 years, below 19 years and seniors. Each age group should have 10 times the number of players in a playing team with a minimum of 100 players in each age group to begin with. This number can subsequently be increased according to available talent for that sport. 3.These centres should be residential for full-time training and must provide all facilities to the selected players such as quality board and lodging, diet, even pocket money, so that the players are devoted to their game.4.These centres should provide facilities for study according to the aspiration and eligibility of the players so that they are not deprived of basic educational qualifications. The teaching hours must be flexible to accommodate the sports timings of the players.5.The selection of the players should be done by giving sufficient notice for trials to be held at each district headquarters by the teams of highly qualified achievers of the game and coaches in a transparent and objective manner.6.The centres should have state-of-the-art infrastructure that can be created jointly by the central and state governments. One option can be that the infrastructure is created by the central government and its maintenance and running cost can be met by the state governments or vice-versa. Corporates may also be roped in to sponsor some of these centres.7.The centres should be managed by top sportspersons and coaches supported by competent professional management experts along with nutrition experts, physiology experts and sports medicine and fitness professionals.Like Odisha’s initiative for hockey, Punjab can establish a centre for shooting and archery, Haryana for wrestling, Kerala for water sports and Rajasthan for equestrian events. Let the achievements of our sports heroes in the Olympics become a launching pad for our country to become the number one sporting nation of the world. rs_bawa1@rediffmail.com The writer is pro vice-chancellor of Chandigarh University, Gharuan. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/beyond-tokyo-making-india-the-best-sporting-nation-101628590822090.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||QR code-based passes to be issued at 65 Mumbai local stations: Mayor||Ahead of resuming local train services for fully vaccinated commuters in Mumbai from August 15, arrangements will be made to issue Quick Response (QR) code-based passes to them at 65 railway stations, city mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Tuesday. These stations come under the ambit of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) jurisdiction.Speaking to reporters, Pednekar said, “Citizens should not indulge in altercations as long queues are likely at ticket counters. People should cooperate and follow the Covid-19 norms.”Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced that the Mumbai suburban train services will resume for passengers, who are fully vaccinated with both doses of Covid-19 vaccines. However, there needs to be a gap of 14 days after taking the second dose before a person can avail of the service.Thackeray, however, cautioned people against lowering their guard as the coronavirus crisis is “yet not over.” Taking to Twitter, he said, “I know that people are running out of patience due to the lockdown curbs…We are trying to strike a balance between keeping the virus in check and opening up financial activities.”Also Read | Maharashtra allows fully vaccinated to use Mumbai locals from August 15Mumbai local train services were until now only open to government employees and essential service staffers. It has been closed to the general public since April this year owing to the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, only after resuming services on February 1 after almost a year of remaining off the tracks.The new arrangement for fully vaccinated people requires them to first register themselves on a mobile application currently being developed by the state government for them to travel on the Mumbai suburban train network. This registration facility will be available offline at the offices of civic bodies and railways.The QR code-based passes will be issued on the application after passengers register and submit their vaccination certificates.When asked about Ganeshotsav Kruti Samiti’s demand of allowing fully vaccinated citizens to participate in Ganpati immersion processions, Pednekar told media persons that Thackeray will take a decision on the matter after a discussion with the state Covid-19 task force.A senior member of the task force, Dr Shashank Joshi on Monday said that if the daily coronavirus caseload of Maharashtra continues to witness a downward trend, the state government may consider easing more restrictions starting September 1.Also Read | May ease more curbs from Sept 1 if Covid cases fall: Maha task force memberMaharashtra on Tuesday recorded 4,505 fresh cases as against Monday’s 5,508. The daily figure of people who succumbed to the virus also saw a dip to 68 from 151 the preceding day. Apart from these, the total number of people who recovered from the virus also improved yesterday with 7,568 new recoveries in comparison to Monday’s 4,895.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/qr-code-based-passes-to-be-issued-at-65-mumbai-local-stations-mayor-101628589021596.html
10-08-2021||Jaipur||CM Gehlot should step out to help the flood-hit in Rajasthan: Raje||Hitting out at the Rajasthan government over the prevailing flood situation in many parts of the state, former CM Vasundhara Raje said chief minister Ashok Gehlot should come out (of his residence) and take care of the public. “In this hour of crisis, instead of knowing the plight of the public, the chief minister and the ministers are engaged in review through video conferencing,” she said, after her aerial survey of flood affected Baran district on Monday. Raje said PM Narendra Modi visited at the time of Cyclone Taukte; Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also visited the flood affected area and brought relief to the people. The CM should also come out and take care of the people. Expressing her concern, she demanded that the chief minister visited flood-hit Jhalawar, Baran and other districts in Kota division. She said 100% of crops in the Hadauti region were damaged but the divisional commission gave a report of 30% damage. “Dozens of people died, hundreds of houses collapsed, thousands of animals died and went missing but the state government and administration remained ineffective,” she said. Reacting to Raje’s allegations, Congress spokesperson RC Choudhary said the chief minister is closely monitoring the flood situation, and ensuring that timely relief reaches people. Such allegations by the Opposition during a disaster are unfortunate. “This is a natural calamity and everyone should stand and work together to bring relief to people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/cm-gehlot-should-step-out-to-help-the-flood-hit-in-rajasthan-raje-101628589440707.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Thorough probe needed in oxygen related deaths in 2nd wave: Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said a thorough probe was needed into deaths related to oxygen shortage during the last Covid-19 wave in the Capital, and asserted that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government shall soon share details in this regard with the Centre.“We faced a major oxygen crisis during the last wave of Covid-19. As a government, we are taking all steps to ensure that it doesn’t happen again in case of potential future waves. But we appeal to the Central government to take the issue seriously too. I have come across news reports today that said that the Central government has claimed to have sought response on oxygen deaths from 13 states so far of which only one has accepted deaths caused by oxygen shortage. We have also learnt that states were given time till August 13 to respond to the Centre’s queries on the issue. However, we (Delhi government) have received no letter from the Central government with any query on oxygen deaths,” said Sisodia in a video press briefing that was live streamed.At its peak, Delhi recorded around 28,300 cases in a day and a positivity rate exceeding 36% on April 20 and 22 respectively. Around that time, at least 31 Covid patients are believed to have died due to oxygen shortage in two hospitals. Several deaths linked to oxygen shortage were reported from other states too around this time. However, a political blame game ensued between the Centre and the Opposition when the Union government told Parliament that no state had identified oxygen shortage as the cause of deaths caused by the second wave of the pandemic.“We accept that the oxygen crisis happened during the last wave of the pandemic. And without any probe it is difficult to say if that has caused deaths. I am going deeper into whether it has or has not. I am stressing on the importance of thorough investigation into cases of deaths that can be related to oxygen shortage,” Sisodia said.On May 4, the Delhi government told Delhi high court that an expert committee could not ascertain whether 21 deaths at the capital’s Jaipur Golden Hospital had happened because of oxygen shortage. The leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that runs the Central government later cited this submission to accuse the Opposition of hypocrisy on the matter of oxygen-related deaths.The AAP government in Delhi criticised the Central government saying it did not let the city government probe such matters by setting up a larger expert committee. Health minister Satyandar Jain had pointed out that the submission in court on deaths in Jaipur Golden hospital was based on “preliminary” findings and the matter needed more investigation.Sisodia on Tuesday added that all states should be given enough time to “investigate” such matters. “Without that, how can they draw conclusions. Though we have not been asked yet, we have decided to share such details with the central government very soon. And I appeal that it should be made public along with details of other states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-says-thorough-probe-needed-in-oxygen-related-deaths-in-2nd-wave-101628589380751.html
10-08-2021||Patna||Patna’s Hardinge Park to have new rail terminal||Decks have been cleared for the construction of a new rail terminal at Hardinge Park, known as the old bus stand, barely 900 metres west from the Patna junction. The railways will build four platforms on the Hardinge Park side of Patna junction to facilitate smooth running of mainline-electric-multiple-unit (MEMU) trains.The railways plans to build two pairs of double-discharge (DD) platform. A DD platform has platforms on both its flanks. The railways proposes to terminate and originate all its local passenger trains from the DD platforms.This would de-congest traffic on Patna Junction, said a railway official.A proposal in this regard has been sent to the Railway Board, New Delhi, for final approval. The official said that the Hardinge Park side would be an ideal place for DD platforms.A senior official the railways said there was a proposal to build three DD platforms and one multi-purpose platform on the Hardinge Park side at a cost of several crores of rupees.Under the new plan being finalised, all trains originating from north Bihar, Patliputra and Digha stations will terminate at the Hardinge Park side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnas-hardinge-park-to-have-new-rail-terminal-101628584280416.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi rape-murder case: Arvind Kejriwal approves ₹10L assistance for girl’s family||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday approved ₹10 lakh assistance for the family of the nine-year-old Dalit girl, who was allegedly raped and murdered at a crematorium near the Delhi cantonment on August 1.“Delhi CM approves the compensation of ₹10 lakh to the family of minor Delhi cantt (cantonment) victim,” said an official in the chief minister’s office, who did not wish to be named.Also Read | Pegasus row: Have faith in the system, says SC to petitionersOn August 4, Kejriwal visited the girl’s residence, promised ₹10 lakh assistance, and directed a magisterial probe into the matter. He assured the family the government will engage top lawyers for the case.Several Dalit groups have been protesting against rape and murder for over a week now. They have been demanding justice for the girl and her family. Four people, including a priest at the crematorium, have been arrested over the alleged rape and murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-rape-murder-case-kejriwal-approves-rs-10l-assistance-for-girl-s-family-101628582900119.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Man arrested for making inflammatory remarks against Congress leader Alka Lamba||A man from Delhi’s Uttam Nagar has been arrested for making inflammatory and derogatory remarks against Congress leader Alka Lamba and Muslims. The 30-year- old man, whom police identified as Vikas Sehrawat alias Mallik Sehrawat was out on bail three months ago after his arrest by the Ghaziabad police in a similar offence. In March, he had delivered similar speeches in a viral video from outside the Dasna temple. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said that on Monday, Alka Lamba filed a complaint over email against the man. Lamba also tagged Delhi Police in a post on Twitter while attaching the video in which Sehrawat is heard delivering a hate speech. “Our police team succeeded in tracing the accused in the area of police station Bindapur and he was taken in police custody from his house. Now, he has been arrested and his interrogation is going on,” said DCP Thakur. In his videos, Sehrawat describes himself as a Hindu leader and a nationalist. Earlier, he threatened to kill journalist Ravish Tiwari and Aam Aadmi Party MLA Amanatullah Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-arrested-for-making-inflammatory-remarks-against-congress-leader-alka-lamba-101628580320084.html
10-08-2021||Patna||Man arrested from Patna for helping students cheat in competitive exams||Patna police on Monday night arrested a man for his alleged involvement in helping students cheat in national level examinations. A case was lodged with SK Puri police station in this connection.Ritesh Kumar was arrested from Anandpuri area following a tip-off. A raid at Kumar’s residence revealed documents, electronic devices and other equipment that were confiscated. Kumar’s brother, Anshu Singh, managed to esape, said the police. Also Read | Nitish reiterates demand for caste census, says it’s in interest of all“Police are interrogating Kumar to ascertain his brother’s role and also if there are other people involved in the crime,” he added.City SP (central) Rahul A said, “The police arrested Ritesh Kumar... We are interrogating him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-arrested-from-patna-for-helping-students-cheat-in-competitive-exams-101628575399643.html
10-08-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh releases its first tribal atlas to mark World Tribal Day||The Chhattisgarh government, on Monday, released the first tribal atlas of the state, which provides in-depth information on key demographic indicators, including population, literacy and sex ratio along with the culture of adivasis. “After Odisha and Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh is the third state to prepare such an atlas for its tribal population,” a press release issued by the directorate of public relations stated. In a programme to mark the International Day of the World’s Indigenous People, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel released the atlas that has been prepared by the Tribal Research and Training Institute (TRTI) in both Hindi and English virtually from his official residence. Also Read | Uproar in MP assembly; Opposition demands restoration of tribal day holidayAccording to officials, that atlas provides all information on key demographic indicators like tribe-wise population, literacy, sex ratio, child population, work participation rate, health facilities and education. The atlas also has details on tribal culture such as tribal dances, festivals, religious beliefs, art craft, language, dialects and tourism of different tribes residing in the state. Physical distribution of these tribes and district-wise habitat profiling in the atlas give a clear picture about their different ecological settings, commissioner of state’s Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste development department Shammi Abidi said. A short description about the 42 tribes residing in the state, along with their authentic history, makes the atlas varied and rich, she added. The atlas data has been prepared on the basis of information gleaned from Census 2011, surveys of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs) done by TRTI and state’s Scheduled Tribe (ST) and Scheduled Caste (SC) development department’s information. Tribals comprise 32% of Chhattisgarh’s population, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-releases-its-first-tribal-atlas-to-mark-world-tribal-day-101628574559543.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Six arrested over alleged anti-Muslim sloganeering at Jantar Mantar||Six people, including former Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, have been arrested in connection with a case registered after a video was circulated on social media in which some people were purportedly heard raising anti-Muslim slogans in New Delhi on Sunday, police said on Tuesday. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said those arrested, apart from Upadhyay, are Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma, and Vinit Bajpai.The slogans were raised purportedly at an event organised on Sunday to demand the abolition of colonial-era laws. The video was circulated after the event organised by Upadhyay under the banner of Bharat Jodo Andolan (unite India movement) at Jantar Mantar. Police said permission was not granted for the event.Upadhyay on Monday claimed no inflammatory slogans were raised at the event.Also Read | Covid-19: Delhi govt issues SOPs for partial re-opening of schoolsHT tried to contact Upadhyay on Tuesday for his comments, but his mobile phone was switched off.Early on Tuesday, Hindu Sena chief Vishnu Gupta issued a statement saying police raided his residence around 1.30am and he was “illegally arrested on false charges for Jantar Mantar controversial remarks by some unknown activists”. Police denied Gupta was arrested in the case.On Monday, the police said they registered a case against unknown persons under Indian Penal Code’s (IPC) Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). Relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act were also included in the case because Covid-19 guidelines such as social distancing and wearing masks were violated during the event, the police said.Upadhyay on Monday said that he has filed a written police complaint seeking an investigation to verify the authenticity of the video and strict action against the people for spreading a “religious frenzy”.Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, said the protest was held to demand abolishing 222 British era laws. “We have seen the video but have no idea who they are. The police should take strict action against the persons who raised the slogans,” she said on Monday.The sloganeering provoked outrage. In a tweet, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said: “What a disgrace to read of an unauthorised BJP demonstration where communal slogans & hate speech were voiced…Expecting exemplary action from @DelhiPolice – only stern action & condign punishment will prevent such misbehaviour recurring.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/six-detained-over-alleged-anti-muslim-sloganeering-at-jantar-mantar-101628573359855.html
10-08-2021||Other||Kerala: Catholic church observes anniversary of MTP Act as black day||The Catholic church is observing Tuesday, the 50th anniversary of the implementation of Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act in India, as a black day. The family commission of the Kerala Catholic Bishops Conference (KCBC), an apex body of Christians, asked believers to observe the day as “Day of Protection of Life”, ring bells in churches and conduct special prayers for terminated foetuses. The KCBC has asked all 32 dioceses in the state to protest against the MTP Act and uphold pro-life activities. The MTP Act was introduced in the country in 1971, allowing termination of certain pregnancies by registered medical practitioners--as long as the length of pregnancy did not exceed 20 weeks. If so, special permission is required from a competent court. The church has been opposing all types of abortions saying human life must be respected and protected from the moment of conception. In 2020, Pope Francis had exhorted believers to observe 2020-21 as the Year of Family. Also Read | ‘Procreate more, win big rewards’: Kerala Catholic commission sends out message to believersThe church was in the news two weeks ago after it announced a series of incentives for followers to have more children as part of the Year of the Family celebrations. It said the move was also aimed to check a fall in the Catholic population in the state, but it comes at a time when the country is debating whether population needs to be controlled by dis-incentivising couples with more than two children. Many states have introduced special laws to curb population explosion. But the KCBC justified its decision and expressed grave concern over the low birth rate among believers. It said in 1950, Christians formed 24.6% of Kerala’s population and in 2011, the number fell to 17.2%. It fears that in the next census there will be a dip of 2 to 4%. It said the community has the lowest birth rate (among communities in the country) of 1.8% and if the situation continued like this, the very existence of the community will be in danger. Kerala is the largest Christian-populated state in the country, followed by Nagaland. “It is not logical to consider population reduction as the only solution for social crises arising out of improper developmental policies,” said the KCBC in a statement, citing China’s recent stance. It said countries such as China are forced to rethink its policies due to ill-effects of rampant population control. It also justified the decision announced by many dioceses like Pala, Idukki and Thamarasserry to reward families who have four or more children. Pastoral letters were read in many churches in the state two weeks ago reminding believers about their “family duty and obligation”. “Drastic fall in birth is a serious concern. There are many policies to support families that receive more children. We have to formulate more such plans to encourage family life,” said Father Paul Simenthy, secretary of the KCBC family commission. Pala diocese in Kottayam was the first, last week, to announce ₹1500 monthly assistance for couples married after the year 2000, who have four or more children. The church also offered free education and medical care for siblings and parents, relying on its control of several educational institutions and hospitals in the state. Later many dioceses followed suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-catholic-church-observes-anniversary-of-mtp-act-as-black-day-101628572699589.html
10-08-2021||Other||ATM installed at Shillong hospital where its inventor was born nearly a century ago||The historic Dr H. Gordon Roberts Hospital in Shillong, which will cross a century next year, got an automated teller machine (ATM) installed at its premises this Saturday--thanks to the State Bank of India. But authorities of both the bank and the hospital forgot about John Adrian Shepherd Barron, the inventor of the ATM machine, who was born in the same hospital almost a century ago. Inaugurating the ATM, Ramesh RS, the Chief General Manager (Northeast Circle) of SBI told the small gathering, “On behalf of SBI, we are really delighted to have this opportunity to have an ATM in this iconic hospital, which has completed almost 100 by its hospital for the yeomen service to the people of Meghalaya and neighbouring states since time immemorial and now, especially amidst the greatest health challenge mankind has ever had to face; the life consuming Covid-19 pandemic.The small but meaningful gathering was attended by the bank’s Deputy General Manager Amit Kumar and other officers while the hospital was represented by its Medical Superintendent, Dr Roken Nongrum.John Adrian Shepherd Barron was born at the Gordon Robert Hospital in Shillong on June 23, 1925; about three years after the hospital came into existence. His father was Wilfred Shepherd Barron, the Chief Engineer of the Chittagong Port Commissionerate and his mother was Dorothy, an Olympic tennis player and a Wimbledon Women’s Doubles champion.The Shillong-born British innovator had joined De La Rue a British company headquartered in Basingstoke, England that manufactures polymer and security printed products including banknotes and tax stamps in the 1950s as a management trainee and swiftly rose the ranks to become the Managing Director in record time.Galvanised by chocolate vending machines, he conceived what at that point of time surely sounded ridiculous, the idea of cash vending machines as well. Interestingly, the ‘Eureka’ bolt of creating a self-service machine dispensing cash came to him whilst lying in the bath.The first De La Rue Automatic Cash System (DACS) machine, called Barclaycash, was installed outside the Enfield branch of Barclays Bank in north London in June 1967. And, the first person to withdraw cash at the DACS machine was actor Reg Varney, a celebrity resident of Enfield. Now, life without ATMs is almost impossible for all kinds of financial transactions across the globe.Though there is no record of the British innovator leaving Shillong, it is apparent that the family left after his Scottish father took over as the Chief Engineer of the Port of London Authority.John Adrian Shepherd Barron was educated at Stowe School, the University of Edinburgh and Trinity College, Cambridge. During World War II, he was commissioned into the Airborne Forces, serving with the 159th Parachute Light Regiment.The innovator of ATM died on May 15, 2010 after a brief illness at the age of 84 at the Raigmore Hospital at Inverness in Scotland.His son, Nicholas Shepherd-Barron is professor of algebraic geometry at the King’s College London. EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/atm-installed-at-shillong-hospital-where-its-inventor-was-born-nearly-a-century-ago-101628570780025.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||PIL urges Bombay high court to scrap PG-NEET||A Mumbai-based media consultant has moved the Bombay high court seeking orders to scrap the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) for postgraduate (PG) medical courses and to allow all willing medical graduates to undertake PG courses so that an adequate number of specialists are available for the public at large.In his public interest litigation, petitioner Ravi Nair stated that the Covid-19 pandemic has exposed the shortcomings of the medical field and the fact that there is a huge deficit in the number of doctors not only in rural India, but also in metropolises.The petitioner said he discussed the issue with a number of experts from legal, education and medical fields and concluded that doubling of PG medical seats would be easy if PG-NEET was scrapped and all willing MBBS graduates allowed to freely take PG medical courses.Also Read | Amid complaints from MD, MS students, NMC issues advisory for medical collegesNair has claimed that one of the ideas he conceptualised as an alternative to PG-NEET has been accepted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the civic body has decided to start six mini medical colleges and considerably enhance the number of medical seats. His petition added that if the concept was replicated in 720 districts across the country,it can easily triple existing medical seats available nationwide and also reach close to a healthy doctor: patients ratio of 1:1000, as contemplated by the World Health Organixation.The 56-year-old media consultant has claimed that the PG-NEET has not only restricted the number of PG medical seats to 43,000 - half of 86,000 MBBS seats, but the shortage of seats has also given rise to the problem of corruption in the admission process and demand and payment of huge capitation fees.“The petitioner is of the opinion that if all 86,000 students who have completed MBBS, having studied for 5-and-a-half years, to move forward and do post graduation in the discipline of their choice, in the same medical college as in-house students, it would provide a large contingent of medical professionals,” stated the petition.It added that the petitioner has “after a lot of study through discussion with cross sections of persons, private and government, connected to medical education, has come to the conclusion that there is no need for NEET-PG to be conducted for a doctor who had graduated, licensed and registered as a doctor with the Medical Council of India.”“They are declared doctors and have the right to study higher and practice and yet they are forced by the system to go back to the next step of NEET where they began their carriers 5-and-half years ago,” Nair’s petition added.The petition added that under- graduate medical courses are available at 542 medical colleges across the nation, but PG medical courses are available only in 64 colleges.Nair has, therefore, urged the high court to either direct the central government to discontinue PG-NEET or double the intake of PG medical courses.The PIL will be heard by the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pil-urges-bombay-high-court-to-scrap-pgneet-101628568739203.html
10-08-2021||Other||Helicopter service soon to connect Rajasthan’s Udaipur-Nathdwara to Kumbalgarh||Rajasthan is set to start a helicopter service connecting Udaipur-Nathdwara, and Kumbalgarh. The service will be launched by August 22. The Rajsamand district administration will start the four-seater helicopter service with the help of Skyline Services of Udaipur. Rajsamand district collector Arvind Poswal said the service will initially be a trial of 20 days. Booking of three destinations will cost one approximately ₹3,000-4,000. The service can also be availed between two destinations. Also Read | MP, Rajasthan battle floods; monsoon loses steamPoswal said the helicopter services will be available from Udaipur-Nathdwara to Kumbhalgarh and return. “If an individual wants to visit Nathdwara then he can halt there for 2-3 hours; the chopper will pick them in the second round towards Kumbhalgarh. One can purchase, one way, two way, or one destination ticket,” he said. The helicopter will take off from outside Udaipur airport, land near Hotel Maurtinandan in Nathdwara; and in Kumbalgarh, opposite Mount Valley hotel. An official familiar with the development said the only way from Udaipur to Nathdwara or Kumbhalgarh is by road which takes about 90 minutes. With the helicopter service, it will take 28 minutes from Udaipur to Kumbhalgarh; and 20 minutes to Nathdhara, instead of 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/helicopter-service-soon-to-connect-rajasthan-s-udaipur-nathdwara-to-kumbalgarh-101628568319444.html
10-08-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi to launch Ujjwala 2.0 virtually from UP’s Mahoba today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Ujjwala 2.0 scheme virtually from the Mahoba district of the Bundelkhand region in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday.A government spokesman said 10 beneficiaries of the scheme would be given certificates online. Modi will also interact with five beneficiaries who benefitted from the cooking gas connection scheme in its first phase.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri will be present on the occasion.Also Read | Farmers to decide India’s future: PM Modi“Ujjwala 2.0 would benefit such poor who were left out of the first phase of Ujjwala scheme,” the spokesman said. Modi launched the first phase of the scheme in Ballia in Uttar Pradesh in 2016.The spokesman said there were over 14.7 million beneficiaries of the scheme in Uttar Pradesh.Adityanath and Puri will also inaugurate a bio-fuel exhibition in Mahoba on Tuesday on the occasion of World Biofuel Day. They will also inaugurate a compressed biogas plant in Muzaffarnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-to-launch-ujjwala-2-0-virtually-from-up-s-mahoba-today-101628564358818.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Dry spell likely for next few days, says IMD||From Tuesday, Delhi is likely to witness “break monsoon” conditions for the next seven to ten days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said. Met officials said that as the monsoon trough has shifted to the north of Delhi, the Capital along with some other neighbouring states might experience a dry spell for the next few days. “Monsoon entering a break phase means that there is no intense system that can result in rainfall. It happens when the monsoon trough moves to another region. From August 10, the trough is likely to move north to the Himalayan foothills. During this period, parts of northwest and central India will mostly be dry till the trough again starts moving towards the south. Good rainfall spells may occur once the monsoon recedes, covering for the first half,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Also Read | Widespread rain likely over NE states, Uttarakhand, parts of UP for 5 daysThe break may last till around August 19, said experts. This is a usual phenomenon that is observed almost every other year. “In the absence of rainfall, the temperatures are likely to rise and may be above the season’s normal,” Srivastava added.He added that though Delhi receives most of its monsoon rain in August, showers in the second half may be able to cover for the entire month. The city usually gets 247mm rain in August.Forecasters said that break monsoon conditions are not uncommon in northwest India around August, when the region has already received a round of rain spell, before monsoon showers resume again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-dry-spell-likely-for-next-few-days-says-imd-101628563638985.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt waives custody charges on impounded vehicles till September 30||The Delhi government on Monday waived custody charges on vehicles impounded by the transport department and the traffic police, which could not be bailed out by their owners. The relaxation has been given till September 30.The Delhi government said that the decision has been taken in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. "As per an advisory issued by the government of India on June 17, parking/custody charges imposed under Rule 16 of Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Rules 2019 are waived off," the order said.According to transport department officials, as quoted by news agency PTI, many vehicle owners could not get their impounded vehicles released due to Covid and lockdown which led to accumulated custody charges. The officials claimed that one vehicle had a custody charge of ₹2 lakh, PTI reported.The Union ministry of road transport and highways, in its June order, suggested extending the validity of various kinds of motor vehicle documents like driving licenses, fitness test and registration certificates, that could not be renewed due to lockdown, up to September 30.Vehicles impounded for any violations of the Motor Vehicles Act by enforcement teams of the Transport Department or the Delhi Traffic Police are slapped with custody charges if their owners do not get them released within 48 hours. Depending upon the type of vehicle, custody charges ranging from ₹200 to ₹1,500 are imposed per day.The transport department keeps hundreds of such vehicles at impounding pits located in Burari, Dwarka and Sarai Kale Khan.The Delhi government had ordered similar relaxation last year too. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said that the relaxation was given due to Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-waives-custody-charges-on-impounded-vehicles-till-september-30-101628561534560.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Over 3 million fully vaccinated people to use Mumbai locals, says BMC commissioner||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said that around 3 million (30 lakh) people, who have received both doses of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will use local trains from August 15. In an address to state on Sunday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that fully vaccinated members of public will be allowed to travel on Mumbai’s local trains from the said date.Also Read | Fully vaccinated people can travel on local trains from August 15: Thackeray“We have around 1.9 million people in Mumbai who are fully vaccinated, and 5.6 million who have received their first dose. However, local trains also run in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), in areas under which, 1.2 million people are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. So, around 3 million people will be allowed to board local trains since they are fully vaccinated,” BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Monday, a day after Thackeray’s announcement.Also Read | Maharashtra: MVA, BJP bicker over decision of allowing vaccinated passengers in localsChahal further said that after the chief minister’s announcement, the BMC held a meeting with the Railways, adding that a meeting took place last Thursday as well. “We are trying to arrange photo passes for these 3 million people. These will have their vaccination certificate, as well as their photos, which will help them board the Mumbai locals,” he said, adding that the BMC aims to fully vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries in the city by November 15 or 30.The BMC commissioner described the vaccination certificate as an “immunity certificate.” He also cautioned the people that in future, the certificate might be required if malls reopen and, until the pandemic ends, people won’t be allowed to board local trains without their vaccination certificates.A person is considered to be “fully vaccinated” against the viral disease 15 days after being administered the second vaccine dose.On Sunday, Mumbai logged 218 fresh Covid-19 infections and three related fatalities, down from 305 cases and nine deaths on August 8. The city’s cumulative infection tally stands at 737,715, including 15,954 deaths, according to government data.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-over-3-million-fully-vaccinated-people-to-use-local-trains-says-bmc-commissioner-101628560883981.html
10-08-2021||Lucknow||Allowing 3rd child after 2 daughters among suggestions for UP draft bill||Allowing a third child to a couple with two daughters, or with a differently abled child were among the 8,500 suggestions the Uttar Pradesh Law Commission has received on its proposed population control bill. The panel has divided the suggestions into 53 categories.The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill aims to bring down the gross fertility rate in the state by limiting government benefits for couples with more than two children, and offering incentives to those who have a maximum of two children.The bill was uploaded on the law panel’s website on July 9, inviting suggestions from the public till July 19.State Law Commission chairman Justice AN Mittal, a former judge of the Allahabad high court who is preparing the draft for the bill, said: “The State Law Commission has received wide-ranging suggestions. People have suggested permission for a third child to parents who have two daughters.” The draft, he added, has been completed and the panel would soon call on chief minister Yogi Adityanath to hand over the report.Experts criticised the suggestion. “Such suggestions must not be accepted. It promotes a mindset that prefers sons over daughters,” said Madhu Garg, vice president, UP, the All India Democratic Women’s Association.Justice Mittal said other suggestions received by the panel include imposition of a fine on couples who opt for a third child and banning them from contesting parliamentary and assembly elections. “Some have also suggested permission for a third child to couples whose children are physically challenged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allowing-3rd-child-after-2-daughters-among-suggestions-for-up-draft-bill-101628553873060.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||In 2 yrs, Maharashtra farmers ineligible for PM-Kisan aid granted ₹358.99 cr||Nearly 571,745 farmers who were not eligible for aid under the PM-Kisan (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi ) cash transfer scheme were given ₹358.99 crore over the last two years. The state government has begun the process of recovering the amount paid to them.The scheme involves the transfer of ₹6,000 a year to poor farmers in three instalments. Thus far, eight instalments have been paid and the ninth will be credited on August 9. A scrutiny of the beneficiaries has found a large number of beneficiaries in the state. Of the 571, 745, 262,960 are income tax payees, who were outed after the tax department linked the list of IT payees with the list of beneficiaries. The remaining 308,785 were termed ineligible for other reasons.The information has been obtained under RTI by Hindustan Times from the state agriculture commissionerate.On July 22, HT reported how 4.2 million ineligible farmers have received ₹2,900 crore under the scheme across the country. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told Parliament that the largest numbers of such ineligible beneficiaries were in Assam, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Bihar.“The Maharashtra government requested the Union government to link IT payees with the list of beneficiaries in this scheme. The Centre informed us about the ineligible beneficiaries after doing this... Only one person from a home of the couple and their minor children can avail the benefit, but in some cases both more than one member of the family applied,” said state agriculture commissioner Dheeraj Kumar. “We have asked district collectors to expedite the recovery of the money wrongly credited to farmers,” he added.There may be some challenges on that front, another official familiar with the matter said.“We recently filed an FIR in Nanded after we found that 30,000 fake accounts of beneficiaries were created by creating fake user IDs...”Vinay Kumar Awate, deputy commissioner, Agriculture, said, “The number of the ineligible beneficiaries may rise as we have also found some beneficiaries from other states too...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-2-yrs-maharashtra-farmers-ineligible-for-pm-kisan-aid-granted-358-99-cr-101628553519360.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Active Covid cases in Delhi below 500||The number of active cases in the national capital fell below 500 on Monday, for the first time since the early days of the pandemic in March and April last year, as the city continued its progress in a remarkable turnaround after the punishing fourth wave of infections between April and May this year.Delhi added 39 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, even as 76 more people recovered from the infection, showed data from the state’s daily health bulletin. As a result, the city’s active case count fell from 536 on Sunday to 498.The city added one more death of the infection.The test positivity rate also fell below 0.10% once again, after two days, to 0.08%, showed data from the state government bulletin.Positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when a dropping positivity rate is coupled with decreasing new cases, it indicates that the spread of the virus is reducing within the community.As a rule of thumb, tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days: a rising positivity rate generally means cases will rise in the immediate future, while a dropping positivity rate tends to precede a drop in new infections.In Delhi, this number has been below 5% for 81 days, and below 1% for 71 days, according to the state government’s health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/active-covid-cases-in-delhi-below-500-101628549954234.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Foot soldiers in rain: Going beyond the call of duty||Standing neck deep in water, wearing rain boots and helping to not just clear the traffic but also to go beyond their call of duty to help citizens sail through the water, quite literally, are the cops in Delhi-NCR. The past few weeks have seen the Capital getting lashed by the rain, followed by waterlogging reported at several key junctions. And images of police personnel, stepping up to aid those stuck, have surfaced online. From facilitating the traffic flow to lifting trees that fell due to strong wind and rain and even filing potholes, the men in khaki are doing it all. Filling potholes in Gurugram, which were created due to heavy rain, Shahid Ahmed, in charge of traffic control in Gurugram Police, says, “It rained heavily the second time here, and there was a lot of water around. There have been many instances when my colleagues and me filled up the potholes that are dangerous in this weather and can cause serious accidents. There was this one instance when a manhole got jammed, and we tried to take out the mud or garbage so that water could drain out. All inspectors and constables, deputed at different points, are our foot soldiers in this time of rains, as saving people’s lives is of prime importance to us. And we ensure that our officials are well equipped with raincoats and umbrellas.”Ritesh Kumar, SHO, Greater Kailash, who recently pitched in to lift a fallen tree on a day when it rained excessively in the city, says, “There are no limitations when it comes to duty. Saamne koi situation ho, toh usko solve karna humara maksad rehta hai. Kaise kisi ko problem se bahar nikalna hain, yehi koshish hoti hai. Pehle human life save karna sabse zaroori hai. When I was lifting the tree, some people saw me and came forward to help. They, too did their service to humanity by helping us. Yehi sabse badi duty hai!”And then there’s sub inspector Joginder Singh, from Gurugram Police, who helped dug out water stuck at a man hole. He says, “Mana yeh duty se hatke hai, par zaruri tha kyunki pani nikal hi nahin raha tha IFFCO Chowk pe. Pura din pareshan rahenge sab yeh soch ke kiya. I was helped by two other policeman. Public ki seva karna toh duty hai humari, aur aage bhi karenge!”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/foot-soldiers-in-rain-going-beyond-the-call-of-duty-101628545638383.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Biryani's new buddy||Biryani is traditionally identified with chicken or mutton. But a quiet revolution seems to be unfolding in the street biryani civilisation, and scores of stalls have sprouted up in the entire Delhi region selling vegetable biryani. Such biryani has rice cooked with lots of peas and gobhi (cauliflower) or any other veggies, and often with one more additional element that gives the dish an illusion, a texture one might say, of “non-veg.” It’s soybean. This is the primary ingredient of almost every veg biryani on the pavement carts. Actually, soybeans embedded in oil-covered glistening rice do look like (undercooked) meat balls.Now, at least one cart in Gurugram is offering yet another radical twist to the biryani. It’s veg biryani served with poori.This afternoon Tika Lal’s modest cart is parked beside the road in Gurugram’s Roshanpura. It has two large pans—one is filled with the soybean biryani, the other is filled with potato curry. “Earlier I was only selling aloo subzi with poori, but after I noticed how popular veg biryani had become in so many stalls, I started serving it too.”Mr Lal introduced the rice dish some time last year, after the lifting of the first coronavirus-triggered lockdown. He supposed that his customers would either pick aloo-poori or biryani for their meal. He hadn’t expected that they would make their own combo by mixing biryani with poori. “That’s what most of my daily customers ask for,” he says. His regulars include lots of rickshaw pullers. “May be because biryani has more vegetables than aloo subzi (which is just aloo and tamatar and gravy)… and who doesn’t like poori?!”It is possible that those of us whose daily life involves intensive physical exertion will take it very naturally to this double consumption of carbs—but then very many of us have both roti-chawal in our meals. Even so, for others, this odd coupling might be slightly disorienting. Whatever, the poori is addictive and biryani is super yummy, speckled not only with soybeans but also with paneer. The vendor sells two poori for ₹10 (you cannot pay for just one) and he charges biryani by measuring it in a weighing scale—200 gm for ₹20. The rice is topped with red chutney and fried green chillies, only on request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-biryani-s-new-buddy-101628545046861.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Glam for cam: Men queue up at salons||Gone are the days when only women would wait for lockdown curbs to be lifted, so that they could resume parlour visits. Now, as the pandemic continues, it’s the men who are making a beeline for grooming sessions. Salon owners in Delhi-NCR claim that they are, of late, receiving more requests from men than women. And many are making bookings for themselves to ensure that they are ever ready for the official video calls that have become a crucial part of the #WorkFromHome scenario. So, from hair colour to haircut and mani-pedi to facials, men in the city are opting for everything required to look their best, as the focus is now on the face!“I was very particular about being well dressed for work till the time we were working from office. And honestly, it was much easy because I would dress well and could look sharp. Par ab toh sab ghar par hain, and if I’m not well groomed then it looks so shabby on the camera because only the face is visible during all the meetings with clients,” says Kripneet Singh, a computer engineer, adding that he has been regularly visits salons during the pandemic, “whenever lockdown eases”. “I want to look presentable in the virtual meetings so have started going for face clean-up and beard grooming more often than earlier. After all it’s all about making an impression to stay afloat at the work front,” adds the south Delhi resident. Confirming that Singh isn’t the only one on this bandwagon, Shikha Ahuja, owner of a parlour in Shalimar Bagh, says, “We’ve certainly been getting more bookings from men than women, and this is for various services and not any one in particular. Men need haircuts regularly and many are coming in to get their hair coloured as well. Besides, facials are something that seem to have gained popularity. And most of the men tend to come after their office hours, to avail these services.”Jaya Ahuja, the owner of a salon in Punjabi Bagh, says that men are more particular about what they want. “I’ve noticed that more than women, men know about the hair style they want. Most of them come and brief the hair dresser even before they wear their apron, and start giving detailed instructions of what they want,” she says.But not everyone is opting for salon visits for the need to look presentable on the video screen. Ajay Malviya, a Delhiite who works for a US-based firm, shares how going to a salon for regular grooming sessions helps him relax. “It’s certainly therapeutic to go to a salon. Life hasn’t been easy during the pandemic and I go at least once a week to get my beard coloured, and at least once a fortnight I opt for a pedicure and manicure, which is super relaxing.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/glam-for-cam-men-queue-up-at-salons-101628543417824.html
10-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana records just 1 new Covid case in 24 hrs||With just one new Covid-19 case in the last 24 hours, the district on Monday saw its lowest daily count since the outbreak last year.While no death was reported, the total number of cases in Ludhiana so far has reached 87,350 while the deaths stand at 2,095.The lowest count comes three days after 13 cases were reported on August 6. Earlier, as many as two cases were reported on three separate days of the month which was the previous lowest single-day figure. There are 54 active cases in the district at present.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said residents should not become complacent and continue to take precautions such as washing hands, maintaining social distancing, as the threat of a third wave still looms large||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-records-just-1-new-covid-case-in-24-hrs-101628539877453.html
10-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC starts cleaning area around martyr Sukhdev’s ancestral house||A day after Hindustan Times highlighted the dilapidated condition of martyr Sukhdev Thapar’s ancestral house, Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) woke up from its slumber and started cleaning the area around the 150-year-old building in Naughara Mohalla near Chaura Bazar area on Monday.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also met with members of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust, who have been pressing for repair and beautification of the martyr’s house.Chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh had announced a grant of ₹1 crore for the repair of the house three years ago during Independence Day celebrations, but so far nothing has been done. On Monday, the Trust members themselves started to revamp the porch, which does not fall under the ambit of the archaeology department.Trust president Ashok Thapar, who is also a relative of the martyr, said, “The house is 150 years old and requires frequent repairs, but the authorities have turned a blind eye to it. Garbage has also accumulated around the area, and we have been demanding an approach road to the house for long. The MC commissioner met with us today and assured to expedite the work. We hope the project won’t be delayed further.”When contacted, MC commissioner Sabharwal said the building branch has been directed to expedite the process of conducting a social impact assessment, which is required before the land is acquired for constructing an approach road. “The beautification work will commence only after the land is acquired,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-starts-cleaning-area-around-martyr-sukhdev-s-ancestral-house-101628539697746.html
10-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana tween girl fakes kidnapping to meet friend||A Class-6 student of a government school in Ludhiana faked her kidnapping to meet a friend, sending her parents and local police in a tizzy on Monday. The tween had convinced a classmate, who lives in her neighbourhood in Bhamian Kalan, to inform her parents that around five men had kidnapped her outside the school. The girl’s parents started searching for her and reached her classmate’s house after she didn’t return from school on Monday afternoon. The classmate told them the cooked-up story, following which the parents informed police about the kidnapping. The Jamalpur police swung into action immediately. Upon questioning, the classmate told them the truth and the girl was traced to her friend’s house in Happy Colony and handed over to her parents within three hours.Inspector Kulwant Singh, station house officer, Jamalpur, said during the investigation they found that in the morning, the girls had made a plan on a WhatsApp group to meet. He added that exposure to mobile phones at a very young age due to the lockdown has distracted the children. He appealed to the parents to keep a tab on their children’s activities on social networking sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-tween-girl-fakes-kidnapping-to-meet-friend-101628539157836.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||2022 Punjab polls: Charuni joins hands with traders to form political outfit, to be CM face||After facing suspension from Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) for floating the idea that farmer unions should fight elections, Haryana-based farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni on Monday joined hands with business fraternity in Ludhiana where a political party was launched and he was projected as the CM face for the upcoming Punjab elections. Announcing formation of ‘Bhartiya Arthik Party (BAP)’ for the ‘Mission Punjab 2022’, around 62 trade leaders from across the country converged in Ludhiana for the event. Tarun Jain Bawa, president of Bahadur-Ke Textile and Knitwear Association, was appointed as the national president of the new political front. Bawa said they will contest all the 117 seats in Punjab and Charuni will the CM face of the party. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) had on July 14 suspended Charuni for seven days for suggesting that Punjab farmer outfits involved in the stir against the Centre’s farm laws should contest the assembly polls next year. The BKU leader, however, didn’t change his stand and reiterated his political aspirations during his recent tours of different Punjab regions. “Following Charuni’s repeated statements that morcha members should launch mission Punjab and contest polls, we have decided to suspend him for a week,” senior SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal had told reporters. Rajewal said Charuni had been telling the Punjab farmers unions leaders to take a political plunge. “We had been telling him that we have no such programme. The SKM was not formed to contest polls but to lead the agitation,” said Rajewal, adding that during the suspension period, Charuni will not be allowed to share the morcha stage and make any statement on behalf of the umbrella body. Charuni, in a video message, had said his suspension was wrong and it won’t change his stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2022-punjab-polls-charuni-joins-hands-with-traders-to-form-political-outfit-to-be-cm-face-101628538377583.html
10-08-2021||Other||Staff union cries foul over Ludhiana MC secy’s abrupt transfer||Suspecting that municipal corporation (MC) secretary Jasdev Sekhon’s abrupt transfer to Abohar is a ‘punishment posting’ as the orders came on the heels of him allegedly locking horns with a close aide of a senior Congress leader over imposition of the plastic carry bag ban, the Municipal Employees’ Sangharsh Committee and a few NGOs have demanded the roll back of the orders. The MC employees’ union and members of a few NGOs gathered outside the mayor’s camp office near the Rose Garden on Monday, seeking revocation of the orders but had to return as the mayor was not available. With officers continued to remain tight-lipped, it is being widely speculated that the orders have been passed at the behest of the plastic industry, which wields significant political influence. Highly-placed sources, on condition of anonymity, said that Sekhon was leading a special team formed by the mayor to ensure that the blanket ban on plastic bags was being adhered to when the aide of a high-ranking Congress leader took offence to the raids conducted in the Jawahar Nagar camp area on August 3. The team had reportedly confiscated around 10 quintals of banned plastic carry bags and imposed challans on five shopkeepers in the area, which amounted to ₹1 lakh. After Sekhon refused to soften his stand, matters allegedly came to a head, with the leader’s aide also butting heads with mayor Balkar Sandhu. Later, the Congress leader reportedly took up the matter at the state-level. Foul play is suspected as the transfer orders dated July 30 (before the drive against plastic bags was launched on August 2), was formally received by the MC through email on August 6, after a week’s delay. Also, no more drives against plastic bags were carried out after August 3. Sekhon, who is part of the MC committee, also left for Prayagraj on official tour to study solid waste management on August 5, a day before the transfer orders were received. The team is expected to return on Tuesday. On August 4, representatives of the plastic industry also met the mayor seeking permission to sell 50-micron plastic bags. MC employees’ union chairperson Ashwani Sahota said the employees had gathered to learn the reason behind the transfer. “If it is a routine transfer, we will not object to it. However, if the orders were passed under the plastic industry’s pressure, they must be rolled back.” The union will meet on Tuesday to chalk out an action plan. NGO members have also been garnering support for Sekhon on social media networks alleging that he was transferred for doing his duty. Sikh for Sikhs, NGO member, Gursahib Singh, said, “ Sekhon should not be punished for doing the right thing.” Sekhon, and the mayor were unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/staff-union-cries-foul-over-ludhiana-mc-secy-s-abrupt-transfer-101628538258624.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab on alert as drone-dropped tiffin bomb, grenades found in Amritsar||A high alert was sounded in Punjab after police claimed to have busted a major terror plot with the recovery of a tiffin bomb, five hand grenades and 100 pistol cartridges near a drain at Daleke village in Lopoke sub-division of Amritsar district late Sunday. The ammunition was dropped by a drone that crossed over to the Indian territory from Pakistan, said director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta citing preliminary investigations. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, DGP Gupta said following inputs of drone movement in the area, a combing operation was conducted at Daleke, Bhikhiwind and Shohra villages on Sunday night. “During the search operation, the police found a bag containing a children’s lunch box and other ammunition packed meticulously in foam pouches at Daleke village. A team of National Security Guards (NSG) was called to the spot and it confirmed the presence of 2-3 kg RDX in the tiffin box fabricated into a bomb. Further investigation is on,” the DGP said. “In the past also, such consignments were dropped in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir from across the border. A probe is on to ascertain the exact target of the consignment. The police are already on toes ahead of Independence Day,” said Gupta.He cautioned the people to remain alert all the time and immediately inform the police if they find any suspicious object lying abandoned or unclaimed anywhere, especially in trains, buses and restaurants. “People can inform the police on the 112 or 181 helplines,” he added. A case was registered under sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act and sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Act at the Lopoke police station.Probe points to Pak linkThe police probe in the case has pointed to direct involvement of groups in Pakistan as the tiffin box that was fabricated is sold online on a Karachi -based e-commerce firm hiffy.com. The firm’s contact number +92 2135 899657 is mentioned in the tiffin box. The tiffin brand Bright is widely sold in the neighbouring country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-on-alert-as-drone-dropped-tiffin-bomb-grenades-found-in-amritsar-101628538257443.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Amritsar village sarpanch notices drone movement, BSF caught unawares||The Border Security Force (BSF) manning the International Border in Punjab did not notice any flying object with its high-technology equipment even as a former sarpanch of a border village claimed to have detected the movement of a drone on Saturday night. Amritsar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gulneet Singh Khurana said, “On Sunday morning, we got a call from a resident of Bachiwind village informing that he heard the sound of a flying object at around 12:30 am. He also heard another sound of something falling on the ground.” During the search operation, another villager informed us of a suspicious bag lying near a drain at Daleke village, which is 4.5 km from the border, the SSP added. “It is likely that someone kept the bag there or dropped it near the drain in haste out of fear of getting noticed,” he added. Bachiwind sarpanch Resham Singh said, “Our former sarpanch Gurbhej Singh was working in his fields with some other people on Saturday night. He claimed of having heard the sound of a flying object. He also followed the drone for a few hundred meters. Except Gurbhej and his workers, no one noticed the drone movement in our village. On Sunday, around 200 police personnel searched the village, but didn’t find anything. They found the ammunition at a neighboring village.”Attari DSP Gurpartap Singh Sahota said, “The BSF was not aware of the drone movement. They didn’t open any fire in the area on Saturday night.” Punjab BSF public relations officer (PRO) Kuldeep Singh didn’t respond to repeated phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/examritsar-village-sarpanch-notices-drone-movement-bsf-caught-unawares-101628538197957.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat pilferage: Verification of stock in all state godowns begins||The vigilance wing of food and civil supplies department, Punjab, has started physical verification of wheat stock in godowns across the state two days after at least 87,164 quintal grain was found missing from facilities managed by Pungrain at Jadiala Guru. Official sources said district deputy director and district food and civil supplies controller-level officers are likely to face the music for being negligent in physical verification of stock and giving false clearances. “The records are being examined and action will be taken accordingly,” said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. After the shortage was detected at Jandiala Guru, three officials — the food department placed district food and supplies officer (DFSO) Amarinder Singh, assistant food and supplies officer (AFSO) Arshdeep Singh and inspector Jasdev Singh — were placed under suspension. Two senior officers — district food and civil supplies controller (DFSC) Raj Rishi Mehra and his predecessor Jasjit Kaur — have been issued a charge sheet to explain negligence in duty. Also, the case was referred to state vigilance department for further investigation. “This is a case of sheer negligence that stock verification was not done properly. If negligence is proved, termination from service is a possibility,” said a top food department officer, requesting anonymity. “We have started verification of stock at other places. Currently, our teams are at Nangli godown in Amritsar district,” said an officer of the department’s vigilance wing. “The report is expected tomorrow,” he added. At least 5 lakh wheat bags weighing around 25,000 tonne are stored in the state. Stock verification at 145 ration depots In Jadiala Guru, vigilance teams have been sent to verify stocks at 145 ration depots that distribute wheat under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalian Yojana (PMGKY). As per department records, around 60,000 quintals of wheat was dispatched for distribution from these godowns. At least 1.45 lakh wheat bags weighing 50kg each (87,164 quintal) and 56,000 bags of 30kg each (16,800 quintal) were missing from Jandiala Guru godowns. The total value of the missing grain is pegged at around ₹20 crore. Pungrain insepctor in Dubai Pungrain’s inspector posted at Jandiana Guru Jasdev Singh, who was the in-charge of the godowns, is absconding since the pilferage came to light. He is believed to be in Dubai, sources said. “He is in touch with the food department over email and claims he has not done any wrong and has all documents,” said an officer, who was not willing to be named. He added that the absconding officer has told the department that he’s suffering from coronavirus and was in quarantine. The case has been handed over to the state police and an FIR registered. Efforts are on to bring back and arrest Jasdev Singh, said the officer mentioned above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-pilferage-verification-of-stock-in-all-state-godowns-begins-101628537958257.html
10-08-2021||Other||Now, Ludhiana women can lodge police complaints at Saanjh Kendras||Women wanting to lodge complaints against dowry harassment, domestic violence etc no longer need to visit police stations as they can do the same at Saanjh Kendras in the city.Ludhiana currently has 14 Saanjh Kendras spread out across the city, which facilitate people in getting police verification of tenants/labourers, passport verification, police clearance certificates, permission to hold gatherings and use loudspeakers, besides lodging missing persons’ complaints. Now, cases of crimes against women, elderly persons and children can also be lodged here.A team of two women police officers have been deputed at all Saanjh Kendras in the city for helping women lodge their complaints. Police stations with no Saanjh Kendras under their jurisdiction can set up a separate room in the area to take such complaints. The initiative has been started under Punjab Police Mahila Mittar (PPMM) scheme.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, headquarters) Ashwini Gotyal, who is the nodal officer, said, “Sometimes, women hesitate to visit police stations, fearing that male officers may taunt or trouble them. Due to this fear, they keep suffering in silence and are not able to lodge complaints against their perpetrators. So, we have decided to station 65 women cops at Saanjh Kendras across the city so women can approach them for help there.”The ADCP said the scheme was initiated a week ago and they have already started getting complaints from some women in distress. In most cases, women officers counsel the complainants and try to resolve the issue but if it cannot be resolved, the matter is moved to police stations and wings, the ADCP revealed.She added that women can also dial 112 or 181 for police assistance. Cases of thefts, snatchings and other crimes can also be lodged online, through an email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-ludhiana-women-can-lodge-police-complaints-at-saanjh-kendras-101628537957295.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Viral fever related to monsoon worrying residents of Kalyan-Dombivli||More than 7,000 cases of non-Covid fever were recorded by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KMDC) in June and July. The civic officials have claimed that the fever cases not related to Covid are also treated as Covid cases at the initial stage and antigen tests are carried out compulsorily at the hospitals and health centres.Although the number of daily Covid cases is under control now at less than 100, the KDMC health department is also focusing on tackling the non-Covid fever and other illnesses like dengue, malaria and typhoid in its vicinity.In June, a total of 2,617 fever cases were recorded while in July, it was 5,000, as per the KDMC health department.“There is an increased number of cases of fever and other illnesses during monsoon that we need to take care of. With the Covid cases reduced, we are still making it mandatory to get Covid tests done, though most test negative,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.“This is the period when most dengue and malaria cases are reported due to the changing weather. Our staff are doing the survey, providing medicines and also carrying out fogging at breeding spots across the city,” added Panpatil. As of now, the civic body has recorded 10 cases of dengue and 39 cases of malaria between January and July. No deaths related to these diseases have been recorded till date.The spread of the viral fever among the residents of Kalyan-Dombivli has also led to anxiety among them figuring out if the fever was due to Covid-19 infection or not.“Last week, my entire family suffered from viral fever and the symptoms were similar to Covid-19 infection. We carried out the antigen tests that were negative. However, most of us were anxious when we suffered from fever, cough and body ache,” said Sapna Kothari, 45, a resident of Khadakpada in Kalyan (W).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/viral-fever-related-to-monsoon-worrying-residents-of-kalyandombivli-101628537897663.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 31 fresh Covid-19 cases, 1 death||Thirty-one fresh Covid cases were reported in Punjab on Monday, taking the overall number of infections to 5,99,514, while one death pushed the fatality figure to 16,320, according to a medical bulletin of the state government. The lone death was reported from Patiala. The overall toll includes three deaths which were not reported earlier, as per the bulletin. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 441. Barnala and Pathankot reported four cases each, followed by three each from Amritsar, Faridkot and Patiala. With 43 recoveries from the infection, the number of recoveries reached 5,82,753, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-31-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death-101628537839415.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjit Sagar Dam chopper crash: 7 days on, no clue of missing pilots||It has been a week since an Army Aviation Corps helicopter with two pilots had crashed into Ranjit Sagar Dam lake in Basohli area of Kathua district and with each passing day, chances of the survival of those on board — a lieutenant colonel and a captain — turn more grim. Another team of sea divers of the Indian Navy has been requisitioned from Kerala to join the search operations. The team is likely to reach in a day or two. Kathua senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ramesh Chander Kotwal said, “It’s a technical issue. Deep-water search can’t be mechanical. Though searches are still being conducted by army and navy since day one, there has been no recovery so far.” Kotwal further said, “The water is not clear...it’s all muddy. Naval divers don’t share much technical details but they are using technology, equipment and divers. The lake bottom is muddy and full of silt, boulders, caves besides an uneven surface.” “It is a difficult place to search for a chopper or bodies. The searches are on since August 3 morning. There are 10 to 12 divers at the job to trace the wreckage,” he said. The Kathua police chief said the main wreckage of the chopper hasn’t been located yet. “Once they do it, tracing bodies would be much easier,” he added. Kotwal said the place where the chopper had presumably sunk is around 200ft to 250ft deep. “Releasing water will not make much difference because it is a big lake spread over a vast area. And then, we get water for irrigation and electricity from it,” he added. Officials said multiple factors such as depth of lake, silt, wooden logs, boulders, muddy water, cavities besides poor visibility are adding to the difficulty. A senior army officer said, “On Sunday, additional equipment was taken to the site of crash. The authorities have now sought another team of naval divers from Kerala. They are likely to reach the place in a couple of days.” The officer said, “Sonar technology is being used for the past two days, but it has also not fetched any tangible results so far. There may be small caves beneath and in that case, a helicopter going down with its engine on in one of such cavities makes the task really difficult for the searchers.” Built over the Ravi, 60% of the reservoir of 600MW Ranjit Sagar Dam falls in Jammu. The dam is around 30km from both Pathankot in Punjab and Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir. It is among the highest earth-fill dams in India and has the largest diameter penstock pipes in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ranjit-sagar-dam-chopper-crash-7-days-on-no-clue-of-missing-pilots-101628537780802.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||108 contract Covid in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded 108 fresh coronavirus infections and a death due to the disease. There were 65 cases in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 43 infections and a death. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 196 with active positive cases reaching 1,311.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 282 followed by Jammu district with 129 active cases.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,16,957 prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.23%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have reached 3,22,658 and the death toll stands at 4,390.Officials said that 51,951 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. Officials said with 20 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 17 in Baramulla. As many as 17 districts had no or single-digit cases.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,140 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 834 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/108-contract-covid-in-jk-101628537779635.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Moga govt school running from community hall for 15 years for want of building||More than 150 students of Government Primary School, Patti Roopa, in Moga are forced to attend classes in a community hall of a public park as the school does not have its own building. This despite the fact that the state school education department recently topped the national performance grading index based on the parameters of infrastructure, facilities, access, learning outcomes and governance. The same hall is being used to cook and serve food to students under the Mid-Day Meal scheme. Moreover, there are no separate washrooms for girls and teachers. Besides, the community hall does not have its own power connection. A teacher requesting anonymity said, “It has been over 15 years since the school is functioning from the park community hall. Earlier, the hall was used by local residents for holding functions.” The teachers take 7 classes, including pre-primary, simultaneously in the congested space amid the Covid-19 pandemic. They said it is impossible to adhere to social distancing and other Covid safety norms in the room. The district education department said efforts were being made to resolve the problem and provide a building to the school. Earlier, the school was being run from a serai (dharamshala) in the area. Later, the serai building was declared unsafe and the school was shifted to the community hall. “We have got a temporary electricity connection from a nearby building to run the ceiling fans in this hot weather. The power connection the school earlier had was disconnected as we did not have money to clear the pending bills,” said another teacher. Deputy district education officer (DEO) Gurpreet Kaur said, “Funds have been received for the school building. Land has also been identified for the purpose and construction work will be initiated in a few days.” Moga MLA Harjot Kamal did not respond to repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-govt-school-running-from-community-hall-for-15-years-for-want-of-building-101628537777208.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t politicise pandemic: Himachal CM to Cong in assembly||Don’t politicise the pandemic, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur told the Congress on Monday as the state assembly held a marathon discussion on Covid situation with special focus on the second wave. Thakur said his government has made good use of every penny donated to fight the epidemic. He appreciated the legislators for contributing their salaries towards the relief measures in the state. The CM intervened in the discussions initiated under Rule 130 and said, “It is wrong on the Opposition’s part to level allegations without facts.” He also took strong exception to the remarks made by Congress’ Jagat Singh Negi on the Prime Minister and said that it was absolutely wrong to say that Narendra Modi has given the free vaccines only after one crore people have been inoculated. Thakur said that the doctors, paramedical staff and front-line workers worked while risking their lives, “so the Opposition should not discourage them”. Earlier, Congress member Inderdutt Lakhanpal introduced a resolution in the House under Rule 130 regarding the impact of the epidemic on the public and steps taken by the government to get rid of it. He said Covid-stricken patients, who were referred to Ner Chowk in Mandi, did not get the required treatment and many of them died. He said there were many patients who died due to scarcity of oxygen. Lakhanpal alleged that the government procured low-quality equipment. Vikramaditya Singh said the government did not keep up the pace required for vaccinating the public against the contagion. He also accused the government of spending extravagantly on the promotion of vaccine and termed it a tactic to gain “cheap popularity”. The CM, however, clarified that not a single penny was spent on publicity regarding the vaccine from the money donated to fight the pandemic. Vikramaditya claimed the first wave was natural, while the second wave was man-made. “If the Himachal government had heeded to suggestions and advice from the doctors, the state could have avoided the terrible situation it faced during the second wave,” he added. BJP’s Narendra Thakur said the present government has fought the battle against coronavirus in a better way and Himachal has stood first in dealing with the virus. “70% people have got the first dose of vaccine and 30% people have been fully vaccinated,” he added. Congress’ Mohan Lal Brakta said if the government had not been negligent in dealing with the situation, then there would not be more than 3,500 deaths in the state. Meanwhile, Vinod Kumar said the state government has provided over 40,000 home isolation kits to Covid patients. CPI(M) MLA Rakesh Singha said the government does not seem to be ready to deal with the possible third wave of coronavirus. He said in the preparation of the third wave, the deficiencies during the second wave should be plugged. “Therefore, steps should be taken for this from now on. If you don’t do the needful, the situation will get worse,” he said, while urging the government to work seriously on the issue. 310 test positive for Covid in stateHimachal on Monday recorded 310 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,08,197 while the death toll mounted to 3,519 after one patient succumbed to the contagion. Highest 83 cases were reported in Chamba, 76 in Mandi, 41 in Kangra, 40 in Bilaspur, 31 in Hamirpur, 23 in Shimla, nine in Kullu, two each in Kinnaur and Una and one each in Lahaul and Spiti, Sirmaur and Solan. The active cases have shot up to 2,086 while recoveries reached 2,02,569 after 185 people recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-politicise-pandemic-himachal-cm-to-cong-in-assembly-101628537717248.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid spread continues its decline in Haryana||The coronavirus pandemic in Haryana continued its declining trend for the 13th consecutive week with the state reporting a record low of 137 infections last week (Aug 2-8).As per the health department statistics, the cumulative positivity rate has also come down to 6.95% and active cases are below 700. The state reported 11 Covid-related deaths last week. Experts have warned that the transmission of the infection may start increasing due to easing of lockdown restrictions including reopening of educational institutions, government and corporate offices, lifting of operation hours’ curbs on shops, malls and restaurants, and allowing larger gathering for social events.The second wave of virus transmission saw over 4.21 lakh infections and over 4,200 fatalities during April-May. The decline started in the second week of May and the infection transmission rate since then come down considerably.Officials said the health department has stepped up the vaccination drive, inoculating about 8.78 lakh individuals in the last eight days.Hisar continued to be the only district having more than 100 active cases.Seventeen districts have less than 50 active cases including seven who have less than 10 active cases. Nine districts continued to be out of the critical positivity rate category having a cumulative positivity rate of less than 6%.Haryana records one more fatality, 12 new casesHaryana reported one more Covid-related death on Monday taking the death toll to 9,650, while 12 new cases pushed the infection count to 7,70,091.According to a health department’s daily bulletin, the death was reported from Gurugram.Of the new cases, three were from Gurugram, two each were from Rohtak and Bhiwani, it said.Total active cases in state stand at 672. The overall recoveries so far have reached 7,59,769, while the recovery rate is 98.66%.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-spread-continues-its-decline-in-haryana-101628537298635.html
10-08-2021||Other||Mattewara industrial park: GLADA seeks suggestions from industry||The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) conducted a meeting with different industrial associations on Monday to get their suggestions on the upcoming industrial park near Mattewara forest.Members of industrial associations including Knitwear and Textile Club; Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) and Ludhiana Dyers’ Association participated. Suggestions were submitted regarding size of plots, connectivity, establishment of effluent treatment plants (ETP) and earmarking space to establishing labour quarters among others.Knitwear and Textile Club president Vinod Thapar said, “We have suggested that space be earmarked to establish labour quarters, as it will be difficult to transport labourers to that area. Further, size of the plots to be allocated should not be less than 1,000 square yards.”Rahul Verma from Focal Point Dyeing industry suggested that at present, GLADA is offering a minimum plot of 1 acre at a cost of 1.90 crores, which is very high. Further we have also sought information regarding connecting roads. The authorities should also earmark some space for small and medium industry in the park and a residential colony should also be developed.Members of different NGOs, who have been opposing the project citing damage to the nearby Mattewara forest area and pollution of the Sutlej river , also participated in the meeting.They raised objections over the alleged proposal to establish the park on flood plains of Sutlej river, which is against the norms. Earlier, NGOs had moved National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the proposal.Chief administrator of GLADA, PS Gill, said that hosiery and dyeing industry representatives were invited for their suggestions regarding the upcoming industrial park, which will be spread around 1,000 acres. “The decision regarding whether it will be a textile park or if any other sector has to be involved will be taken by the Punjab Small Industries and Exports Corporation (PSIEC). Suggestions from industrialists have been noted and more such meetings will be held with industrial associations in the coming time. The Mattewara forest will not be damaged as no forest land is being used to establish the industrial park,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mattewara-industrial-park-glada-seeks-suggestions-from-industry-101628537297254.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MVA, BJP bicker over decision of allowing vaccinated passengers in locals||A day after the announcement of opening up of local trains for fully vaccinated citizens from August 15, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA)-led state government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Central government bickered over the decision. Union minister of state for Railways and former Maharashtra BJP chief Raosaheb Danve said the Railways was not taken into confidence by the state government while announcing the decision. State officials said chief secretary Sitaram Kunte had spoken to senior railway officials before the announcement was made by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Danve on Monday said that though the Railways was ready to cater to the commuters as announced by Thackeray, it would have been better if the Railways administration was taken into confidence. He said that the state government should take the onus of checking the commuters at the entry points of the railway station to verify if they were fully vaccinated.“We are not against operating the local trains for the general public as we have been doing it during lockdown, but had the state government taken us into confidence, it would have been in the interest of the people. The CM has announced the entry into local trains by checking a QR code, but the Railways does not have any such mechanism for verification. The vaccination programme has been implemented by the state and it is the responsibility of the state to verify the vaccination status of eligible commuters. Railways will provide the services, but giving entry at the stations after verification is the responsibility of the state government,” he said in Delhi.Danve was reacting to Thackeray’s announcement of opening up the local trains for the fully vaccinated people from August 15.According to an official from CMO, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte had spoken to general managers of the Western and Central Railways before the announcement. “Divisional railway managers, too, were informed about the decision. We have been holding meetings with railway officials continuously since the beginning of the first lockdown in March 2020. They have, time and again, clarified to us that the decision of opening up of the local trains has to be taken by the state government and they were ready to implement it. Railway officials in Maharashtra are fully aware about the decision and the steps taken by us for its implementation,” he said.Leaders from MVA have strongly reacted to the reaction given by the junior railway minister. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut questioned if the BJP assumes the railways as its personal property. “Railways is national property and does not belong to any specific political party. Is Railways the employee of BJP? The Maharashtra government is a law-abiding government and I am sure they must have followed all protocol while announcing the decision. The minister should first take proper information provided to him (by his ministry) on mobile and email. The decision of opening up local trains for the general public was keeping the interest of the public and the BJP had staged protests demanding for it,” he said.Water resources minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil said that the BJP should not indulge in one-upmanship over the decision. “The state government has been doing its best to keep Covid-19 under control by extending relaxations from the lockdown in a graded manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mva-bjp-bicker-over-decision-of-allowing-vaccinated-passengers-in-locals-101628537238170.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Let CBI probe paper leaks in Haryana: Surjewala||Congress general secretary and former Haryana minister Randeep Singh Surjewala on Monday demanded that every exam paper leak in state should be investigated by the CBI under the supervision of the Punjab and Haryana high court.Surjewala, who was addressing journalists in context of recent paper leak in police recruitment exam conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), said the HSSC should be sacked and a system of transparent and accountable job recruitment should be put in place by the BJP-led government.Surjewala said, “The HSSC’s recruitment process has become a mockery, which is evident from the absurd, incomprehensible and frivolous questions in the police constable examination. Instead of asking questions related to duties, functions and responsibilities of a constable, senseless questions having no co-relation with police functioning, the Constitution, etc were asked,” he said.“About 8.39 lakh youngsters had applied for the job of constable which means every fifth Haryanvi family has been affected by this recruitment. On August 7, which was the first day of the exam, about 3.5o lakh youth took the exam. It is estimated that an amount of ₹100 crore was incurred by the aspirants and their parents on preparation for the exam, coaching, physical test, exam fee and commutation. And what was the result?” he said.“It is for the 28th time that the paper leak mafia has successfully leaked and sold the paper allegedly with the help of those sitting in the echelons of power,” he added.The Congress leader said the exam paper was openly sold for ₹12-18 lakh to poor youths. He said the Khattar government and the HSSC spends ₹25 crore every year on secrecy of exam.“So where does this money go? The contract to conduct exam has allegedly been given to a Hyderabad-based company. It is natural that contract for conducting all future examinations would also have been given to this company. Since, the said company is under suspicion, how can a fair investigation be conducted? he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/let-cbi-probe-paper-leaks-in-haryana-surjewala-101628537237029.html
10-08-2021||Other||Constable paper leak: Main accused got answer keys at ₹1 crore, says Kaithal police||Main accused of the Haryana Police male constable written exam paper leak, Narender Singh, of Hisar, had allegedly got the answer keys from unknown sources at ₹1 crore and with the help of Ramesh Kumar, owner of a coaching centre, sold it to candidates at ₹12-18 lakh per candidate, revealed cops associated with the investigation.However, police could not ascertain from where Narender got the answer keys.“As per preliminary investigation, it was found that Narender, who was arrested from Hisar on August 7, had got the answer keys for ₹1 crore from unknown sources. He had a deal with some candidates to sell these keys,” said Kaithal SP Lokender Singh.Police investigation revealed that Narender had allegedly provided answer keys to Ramesh on August 6 (a day before exam) and the latter had further contacted some aspirants with his aides to sell the key at ₹12-18 lakh to per candidate.More people might be arrested in the case, police said. As per information the police had recovered 98 answer keys from the accused and 82 answers were found to be correct.Ramesh, Sandeep and Narender are on nine-days police remand and based on their information, police have arrested seven more people from Jind taking the number of arrests to 13 in district.Police said Ramesh runs a coaching centre in Kaithal and his arrest may help solve the case as it was learnt that he was behind circulation of the key to other accused.The accused had taken cheques from some candidates and some had paid an advance, police said.Among the seven accused arrested on Sunday evening, four were candidates and three others relatives of the candidates, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/constable-paper-leak-main-accused-got-answer-keys-at-rs-1-crore-says-kaithal-police-101628537117023.html
10-08-2021||Other||Neeraj Chopra’s family reaches Delhi to receive him||The family members of Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra have reached Delhi to receive him at the airport.“We are excited as we will see him for the first time after he won the medal,” said his father Satish Chopra while leaving the village with wife Saroj Bala and brother Bhim Chopra.As per the family, as of now they do not have any plans to bring him home to Khandra village in Panipat as the athlete has some meetings lined up in Delhi.But he will return home after August 15,, they said.Neeraj’s mother said she cannot explain her happiness in words as her son is now an Olympic gold medallist. “We are extremely happy,” she said.On whether they will bring him home, his uncle said as of now there is no plan in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/neeraj-chopra-s-family-reaches-delhi-to-receive-him-101628536821495.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||97,967 beneficiaries vaccinated in Mumbai on Monday||While the vaccination drive will take place in the city on Tuesday between 9am and 5pm, not all public vaccination centres will be operational, due to a shortage of vaccine stock, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public health department.On Monday, a total of 97,967 beneficiaries were vaccinated across the city, of which 65,741 beneficiaries were vaccinated with their first dose, and 32,226 beneficiaries with their second dose. Of the total beneficiaries vaccinated on Monday, 46,969 were vaccinated at 294 public vaccine centres, of which 30,117 received their first dose, and 16,852 received their second dose; 3,980 beneficiaries were vaccinated at 20 state and Central government vaccination centres, of which 2,216 received their first dose and 1,764 received their second dose; and 47,018 beneficiaries were vaccinated at 118 private centres, of which 33,408 beneficiaries received their first dose and 13,610 beneficiaries received their second dose.BMC received 45,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses on Saturday night, facilitating the vaccination drive in the city on Monday. Following this, Mumbai has not received more vaccine doses, according to Mangala Gomare executive health officer of the civic body’s public health department. She said on Monday night, “Some public centres will be shut due to availability of stock. However, the BMC will officially announce which once are operational.” Similarly, a few vaccine centres were closed on Saturday due to a shortage in vaccine stock.According to BMC’s Twitter handle, 16 vaccine centres will administer Covaxin on Monday, 36 vaccine centres will be administering Covishield vaccine, with the availability of 100 doses per centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/97967-beneficiaries-vaccinated-in-mumbai-on-monday-101628536758458.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||New Haryana DGP: UPSC to select panel of officers on Aug 12||The Haryana government may appoint a new director general of police (DGP) by next week. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has scheduled a meeting of the empanelment committee on August 12 to prepare a three-officer panel for selection of the new head of police.The move to appoint new DGP comes in wake of incumbent DGP Manoj Yadava seeking premature repatriation to the intelligence bureau citing career consideration and family requirements. The August 12 meeting will be held in New Delhi and will be presided over by the UPSC chairman or a member.Union home secretary or his nominee, Haryana chief secretary, the outgoing DGP and an officer heading central paramilitary organisations or central police organisations will be members of the empanelment committee.Last month, the state government had sent a proposal containing names of eight IPS officers to the UPSC for short-listing three senior officers. As per directions of the Supreme Court, the state DGP will be selected by the state government from among the three senior-most officers of the department who have been empanelled for promotion to that rank by the UPSC on the basis of their length of service, good record and range of experience for heading the police force.“Once they has been selected for the job, they should have a minimum tenure of two years irrespective of their date of superannuation,” the apex court had said in the landmark 2006 Prakash Singh judgment.The SC had in March 2019 clarified that recommendation for appointment to the post of DGP by the UPSC and preparation of panel should be purely on the basis of merit from officers who have at least six months of service prior to retirement.On paper, seven IPS officers who have put in 30 years of service are eligible for empanelment. They are 1988-batch officer PK Agrawal, 1989-batch’s Mohammad Akil and RC Mishra, 1990-batch’s Shatrujeet Kapoor and Desh Raj Singh, and 1991- batch’s Alok Roy and Sanjeev Kumar Jain.However, the three who will make the cut will be the actual contenders for the job.Top officials said if one makes a realistic assessment based on service record, seniority and range of experience, then only four officers are in contention for making it to the UPSC panel – PK Agrawal, Mohammad Akil, RC Mishra and Shatrujeet Kapoor.After shortlisting three names, the UPSC will send the panel to the state government for selecting the next DGP. The state will have the discretion to pick one officer from the panel and appoint them as the new DGP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-haryana-dgp-upsc-to-select-panel-of-officers-on-aug-12-101628536640074.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Reetinder Singh Sodhi wants to give back to cricket||Life has come full circle for former Indian cricketer Reetinder Singh Sodhi. From being one of the most talked about young Indian cricketers to becoming a member of the Punjab Cricket Association’s (PCA’s) cricket advisory committee (CAC), he has come of age. The 40-year-old is enjoying this new role and considers it a way of giving back to the sport. “I was so excited when the PCA appointed me a member of the CAC for the upcoming season. Playing for PCA and then India is something I will always cherish. If I can give back to my state association and assist, then why not?” said Sodhi, who has played 18 ODIs for India. He was made CAC member along with former Indian cricketer Bhupinder Singh Senior and Harpreet Kaur a few months ago. For the first time, state selection panels (men and women) were appointed after conducting interviews and awarded contracts with remuneration. “The credit goes to PCA president Rajinder Gupta, who wanted to give all appointed candidates pay packages. This will bring accountability. The same process will be followed when coaching and support staff members are appointed,” added Sodhi, who played 69 first-class and 109 List-A matches. A hard-hitting batsman and a useful medium pacer, he first burst into the national scene in August 1996 with a superb all-round display (3/34 and 82 not out) as India captain to win the Under-15 World Cup final against Pakistan at the Lord’s cricket ground. A few months later, Patiala’s Sodhi made his first-class debut against Delhi in the Ranji Trophy at the age of 16. He was following in the footsteps of his father Mahesh Inder Singh, who also played the Ranji Trophy for Punjab. “My father is an inspiration and I have learnt a lot from him. If I can serve cricket and assist others, then I am very lucky. PCA is in a great phase with so many great changes happening. The CAC aims to appoint qualified and deserving candidates during the coaches and support staff interviews with transparency,” said Sodhi, who was vice-captain of the Indian team that clinched the U-19 World Cup in 2000 in Sri Lanka and now, he is a BCCI certified referee. PCA will appoint coaches and the support staff for men’s and women’s teams by end of this month. The domestic season starts at the end of September. “By appointing coaches and selectors through a fair process, we are bolstering the system at PCA and adhering to the Lodha Committee suggested rules. I am sure that in the coming years, cricket will benefit from this,” concluded Sodhi, who has also played for Ahmedabad Rockets in the Indian Cricket League and Kings XI Punjab in the Indian Premier League.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/reetinder-singh-sodhi-wants-to-give-back-to-cricket-101628536638387.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Three held for Zirakpur robbery, three still at large||With the arrest of three persons, the Zirakpur police have solved a robbery case where four armed men had robbed cash and jewellery worth ₹15 lakh after holding a mother-son duo and their maid hostage at swordpoint at Sharma Estate in Lohgarh on July 22.Those arrested were identified as Captain Oram Kapil, 29, Naseem Ahmed, 31, and Javed Ahmed, 30, all residents of Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said, “There were six persons involved in the robbery. The three arrested confessed to committing the crime. We are hopeful of arresting the other three and recovering the jewellery from them.”The SSP said that the main accused, Kapil, worked as a carpenter at the victims’ house four years back and was aware that the owner works in a bank and always keeps cash at home.Station house officer Onkar Singh Brar said, “We have recovered a car and a motorcycle used in the crime. During the incident, two accused were in the car and the rest were on bikes.”All three were produced before a court, from where they were sent to three-day police remand, he said, adding that they were arrested on a tip-off from informers.On July 22, at 11.30am, four-armed men had entered the house of one Jaydev Goyal, who retired as deputy general manager from Union Bank and is currently working as an assistant manager at Muthoot Finance in Sector 35, Chandigarh.The incident happened when Goyal was not at home. His wife, Naresh Rani, 60, told the police that she, her son, Kapil Goyal, 40, and their maid were home when the accused had struck. Holding a sword against Kapil’s neck, they had demanded all the cash and jewellery in the house. The robbers had then tied them all up and proceeded to rummage the house for more valuables.After holding the trio hostage for an hour, they had decamped with the valuables.Three Ropar men held for robbing car at gunpoint Zirakpur police have arrested three men for robbing a car and ₹25,000 at gunpoint from Vijay Kumar, resident of Sector 66, Mohali, at Aerocity Road on June 24. The accused have been identified as Jaspreet Singh, 24, Jaswinder Singh, 32, and Gurpreet Singh, 23, all residents of Rupnagar. All three of them are unemployed, police said.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said they have recovered the Toyota Etios car they robbed and gun used by them and all three have admitted to committing the crime. Zirakpur station house officer (SHO) Onkar Singh Brar said the trio was produced in court, which sent them to three days in police remand. Kumar owns a shop in Mohali and is opening a new store at the City Centre on Aerocity road. He was in Zirakpur on the night of June 24 and while he was returning to Mohali, he parked his car on the roadside to relieve himself. When he returned, two men pulled out pistols and told him to sit inside the car. The robbers turned off his cellphone and asked him to drive towards the airport. The duo threatened him and took ₹25,000. They later took him towards Morinda side and dumped him on the road before fleeing with his car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-held-for-zirakpur-robbery-three-still-at-large-101628536580438.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Nuh judge grants bail to POs, HC terms it ‘grave judicial indiscipline’||The Punjab and Haryana high court has termed an incident of a judicial officer granting bail to proclaimed offenders as “grave judicial indiscipline” warranting disciplinary action against the officer and sent the matter for consideration by the chief justice.The HC bench of justice Manoj Bajaj cancelled bail to six persons granted in June 2020 by the judicial officer and ordered that a copy of the order be sent to registrar general for placing it before the chief justice for further orders on the administrative side.The court was hearing a matter from a Nuh resident who had challenged additional sessions judge, Nuh’s order of granting anticipatory protection to these persons who were declared proclaimed offenders in July 2019 in a 2013 FIR.Upon his complaint, an FIR was registered in November 2013 for unnatural sexual offences under Nagina police station, Mewat against these persons. After FIR, police filed a cancellation report to which the petitioner filed a protest petition.In May 2017, a court summoned these persons for alleged offences of kidnap on his plea. But the trial court found no evidence of unnatural sexual act. The petitioner again preferred appeal on deletion of this offence, which was accepted by the sessions judge in August 2017 and three of the accused were summoned under this offence.Thereafter, during the trial, six accused failed to appear and the court declared them proclaimed offenders in July 2019.Following this, they had filed for anticipatory bail on two occasions but withdrew it and continued to evade hearings but in the meantime, moved a third plea for anticipatory bail before additional sessions judge, Nuh.They were given interim protection from arrest in February 2020. The petitioner challenged the order before the HC which was disposed of with a direction to bring these facts before the judicial officer. But in June, the judicial officer confirmed their anticipatory bails.It was this order he had challenged before the HC arguing that the conduct of the accused persons was completely ignored by judicial officer while accepting their plea.The HC bench observed that the power to grant pre-arrest bail is extraordinary in nature, thus, the concession cannot be granted in a routine manner, but in exceptional cases only.While considering such pleas, court is supposed to examine various factors i.e. nature of accusation, role attributed to accused, punishment for the alleged offences, as well as the conduct of the accused applicant etc and after careful analysis, the said discretion is exercised, keeping in mind the sound judicial principles, the bench added.It added that trial proceedings were much within the knowledge of the accused persons. The judicial officer accepted the prayer without analysing its maintainability or discussing the merits of the case.It said the June 2020 order makes it absolutely clear that the officer exercised discretion in favour of the accused persons, without dealing with the objections raised by the state counsel on them being proclaimed offenders. By now it is well settled law that the accused person who has been declared proclaimed person is not entitled to the concession of pre-arrest bail, the court said, adding that the judicial officer passed an order in an “illegal and arbitrary manner, and that too after a long delay without even seeking explanation for their continuous absence from the trial proceedings”. The officer passed order violating the HC order and without examining maintainability or merits of the application, law on the subject and objections on behalf of the prosecution and it amount to “grave judicial indiscipline warranting disciplinary action against the presiding officer”, the bench said, cancelling the bails and forwarding the matter to the chief justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nuh-judge-grants-bail-to-pos-hc-terms-it-grave-judicial-indiscipline-101628536520118.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Golf Club: Jatinder wins caddy tournament||Jatinder Singh won the golf caddy tournament organised by the Chandigarh Golf Club on Monday. Naubat Ram finished second while Radhey Sham came third. As many as 77 took part and Sonu had the best score with a -3 to his name. Chandigarh Golf Club president Ravibir Singh Grewal, vice-president Dr GS Kochar, captain Arvind Bajaj, chairman of the tournament Gurpreet Bakshi and the entire managing committee came out to support the event and give away prizes. The prizes were sponsored by Bogey Sports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-golf-club-jatinder-wins-caddy-tournament-101628536519258.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to issue universal pass to enable entry at public places||After an announcement by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to start the local train travel for all fully vaccinated people in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) from August 15, the state government has started preparations for the portal which will enable the commuters to register themselves. The portal will be linked with the Centre’s Co-Win portal for the verification of the information related to the vaccine doses, making the system foolproof and enable the government to use it for access to the holder at other public places such as government offices, malls, theatres and markets.The portal which is expected to begin its dry run in a day or two will be linked with the Co-Win portal for verification. Once both the portals are integrated, the holders will be issued QR code embedded universal pass through which they can obtain their tickets or season tickets. “We have evolved the system to verify the credentials of the holder as we did not want to rely only on the copy of the vaccination certificate, which can easily be faked. Once the registration is done on the Maharashtra government portal, the information will be verified using the application information interface linked with Co-Win and will be certified back to the state portal. The user will then get a link to take a selfie and upload back to the portal for the generation of the universal pass,” said an official from Mantralaya.MMR, which comprises three districts, has 2,453,494 fully vaccinated people as of Monday, according to the state government data. Mumbai has 1,960,495 fully vaccinated people, while in Thane, Raigad and Palghar the number of fully vaccinated people is 982,498, 213,560 and 83,331 respectively. The pass will be certified proof of the person being fully vaccinated. “The QR code on it could be verified by the authorities, including ticket collectors at Railway stations, using mobile cameras in smartphones. They will not have to have any separate mechanism for it. Once proved successful for the issuance of the railway tickets, the universal passes so issued can be utilised for the verification of the fully vaccinated people for relaxations to be given at other public places including malls, markets among others,” the official said.The Central and Western Railway has started their discussions for the implementation of the universal pass with the Maharashtra government. Discussions between the railway authorities and state government officials happened on Monday as well. The railway authorities are tight-lipped on how the universal pass with QR code will be implemented but have stated that all concerns are being raised with the state government.A detailed travel Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for passengers and information regarding universal passes is likely to be made public by Wednesday. “Inspection of the passes and checking on the entry and exit of the railway stations would have to be done. We are discussing all possible scenarios as to how the universal pass can be introduced for passengers. Discussions on how railway staff including ticket checkers, Railway Protection Force(RPF) personnel will be involved in crowd control is also being done.” said a senior railway official who did not want to be named.Passenger associations have welcomed the move and have stated that SOP should be implemented immediately. “We welcome the decision to allow vaccinated passengers to travel by local trains. We had been demanding for a long time. The state government and railways should immediately issue SOP,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.The state government officials have held many meetings with the officials from Railways and have arrived at the consensus to evolve the system. “We have taken care to simplify it to make it feasible. For example, since it is not possible to check the credentials of the commuter at the ticket window due to crowding, we are issuing the universal pass which can be easily checked by the TCs at stations. This will encourage people for vaccination and the crowding in the train will increase gradually, only after the number of fully vaccinated people increase,” an official from the CM office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-issue-universal-pass-to-enable-entry-at-public-places-101628536517229.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Poor response as Classes 7 and 8 return to school||Government schools in Chandigarh reopened for Classes 7 and 8 on Monday and only around 11% students turned up on Day 1. As per data with the UT education department, of 13,024 students enrolled in Class 7, 1,550 (11.9%) turned up. From Class 8, 1,607 (11.56%) of 13,903 attended.Schools had reopened for Classes 9 onwards on July 19 and attendance has risen from 15% in the beginning to 36.19% for Class 9, 37.46% for Class 10 and 19% for Class 12. Overall attendance was 23.47% at government schools on Monday.A teacher said, “Students of Classes 7 and 8 are younger, so parents are more hesitant to send them. Further, they aren’t in board classes so their strength remained lower, but we expect it to rise in the coming days.”Students had to bring a signed consent letter from their parents, which was checked at the school entrance before they were allowed inside. Entrance timings were also staggered to ensure no crowding.There are 43 government senior secondary schools and 54 government high schools in the city which were open on Monday. There are around 67,000 students enrolled in Classes 7 and above, while classes for Class 11 will start once the admission process is over.Private schools have also been allowed to hold physical classes from Class 7 onwards, but president of the Independent School Association, HS Mamik, said they will first reach out to parents and ask them if they are willing to send their kids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhpoor-response-as-classes-7-and-8-return-to-school-101628536458539.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to launch ‘state song’ depicting glorious past, rich present||The Manohar Lal Khattar-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) coalition government in Haryana on Monday knocked the doors of prominent Haryanavi poets and writers to compose what will be called a ‘state song’ by August 15.The government plans for the composition – capturing Haryana’s link to the pre-Indus Valley civilisation, Vedic culture, Bhagvat Geeta and Sarswati river – to be sung in local dialect.The poem should also touch participation of Haryanvis in the first war of Independence, freedom struggle and now where Haryana stands in all spheres, including its contribution in defence and sports.“We hope to give our people an inspiring state song to remind them about our glorious past and rich present while giving them a bright vision of the future,” said Suresh, joint director, art and culture affairs.Haryana has set the ball rolling for the state song after a recent communication to the state governments, where the Centre talked of its plans to celebrate 75 years of India’s Independence as ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ in an inclusive and participatory manner.Sources said the Centre has said a special initiative is being undertaken to create songs connected to each state and UTs in local languages and dialects – celebrating their heroes, major events, and stories of the region’s freedom struggle.“Each state/UT is requested to explore the idea of creating its own freedom song in the local language/dialect as deemed appropriate. The aim is to bring out the hidden stories of India’s journey to freedom by celebrating local unsung heroes, relatively unknown regional events and popular stories worthy of commemoration as part of India @75 activities,” the Union ministry of culture said in its communication.In this backdrop, the Haryana art and cultural affairs department on Monday kicked-off an exercise to invite compositions from writers and poets, who are native of Haryana, for the state song.Interested writers and poets will have to verify their own creation and send it through the department’s email: artandculturalaffairshry@gmail.com by August 15.As the August 15 deadline set for receiving the compositions is too tight, steps are afoot to extend the deadline.The author of the best composition, which will be selected as the state song, will be honoured with a cash award of ₹1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-launch-state-song-depicting-glorious-past-rich-present-101628536397385.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to continue with online teaching for now||With Panjab University yet to decide on reopening the campus for students, online teaching will continue for now.The Chandigarh administration has already allowed colleges in the city to reopen for the next session from August 11. Classes for the ongoing batches at Panjab University are also set to resume on the same date, while the first-year classes will begin next month.“We have not received any communication from the university; so we have decided to continue with online classes,” said a department chairperson, on the condition of anonymity. Several departments have also issued notices to students regarding the commencement of teaching in online mode from August 11.PU has been deliberating on reopening the campus, but has been putting off the decision. It had also recently sought the vaccination data of students from all departments. A senior university official on Monday confirmed that classes for now will be held online, and the campus will be reopened in a phased manner for which a decision is yet to be taken. Even students have been demanding that the campus be reopened in a phased manner. Nikhil Narmeta, who is the president of National Students Union of India (NSUI) at the varsity, on Monday wrote to the dean university instructions, urging the authorities to release a notice about when the campus would reopen. “Students are in a state of despair. It is time for PU to clear the confusion,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-to-continue-with-online-teaching-for-now-101628536280402.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC takes over upkeep of Phases 8A, B in Industrial Area||Finally, after year-long deliberations followed by two years of bureaucratic logjam, Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation handed over the maintenance of Phases 8A and 8B in the Industrial Area, Mohali, to the municipal corporation on Monday. Punjab health and labour minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said it was the need of the hour as the industrial areas need to be revamped in terms of infrastructure. His cabinet colleague and industries minister Sunder Sham Arora also attended the ceremony held at the MIA Bhawan in Phase 7, Industrial Area. Demanding more funds from the industries minister to revamp the infrastructure in Mohali, Sidhu, who is also the local MLA, said the city has already surpassed Chandigarh in terms of infrastructure under the leadership of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Exhorting MC officials to take up maintenance of the industrial area as a challenge, Arora said Mohali has the potential to become a major industrial town of the state. Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said the city will become a flag-bearer of the state in developing its industrial areas on a par with global standards. Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg assured the gathering that the MC will not leave any stone unturned in maintaining these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-takes-over-upkeep-of-phases-8a-b-in-industrial-area-101628536277852.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Defamtion case: Kangana Ranaut trying to delay proceeding, Javed Akhtar tells Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) while hearing the response of lyricist Javed Akhtar on Monday to the petition filed by actor Kangana Ranaut, wherein she has challenged the proceedings initiated by the magistrate in a defamation suit filed by Akhtar against her, was informed that the action of the magistrate was valid. Ranaut in her petition has contended that the magistrate could not have asked the police to investigate Akhtar’s allegation in the suit. HC will further hear Ranaut’s petition on August 18.The single-judge bench of justice Revati Mohite-Dere, which is hearing Ranauts petition seeking to quash the complaint by Akhtar and proceedings initiated by the police against her in regards to the complaint, was informed by advocate Jay Bharadwaj for Akhtar that an affidavit in reply to the petition was filed. Akhtar had filed a complaint last year after Ranaut had allegedly made defamatory statements on national and international television against him and termed him to be part of a suicide gang. Akhtar had stated in his complaint that the statements by Ranaut had tarnished his image built over 50 years of being in the film industry. Based on the complaint the Andheri magistrate court had begun proceedings against Ranaut in February and had issued a bailable warrant in March, the actor appeared before the magistrate and applied for bail, which was granted.The petition filed by Ranaut in HC last month challenges the entire proceeding initiated by the magistrate, including all orders and summons issued to date. It said that the magistrate, instead of simply directing the Juhu police under section 202 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), to conduct an inquiry, was duty-bound to examine Akhtar and the witnesses named in the complaint as per CrPC.“The magistrate failed to appreciate that he was duty-bound to protect the rights and the interests of the proposed accused while hearing any complaint at the stage of inquiry and also at the time of taking cognisance of the complaint,” the petition of Ranaut states. The petition has further said that if such proceedings are allowed, other magistrates will follow it as a precedent and will affect the rights and liberties of other accused. The petition sought a declaration that the statement collected by the police following the magistrate directions was illegal and also sought a stay on the magistrate court proceedings till HC decided her petition.The response by Akhtar has stated that Ranaut’s contentions are baseless and unfounded has also stated that the magistrate followed due process of law before initiating proceedings against Ranaut. Akhtar in his affidavit has stated that the magistrate had initiated proceedings after considering the contentious footage of the interview dated July 19, 2020, and the statement of witnesses. The affidavit further states that perusal of record will prove that due process of law has been followed by the magistrate and there is no infirmity in his orders. The affidavit concludes that the petition by Ranaut was intended to delay the proceedings as she had not appeared before the magistrate on the last five hearings and her petition should be dismissed with exemplary costs. The bench has posted hearing of Ranaut’s petition on August 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defamtion-case-kangana-ranaut-trying-to-delay-proceeding-javed-akhtar-tells-bombay-hc-101628536157110.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Maneka Gandhi opposes walk-in aviary near Sukhna||Animal rights activist and politician Maneka Gandhi has written to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore regarding the walk-in bird aviary that is being constructed near the Sukhna Forest, calling it illegal.Gandhi wrote the letter after a city-based activist, RK Garg, highlighted the issue in a letter to her and to the authorities on Monday.As per Gandhi, that the UT administration brought out a tender on July 22 for purchasing 1,500 exotic birds was illegal as the birds were not bred in India and would be smuggled. She added that a collection of animals and birds on display was classified as a zoo, and no zoo could be started without the permission of the Central Zoo Authority.Gandhi also said that the aviary would be like a cage and several high courts including the Punjab and Haryana high court had forbidden the caging of birds.Gandhi added that the city already had an Open Bird Sanctuary in Sector 21 and many people had objected to the project. She further added that the report on this would go to the Prime Minister’s office and the Union ministry of forest, environment and climate change. Garg, in his letter to Gandhi, had highlighted how residents were against the aviary, which would be like a cage for birds: “The quotation for the supply of exotic birds by the administration asks for things like DNA certificate and age certificate of the birds which practically can’t be followed thus I have highlighted the issue.”Meanwhile, the officials of the UT forest department said that the enclosure would be about 58 feet high and spread over 3-4 acres, so it would have ample space for birds. They further added that forest guards posted there would ensure that birds were treated well.The officials pointed out that the government was already constructing aviaries like these in Mumbai and Gujarat. The Sardar Patel Zoological Park and Geodesic Aviary Dome in Kevadia, Gujarat, was inaugurated by the Prime Minister himself in October 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-maneka-gandhi-opposes-walk-in-aviary-near-sukhna-101628536037023.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man booked for rape as minor cousin delivers child||The Yamunanagar police on Monday registered a zero FIR against a 25-year-old Chandigarh man for allegedly sexually assaulting her 16-year-old cousin, who delivered a premature baby girl on August 8.The girl, a native of a village in Uttar Pradesh, had been living with her parents in Chandigarh for the last four years and had come to Yamunanagar on August 5 to work as a domestic help.Her mother told the police that on August 8, she complained of stomach pain and was taken to a private hospital where she delivered the baby. “She lived with her cousin when his parents were in UP during the lockdown last year. My daughter told me that he had raped her for several months,” the victim’s mother said in her statement.The man was booked under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Yamunanagar city police station, and the case was later transferred to Mauli Jagran police station in Chandigarh.Dr Anju Bajpai, the district coordinator of Childline, said that the baby was a few weeks premature and was transferred to PGIMER owing to its serious condition. “When the agency that hired the girl got to know her age, they refused to hire her and suddenly her situation deteriorated. The girl was discharged today, but she will remain at a one-stop centre till the investigation begins in Chandigarh,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-booked-for-rape-as-minor-cousin-delivers-child-101628535977084.html
10-08-2021||Other||Demanding id, reason for RTI plea illegal: Haryana information commission||In a judgment that is expected to bring more transparency in the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the State Information Commission, Haryana held that no authority can force an applicant to disclose any reason for seeking information and to submit their identity card while filing an application.As per the case, advocate Ghanshyam Dass Gupta, of Jagadhri, had filed an RTI before the Chhachhrauli block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) on May 6 to know about the funds given to different institutions by the office for construction purposes.“I was denied the requisite information on May 31, while informing that the state government vide its notification dated April 12, 2021, conveyed vide letter no. 5/52/2016- 1 AR, dated May 5, 2021 has made an amendment in the Haryana Right to Information Rules, which stipulates that an applicant seeking information under the Act is required to file the RTI in Model Form A, along with an identity card issued by the government,” the advocate said.The same day, Gupta filed a complaint before the State Information Commission, after which the commission converted it into an appeal.According to the order made available on Monday, information commissioner Lt Gen KJ Singh (retd) had on June 29 observed that Section 6(2) of the central Act allows an applicant to conceal their identity and seek information without giving any reason.He directed the public information officer to supply complete information to the applicant free of cost within three days of receipt of the order.“The Haryana government nowhere made it mandatory in provisions included in the rules notified in 2021 that to have information under RTl, one has to use the form A performa and submit his/her identity card. But, it is purely on the applicant whether they want to supply their identity or not,” the order read.“An applicant just has to share that much information which is sufficient for supplying the requisite data at a convenient address,” the commissioner said, adding that the grounds taken by the information officer are not legally tenable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/demanding-id-reason-for-rti-plea-illegal-haryana-information-commission-101628535917206.html
10-08-2021||Other||Razing of historic serai: Former SGPC chief Badungar slams plan as anti-panthic, writes to Akal Takht jathedar||Amritsar Former president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) Kirpal Singh Badungar on Monday termed the plan to raze Golden Temple’s oldest serai, Guru Ram Das Niwas, as ‘anti-panthic’ and ‘unfortunate’. Badungar has also requested the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhism, to intervene and stop the razing.In a two-page letter to Akal Takht acting jathedar, Giani Harpreet Singh, Badungar says, “There is no need to demolish the serai, which holds heritage value. The SGPC was constituted to manage affairs and take care of the historic gurdwaras. Even its general House cannot take decisions like this of razing. This organization is not under any other organization or personal asset of any individual.”“The entire Khalsa Panth is the owner of the heritage of the community. If any such decision is to be taken, it can be taken by calling a gathering of all the Sikh organizations and other prominent Sikhs from across the world in presence of the Guru Granth Sahib and Panj Pyare (five beloved ones of Guru) with consent of all,” he said.“Foundation stone of this serai was laid by Sant Baba Sadhu Singh Patiale Wale, in 1931. If any part of anyone’s body fails, we don’t give poison to kill them, but give him medical treatment. Historic buildings need the same treatment,” he said, adding, “Today, architects can renovate these buildings in such a way that their originality remains intact. Panthic circles will strongly oppose this anti-panthic and unnecessary plan. The SGPC should tackle many challenges ahead of it instead. I hope you (jathedar) will fulfil your responsibility in this case.”The Sikh bodies are opposing the demolition, citing that the sarai testifies to historic developments including 1947 partition, Punjabi Suba Movement and Operation Bluestar. Though the SGPC is going to constitute a sub-committee to look into the matter, it has not made any official announcement that the serai would not be razed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/razing-of-historic-serai-former-sgpc-chief-badungar-slams-plan-as-anti-panthic-writes-to-akal-takht-jathedar-101628535857250.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Senate polls: It’s time for PU teachers to vote||The two constituencies of teachers of Panjab University (PU) campus will go to polls on Tuesday for the election of four members to the PU senate.The election cell of PU on Monday issued a notice asking voters to ensure that all Covid-19 protocols were followed at polling booths. The notice also stated that “voters from the professor’s constituency may enter the venue (university auditorium) from UBS side while the voters from the associate/assistant professors’ constituency may enter the venue from the department of laws side.”Polling will be held from 9am to 1pm and from 2pm to 5pm at the following centres: PU auditorium; regional centres in Ludhiana and Sri Muktsar Sahib; PU rural centre, Kauni, Sri Muktsar Sahib; and SS Giri PU Regional Centre, Hoshiarpur. Of the six candidates who were in fray from the constituency of professors, Sukesh Sharma withdrew his candidature on Monday. Two members will be elected from the professors’ constituency. Two will be elected from the constituency of associate/assistant professors of PU teaching departments, from which seven candidates are in fray. The professors’ constituency has 279 voters while the constituency of associate/assistant professors has 439 voters.A multi-cornered contest is expected in both the constituencies with candidates from Goyal group, BJP group and several independent candidates in fray. The campaigning was in a full swing on campus on Monday, with candidates visiting different departments to approach voters.After this, the registered graduates’ constituency, which is the largest with 3,61,869 voters, will go to polls on August 18, along with the constituencies of heads and associate/assistant professors of affiliated arts colleges. Voting for the constituency of faculties will be held last on August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pusenate-polls-it-s-time-for-teachers-to-vote-101628535798351.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Now, rural consumers can pay water bills online||Punjab water supply and sanitation minister Razia Sultana on Monday launched the online billing and revenue monitoring system for rural consumers in Mohali. Launching the system after successful completion of a seven-month pilot project, the minister said online payment of bills will soon be introduced in all districts of Punjab in a phased manner. Now, rural consumers in Mohali will get their water supply bills through SMS on their registered mobile numbers and will be able to make online payment through a link provided in the message. Active account updates and alerts will also be provided through SMS. Apart from this, the department’s revenue collectors will carry point of sale machines to the doorsteps of consumers, who would be able to make cashless payments via cards. The option of cash payments will also be there. “The system is user friendly and totally secure against online frauds,” said the minister, adding that it will not only make bill payment easier for consumers but also boost revenue collection of the department, thereby helping in efficient management of water supply schemes and ensuring uninterrupted supply of potable water in rural pockets. This system has been implemented in collaboration with HDFC Bank, which has provided the technological and banking platform. It will also bring transparency in operation and maintenance of water supply schemes, said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-now-rural-consumers-can-pay-water-bills-online-101628535737042.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Powermen call one-day token strike||The UT Powermen Union, which is opposing the privatisation of the Chandigarh electricity department, has given a call for a one-day token strike on August 10.The call comes on the day the empowered committee on power privatisation gave its nod to the highest bid quoted by Eminent Electricity Distribution (EED) for the takeover of the department.In the financial bids opened on August 4, EED, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation (CESC), quoted a bid of around ₹871 crore against the reserve price of ₹175 crore. CESC is the flagship company of the Kolkata-based industrial and services conglomerate RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group.The report of the empowered committee will now be submitted with the UT administrator for his approval, which will be then forwarded to the Union government. The final decision will rest with the Union Cabinet.Meanwhile, in response to the strike call, the administration said that the principle of “no work, no pay” will be strictly enforced. “The employees are, therefore, advised to attend duty. The defaulting employees will also be liable to other disciplinary action,” said a UT spokesperson.Though necessary arrangements for maintaining the continuity of power supply have been made, chances of snags due to any untoward incident cannot be ruled out, said the spokesperson. In case of any disruption, consumers can contact complaint centres in their areas or the control rooms (0172-2703242, 2740475) besides the citizen facilitation centre (0172-4639999).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-powermen-call-one-day-token-strike-101628535677039.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||New IT Rules will have chilling effect on editors, authors, petitioners tell Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday was informed that the recently notified Information Technology Rules 2021 under the Information Technology (IT) Act were against free speech and promoted draconian censorship and delegated powers to the authorities that were more than what was intended. Senior journalist Nikhil Wagle and legal news portal Leaflet who have filed challenged the Rules submitted that they will have a terrible chilling effect on the free speech of authors/editors, people at large and hence should be set aside. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the two petitions which termed the Rules as arbitrary, illegal and contrary to articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution was informed by senior counsel Daraius Khambatta and advocate Abhay Nevagi that the Rules were against the principle of net neutrality, which is adopted and accepted by all countries including India. The new rules titled Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code for social media platforms and digital news outlets was brought into force in May this year by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. The guidelines issued in February had stipulated that all social media platforms should have a grievances redressal and compliance mechanism which would be done through a resident grievance officer, chief compliance officer and a nodal contact person. The platforms were asked to submit monthly reports on complaints received from users and actions taken on them. The third requirement for instant messaging applications was to make provisions for tracking the first originator of a message and also made the service provider liable for penal action in the event of non-disclosure of information.Senior counsel Khambata, representing the company that owns The Leaflet submitted that new IT Rules were vague, wide, draconian and would have a terrible chilling effect on free speech on authors, editors and anyone who wants to post anything online. He added that the Rules sought to control investigative journalism which would result in journalists not being able to write anything which they cannot prove 100 per cent. He said that while the journalists are expected to be accurate, the Rules could not decide between ‘fair and crass’ and could not control publishers and editors through it. “The rules seek to effectively monitor and censor speech on the internet, the most draconian law on free speech in recent times. They have nothing to do with regulating or recognizing the e-transactions on the internet,” said Khambatta and sought a declaration that the rules were ex facie ultra vires of the constitution of India. He also sought interim relief by staying the application of the Rules till the petition was decided. Advocate Nevagi appearing for Wagle in his PIL said that while messaging apps like WhatsApp, Telegram, Signal were akin to post offices that just delivered letters between the sender and the receiver without opening the letter, the rules allowed authorities to use artificial intelligence mechanisms to access the data or communication sent, leading to misuse of the same. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Central government submitted that the Supreme Court (SC) was likely to hear the petition which sought transfer of the two petitions in HC to the Apex court on August 10 and urged the Court to wait till SC’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-it-rules-will-have-chilling-effect-on-editors-authors-petitioners-tell-bombay-hc-101628535617015.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Abbott Healthcare leases 5,000-sqft space in BKC for ₹9.26 lakh/month||In one of the major realty transactions in recent times, pharmaceutical company Abbott Healthcare has leased a 5,000-square feet apartment in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) for ₹9.26 lakh per month. Abbott leased this premium residential property – Signature island building constructed by Sunteck Realty – from owner Ramesh Bhatia and Vijaya Bhatia for a period of 36 months. According to the documents scanned by Zapkey.com, a real estate data analytics and research firm, the luxury pad comes with five car parks. In the first 12 months, the rent will be ₹9,26,890, which will be hiked to ₹9,91,770 in the second year and in the last 12 months, it will be ₹10,90,950. “After two years of Covid-19 pandemic, where such high-end deals came to a virtual standstill, we are witnessing leasing activity by corporates,” said Sandeep Reddy, co-founder, Zapkey.com. He cited the examples of MUFG bank which leased the property in Signia Isles in BKC by the same builder in May for ₹5.25 lakh. Another transaction was in June, when Mirae Asset Capital Markets India Private Limited leased an apartment in Signia Pearl for ₹3.75 lakh a month. Signature Island, which is leased by Abbott, is one of the ultra-luxury projects located opposite Trident Hotel in BKC. It has just 3- and 4-BHK (bedroom, hall and kitchen) apartments with amenities such as landscaped garden, multipurpose hall, squash court, jogging track and meditation room. It is a ‘by invitation only’ project. Abbott, which has its corporate office at BKC, will use this apartment to house its senior executive. Real estate expert Ajay Chaturvedi said, “Corporates are being very cautious while taking places on lease and these are very specific in nature. The overall market is still to pick up.” Many well-known personalities namely Uday Kotak, Sonam Kapoor and Aishwarya Rai have all bought apartments from Sunteck builders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-abbott-healthcare-leases-5-000-sqft-space-in-bkc-for-9-26-lakhmonth-101628535498126.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Apartments issue: SC moved against survey order in Chandigarh||A Sector-27 resident has approached the Supreme Court against the high court’s directions to the Chandigarh administration to carry out a survey to identify residential properties partially sold to a person outside the family of the original owner. The plea by Mamta Gupta was taken up by the bench of justices LN Rao and Aniruddha Bose on Monday. However, the detailed order of the proceedings is awaited. Gupta’s argument is that there is no prohibition on multiple individuals, even from distinct families, buying residential units, with a caveat that the construction of the home must be done in a cohesive manner and as a single entity. Once the plans of a house are passed and construction approved by the relevant authorities, how the individual residents within the house reside is firmly within the fundamental right of privacy of those individuals and it would be impermissible for the authorities to adjudicate who must live within the confines of such a house, she has argued, further adding that such a survey should not have been ordered amid the pandemic. The high court last month had sought a survey of properties sold in Chandigarh since December 31, 2019, wherein shares to the extent of 50%, 30% or 20% have been transferred to a person outside the family of the original owner. The court also asked for a physical inspection of such identified buildings to find out as to whether the sale has actually translated into the buyers occupying an independent floor in the otherwise composite dwelling unit. The order had come on a batch of petitions pending since 2016 seeking prohibitory orders on conversion of residential plots into apartments by selling them floor-wise to multiple owners. While the administration has maintained that no permission is being granted, the HC bench itself scanned newspapers and noted that 24 such advertisements scouting for purchasers/investors for separate floors were found on a single day in an English daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apartments-issue-sc-moved-against-survey-order-in-chandigarh-101628535376985.html
10-08-2021||Other||Amid complaints from MD, MS students, NMC issues advisory for medical colleges||Faridkot Amid complaints from MD and MS students that many institutes are refusing to pay stipend, even as their term is over, and are also not relieving them, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has issued an advisory to all medical colleges on the utilisation of their services.NMC Postgraduate Medical Education Board president Dr MK Ramesh said the Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted examination schedules of medical education in the country for the past 18 months. “This has put lot of stress on medical students. The NEET Examination was postponed, delaying the arrival of fresh batch of postgraduate students. Many universities could not hold the examination for final-year PG students.”He added that it was against this backdrop that the NMC has issued an advisory, facilitating the institutes, in utilising the services of the MD and MS students who had finished their term of three years, till the arrival of the fresh batch of students. “Our advisory makes it clear that these students should be paid stipend and hostel facilities should be continued. This was done to augment the medical man power during the pandemic,” he said.“Unfortunately, we have received many complaints from the students that many institutes are refusing to pay the stipend after their term is over and are also not relieving them. They are holding their documents. This is illegal. Hence, this advisory is being issued,” he said.In the advisory NMC directed all medical colleges that irrespective of the status of examination, postgraduate students should be paid the stipend till their services are availed.“Wherever the examinations have been held and the results are declared, the successful MD, MS and DM, MCh candidates shall be designated as senior residents and assistant professors, respectively, and be paid accordingly,” the advisory reads, adding that if medical institutes do not want their services, they should be relieved and all their documents should be returned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-complaints-from-md-ms-students-nmc-issues-advisory-for-medical-colleges-101628535319274.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Cheating case against Jet Airways, directors: Court rejects closure petition||Mumbai sessions court on Saturday rejected the plea filed by Akbar Travels of India Pvt Ltd (ATIPL) challenging the closure of a cheating case that they had filed against Jet Airways and its directors Naresh Goyal and his wife Anita.In its detailed order released subsequently, the court has said there was no illegality, impropriety or incorrectness in the order. The court said that the magistrate court had properly quoted material on record and had given proper reasoning.MRA Marg police had filed the closure report in March 2020, after probing the complaint filed by Rajendran Neruparambil, chief financial officer of ATIPL against Jet Airways and the Goyals.Neruparambil had alleged that in 2018-19, Jet Airways owed ATIPL ₹46.05 crore. He further alleged that the Goyals’ had engaged ATIPL in business despite being aware of the financial crisis faced by the airline, which shut operations in April 2019 and had accumulated debt of nearly ₹8,500 crore.After conducting a probe, MRA Marg police filed a closure report in March, having found no evidence of cheating; and sought closure on the grounds that it was a civil case. ATIPL had questioned the closure report and had filed a protest petition seeking re-investigation. The magistrate court had in December 2020 rejected the protest petition of ATIPL and closed the case by accepting the closure report. Against the order of the magistrate court, ATIPL had moved the sessions court.ATIPL had contended that ‘the respondents (Jet Airways and its directors) despite knowing that the company is heading for eventual collapses, fraudulently induced the applicant’s company to invest with them for their benefit and wrongful loss to the applicant company.’The lawyers for Jet Airways had argued that there would not have been smooth business between applicant and respondent no.2 till October-2018 though an agreement was executed, which is in question dated April 01, 2018.The court considering this held, “by no stretch of the imagination I can arrive at a conclusion that since 01/04/2018 the respondent No. 2 to 4 were having the intention to cheat the applicant and that’s why only has given an offer of incentive though they were aware that the respondent no.2 is running into losses.’The airways had also pleaded that the matter about the financial disputes was before The National Company Law Tribunal. The court was informed that the NCLT has approved the resolution plan for Jet Airways.Hence the court said, “once the Resolution Plan is approved by Hon’ble NCLT then immunity is given to company under the said act for an offence committed prior to commencement of said of resolution of the plan. As such considering the immunity given under section 32-A of Insolvency Act and Bankruptcy Code amendment act 2020, no case for any offence committed by the said company prior to Resolution Plan cannot be taken up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cheating-case-against-jet-airways-directors-court-rejects-closure-petition-101628535318220.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Lake levels that give drinking water to city 80.6% full||The total water stock in the seven lakes that provide drinking water to Mumbai is at 80.6%, or 1,166,623 million litres, compared to 50.5%, or 731,283 litres the same day last year, and 91.4% or 1,324,007 litres on the same day in 2019. The available stock as of Monday morning will suffice the city for over 270 days. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) provides 3,850 million litres of water to the city per day. The city receives its drinking water supply from Upper Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tansa, Middle Vaitarna, Bhatsa, Vihar, and Tulsi lakes, whose total water capacity is 1,447,363 million litres. Tulsi lake was the first one to overflow this monsoon, on July 16, followed by Vihar on July 18. Modak Sagar and Tansa lake overflowed on July 22. Through the monsoon, Tulsi lake has received the maximum amount of total rainfall at 3,260mm and has 100% useful water content at present, followed by Vihar (2,182mm rainfall, 100% useful water content). Upper Vaitarna has received a total of 1,594mm of rainfall this monsoon and has 64.2% useful water content. Modak Sagar has received 1,987mm rainfall and has 96.8% useful water content, and Tansa has received 1,791mm and has 99.1% useful water content. Middle Vaitarna has received 1,656 mm rain and has 83.8% useful water content, and Bhatsa has received 1,740mm rainfall, and has 76.3% useful water content at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-lake-levels-that-give-drinking-water-to-city-80-6-full-101628535317082.html
10-08-2021||Lucknow||Draft law on population control: UP Law Commission classifies suggestions into 53 categories||The State Law Commission has classified the suggestions it has received on its draft law on population control into 53 categories which vary from allowing a third child to a couple who have two daughters and if any of the two children is physically challenged. State Law Commission chairman Justice AN Mittal, a former judge of the Allahabad high court, has completed the draft of the Uttar Pradesh Population Control, Stabilisation and Welfare Bill, 2021. The commission has sought an appointment with chief minister Yogi Adityanath to hand over the report to him. “The State Law Commission has received wide-ranging suggestions. People have suggested permission for a third child to parents who have two daughters,” said Justice AN Mittal. On July 9, the commission had uploaded the draft of the Uttar Pradesh Population Control, Stabilisation and Welfare Bill, 2021, on its website seeking suggestions in 10 days (till July 19) from the public on the proposed law. According to the draft law, those who have more than two children will not be entitled to apply for a government job. Those who are already in government job will be debarred from promotion. In addition, such parents will not be able to avail of the benefits of 77 government schemes. The commission received 8500 responses on email with some of them criticising, appreciating and giving suggestions to make the law more effective. “Some have also suggested permission for a third child to couples whose children are physically challenged,” Justice Mittal said. The commission has also received suggestions about imposing fine on couples who opt for a third child. The commission has also received suggestions for banning people who have three children from contesting parliamentary and assembly elections. SUGGESTIONS RECEIVED BY COMMISSION Allowing third child to a couple who have two daughters. Allowing third child to a couple whose children, any one of the two, are physically challenged. Barring people who have more than two children from contesting MP and MLA elections. Some have suggested permitting three children to all couples. Extending several benefits to couples who have only one child. Revoking the right to vote of couples who have more than two children. Denying the benefits of reservation to couples who have more than two children. THE DRAFT BILL Disadvantages of more than two children. According to the draft law, those who have more than two children will not be entitled to apply for a government job. Those who are already in government jobs will be debarred from promotion. In addition, such parents will not be able to avail benefits of 77 government schemes. Benefits to those who abide by law Parents having one child will get several benefits. If such parents are in government job then they will get increment, promotion and various concessions in government housing scheme. If they are not in government job, then such parents will get rebate in water tax, house tax, home loan, and various other concessions. In addition, if a parent with one child opts for vasectomy then the child will be entitled to free medical facilities till the age of 20 years, education and insurance. This child will also get preference in government jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/draft-law-on-population-control-up-law-commission-classifies-suggestions-into-53-categories-101628535199295.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hot, humid conditions to remain for a week||With just 0.6mm of rain at Santacruz on Monday, the ongoing dry phase of the monsoon in the city is showing no signs of abating. In the week ending August 4, Mumbai recorded a 69% deficit in rain, seeing just 48.8mm of precipitation against the seasonal normal of 160mm.The dry spell has also seen a steady rise in temperatures since August 4, with Monday’s daytime maximum at 32.5 degrees Celsius (up from 30.4 degrees Celsius a week ago). This is the third time in a decade that August temperatures have touched 32.5 degrees Celsius, and follows last year’s 10-year high of 33.5 degrees Celsius (on August 3). The city had previously touched a daytime high of 33.5 degrees Celsius (a record for August) on August 26, 1969.As per the India Meteorological Department’s seven-day forecast for the city, “generally cloudy sky with moderate rain” is expected until at least August 13. With higher chances of rain expected August 14 onward, a dip in temperature is also expected around that time. The relative humidity, meanwhile, dipped from 90% a week ago to 74% on Monday. “The humidity has dipped because the temperature is rising and rain is not adding moisture to the air,” said a meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.The ongoing break in the monsoon, IMD officials said, is due to the lack of any sustained large scale weather systems in the region. With no vigorous monsoon trough in the vicinity, and without any low pressure systems in the Bay of Bengal, the influence of rain bearing westerly winds has become subdued, with a chance of revival only after August 14. Until then below normal rains are likely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hot-humid-conditions-to-remain-for-a-week-101628535078224.html
10-08-2021||Other||Over 14% Lucknowites fully vaccinated now||LUCKNOW: The count of fully vaccinated people in Lucknow crossed the 5-lakh mark on Monday with over 14% of the population now getting both the doses. Over 29,129 doses administered during the day took the count of fully vaccinated people in Lucknow to 5,07,191 (14.49% of the population) while the total jab count rose to 21,57,078, including 16,49,887 first doses, according to data from the health department. Of the total, 12,23,418 doses were administered to male and 9,32,889 to female beneficiaries in the state capital. “The daily average vaccination in Lucknow is over 27,000 for the past few days. It was around 20,000 in July. The rise in average doses indicates more people are coming out to take the jab,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Of the total doses administered in Lucknow, 18,16,445 were Covishield, 3,29,987 Covaxin and 10,646 Sputnik vaccine. Across Uttar Pradesh, 8,18,492 doses were administered on Monday and the total number of doses administered till now reached 54447724. “We are arranging special booths such as parents special and women special to motivate people to come and take the vaccine dose. Special drives/camps for different segments such as teachers are also being organised to boost vaccination in the district,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-14-lucknowites-fully-vaccinated-now-101628534957133.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Panchkula records no new case for third day||For the third consecutive day, no fresh Covid-19 case was reported in Panchkula, with active cases dropping to nine on Monday. The district has not reported any virus-related death for the past 17 days.Meanwhile, the tricity’s daily tally dropped to seven from the previous day’s 13.In a respite to Mohali residents, the district recorded only one fresh infection on Monday, against nine a day before. The patient is a resident of Gharuan. Also, no death was reported in Mohali for ninth consecutive days. However, with six new cases, Chandigarh witnessed an uptick, from four on Sunday. The cases are scattered across patients are residents of Sector 28, Burail, Dhanas, Mauli Jagran, Palsora and Ram Darbar. The active caseload in the tricity stands at 78, with Mohali accounting for 42 and Chandigarh for 27.So far, 68,493 people in Mohali have tested positive, of whom 67,394 have successfully beaten the virus and 1,057 have died.In Chandigarh, 61,146 out of the 61,984 total patients have recovered and 811 have succumbed to the virus. Of the 30,650 infections in Panchkula so far, 30,265 have recovered and 376 have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-panchkula-records-no-new-case-for-third-day-101628534897074.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra forest department yet to ask for mangrove count for NMIIA||Amid the push for transfer of mangroves to the state for safekeeping, the forest department is yet to ask the now denotified Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ) for assessment of the mangrove cover on its 1,250-hectare property in Uran, Raigad district. This is despite evidence of mangrove cover on the land, say environmentalists, who have been tracking the destruction of wetlands in Uran taluka. The erstwhile NMSEZ entity, which migrated to an Integrated Industrial Area (IIA) in March 2019 under the state’s industrial policy, has previously been pulled up by the Raigad administration and forest department for destruction of an estimated 4,500 mangroves in Pagote. A government official privy to the matter, preferring anonymity, said that as the NMIIA is a public-private-partnership (PPP) between City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) and three other private entities, it is being treated as private land. “The state has no jurisdiction to take over the mangroves there, unlike in case of other public entities such as the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation or municipalities,” the official said. A representative of the erstwhile NMSEZ did not respond to request for a comment on Monday. Despite attempts, HT was unable to contact Cidco’s newly appointed environment officer for a response. Environmentalists, however, pointed out that state-run Cidco continues to hold 26% equity in the NMIIA. “Cidco handed over 282 hectares of mangroves in Raigad district to the forest department earlier this month. It should also assess and hand over the mangroves on the NMIIA land,” said BN Kumar, environmentalist with the Navi Mumbai-based NatConnect Foundation. Moreover, NMIIA has not been included as a respondent in a recent public interest litigation filed by NGO Vanashakti, seeking compliance with the Bombay High Court’s 2018 judgment, ordering transfer of all mangroves in Maharashtra to the government. Stalin D, director of Vanashakti, clarified, “This is because Cidco has been included as a respondent. They are still the custodians of the land which has been leased out for the integrated industrial area.” NatConnect has now written to the chief minister to look into this anomaly, and called for an inspection of the property on the basis of the existing coastal zone management plan (CZMP) maps, which indicate presence of mangroves across Cidco’s Dronagiri node in Navi Mumbai, Panje, Pagote, Kunde and other spots. The CMO, on August 7, forwarded the inquiry to the forest and environment departments for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-forest-department-yet-to-ask-for-mangrove-count-for-nmiia-101628534836952.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Akali leader’s murder: Two attackers identified, say Mohali police||Two days after Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera, aka Vicky Middukhera, 33, was shot dead in broad daylight in Sector 71, Mohali, police on Monday claimed to have identified two of the four assailants.According to the CCTV footage and eyewitness account, the four assailants had come in a white Hyundai i20 car and were waiting for Vicky, who was visiting a property dealer on Saturday morning. While two of them kept sitting in the car, the other two chased Vicky and fired at him repeatedly as he was about to sit in his SUV around 10:30am. After the attack, the assailants had fled towards Kharar via Sector 76, the investigations have revealed. According to the a senior police officer, privy to the investigations, one of the shooters and a man who was sitting in the car have been identified. “We will be disclosing the names soon,” said the cop.Sources said police suspect the murder was executed by the same men who killed Youth Congress leader Sukhmeet Singh Deputy in Jalandhar on June 20, as the style and sequence of both crimes were identical. Meanwhile, senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh, who is leading the investigations said: “We have got vital leads and are very close to cracking the case.” In the past two days, police have questioned around 25 persons, who are associated with gangster Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, the prime suspect. He is at present lodged in jail in Armenia, from where he is reported to be running the operations of the Davinder Bambiha gang, which has claimed responsibility for Vicky’s murder. On Monday, the Mohali police also brought gangster Sukhpreet Budda, who is Lucky’s close aide, for questioning from the Sangrur jail. He has been lodged there since January 2020.Hours after the murder on Saturday, the Bambiha gang had taken responsibility for the attack in a Facebook post. It claimed that Vicky was killed as he was allegedly acting as an “informer” for the rival Lawrence Bishnoi gang. Both gangs are running extortion racket in the region. A day before Vicky’s murder, police in the neighbouring Panchkula district had also arrested two sharp shooters of the Bambiha gang, who were allegedly planning to eliminate Bishnoi gang members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youth-akali-leader-s-murder-two-attackers-identified-say-mohali-police-101628534717151.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: 15-year-old girl booked for killing mother over studies||Rabale police have registered a case against a 15-year-old girl for allegedly killing her 41-year-old mother at their residence in Sector 7, Airoli. The murder was committed on July 30.The girl stayed with her mother (a home maker), father (an engineer) and six-year-old brother. The parents of the juvenile wanted her to become a doctor and had enrolled her for the NEET classes. On July 27, her father scolded her for playing on the phone following which she left the house and went to her uncle’s house nearby. The mother then went and called her back to which the daughter said that she was fed up of the harassment over studies and would go to police station to file a complaint against them. The mother then took the daughter directly to the police station, after which the police counselled them.On July 30, at around 2.30pm, the mother started shouting at the girl over studies again. During the fight, the mother took out a knife to threaten the girl. “The girl thought that the mother was going to kill her and she pushed her following which the mother got a head injury as she hit the corner of a cot. The mother was semi-conscious and tried to grab a karate belt that was lying nearby. On seeing this, the girl grabbed the belt and strangulated the mother till she died,” an officer from Rabale police station said.After making sure that she died, the girl used her mother’s phone and sent a WhatsApp message to her father and uncle saying ‘I tried everything I quit’. She then took the key of the latch from the outside of the door and inserted it from the inside and closed the door. The girl then called her father on phone and told that the mother was not opening the door. The father, who was at office, informed the uncle who went home and kicked open the door to find his sister lying dead on the bed with the karate belt around her neck.“The police officials were doubtful about it being a suicide due to the way the body was lying. After interrogating all the family members, we suspected the girl. After we took her into confidence, she narrated what happened,” senior police inspector Yogesh Gawade said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-15-year-old-girl-booked-for-killing-mother-over-studies-101628534658423.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Diarrhoea outbreak claims two lives, 170 infected||A day after a three-year-old girl died due to diarrhoea in Zirakpur’s Baltana area, a 30-year-old man also succumbed to the infection on Monday while the condition of three other residents is stated to be serious. Meanwhile, 170 more cases were reported from three localities in Baltana: Ekta Vihar, Ravindra Enclave and Harmilap Nagar. The teams of the health department held a medical camp in the area and door-to-door survey to examine the patients. Around 60 have been admitted to the civil hospital in Panchkula.The water supply from tubewells was stopped on Monday and water tankers were deployed for the residents. However, the civic body has failed to find the source of water contamination that has led to the outbreak. The man who died on Monday has been identified as Ravinder Kumar of Ekta Vihar, who worked as a labourer. Confirming his death, Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “He had complained of vomiting and loose motions.”Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has sought a report from the subdivisional magistrate. “A medical team and ambulance have been permanently stationed in the area,” he said, adding that water samples have been collected from the tubewell for testing.Girish Verma, executive officer, Zirakpur municipal council, who was at the spot, said a team is checking the source of contamination as is it suspected that sewage and stormwater is mixing with the drinking water.Akali Dal MLA NK Sharma, who visited the area, said: “It is unfortunate that the Congress government has completely failed to do its job. We demand a murder case should be registered against the officials responsible for the contamination besides ₹25 lakh each for the families of the victim.”Last month, a nine-year-old boy had died and around 400 people got infected due to cholera outbreak in Abheypur and Budhanpur villages in the neighbouring Panchkula district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-diarrhoea-outbreak-claims-two-lives-170-infected-101628534479868.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man arrested for bid to kill daughter, staging son’s death to bring back estranged wife||The Kurar police on Sunday arrested a man for trying to kill his 13-year-old daughter and staging the death of his eight-year-old son to bring back his estranged wife from her village. Police officers said that complainant Suchita Gaud told them that her brother was an alcoholic who used to assault his wife and children. She told police that two years ago, Ajay’s wife left for her village and did not return. On Sunday, Gaud called his wife and informed her that their son had died and daughter had committed suicide. The officers said that he sent his wife a picture of their son’s framed photo with a garland on it and covered him in a white bedsheet. He then made his daughter climb on a bucket and put a noose hanging from the ceiling fan around her neck. He then allegedly tried to kill the girl by pushing the bucket away, but she started to scream that she did not want to die. Hearing her cries, neighbours gathered outside the house and broke open the door. They contacted the Kurar police and reported the incident. Prakash Bele, senior police inspector of Kurar police station, said they have rescued the children. “We have arrested Gaud on charges of attempt to murder, assault and threatening under sections 307, 323, 507(2) of the Indian Penal Code,” Bele said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-bid-to-kill-daughter-staging-son-s-death-to-bring-back-estranged-wife-101628534478749.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 7-month pregnant woman booked for accidental murder of her daughter||In a freak incident, an accidental push by her seven-month pregnant mother led to the death of a two-year old girl in Virar on Saturday evening, said police. According to police, the incident took place when Neha Soni, 30, was washing clothes. The two-year-old, Nansi, entered the bathroom, while her sibling, Ananya, 1, was playing in the hall alone. Neha warned Nansi to leave the bathroom, but as Nansi kept pestering her, Soni slapped her, said police. The child lost her balance and hit her head on the door of the bathroom, added police. Her husband, Sonukumar, 32, an auto driver, was at work at the time of the incident, said police. Soni and Sonukumar rushed Nansi to a private hospital, where the doctor declared her dead before arrival. The couple decided to bury the child at a civic crematorium, but as they had no death certificate from a registered doctor, locals alerted the Virar police, after which the incident came to light. On Monday, the Virar police registered a case of murder. “We registered a case of accidental death and sent the body for post-mortem. The report arrived on Sunday, confirming the child’s neck bone was broken. We have registered a case of murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. We will arrest the accused after the funeral rituals are over,” said sub-inspector Changdev Handal of Virar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-7-month-pregnant-woman-booked-for-accidental-murder-of-her-daughter-101628534359869.html
10-08-2021||Other||Ganga, Yamuna flowing above danger mark in Prayagraj||: The Ganga and the Yamuna crossed danger mark (84.73mts) in Prayagraj on Monday morning. With the water still rising in both the rivers and inundating fresh areas on its banks, district administration has begun evacuating affected families and moving them to safer places and to flood-relief camps. The water level in river Ganga as recorded at 8am at Phaphamau was 85.08 mts while at Chhatnag, it was 84.29 mt. Likewise, water level of Yamuna at Naini was recorded at 84.90 mt. Water level in both Ganga and Yamuna increased with a pace of around 6cm every two hours. Because of the rising water, the water level at all the three recording points of the rivers (as recorded at 4pm) increased to 85.27 mt at Phaphamau and 84.49 mt at Chhatnag. Water level of Yamuna was recorded at 85.13mts at Naini. The water level, as recorded by the irrigation department, is still increasing at a rate of 4cm at Phaphamau, 3cm at Chhatnag (Ganga) and 6cm in Naini (Yamuna). With the increase in volume of water in both the rivers, flood water has entered further into the localities that are already affected, including Ganga Nagar, Nevada, Ashok Nagar, Beli Gaon, parts of Rajapur, Salori, Bada and Chota Baghara, Badra and Sanauti, Daraganj and Nagvasuki etc. Similarly, with the level of water increasing in Yamuna, flood water has reached the Baradari on the banks of Yamuna at Baluaghat, Gaus nagar, JK Ashiana, parts of Karelabagh and other areas located on the banks of Yamuna. Several flood relief camps setup by the administration are providing facilities to flood affected people. Meanwhile, administration and NDRF (national disaster relief force) is helping the locals to shift to safer places as well as keeping a strict vigil on the flood level. “We are keeping a close watch on the water level and since the water level in the upstream of Yamuna is increasing, the same trend would continue here at Prayagraj and further downstream towards Varanasi”, said executive engineer of irrigation department, Brijesh Kumar Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ganga-yamuna-flowing-above-danger-mark-in-prayagraj-101628534358278.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: No processions on Muharram amid Covid pandemic||In the wake of the Covid pandemic, the Maharashtra government on Monday ordered people to observe Muharram in a simple manner and without any procession to avoid crowding. This is the second consecutive year when no religious processions are allowed for any community in the state. The state also said that people living in one housing society are also not allowed to gather for mourning and they should mourn inside their homes. Muharram is observed by Muslims with abstinence and prayers to mourn the martyrdom of Hazrat Imam Hussain in the battle of Karbala in the seventh century. It marks the first and one of the sacred months of the Islamic calendar. It will be observed on August 18 and 19. “In line with the ban imposed on social and religious programmes by the Centre and the state government, the processions will not be allowed this year. People are expected to mourn inside their homes…,” states the circular. The state has also prohibited taking out Tazia (a replica of the tomb of Imam Hussain) to observe Muharram. For setting up ‘Sabeels’ (stalls that provide free drinking water), permission should be obtained from the local administration and not more than two persons are allowed to be present there. Water should be distributed only in sealed bottles from ‘Sabeels’ and cleanliness along with Covid protocols should be observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-no-processions-on-muharram-amid-covid-pandemic-101628534057294.html
10-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees dip in reporting of adverse events post Covid-19 vaccination||Mumbai has recorded a drastic drop in reporting of adverse events post Covid-19 vaccinations over the past several weeks. Civic officials said the initial fear and anxiety associated with the vaccines and their common side effects have settled down resulting in the drop in reports of adverse events. However, medical experts warn that such a trend may eventually lead to missing out on severe Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI). In the first few months after the Covid-19 vaccination drive began on January 16, the city recorded anywhere between 5 to 15 adverse events every day. However, the daily reporting on most days now is zero. For instance, between August 1 to 7, Mumbai administered 2.91 lakh doses and recorded only seven adverse events (six with Covishield and one with Covaxin). Similarly, in the last week of July, the city administered 4.98 lakh doses and recorded 10 adverse events (all with Covishield).AEFI’s are classified into minor, severe and serious events. Any adverse event that leads to hospitalisation is considered a serious event. “In the initial days, there was a lot of fear associated with the vaccine, not just among the public but also among the vaccination centres,” said Dr Mukesh Agarwal, chairperson of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) AEFI committee. “Therefore, centres were admitting people with all kinds of common side effects like fever, headache etc. Because of the hospitalisation, a lot of these minor adverse events were being counted as serious events,” he said. Minor AEFI’s consisting of the common side effects like fever, mild headache, pain and swelling at the site of the injection are not actively investigated. However, all serious AEFI’s have to be investigated by the AEFI committee. Earlier the committee would investigate anywhere between 30 to 40 serious AEFI cases in a month, as many minor cases were getting hospitalised as well. Since May, the numbers dropped drastically with no cases coming up for analysis for several weeks. Mumbai has so far administered over 7.5 million doses. According to the civic data up to June, nearly 990 adverse events and 24 fatalities have been recorded in the city. About 66 adverse events were in the severe and serious category. “A robust AEFI reporting mechanism is crucial and it should be promoted widely among the people who are getting vaccinated,” said immunisation expert Dr Naveen Thacker. “But in most cities or districts, people don’t have easy access to this information,” he said. According to Thacker, not just serious adverse events, people should be able to easily report minor events as well. A senior health official said that one of the many reasons for low AEFI reporting is ‘vaccinators fatigue’. “There is a possibility that vaccinators get calls from people, but they are not recording it in the system. Many of these may be minor or severe AEFI’s. The vaccinators have been working nonstop since the drive began, and it’s obvious for such fatigue to set in.” The official said that while some minor and severe events may go unreported, deaths post-vaccination don’t go unreported. *How are AEFI’s classified? Minor AEFI: Fever, mild headache, pain and swelling at the site of the injection, irritability are some of the common side effects of the Covid-19 vaccines. Any such side effects that don’t require active treatment and subside in a day or two are classified as minor events. In such events, paracetamol can be used to alleviate the symptoms. Severe AEFI: Any event post-vaccination that requires some medical intervention but not hospitalisation can be classified as a severe event. For example, if swelling at the site of the injection becomes an abscess and the person has to be put on medication for it. Serious AEFI: Any event that requires hospitalisation is classified as a serious event. These can also be events that are seen in clusters or that lead to death. *Reporting AEFI -Adverse events seen within a half-hour of vaccination are recorded directly in the observation area -One can report adverse events at the vaccination centre or to the vaccinator directly. -If standalone vaccination centres don’t have any contact information, adverse events can be reported to the ward war rooms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-dip-in-reporting-of-adverse-events-post-covid-19-vaccination-101628533936986.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Legal drinking age brought down to bring parity with other states: Delhi govt||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Monday informed the Delhi high court that the decision to bring down the legal age for drinking in the national capital was taken to have parity with other states, especially neighbouring cities such as Noida and Ghaziabad.Delhi was one of only six states or union territories that pegged the benchmark at 25. An expert committee set up by the government recommended in December that the legal drinking age be changed to 21.Announcing the new age in March, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also said that government will introduce the system of “age-gating” in the city wherein persons below 21 years will not be allowed to enter any restaurant, pub or club that serves liquor by themselves. The change in rules is part of the new Delhi excise policy which aims to reform the city’s liquor business by improving user experience, cleaning up the liquor mafia and eradicating pilferage.In an affidavit before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, the Delhi government said a Group of Ministers (GoM) received many suggestions to end the disparity between the business practices carried out in Delhi and neighbouring cities such as Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad such as minimum age of person who can be served liquor, dry days, time restrictions, etc.The 606-page affidavit, filed by standing counsel (civil) Santosh Kumar Tripathi, said, “……the state will ensure sufficient checks and balance which are in place viz. age profiling of the people who are placing order(s) vide proper check of government issued identification.” It is also stated that in States of West Bengal and Orissa, similar amendments have been made in their excise rules and accordingly the same can be implemented in the State of Delhi whilst ensuing compliance of necessary conditions as it may deem fit.The GoM was constituted by Delhi Cabinet on February 5, 2021 to examine all aspects of current system, report of the expert committee and the suggestions/feedback/ comments received from the stakeholders/general public.The GoM recommended that legal age for drinking should be brought in line with majority of states in India such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand and West Bengal etc.The Delhi government’s affidavit was filed in response to a bunch of petitions challenging the new excise policy of Delhi, including one by All India Bhrashtachar Virodhi Morcha which challenged the provision to reduce the legal drinking age.On Monday, the court adjourned till August 27 other petitions, challenging the new excise policy, and granted time to the Delhi government to bring on record its counter affidavit.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing Delhi government, informed the court that ₹10,000 crore has been earned by Delhi” pursuant to the new excise policy.Such revenue is higher than most states in India, Singhvi said.The Delhi government has already earned ₹5,300 crore from auctioning alcohol licences for 20 of the city’s 32 zones and looks set to double its excise revenue by netting a record ₹10,000 crore in the first few months of the new liberalised liquor policy.The city government has also defended its decision to allow the home delivery of liquor, citing a Supreme Court judgment of May 8, 2020 allowing states to consider non-direct sale including online sale/home delivery of liquor.Opposing a plea by BJP MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma, who has challenged the provision to allow home delivery of liquor, the Delhi government said the provision will result in less overcrowding outside the liquor store/shops.Defending its ambitious liquor policy, the city government said that it will bring ease of doing business by eliminating cartelization, proxy players.The city government also said that it took a policy decision to exit from the business of sale of liquor, in consonance with the GoM’s recommendation that the government has no business to be selling alcohol and that it should completely exit the liquor trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/legal-drinking-age-brought-down-to-bring-parity-with-other-states-delhi-govt-tells-hc-101628532798309.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Experts call for system to bridge DU's digital divide||Even as admissions to Delhi University’s undergraduate courses began on August 2, experts feel the lack of a centralised system to track students requiring assistance to access online classes will affect many as colleges do not follow a uniform procedure to identify them.Though university officials said that collecting this data during the registration process may discourage aspirants from applying to DU, several stakeholders and experts said educational institutes need to formulate a uniform plan to track students affected by the digital divide.Educational institutes have been shut down in the Capital since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, moving the teaching-learning process online. Even as many students reported challenges while pursuing online education, the tragic death by suicide of a 19-year-old undergraduate student from Lady Shri Ram College for Women in November, allegedly due to a lack of devices to attend online classes and losing her hostel seat over policy changes, jolted colleges and universities across the capital into action.For instance, LSR also set up a digital inclusion club along with reaching out to students with financial and mental health support.Students’ union president Karthika Sajeev, a final-year student of political science, said, “As a means to ensure that the incident wasn’t repeated, we have a digital inclusion club led by college administration and supported by our alumni. Through this club, college tries to identify students who don’t have a laptop. We also have a tech-support group where students can reach out if they have issues and we can assign someone to help them.”Several DU colleges, including LSR, St Stephen’s College, Hindu College, Miranda House and Ramjas College, have offered scholarships to needy students and arranged for devices by roping in alumni members, wherever required, along with forming task forces to address the matter.However, its implementation has been patchy as only a few DU colleges have systems in place to track students who require laptops or internet data packs to attend online classes during the pandemic. Most colleges continue to put the onus of asking for assistance on students, which many feel might leave some students behind.Educationist Meeta Sengupta said that maintaining such data on students and studying how each student accesses the internet will help institutes in devising hybrid teaching-learning plans as well. “Ideally, universities and colleges should conduct a survey once the admission is confirmed and develop a mechanism to find out where each student stands. Along with lack of devices and internet, educational institutes also have to understand how students having these facilities are using it so that they can design teaching plans accordingly,” she said.University officials, however, feel the move may deter applicants. Rajeev Gupta, dean of students’ welfare, said, “Asking for such information may discourage students from applying as they may think that they need these things to fit into DU. We have to consider that aspect as well. Once they are admitted into colleges, they can reach out to college administration asking for assistance. The laptops distributed under the FYUP (four year undergraduate programme) schemes are still with colleges and they can be given to needy students.”Most colleges HT spoke to said they have asked students to write to them in case they needed help, but such help will require outstation students to visit to campus at least once to collect the devices, which may not be easy for all.DU executive council member Seema Das further said that it is not prudent to expect all students to know about their rights to access education. “Those from marginalised backgrounds may not have the awareness that they can seek help from the system. These are just 18- or 19-year-olds who have no idea that they have a right to education and can ask for assistance. It will be better to formulate a survey to find out how many students need help. We also have to account for the financial distress of the pandemic and see how the cost of education has gone up in terms of internet charges. Students had to buy devices to continue their education even if it meant taking loans,” she said.Falit Sijariya, a second-year student of St Stephen’s College (SSC), said that he learned about his college offering laptops to those in need only after he returned to the hostel in January this year. “There is no proper mechanism for college to track students who don’t have devices. It was working on a word-of-mouth basis. It is only after I started living on campus that my seniors told me about this provision and we were able to tell others on how to go about this process,” he said.Teachers have also called for streamlining the assistance schemes, ahead of the new academic session.Former DU teachers’ association president Nandita Narain, who is also the teachers’ representative of SSC governing body, said that the college departments were asked to send in names of needy students. “But this has happened only once in the previous academic cycle. Instead of expecting students to reach out to us, we should reach out to them. Before the classes begin for the new batch of students, a transparent and proper mechanism for providing assistance to students should be developed,” she said.A handful of DU colleges, including Aryabhatta College, are among the few institutes augmenting their existing systems to ensure that they are prepared for the upcoming batch. Principal Manoj Sinha, who is also the general secretary of the DU principals’ association, said, “We distributed around 300 laptops in the last academic cycle and are preparing for around 500 devices in the current academic session. While it is difficult to maintain class-wise data, we have been sending emails to students and asking teachers-in-charge to get in touch with each class so that we are able to reach all students.”Aurobindo College principal said that when they sent out the email, only a few first-year students came to college to collect the laptops. “The attendance for online classes has been more than that for offline classes. This means that all students have access to devices and have been attending lessons. We had sent out an email to students last year asking them to collect laptops from the college if they needed them. However, there is no mechanism in place for outstation students,” he said.Experts, however, said that attendance cannot be a parameter for the accessibility, with Sengupta pointing out that a student may access classes on their phone but the quality of the internet or the device may not aid learning. “There are students who may not be able to follow the full lecture if their internet connection is poor. Though they will be marked as present, their learning process is being hampered. This is where the data, if recorded, could help. Teachers could form learning plans based on the kind of internet access and availability the students have. This can be used after the pandemic as well,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-du-admissions-begin-many-in-delhi-call-for-a-centralised-system-to-track-students-affected-by-digital-learning-divide-101628532616294.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt outlines guidelines for students of classes 10-12 to return to school||Vaccinating teachers on priority, explicit consent from parents of students willing to attend school, and restrictions on sharing stationery or books in classrooms — these are among the guidelines the state education department recommended for institutions to thwart the spread of Covid-19, a day after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority allowed students of classes 10, 11 and 12 to visit school for admissions and board exam-related work.“Online classes/digital distance learning will continue and students who wish to continue their studies through online classes will be allowed to do so. The concerned head of school shall make specific schedules as per the capacity of the classroom/labs following Covid-appropriate behaviour,” the directorate of education said in a circular issued to all schools on Monday.All willing students between classes 10 and 12 will be allowed to visit schools, except students and staff members from containment zones.Everyone on premises will be required to stay socially distant and wear masks all the time, said the guidelines.“Proper sanitisation of school premises including frequent sanitisation of common areas like washrooms etc shall be ensured by the head of school concerned,” the circular added.Schools have also been directed to thermally screen all staff members and students, and those with flu-like symptoms will be asked to return. Teachers will be deputed at school gates during entry and exit periods to ensure distancing protocols are followed even outside the school’s premises. When classes resumed briefly between January and February this year for students of classes 9 to 12, several principals and teachers flagged the issue of overcrowding outside schools.With the Capital’s Covid-19 caseload at a nearly 16-month low, several schools and parents inquired with the government if schools will reopen for senior students. This is mainly because of the two-term board examination introduced by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) this year to prepare for an “unprecedented situation” arising due to the pandemic next year. The first set of board examinations for Class 10 and 12 students is set to take place between November and December this year.However, government schools and several private schools in the Capital, including The Indian Public School, Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, Army Public School in Shankar Vihar, Amity International School in Pushp Vihar, said they are not likely to open before next week.Principals explained that while standard operating protocols were drawn up in January this year, schools needed to acquire consent forms from parents and hold sessions to ease the students back to school. Preparing laboratories and working out a schedule with teachers to allot students into small groups will take a few days, schools said.“Our school has also planned that only teachers at least partially vaccinated will be allowed to come to school. Our priority will be Class 12 students. We will issue consent slips to parents in a day or two and will decide upon the batches based on the responses. We will give parents time to think about it after informing them of the safety protocols being put in place. It is likely that we will open by next week,” said Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School.Malini Narayanan, principal of Army Public School in Shankar Vihar and chairperson of National Progressive Schools’ Conference, which has 122 schools under it, said, “Most of our schools will start calling students from next week. Our laboratories are large enough and we have started the sanitisation process already. We will not run buses or call students every day. Children will come once or twice a week and can catch up on the remaining work at home. We have conducted walk-throughs with parents to ensure they are confident of sending their children to school.”Not all schools in the city are keen on calling back students now, though.Madhulika Sen, director of Tagore International School, said, “We are supposed to call them for any of three reasons — counselling, practicals, or admission formalities. All of these can be done online. Our practical work has been scheduled for between September-October so we will call students then. If students want to come for counselling, only that will be allowed.”Government schools in the Capital have also begun the process of consultation with students and teachers. The education department has asked district deputy directors of education (DDEs) to vaccinate teachers and school staff by August 23. Several Delhi government schools are also serving as vaccination centres and will have to take special care to arrange for classes.Government school principal Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of Vice and Principals’ Association of Delhi, said they will start classes from August 16. “We have around three vaccination sites and require only three rooms for the process and that can be conducted in the primary wing. We will have separate entry-exit points for those coming to get vaccinated and those coming for academic activities along with supervision. Initially, we will start with teachers demonstrating the practicals and students can just observe. Students will be divided into smaller groups to hold practicals,” he said.Class 11 admission process has already started in Delhi government schools, and it will take around a month to complete the formalities, principals said. Government school students will have to come to school to discuss their subject interests based on their class 10 scores for the admission process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-outlines-guidelines-for-students-of-classes-10-12-to-return-to-school-for-admissions-or-board-exam-work-101628532556207.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||4 of crowd that raised anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar identified||The Delhi Police on Monday said they have registered a first information report (FIR) in connection with a video circulating on social media in which some people are seen raising anti-Muslim and inflammatory slogans near Jantar Mantar in central Delhi on Sunday.The police added that they have identified four suspects who are seen in the video raising communal and inflammatory slogans. A senior officer who asked not to be named said raids are being conducted in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida and Gurugram to nab the suspects.The slogans were raised purportedly at an event organised on Sunday to demand abolition of colonial-era laws. The officer said the organisers, including former Delhi BJP spokersperson and Supreme Court lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay may be asked to join the investigation.The FIR has been registered against unknown persons under Indian Penal Code’s (IPC) sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) at the Connaught Place police station.“A case has been registered against relevant sections of law in the Sunday’s matter. Investigation is in progress,” said deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav.The purported video was circulated on social media with allegations that the communal sloganeering took place during the event organised on Sunday at a road near Jantar Mantar by Upadhyay under the banner of Bharat Jodo Andolan (unite India movement). Police said permission was not granted for holding the event.Upadhyay refuted the allegations, saying that inflammatory slogans were not raised during the event that started around 11am and was over by noon.“We started our event at 11am, and left after concluding it at noon, because the crowd started swelling up. No inflammatory slogans were raised during our event. If the video is genuine, I believe that the sloganeering may have happened either before our event or afterwards. I learnt about the video around 8pm on Sunday, when it was circulated on social media and some people started tagging me with intent to defame me. I don’t know the people sloganeering in the video, have never met them, nor they were called for the event,” said Upadhyay.Many people, including Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, criticised the incident and have sought police action. “What a disgrace to read of an unauthorised BJP demonstration where communal slogans & hate speech were voiced…Expecting exemplary action from @DelhiPolice – only stern action & condign punishment will prevent such misbehaviour recurring,” Tharoor tweeted on Monday morning.Dissociating himself from the communal sloganeering and the suspects, Upadhyay said he has filed a written complaint with DCP (New Delhi), seeking an investigation to verify the authenticity of the video and strict action against the people for spreading “religious frenzy”.Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, also denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. “The protest was held to demand abolishing 222 British laws. We have seen the video, but have no idea who they are. The police should take strict action against the persons who raised the slogans,” she said.A police officer said, “A huge crowd turned up for the event and the number was constantly increasing. The Covid-19 guidelines such as maintaining social distancing and wearing masks were not followed.”“We are verifying the authenticity of the video and trying to ascertain when and where exactly it was shot. Further action will be taken,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-of-crowd-that-raised-anti-muslim-slogans-at-jantar-mantar-identified-101628532496890.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to launch ‘faceless’ transport services on Wednesday||The Delhi government will launch on August 11 “faceless transport services” that entails providing services such as issuing learner’s licence and registration certificate online, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Monday.The service will be formally launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday. “All services except issuing driving licence and vehicle fitness are now faceless, meaning applicants don’t have to visit transport authority offices for them,” Gahlot said.With this, Delhi will become one of the first states in the country to bring all transport-related services online, allowing people to save time and money spent on visiting motor licensing officers (MLOs), officials said. Maharashtra is also trying a similar model.Kejriwal is likely to launch the services from the IP Estate MLO, officials said, adding trials of online learning tests have begun at the Sarai Kale Khan and Vasant Vihar offices and over 50 people have been provided learning licences so far.In another tweet, Gahlot congratulated a Delhi resident who was given his learner’s licence test online. “Congrats Adi ! You are one of country’’s first to pass this facial recognition enabled E-LL test. Delhiites get true freedom from long queues. With all services available at their homes, Delhi under able leadership of @ArvindKejriwal has set yet another example for the country,” the minister said, responding to the tweet posted by Adi Singh who praised the department for the initiative.Gahlot also held a meeting with motor licensing officers to discuss ongoing preparations for the launch of the faceless services. “Held a meeting with all the MLOs over preparations of the faceless services. All these faceless services will be dedicated to the public by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on August 11,” Gahlot tweeted.The transport department was working on providing online services since February, the official said.The services will include those related to driving licence and registration certificates such as duplicate copies, change in address, international driving permit and transfer of ownership, they said.According to officials, the majority of transactions at the transport department offices are related to driving licences and registration certificates. In 2019, over 1 million transactions were related to driving licences, and nearly 1.3 million were related to registration certificates, records with the state transport department showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal-to-launch-faceless-transport-services-on-wednesday-101628532496216.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Woman killed by live-in partner, two others in south Delhi||A 22-year-old man was arrested along with his two friends for allegedly killing his 30-year-old live-in partner in a forested area near Rajpur Khurd village in south Delhi’s Maidan Garhi on Sunday.A senior police officer said they cracked the case after they caught the lie of one of the suspects who called the control room and tried to mislead investigators about witnessing a murder “by two unknown persons”, after carrying out the crime.Police said the suspects -- identified as Anuj Kumar, 22, Ramzan Khan, 32, and Naushad, 21 -- allegedly strangled the woman with her dupatta, left her body in the wooded area and fled.One of them reached home, called the police and informed them that he had seen two men strangling a woman to death in the jungle near Rajpur Khurd village, police said.Kumar was in a live-in relationship with the woman, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that the three planned the woman’s murder two days ago as she was against Kumar’s relationship with another woman and opposed their plans to get married.DCP Thakur said that police received a call regarding the body of a woman found in a forested area behind Rajpur Khurd village around 6.30pm on Sunday.Initially, the caller stated that he is an alcohol addict who saw “two men strangling a woman with her dupatta” when he was drinking in the jungle.“The caller told us that he was scared and ran away to his house, from where he later called the police,” said the DCP, adding that a murder case was registered and teams were formed to identify and nab the suspects.During the investigation, the police scanned CCTV cameras installed in the neighbourhood and found that the woman had come to the jungle with two men on a bike from the side of Gosala road. The CCTV footage showed the caller, identified as Ramzan Khan, also going to the jungle during the same time.“When confronted with the video footage, Khan broke down and confessed to his involvement in the crime. His interrogation led to the arrest of Anuj Kumar and Naushad and the recovery of the bike used in the crime,” said DCP Thakur.Kumar’s interrogation revealed that he befriended the woman around two years ago and eloped with her.Though they were in a live-in relationship, Kumar was also in a relationship with another woman, who was also pressuring him to marry her.Two days ago, Kumar eloped with the second woman but her family members located them and asked him to leave his live-in partner, the police said.“Kumar shared his problems with Khan and Naushad and the three planned to kill his live-in partner. Kumar and Naushad lured her to the jungle, where Khan was already present. They strangled her to death and left her body there,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-killed-by-live-in-partner-two-others-in-south-delhi-101628532378099.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt kicks off plans to mark India’s 75th year of independence||The state government on Monday kicked off celebrations to mark the 75th year of India’s Independence with a ceremonial run from the Delhi secretariat to Raj Ghat.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who participated in the run, said the event was aimed to signify that even though India is turning 75, the hearts and spirits of its people are still young.“On the occasion of the 75th year of Independence, I congratulate everyone as we celebrate our freedom. I hope that we all can together fill our motherland with a spirit of joy, and happiness and keep working for the welfare of each and every person in the country. We will work in order to achieve great heights for our nation,” Sisodia said.The spot run — called for Run For Delhi@75 — was held on a three-kilometre stretch from the Delhi Secretariat to Raj Ghat. About 200 employees and officers of the secretariat participated in the run and were grouped in batches of 10-15 persons, officials said.Chief secretary Vijay Dev said, “Let Delhi make it an example for the nation that we are all here to celebrate, to run for the celebration of our freedom and fitness, which we owe to ourselves, our community and our country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-kicks-off-plans-to-mark-india-s-75th-year-of-independence-101628532377425.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Deshbhakti curriculum will be taught through activities, no formal exam||A quick question-and-answer session as warm-up, followed by creative activities such as visualisation and self introspection, and opinion collection from outside classrooms to ”broaden one’s perspective” — that’s how the Delhi government will teach the ”deshbhakti curriculum” from this year to all students from nursery to Class 12. The evaluation will be done without the students having to take a formal exams, the education department officials said.The Delhi government plans to launch the curriculum in public schools as soon as schools reopen. On Friday, the government announced that the governing council of the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has adopted the framework for the curriculum.Ahead of assembly elections in 2020, the Aam Aadmi Party in its manifesto promised to introduce deshbhakti curriculum in all Delhi government schools once elected to power. While presenting the annual budget in March, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced that the deshbhakti curriculum will be introduced in the 2021-22 academic session.According to officials of the education department, the curriculum is designed as a “set of activities” that are related to students’ day-to-day life. “The government has shortlisted several activities and the SCERT has adopted them. These activities will now be classified into different categories. Most of the activities are related to the daily lives of students with the purpose to make them more self-aware, self-confident, develop problem-solving approaches and make them socially responsible. That’s how they can contribute the most to the nation,” said a senior official, who asked not to be named.For students enrolled up to class 8, there will be just a single period of deshbharkti curriculum daily, while the education department is yet to finalise the number of periods for those studying in classes 9 to 12, the official said.According to an official document seen by HT, the lessons have been designed in five steps. For instance, the classes will begin with a warm-up question-and-answer session in order to spark student interest and involvement. This will be followed by activities that will aim to “accelerate children’s expression in class and engagement with the content”. “Activities such as visualisation, self-introspection, interpretation and creative exercises will be conducted to help students delve deeper into questions or issues raised in class discussions,” the document read.As homework, the students will be asked to seek views and opinions of people around them — adults and acquaintances in order to “enhance the expanse of discussion and broaden student perspective”. “The final step will be introspection in which children will introspect and share what and how much they have learnt from the chapter. It will help deepen children’s learning and help them better understand their own thoughts and opinions,” the document added.A member of the curriculum committee, who wished not to be named, said the pedagogy of deshbhakti curriculum will be similar to the happiness curriculum and entrepreneurship mindset curriculum launched by the Delhi government in 2018 and 2019, respectively. “Here, the idea is to convert values into actions and to make each child realise that every action of theirs represents their relationship to India and has an impact on the country. This will be done through activities, stories and discussion just like we have been teaching students how to be happy and how to develop entrepreneurship skills,” the member said.At the end of the academic season, the students will be evaluated through self-assessment, peer assessment, and assessment by the teacher. “No formal examinations or grading system will be followed for the Deshbhakti curriculum. Emphasis will be on observing and assessing the development of the values, behaviours and actions of Deshbhakti amongst students on an ongoing basis,” the document added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deshbhakti-curriculum-will-be-taught-through-activities-no-formal-exam-says-delhi-government-101628532376927.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Repair work at Old Delhi’s Masjid Mubarak Begum begins||The World Monument Fund has begun work to repair the central dome of the 200-year-old Masjid Mubarak Begum. Located in Old Delhi’s Hauz Qazi Chowk, one of the mosque’s three domes collapsed due to heavy rain in July last year.Repair and reconstruction work on the heritage site was started with the Delhi Waqf Board (DWB) inking an agreement with the World Monument Fund— a non-profit organisation that provides direct financial and technical support for the preservation of heritage sites across the globe—earlier this year.Mehfooz Mohammad, section officer, DWB, said work had been initiated at the mosque recently. “Pits for preparation of lime mortar have been constructed. Due to rain, the work is on hold but once the weather improves, it will be carried out in full swing,” said Mohammad.A senior WMF official said conservation experts were documenting the site, and lime mortar pits have already been built. “The lime needs to be processed. It takes around two-three weeks for this to happen. By the time, documentation and research process is completed, we will be ready to start conservation,” said the official, who did wish to be named.WMF officials have said that the process is expected to take four-five months, provided work is not disrupted on account of Covid-related problems. “We are hoping that sourcing of required material and craftsmen is not disrupted due to Covid-related concerns. The team will make efforts to source original material as per requirements,” said the official.Another member of the conservation team, who did not asked to be named, said the weather conditions have not been helpful but the required material has been arranged. “Most of the material has been sourced from Delhi itself. If we require other things, we will source them, and once lime is processed, we will start work,” said the official.Masjid Mubarak Begum was commissioned in 1822 by Mubarak Begum, the wife of David Ochterlony, the first British Resident of Delhi to the Mughal court. Located in Old Delhi’s Hauz Qazi Chowk, the mosque is built using sandstone and painted in terracotta colour.According to author Swapna Liddle, Mubarak Begum was quite well-respected and enjoyed an important stature in her time. She was also a frequent visitor at the courts of Mughal rulers Bahadur Shah Zafar and Akbar Shah. Due to the influence she exercised, Begum was popularly addressed as ‘Generalee Begum’ since Ochterlony was known as General Ochterlony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/repair-work-at-old-delhi-s-masjid-mubarak-begum-begins-101628532316929.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Dalit girl’s rape-murder in Delhi: Four accused sent to three-day police custody||A Delhi court on Monday sent four people, accused in the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl in south west Delhi’s Delhi cantonment area, to three-day police custody.Additional sessions judge Ashutosh Kumar remanded the four accused—Kuldeep Singh, Laxmi Narayan, Radhey Shyam and Salim Ahmad---to custodial interrogation till August 12.On August 1, a nine-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed by a priest and three employees of a crematorium in Purani Nangal village, near Delhi Cantonment. The suspects allegedly told the family that she died of electrocution when she was fetching water from an electric water cooler installed at the crematorium. They allegedly cremated her body after threatening her parents not to tell the police about the incident.Police had said the four men were arrested after the girl’s family alleged foul play.The investigating officer in the case informed the court that new facts have emerged during the investigation and further custody of the accused was required for five days.The remand application was opposed by the counsels for the accused who argued that there is no evidence against the accused and neither has the police presented a justified ground for grant of custody.The four men have been booked for murder, rape and criminal intimidation, a case regarding which was registered under Indian Penal Code’s sections 302, 376 and 506, in addition to relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dalit-girl-s-rape-murder-in-delhi-four-accused-sent-to-three-day-police-custody-101628532196764.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Strong rain likely in Delhi after monsoon break: IMD||Even as the monsoon is expected to enter a ‘break phase’ with little rainfall in store for at least a week, after a mostly dry August in Delhi, forecasters said the city is likely to get a stronger spell of rain in the latter half of the month, which may even cover up for the first half.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Delhi is set for a dry spell that may last six days.“Monsoon entering a break phase means that there is no intense system that can result in rainfall. It happens when the monsoon trough moves to another region. From August 10, the trough is likely to move north to the Himalayan foothills. During this period, parts of northwest and central India will mostly be dry till the trough again starts moving towards south. Good rainfall spells may occur once the monsoon recedes, covering for the first half,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.The break may last till around August 15-16, said experts. This is a usual phenomenon that is observed almost every other year. “In the absence of rainfall, the temperatures are likely to rise and may be above the season’s normal,” Srivastava added.He added that though Delhi receives most of its monsoon rain in August, showers in the second half may be able to cover for the entire month. The city usually gets 247mm rain in August.According to IMD, the monsoon season in India lasts from June 1 to September 30.Even though the IMD predicted light rainfall for Monday, none of the weather stations across Delhi received any precipitation between 8.30am and 5.30pm.According to Met officials, the expected break will be the second during the monsoon this year, after the first one in the last week of June this year delayed its arrival into the national capital.The monsoon then arrived in Delhi on July 13, over two weeks behind its usual arrival date.Independent forecasters too said that the monsoon is likely to revive only after August 15. “The break phase usually lasts a week or so, as has been observed over the years. The monsoon may revive in Delhi and all over northwest India by August 17, after which the trough moving back to Delhi may result in good showers,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet, a private forecaster.He added that when the trough is in the Himalayas, westerly winds start blowing over Delhi. Though humidity levels will reduce slightly with westerly winds, but with already enough moisture in the atmosphere, coupled with high temperatures, it is likely to add to discomfort.According to IMD, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, considered representative for Delhi weather was 33.4 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season’s normal. The minimum temperature was recorded 25.1°C, two below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-as-monsoon-enters-break-phase-experts-say-rain-in-second-half-of-august-may-cover-up-for-the-month-101628532140409.html
10-08-2021||Delhi||Driver’s seat still eludes women in DTC||In April 2015, Venkadarath Saritha became the first woman to be enrolled as a bus driver in the DTC. Till August 9, 2021, she remains the only woman driver in the city’s public bus operator.Around 4:45am, the Sarojini Nagar bus depot run by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) comes alive with a bunch of men entering the premises and heading straight to the “resting room” to change into their uniforms. While some of them are conductors, the others are bus drivers. Ten minutes later, the roaring noise of a Bullet bike entering the depot makes heads turn.Riding the bike is 36-year old Saritha who goes on with her usual drill of parking her two-wheeler, “not looking here and there” and heading straight to the attendance counter to collect her duty slip for the day.Her joining came with a lot of hope that Delhi will have a greater presence of women in the operation of its state-run buses which carry at least 4.2 million passengers every day. But, six years later, Saritha continues to be the only female bus driver Delhi has ever got. To be sure, DTC has women working as bus conductors and marshals. Delhi has 6,750 operational buses which includes 3,760 owned by DTC and 2,990 buses run under the cluster scheme.“Look around, you can see how things are here. It takes a lot of adjusting to fit into this environment. Unlike others, I come wearing the uniform from my home. There is one resting room, which has beds, etc but it is used by the men. After six years of working here, the DTC administration listened to our request, and has now agreed to build a separate resting room for women employees. A defunct room was cleaned and emptied just last month with a bed being placed there, but it remains shut and is still not yet accessible to us,” Saritha said.HT found the room locked during a visit to the depot. One of the many dingy and dark corridors inside the depot leads to the only accessible woman’s washroom. “The staff working in the administration have a different one. But, for me and the other female conductors and bus marshals, it is this single Indian style toilet which is not cleaned frequently. Also, I do not know why, but I have seen men using it too despite having more toilets than us,” she said.“That is why I do not even use it. I use the toilets in Noida Sector 62, Dhaula Kuan or Nauroji Nagar as they are way cleaner and have more lighting. Even if I have the urge to relieve myself, I have to hold on to it until I reach any of these three places which are on my bus route,” Saritha said, while adjusting herself in the drivers’ seat of an AC bus on route 392 --- Mayapuri Chowk to Noida Sector 62.Data accessed by HT showed that of the total 28,949 employees of DTC, as on Monday, 28,149 (97.2%) were male, while 800 (2.7%) were female. Besides just one woman bus driver, DTC has 15,433 conductors of which 14,702 (95.2%) are men and 731 (4.7%) are women.RS Minhas, deputy chief general manager (public relations), DTC said the state transport utility initiated a fresh recruitment process for drivers and conductors in March this year in preparation for the new bus procurement plans. “We tried to recruit woman drivers this time. But, we have found that there are hardly any women who possess a heavy vehicle driving licence that is required to drive a DTC or cluster bus. Moreover, for the post of driver, one must also have a driving experience of three years, which means the licence should be at least three years old. Few women fits this criteria. Overall also, if we see, the number of woman applicants to job of driver are close to nil,” he said.Omkari, 43, who goes by her first name, and her friend were among the select few women who applied to be DTC bus drivers this year. “But, both of us got rejected because our heavy vehicle driving licence was just four months old. I hope they waive off this criteria, and if they are doubtful of our driving skills or fear safety of passengers, they must make us undergo rigorous training for three months and test us after the course,’ she said. Omkari is a faculty at NGO Azad Foundation’s women’s only driving school in Shahdara. Prior to this, she drove commercial taxis for more than five years.Amrita Gupta, director-research advocacy and communications at Azad Foundation, which also trained and helped induct Saritha in 2015, said it recently held a meeting with transport minister Kailash Gahlot who suggested conducting an evidence-based policy review on this matter and get back to the government with its findings.“In 2020, during the pandemic Azad Foundation trained at least 12 drivers who successfully received heavy vehicle licence from the state transport department. However, according to the current rules, the heavy vehicle licence has to be achieved three years in advance for them to apply. We have requested the Delhi government to kindly to set a precedent by waiving off the minimum period required for applying for the position in DTC. Former DTC MD Debashree Mukherjee had done this in 2015, and that is how Saritha got inducted,” said Gupta.A senior DTC official said in order to attract more woman applicants, it even reduced the minimum height criteria from 162 centimetres to 159 centimetres. But, Gupta said even after the reduction, the criteria continues to be restrictive as in India the average height of women is less than 160cm. “This works as a deterrent for their inclusion even if they are trained. Now, buses come with adjustable seats, hence we request a revision of this restrictive height criterion in today’s technologically advanced environment, and urge the Delhi government to help modify this archaic rule. This will also attract many young women to establish their career in the transport system especially at a time when the Delhi government is in the process of procuring at least 3,500 new buses,” said Gupta.But, for Saritha, who regularly has to dispel rumours of her having quit her job, the role of a DTC bus driver has been empowering beyond her imagination. She started in DTC as a driver with a salary of about ₹12,000 per month, and now she earns about ₹24,000 a month.“I have to give credit to the DTC where it is due. They have been considerate towards me and my needs. For everyone else, the duty is spread between night shift and day shift. But, the DTC made an exception for me and I am given only day duty. Secondly, the bus route for drivers is changed every month. But, for me, they have kept the route fixed (route 392),” Saritha said as she headed back to her home in Govindpuri on her olive colour Enfield bike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/drivers-seat-still-eludes-women-in-dtc-101628532137389.html
10-08-2021||Gurugram||4 booked for trying to abduct, rape 16-year-old badminton student||A week after four men were booked for allegedly murdering a labourer at a badminton academy in Sector 37C on suspicions of harassing a 16-year-old student, the police on Sunday registered a case against the deceased and three others for molesting the girl.According to the police, the girl alleged that she was abducted by the four persons around 1.15pm on August 2 but managed to escape and hide in a building. The girl’s father said that they had threatened to rape her.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that a case was registered under sections 365 (kidnapping), 511 (attempting to commit offence), 506 (criminal intimidation), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8 and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Sector 10 police station. “The probe is underway and we will take action after verifying facts,” he said.Earlier, the police had said that the labourer and his brother-in-law had visited the area for the first time on the day of the murder.The police said that the girl has been staying at the badminton academy for the past 18 months and pursued her education online. She used to go for coaching classes and was returning from a class when she was allegedly abducted.The girl’s father said, “She said that four men had kidnapped her and were taking her to an under-construction building but she escaped and was hiding in a nearby building. They were threatening to rape her if she did not exit the building. They had surrounded her, made dirty gestures and passed lewd comments.”The girls said that she entered a residence in the building and explained her situation to the residents, following which a woman of the household clicked pictures of the four people and asked them to leave and her husband asked them to go away. “However, they continued to stand there and threatened them not to interfere. They kept on shouting, asking me to come out,” she said.After receiving a call, the girl’s father called the academy manager and requested him to go to her aid. “I had already started from my house for the academy. When my daughter, along with the manager, reached the campus, the four of them followed them and again tried to kidnap my daughter, but locals caught hold of them. One of them who was on a motorbike managed to escape,” he said.The police said that the trio was assaulted on the academy premises, following which one of them died. Two arrests were made after a case was registered on the statement of one of the assault victims.The girl’s father said that they are facing life threats and requested police protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-booked-for-trying-to-abduct-rape-16-year-old-badminton-student-week-after-retaliatory-assault-murder-101628530456670.html
10-08-2021||Pune||Low footfall at malls in Pune on first day of reopening||PUNE On the first day of restrictions being eased in Pune, all 10 major malls in Pune and Pimpri- Chinchwad resumed operations on Monday. As per strict Covid protocols, only citizens with both Covid vaccine doses are allowed inside the malls. As most of the public does not have both doses completed yet, several were denied entry. “We are happy that state government has allowed malls to reopen in Pune city, but as there as a gap of four months it will take some time to gain momentum. On the first day, it was a slow start. There are several protocols that need to be followed, of which the most important is to have both Covid vaccine doses completed. Many customers were sent back as most had only completed a first dose. We are hopeful in the coming days we will have more footfall,” said Mukesh Kumar, chairman, Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) and CEO of Infiniti Malls. Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, committee member-(SCAI) and COO, Amanora Mall said, “It was a good start but most of the youngsters coming to the mall didn’t have both doses completed. We have written to the district authorities to change this rule and allow people even if they have the first Covid dose. Most of our staffers have only one dose, so there is a shortage of staff too due to the incomplete vaccination.”Major relief was given to traders, shop, mall owners and hoteliers in the city by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Sunday, as all shops are allowed to remain open till 8 pm for six days in the week. Also malls are allowed to be open and hotel timings have been extended to 10 pm. Pawar also warned that if the district positivity rate goes above 7 per cent the relaxations would be rescinded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/low-footfall-at-malls-on-first-day-of-reopening-101628528715948.html
10-08-2021||Pune||Pune rural admin wants private hosps to hand over current vax stock; replacements in Sept||PUNE In a bid to have vaccines available for the susceptible population, the rural administration has appealed to private hospitals in the city, as well as PCMC to exchange their existing vaccine stock for fresh stocks in September. As of now, the rural administration is facing a shortage of vaccines at government centres as supply has dwindled in August as compared to July. Private hospitals across the district, most of which are located in Pune city, have about 0.46 million Covid vaccine doses. The rural administration is now approaching private hospitals, as rural areas are reporting a much higher number of new Covid-19 cases than the city. The RTPCR positivity rate for Pune rural is 6.5 per cent as of Monday.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Zilla Parishad, said, “We are approaching private hospitals, most of which are located in the city to exchange their current vaccine stock with us, for a fresh stock which we plan to have by September, when the stock arrives. As of now Pune rural has more susceptible people and so we would like to vaccinate as many beneficiaries as possible. As of now the RTPCR positivity of Pune rural is 6.5, which is much higher than the state average. We have about 0.207 million people eligible for their second dose, and as per our estimates private hospitals in the district have a stock of 0.46 million doses. Even if we get half the number of those doses then we could complete the second doses of eligible beneficiaries and increase the number of fully vaccinated people in our villages and councils. The vaccines would be distributed as per the population irrespective of the current status of Covid-19 active cases.”A senior immunisation officer speaking anonymously, said, “As of now our demand is much more than the supply and since it is controlled by the central government there is little we can do about it. However, discussions are underway to reduce the quota of private hospitals from the existing 25% to 15%. The final call will be taken by the central government. However, if private hospitals do give us their stock we would be able to expedite the vaccination process much faster.”Prasad also added that private hospitals would benefit as they would get fresh stock from September and avoid the risk of vaccine wastage due to expiry. However, private hospitals do not seem to be excited about the same. Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director of Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital said, “As of now we have only 20,000 vaccines available with us and we get around 500-100 beneficiaries daily. So we are not thinking of returning the stock, in fact we are expecting to get a higher demand for a second dose after August 15.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rural-admin-wants-pvt-hosps-to-hand-over-current-vax-stock-replacements-in-sept-101628526015849.html
10-08-2021||Other||3 delta-plus Covid cases in Pune did not need hospitalisation: state surveillance officer||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district has reported three cases of Covid-19 with confirmed delta-plus variants. On Monday, Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said that all three patients did not require hospitalisation. All three had mild to moderate symptoms. The state reported a total of 45 cases of the delta- plus variant, of which Pune reported three, while Jalgaon reported 13, and Ratnagiri 11.Dr Awate said, “A total of 45 of 8,000 samples were sent for genome sequencing. This means that less than 1% tested positive for this variant. It is important to keep in mind that it is natural for the virus to undergo mutations and change its genetic make and so citizens must not be afraid of the same. The only thing we know as of now to stay safe is follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated. Of the three confirmed cases reported in Pune, all are discharged. One from Chakan, aged 42, is a male who tested positive for the infection on June 24. He was admitted to a Covid care centre but did not require any hospitalisation. The other two, both from Nira, bordering Baramati, a female aged 48 and a male aged 14, were isolated at home. The Chakan sample was sent to CSIR, Delhi and the other two to NIV, Pune. All the samples were collected on July 17. None of them required oxygen or remdesivir.”Dr Awate also said that the state government is further focusing on genome sequencing and in addition to National Institute of Virology and National Centre for Cell Sciences (NCCS), who have partnered with BJ Medical College for genome sequencing, the state would also start genome sequencing facilities at two more labs in Pune, the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (ISSER) and the National Chemical Laboratory (NCIL). The samples for sequencing are collected over a number of categories depending on symptoms, active cases or deaths, and pre- and post-vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-detla-plus-covid-cases-in-pune-did-not-need-hospitalisation-state-surveillance-officer-101628525895764.html
10-08-2021||Lucknow||Small farmers getting top priority in agricultural policies, efforts made to enhance their income: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that now small farmers were getting the top priority in the country’s agricultural policies.Serious efforts had been made during the last few years to enhance the income of small farmers through various initiatives, he said.He was interacting with farmers after releasing the ninth instalment of ₹19,500 crore to 9.75 crore farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) during a virtual function that UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath also attended here.“Under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, ₹1 lakh 60 crore has been given to farmers so far. Out of this, ₹1 lakh crore was transferred to small farmers during the pandemic period. More than 2 crore Kisan Credit Cards were issued during the corona period, most of them to small farmers,” he said.The PM released ₹4,720 crore to Uttar Pradesh’s 2.25 crore farmers under the scheme. He said that the ₹2,000 instalment that each beneficiary got every four months helped farmers meet their expenses towards seeds, fertilisers etc because of which they were saved from falling prey to moneylenders. The PM also interacted with the beneficiaries of the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund Scheme that was launched a year ago.Shyama Charan Upadhayaya, one of the beneficiaries, told the PM in a virtual interaction that he had formed a farmer producer organisation (FPO) involving 517 farmers in his district (Kasganj) in UP with assistance provided under the new scheme. A BSc degree holder in botany, Upadhyaya grows medicinal and aroma plants on 280 hectares of land helping FPO members get a good income. The PM lauded Upadhyaya’s efforts of setting up a chilling and icing plant in the district.Modi said the scheme of Kisan Infrastructure Fund with a corpus of ₹1 lakh crore completed one year on Monday and urged farmers to avail of the scheme to enhance their income. Referring to the upcoming 75th Independence Day, he said that apart from being an occasion for pride, it was also an opportunity for new resolutions.“We have to take this opportunity to decide where we want to see India in the coming 25 years,” he said. He further said that agriculture and farmers had a big role in determining the condition of India in 2047, when the country would complete 100 years of independence.“It is time to give a direction to India’s agriculture to face new challenges and take advantage of new opportunities,” he remarked. The PM said that the government had made the highest-ever purchase from farmers at MSP (minimum support price), be it the kharif or the rabi season. “With this, about ₹1,70,000 crore has directly reached the accounts of rice farmers and about ₹85,000 crore has gone directly into the accounts of wheat farmers,” he said.He urged farmers to grow pulses and oilseeds more and more to meet the country’s requirement.The PM said that food parks, kisan rails and infrastructure fund would help small farmers.“In the year gone by, more than 6,000 projects have been approved under the Infrastructure Fund. These steps increase the small farmer’s access to the market and his bargaining power through FPOs,” the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/small-farmers-getting-top-priority-in-agricultural-policies-says-pm-101628525176334.html
10-08-2021||Lucknow||Young and fearless: They display nerves of steel to rescue snakes in Uttar Pradesh||Quick reflexes, a cool and razor-sharp brain, nerves of steel and a fearless heart — that is what it takes to be a skilful snake rescuer. And 19-year-old Prachi Tiwari has all these traits. No wonder, many foresters say about her: “Don’t go by her delicate, skinny look, she can do things that most of us can’t.”Prachi is perhaps the youngest female snake catcher-cum-rescuer who is part of one of Uttar Pradesh’s oldest snake/reptile-rescuing-helplines operating in Lucknow and the adjoining districts.The foresters’ praise of her skills received further endorsement during a rescue operation at the Lucknow zoo a couple of months ago.On getting a SOS call reporting the presence of a thick python in the zoo’s open area, the 19-year-old was rushed to the spot and took control of the situation. It was found that the snake was a thick Indian rock python, around six feet in length and weighed several kilograms.The zoo staffers were overheard saying: “She is too young to handle the snake.”Undeterred and armed with a hook and bag, she successfully rescued the python.“I was just focusing on the snake. I want to tell people it’s not your body’s constitution but your skills that matter while rescuing a snake,” she said.In her almost a year-long stint as a snake rescuer, she has saved around 12 non-venomous snakes including python, rat snake, checkered keelback (commonly known as Asiatic water snake) and common kukri. Prachi, who aspires to be an IFS (Indian Forest Service) officer, became part of the helpline in June last year only after celebrating her 18th birthday. “Currently, I am allowed to handle only non-venomous snakes. Soon, I would be tackling the venomous ones as well,” she said. Prachi is the sister of Aditya Tiwari, who owns an NGO Paryavarnam that runs the snake rescue helpline. She gives the entire credit to her brother Aditya and her father for bringing her close to nature.She, however, is not the lone female snake rescuer in a special group of 12. In all, about half-a-dozen others are part of it. Devyani Singh, 31, is the senior most among female snake rescuers with expertise in rescuing the venomous snakes.In her almost six-year career, Devyani has rescued more than 80 snakes and other reptiles.Cobra, Common Krait, Russel’s Viper and saw-scaled viper are a few of venomous snakes that she rescued. Admitting that rescuing poisonous snakes is not easy, she recalled a most recent experience.“We got an SOS call from Parag Dairy near Bhaisakund, Lucknow, informing about a snake on a battery-loaded truck. We rushed to the spot and asked the staffers to stay away. On boarding the truck, we came to know that it was a cobra that was hiding between the batteries. While we were trying to bag the snake, a hiss was heard from another corner. To our surprise, we noticed another male cobra that was in the attacking mode. It took me more than half-an-hour to tackle the situation. This rescue operation would be remembered throughout one’s life. There are several such stories to tell,” she said.She said she was thankful to her mother Rooma Chauhan, a retired official of National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI) for motivating her throughout. “I know how tough it is for a mother to allow a daughter to pursue her dream of rescuing snakes. But I am thankful to her as she always motivated me,” she added. She said she would like to continue pursuing a career in the same field and would continue to live up the motto of the Paryavarnam helpline that is to prevent human-animal conflict and to minimise the snake bite cases to zero.Aditya Tiwari, a nature enthusiast from Lucknow, launched the helpline—8090667166 in 2012.Instead of climbing career ladder, he chose to save snakesRescuing snakes, especially venomous ones, is no cakewalk. Aditya Tiwari, a nature enthusiast, knows this all too well. Yet, he remains unfazed by the challenge.A consultant to the “snake house” at Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden (Lucknow Zoo), he said he preferred nature conservation to better job opportunities. Hence, he was trying to conserve nature in his own way through the human-animal conflict helpline. Aditya Tiwari runs the NGO Paryavarnam and launched the helpline—8090667166 in 2012.In the nine years since inception, Tiwari and his group have rescued more than 2500 snakes and other reptiles. However, his journey as a conservationist was not easy.Tiwari gave the entire credit of bringing him close to nature to his father, a retired government employee and a staunch believer in Lord Shiva.“I remember the short trips to the temple where my father used to touch the snakes with the snake charmers. He used to ask me to touch them as well. He also used to tell me the names of the snakes and about their habitat,” Aditya recalled.His curiosity about how snakes could move despite not having legs attracted him to the reptiles.Out of curiosity, he said he read all the literature about snakes available on the internet and had watched all the shows related to snakes on wildlife channels to learn about them.Tiwari was in class 9 when he had his first encounter with a live snake at home.“It was a sultry afternoon when my mother shouted.... and my sister came rushing to me, saying that there was a snake in the house. Having watched so many television shows based on snake rescue, I was treating myself to be no less than an international snake expert. I immediately assessed the situation, went into the kitchen, tried to calm down my mother and asked about the colour and location of the snake,” he said.“The seemingly professional behaviour of mine surprised my parents, too, who just stood by to watch what I was about to do next. I took my mother’s kitchen tong and my socks. I took hold of the snake with the help of the tong and guided it into the socks. The job was done. That was no less than a Eureka moment for me but before I could expect a few words of appreciation, the snake escaped from the tiny hole in the socks and I received a thorough scolding from my parents,” he recalled.Recollecting the maiden rescue operation, he said the first call was from Chhata Mill in Bakshi Ka Talab (BKT) area of Lucknow where a snake was sighted in a granary.“We rushed to the site. On enquiring, we concluded that it was a cobra. I remember that I was holding a tong and I have asked another volunteer, who was holding a torch to assist me. I managed to get hold of the snake, using a tong and then we heard a loud hiss, following which the volunteer ran away. It was pitch dark in the granary again and I was left with a cobra in my hand. I at once threw the cobra to one corner and ran out of the granary. Though it was an unsuccessful rescue operation, it taught me a lot,” he said. After gaining experience for seven years, he registered his own NGO Paryavarnam and took the snake conservation work to a new level.Tiwari’s group has 12 members at present and six of the snake rescuers are women.“Yes, that’s true. We have 50% boys and 50% girls on our team. The youngest girl in our team is 19,” he said.Giving a brief idea about the “daredevils”, he said almost all the group members were professionals working together voluntarily out of interest.“We first teach them how to identify snakes or any reptile. This helps the volunteer in learning more about the particular animal which further eases the rescue process.” He said the motto of the group is to prevent human-animal conflict.During the monsoon, the call load increases to 10 to 15 calls a day. On regular days, the group receives around three to six calls a day.“On getting a call, the first thing we ask the caller is to stay away and keep watch. Then we note down the address, ask about the colour and other details of the snake or any reptile and tell them to keep watch. On the other hand, we prepare our team and rush to the spot. Once we reach, we make sure that the area is clear. With the help of hook and gunny bag, we ensure that the snake is rescued safely. Once rescued, we inform the forest department that ensures that the animal is released in the forest area.”Tiwari said more than handling snakes, it was tougher to convince his family members, especially his mother, to let him continue his work.“No doubt, it’s my father who brought me closer to nature but it’s actually tough to convince them to allow me to continue rescuing snakes. However, after so many years, now they are ok. But I know that somewhere within, they don’t want me to expose myself to the dangerous task of rescuing snakes that can cost one life,” he said.Seal AC ducts, plug manholes to keep snakes at baySnakes were the most peace-loving creatures, nature enthusiast Aditya Tiwari said.“They won’t harm you unless you harm them or if the snake thinks that you may harm them. In the monsoon, snakes generally come out in search of rats or frogs. And the chances of a snake entering the house increase if you reside in greener areas, including the Cantonment,” he added. The best way to prevent snakes’ entry into houses was to seal cracks, holes, plug manholes, AC ducts leading into the houses as it often acted as a hideout for snakes, he added.“On seeing a snake, do not panic. Maintain safe distance and inform us,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/young-and-fearless-they-show-nerves-of-steel-to-rescue-snakes-in-uttar-pradesh-101628519956415.html
10-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chamba artisans struggle to keep art of metal craft alive||Tucked away in the snow-clad Himalayas with the Ravi and Chenab rivers meandering through its beautiful landscapes, Chamba, an erstwhile princely state, has a rich heritage of art and craft. Metal casting is one such matchless art form with its origin in the 10th century when King Sahil Verman shifted his capital from Brahmpur (present day Bharmour) to Chamba. Believed to have been introduced by Kashmiri artisans, the metal craft, which showcases relics of Chamba’s past, stares at an uncertain future. Once a source of livelihood for thousands, this unique skill is waning fast with only two families left in the business today. Ankit Verma, whose family has been into metal crafting for centuries, says the intricate art passed down generations requires years of practice. “We usually make idols and Mohra mask of deities, folk musical instruments and vessels. Chamba Thaal, a brass plate used for rituals, which was introduced only 40 years ago, is now representative of Chamba’s metal craft,” says the young artist. “However, there are few takers for this art today and it may soon fade away if steps are not taken to promote it,” he adds. Livelihood gains primacy over art The new generation has shown little interest in picking up metal casting and is exploring other career options for a secure livelihood. “It takes long to master this art and needs big investment. Also, there is lack of knowledge about its value in terms of our cultural legacy,” Verma says. He believes the craft stands a chance if introduced in schools and taught in institutes of fine art to encourage youngsters to take it up as a profession. Moulding idols, crafting legacy Making Chamba metal artefacts involves two techniques: The lost-wax method (cire perdue) and sand casting. Cire perdue involves making a wax model (a sculpture), coating it with a refractory (clay) to form a mould. The wax is heated until it melts and runs out of small holes left in the mould, and then pouring metal into the space left vacant. Each artefact made using the lost-wax technique is unique and a masterpiece. Sand casting is used for mass production. Vijay Sharma, a Padma Shri awardee for Kangra miniature painting and a researcher, says statues in Bharmour and Chamba temples are marvels of Chamba metal craft. The beautiful craft is also seen in the form of metal casting on walls and door frames of temples. “Of late, the art has lost favour due to lack of promotion and a marketing platform,” he says. Glorious past, uncertain future Another artist, Himanshu Anand, says his grandfather won a national award for metal craft in 1973, while his father Rajesh Anand’s works have been showcased in foreign museums, including in the US. “We need an apt platform for our products. Earlier, there was a government procurement centre in Chamba, but it shut shop a few years ago,” he says. “In a technology-run and industrialised era, people are forgetting traditional crafts and moving towards machine-made artefacts that are cheaper. The younger generation of artisans’ families are also giving up the art for want of a secure livelihood,” he says. Amid the gloom, a ray of hope There is still a ray of hope as the Chamba Thaal, the decorative premium brass plate with vibrant images of gods and goddesses, such as the 10 incarnations of Vishnu and nine incarnations of Goddess Durga, is gaining popularity as a keepsake from Chamba. Surender Thakur, who is in-charge of Chamba’s Bhuri Singh Museum, says Union sports minister Anurag Thakur presented the Chamba Thaal as a souvenir to Tokyo Olympic medal winners Mirabai Chanu and PV Sindhu recently. “This will help promote Chamba art at the national and international levels,” he says. The district administration recently constituted the Chamba Art and Craft Promotion Society to prop up Chamba art. Society adviser Manuj Sharma says the Union sports ministry has requisitioned more Chamba Thaal to felicitate the hockey teams and other medal winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chamba-artisans-struggle-to-keep-art-of-metal-craft-alive-101628515035700.html
10-08-2021||Kolkata||Amit Shah behind attacks on TMC leaders in Tripura: Mamata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Monday that Union home minister Amit Shah orchestrated the weekend attack on 14 Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders in Tripura and their subsequent arrest while they were on a visit to the north-eastern state to prepare for next year’s assembly elections.“Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb does not have much courage. I firmly believe that the instructions came from Amit Shah and the Union home ministry,” Banerjee told reporters after visiting youth TMC leaders Jaya Dutta and Sudip Raha at the state-run SSKM Hospital in Kolkata.The TMC chief alleged that the life of her nephew and party national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, who had rushed to Tripura to monitor the situation on Sunday, was in danger.“Abhishek’s car was attacked last week,” she said, referring to an incident on August 2 wherein Abhishek was shown black flags in Agartala and his vehicle was hit with bamboo sticks by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker.“Abhishek was saved because the (Tripura) government had provided a bullet-proof car. Had it been an ordinary car, the windshield would have shattered into pieces. He could have suffered a head injury,” the chief minister said while referring to the BJP as a “party of demons”.Abhishek was on a visit to the state after 23 members of political strategist Prashant Kishor’s Indian-Political Action Committee (I-PAC) team were booked and asked to stay inside a hotel in Agartala for violating Covid-19 norms.“Whenever Abhishek boards a plane, five ruffians are placed in the seats around him. His life is in danger. Instructions have been sent to Tripura so that we cannot hire planes and helicopters,” Banerjee said.“Before being arrested, our youth leaders were assaulted in front of the police. The police did not arrange for their treatment or even give them water for 36 hours,” she added.Reacting to the chief minister’s allegations, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “If the chief minister claims that goons are boarding planes to pose a threat to Abhishek Banerjee, her police are free to arrest them at the Kolkata airport. What is stopping them?”“As far as whatever she said about Amit Shah is concerned, we leave it to the judgement of the masses. The BJP has not become so intellectually bankrupt that it has to react to such allegations. The TMC is an insignificant force in Tripura,” Bhattacharya added.On Saturday, TMC youth front leaders Debangshu Bhattacharya, Sudip Raha and Jaya Dutta, who were touring Tripura as part of the party’s plans to prepare for assembly polls in 2023, alleged that their vehicles were stopped and attacked on Ambassa Road by goons backed by the BJP. The TMC leaders also claimed that shots were fired and a party office was vandalised in Dharmanagar, the biggest Tripura town after Agartala.On Sunday morning, the three leaders, along with 11 others, were arrested for violating Covid-19 restrictions by travelling after 7pm. Tripura has been observing a night curfew for 10 hours starting from 7pm in the wake of the pandemic. All the TMC leaders were charged under non-bailable sections of the Indian Penal Code but were granted bail by a local court later in the day.Following this, Abhishek rushed to Tripura along with Bengal minister Bratya Basu, Rajya Sabha member Dola Sen and TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh and returned with the injured youth leaders on Sunday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/amit-shah-behind-attack-on-tmc-leaders-in-tripura-alleges-mamata-banerjee-101628506155259.html
