11-08-2021||Gurugram||Health dept directs hospitals to increase testing for vector-borne diseases||The district health department directed all private hospitals to notify suspected cases of vector-borne diseases for surveillance and case management, while increasing sample collection for timely detection of malaria and dengue. According to senior officials, each private hospital has been notified to test at least 12 samples of suspected cases this year. The health department, on the other hand, has collected about 489 samples at their flu clinics. So far, only a single case of malaria has been detected while zero dengue cases have been detected.“Both government and private hospitals have been directed to increase the sampling of the suspected case as it is the time when cases of malaria and dengue cases begin to emerge. Sample collection will be increased in some hotspot areas where cases were detected in the last few years,” Dr Sudha Garg, deputy civil surgeon for vector-borne diseases, said.A meeting was also held between the deputy civil surgeon and deputy commissioner Yash Garg on Tuesday evening to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic and changing weather conditions.At least 48 cases of malaria were reported in 2017, 30 in 2018, 15 in 2019 and four in 2020. The health department collected over 190,940 blood samples from January till August to identify cases. In the case of dengue, at least 66 cases were reported in 2017, while 93 were reported in 2018, 22 in 2019 and 51 in 2020.The deputy commissioner also directed the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram for residual spray and larvicidal activities on a large scale, including in all slum areas, industries and construction sites. The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) was asked to do GIS mapping of all water bodies and hotspot areas from past data.Sultan Singh, head, GIS mapping, GMDA, said, “Since 2016, we have been identifying hotspots which have helped in controlling the spread of vector-borne diseases. Areas in old Gurugram are prone to malaria and dengue. Other areas like Chakkarpur and Palam Vihar are also equally vulnerable due to frequent waterlogging. Based on the heat map prepared by the GMDA, other departments like MCG and health department conduct spraying and sample collection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-dept-directs-hospitals-to-increase-testing-for-vector-borne-diseases-101628706034050.html
11-08-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Teams to conduct physical inspection of beds in private hospitals||The district health department on Wednesday constituted 10 teams of doctors, including members from the Indian Medical Association (IMA), to audit bed capacity in private hospitals, almost a month after the hospitals submitted details about the total number of beds that can be reserved for Covid-19 patients during an anticipated third wave.“The committees have been constituted for performing physical verification of hospital beds in private hospitals. Each team will comprise two doctors, including a representative from the health department and IMA, who will visit about 38 big hospitals in the city. About 10 teams will visit three to four hospitals each and submit their reports by August 20,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram.Even as the health department has been reporting a constant decline in new cases of coronavirus infection over the past two months, private hospitals were directed to augment bed capacity for children and infants in June. At least 76 hospitals were directed to increase the bed capacity by 10% to treat neonatal, infants and young children.Officials said that the move is aimed at ensuring efficient treatment to patients. On Tuesday, private hospitals were directed to constitute a committee to monitor oxygen requirement, usage and wastage for every bed. The directions are being issued to cope with a sharp rise in cases, as the second wave alone added more than 100,000 new cases in April and May.With the festival season around the corner, which can lead to an increase in cases, the health department is in the process of ensuring timely bed availability and oxygen supply to patients.Based on the details submitted by hospitals, the district has 686 paediatric beds supported with oxygen supply, at least 172 paediatric intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilators, and 391 paediatric ICU beds without ventilators. For adults, over 3,837 beds have been reserved, of which 2,817 are equipped with oxygen support, 759 are ICU beds and 261 are equipped with ventilators.Since there has been a decline in the new Covid-19 cases, only six critically ill patients of the 74 active cases from Gurugram are undergoing treatment at hospitals. On Wednesday, the district reported four new Covid-19 cases and zero deaths. The death toll stands at 921 and the total case count at 180,958.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-teams-to-conduct-physical-inspection-of-beds-in-private-hospitals-101628706032970.html
11-08-2021||Gurugram||Power dept stops new connections to 16 colonies that lack infrastructure||The power distribution company on Wednesday said that on July 2, it stopped issuing electricity connections to 16 housing societies and colonies where developers have not built the requisite power infrastructure.The managing director of the distribution company, Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), PC Meena confirmed the developments in this regard and said that a meeting will be held with developers next week to resolve the issue.All 16 are developed projects and are occupied by residents, said officials.“No fresh elections connections to few privately developed colonies are being given because these builders have not created adequate power infrastructure. It is the responsibility of the developers to create distribution infrastructure inside the colonies. The connections were stopped because, despite repeated directions, the developers did not take corrective action,” said PC Meena, the newly appointed managing director of DHBVN, who took charge on August 1.“We don’t want homebuyers or residents to suffer but the developers will have to follow the rules. This matter will be resolved soon,” Meena said.Pradeep Kumar Chauhan, superintending engineer, Gurugram circle II, said that fresh connections were stopped in these colonies on July 2 as developers failed to create requisite infrastructure despite repeated notices. “We have been asking these developers to build the necessary electricity infrastructure since 2013 but it has not happened. We continued to issue fresh connections till last month. The developers will have to do the needful,” he said.DHBVN officials also said that in several cases, developers were misusing the temporary connections that were issued for construction purposes.A senior DHBVN official based in Gurugram, wishing not to be identified, said that the recently Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission questioned the department about the issuance of electricity connections despite the lack of adequate electricity infrastructure.A large number of residents have also repeatedly taken to social media platforms to complain about the issue. The buyers/builders in these colonies are not getting temporary connections for constructions and the process of getting a temporary connection after depositing money for transformers has also stopped, they alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/power-dept-stops-new-connections-to-16-colonies-that-lack-infrastructure-101628706031371.html
11-08-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to start road repairs after monsoon||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority will start repairing four key sector-dividing roads from September, as part of a larger road repair project, following several complaints of potholes, partial constructions and lack of footpath demarcations, officials said on Wednesday.The four roads are part of a citywide road maintenance project that has been pending for the past three years. Tenders for the work, which is expected to cost over ₹8.5 crore, have been floated and a deadline of August 30 is set for submission of bids, officials said.The repair work will start with roads dividing sectors 45 and 52, 46 and 51, 47 and 49, and 46 and 47, which connect six sectors and witness a collective footfall of around 50,000 commuters every day, officials said.MR Sharma, the chief engineer for infrastructure 1 division of the GMDA, said, “These four roads are the connection points for around six sectors, where the traffic movement is also high. We have been getting complaints from commuters regarding potholes, partially constructed roads and footpaths not being demarcated properly. So, we have decided to fix these issues after the monsoon.”Sharma said that all roads under the GMDA will be repaired and that maintenance work has been pending for three years. The maintenance work is scheduled to be completed within six months, he said. The GMDA has a total road network of roughly 270 kilometres under its jurisdiction, of the total 1,267 kilometres in the district, as per a Haryana Vision Zero report. At present, around 10 repair works and road maintenance projects are already under process, according to the status of projects available on the GMDA’s official website. These projects include repair of both service roads from Huda City Centre to Subhash Chowk; repair of Old Railway Road, repair of dividing road of sectors 27 and 28, 43 and 53, and 42 and 54.Officials had said that repair and maintenance work got delayed due to pending approvals and the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Last week, the chief executive officer of GMDA had said that work on several projects is likely to be completed by the end of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-start-road-repairs-after-monsoon-101628705971818.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||If prime facie case is made out, charges can be framed: CBI on Hooda’s plea in AJL case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) told high court that at the time of framing of charge, a trial court is to prima facie consider whether there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused.lf the court is satisfied that a prima-facie case is made out for proceeding further then a charge has to be framed, the agency said on a plea filed by former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda.On July 1, the high court bench of justice Arvind Sangwan had stayed trial against the former Haryana CM and Associated Journal Limited (AJL), which is the publisher of National Herald newspaper, for alleged illegal allotment of a plot in Panchkula to AJL.Charges were framed by a special CBI court, Panchkula, against Hooda and AJL on April 16, an order challenged by Hooda.The trial court had acted on a CBI chargesheet filed in December 2018. The FIR was registered in 2016 during the BJP regime for the alleged offences of 2005 when the Congress leader was the CM.The CBI has also brought to the knowledge of the court an order passed by the Supreme Court as per which trials against former and sitting legislators are being monitored by high court to ensure timely disposal.CBI has alleged that Hooda and late Moti Lal Vora had entered into a criminal conspiracy and misused their official position by ordering re-allotment of a plot at old rates and causing wrongful loss of ₹62 lakh to the government.This was done by Hooda even as there were notings from officials that if an allotment is to be made, it has to be on new rates, CBI has argued submitting that there was enough material on record for a trial court to take cognisance and frame charges against Hooda and AJL.At the time of registration of the FIR, late Moti Lal Vora was the chairman of AJL and Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi were among the shareholders. The newspaper was launched in 1938 by India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. An Enforcement Directorate (ED) probe is also underway in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/if-prime-facie-case-is-made-out-charges-can-be-framed-cbi-on-hooda-s-plea-in-ajl-case-101628705854235.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||12th case filed against Shakti Mills gang rape convict Akash Jadhav||Tardeo police booked Akash Jadhav, 25, a convict in Shakti Mills gang rape case, for allegedly assaulting and threatening a developer from Tardeo area in central Mumbai. Jadhav and his associates have been booked for threatening the developer and also hatching conspiracy to eliminate a close associate of the developer.The case has been transferred to Mumbai Police’s crime branch unit 3 for further investigation. According to police sources, the incident revolves around a dispute between two factions over Vighnaharta redevelopment project in Wadala. Wadala resident Vivek Shettyar, a close friend and associate of developer Parag Gohil who is the complainant in the case, was in charge at the redevelopment project site.Police officers said an old rival of Shettiyar had decided to eliminate him over a past dispute and Jadhav was part of the same group which had hatched the conspiracy.On June 23 this year, Shettyar had gone to meet Gohil at his Tardeo residence when Jadhav along with others reached Gohil’s residence and assaulted him outside his building. The accused threatened Gohil with a knife, said a police officer.Gohil approached the police and lodged a complaint against Jadhav and his gang members on Tuesday. The accused and his associates are also accused of killing Shettyar’s friend Akshay Chavan alias Guru in 2019.Jadhav alias Gotya has allegedly committed more than 11 serious crimes including attempt to murder in the past four years after he was released from Nashik Borstal School in July 2017. At the time of Shakti Mills gang rape case, Jadhav was 17 years old. In July 2014, the juvenile justice board of Mumbai had sent Jadhav and the other accused minor to Nashik Borstal School for three years. There was not much improvement observed in Jadhav’s behaviour despite serving three years in correction home for a heinous crime, said another police officer. “Jadhav is a habitual offender with this being the 12th criminal case registered against him since his release from the remand home after three years of confinement,” another police officer said.Two months after he was released, he assaulted a 48-year-old man from Mahalaxmi. Later, he and with his associate allegedly assaulted another man in NM Joshi area. Several offences including kidnapping, extortion and an attempt to murder case were registered against him and his associates in NM joshi Marg, RAK Marg and Agripada police stations, said an officer.Crime branch previously arrested Jadhav in March this year for allegedly stabbing a Bandra resident on February 28.In 2018, Jadhav was also externed from city limits for two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/12th-case-filed-against-shakti-mills-gang-rape-convict-akash-jadhav-101628705671429.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to provide 1% reservation to orphans in government jobs and education||The Maharashtra government has decided to provide 1% reservation to orphans in government jobs and education. The decision was cleared in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. The policy was first formulated in 2018 but could not be implemented owing to technical difficulties which have been removed, said state women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur.She also declared that the state would provide jobs to all candidates who appeared for examinations for government jobs but could not get it owing to delay in results. “All those, who have appeared for exams but could get it because of delay in declaring results, will now be accommodated in the government jobs,” Thakur told reporters at Sahyadri guest house after cabinet meeting.In the revised policy, the state government has divided orphans into three categories: A, B and C. The first two categories are eligible for reservation in government jobs and educational schemes while those in the third category will be eligible only for educational schemes, officials said.The 1% reservation to orphans will be provided based on the total number of positions in jobs and number of seats in admissions. Criteria such as age, educational qualifications etc. for becoming eligible under the policy is similar to the existing norms determined for Scheduled Caste category, said a senior official from women and child development department.“The state was facing difficulties in providing the same benefits to all kinds of orphans, and thus made the desired changes, making it feasible,” said another senior official, wishing not to be named.According to the revised policy, orphans who have no idea about their parents, siblings, relatives, village, address, etc. will fall in the first (A) category. Those who have lost their parents, and whose documents do not mention their caste or those who do not have a caste certificate, and orphans brought up at orphanages will come under the second (B) category. Those who have lost their parents before adulthood and were brought up by relatives and have details of their caste will fall in the last (C) category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-provide-1-reservation-to-orphans-in-government-jobs-and-education-101628705491318.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Allotment of Mumbai local train passes: 23,251 season tickets issued on Day 1||On Day 1 of the offline verification process for train travel for the fully vaccinated from August 15, the railways issued 23,251 monthly season tickets till 6pm on Wednesday – 16,798 by the Central Railway (CR) and 6,453 by the Western Railway (WR). While Dombivli topped in the passes on the CR (1,217), on the WR, Borivli saw the maximum number of railway passes being issued (449). The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), until 3pm on Wednesday, verified documents of 18,324 citizens at 358 helpdesks across 53 railway stations. The BMC was yet to compile the details of the number of documents verified and passes issued in the second shift (3pm to 7pm), at the time of going to press. Although there were queues of fully vaccinated citizens at railway stations across the city, no crowding was reported at any station, said officials. Among those availing the facility were citizens from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, as each city in the MMR gave permission for train travel. On Tuesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that fully vaccinated beneficiaries can travel by local trains from August 15 onwards, provided they have completed 14 days after the second dose of their vaccine shots and their documents have been verified by the BMC. Subsequently, the BMC announced on Tuesday evening that the offline verification process will start at 53 railway stations from Wednesday. The helpdesks set up by the civic body will stay open between 7am and 11pm daily, in two shifts. The Central and the Western Railway will operate 617 booking offices between 7am and 11pm everyday till August 15 to facilitate passengers. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and incharge of the BMC’s health department, who is overseeing these operations, conducted rounds of some railway stations in the city on Wednesday morning. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G-North ward, with jurisdiction over Dadar Terminus, said, “Operations have been going on smoothly at helpdesks at Dadar. There was no crowding at the station, as citizens have also realised there is time to get such passes issued. Helpdesks will stay open daily until further notice.” The BMC is also in the process of making the verification procedure available online. “We had expected the number of passengers to increase by 6pm, but that did not happen,” said a senior CR official. A senior civic official said, “As fully vaccinated citizens also have to wait for a period of 14 days after their second shot before applying for passes, the sample size of fully vaccinated beneficiaries also opting for a train pass may be small. Among those fully vaccinated, those who want to take the train as well may be a small number. We are yet to see how many passengers will opt for train travel.” Suburban railway passengers welcomed the move. “I got my monthly railway pass smoothly in five minutes. My office got me vaccinated as soon as the vaccination process began. However, my friends will still have to suffer and pay more to commute as they have not got their second dose of vaccine,” said Aslam Shaikh, a Kurla resident. According to the data from the BMC, a total of 1,914,771 beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated as of Tuesday evening. Of these, 297,377 are healthcare and frontline workers; 646,939 are citizens above 60 years of age; 811,709 are in the 45-60 age group; 140,944 are in the 18-45 age group; 721 are lactating mothers; eight are pregnant women; 16,889 are students or professionals looking to travel abroad, or those who were participating in Tokyo Olympics; 136 are physically or mentally differently abled; 26 are without identity proofs (prisoners/transgender persons); and 22 are bedridden beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allotment-of-mumbai-local-train-passes-23-251-season-tickets-issued-on-day-1-101628705371707.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No Covid vaccination drive at centres today and tomorrow||The vaccination drive at public centres in Mumbai is suspended for Thursday and Friday due to shortage of vaccines, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a statement on Wednesday. Meanwhile, many centres witnessed longer queues than usual on Tuesday and Wednesday, in light of the decision to allow fully vaccinated citizens to travel on local trains from August 15. New stock of vaccine doses is expected to arrive by Thursday night and will be distributed to all centres on Friday. Vaccination will resume at public centres in the city on Saturday, August 14. The BMC last received 45,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses on Saturday night and has not received any stock since. On Wednesday, 39,538 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the city, of which 11,758 received their second dose and 27,779 were vaccinated with their first dose. Among those who received their second dose, 66 are healthcare and frontline workers, 2,168 are citizens above the age of 60, 4,574 are citizens in the 45-60 age group, 4,817 are in the 18-45 age group, 134 are students or professionals travelling internationally. So far, a total of 1,926,530 beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated in Mumbai, and 5,769,495 beneficiaries have been vaccinated with their first dose. There are over 430 vaccine centres in the city, of which 294 are operated by the civic body, and 20 by the state and Central government. Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo facility, said, “On Wednesday morning, the vaccination centre at BKC saw longer queues. This has been the case for the past two three days. As a majority of the city’s population travels by local trains, many beneficiaries whose second dose is due are rushing to take it. Moreover, news of shortage of vaccine doses has also prompted people to turn up at the vaccine centre early for the walk-in facility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaino-covid-vaccination-drive-at-centres-today-and-tomorrow-101628704951591.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Two weeks after court order, MU final-year law students still await mark sheets||Announcement of the results for final-year law courses brought relief to the students but their wait for physical mark sheets is seemingly never-ending, despite the University of Mumbai (MU) assuring students in the Bombay high court (HC) that mark sheets would be distributed by August 11.“The varsity should be held for contempt of court for not adhering to their own promise in court. It has been two weeks and we still have no idea when the mark sheets will be ready,” said a law student.Last year, due to increasing Covid-19 cases and the subsequent lockdown, all university students, except final-semester students, were promoted to the next semester based on their performance. Results for semester-2 and 4 of the three-year LLB course and semester-2, 4, 6 and 8 of the five-year LLB course were announced based on the average scores of previous semesters and internal assessment marks. These results were announced in August 2020 and several of these students have already cleared the semester after that. On July 5 this year, law students were in for a shock after the university released a circular nullifying the August 2020 results and instead directed colleges to hold assignment-based evaluation as per a set schedule to declare results once again. Students were asked to complete two assignments in each subject for 50 marks, and the scores obtained would have been extrapolated to the scale of 60 or 100, whichever applicable. Students raised this matter in the HC and a final decision came through on July 28, when the university published a new circular nullifying the July 5 circular and assured the court that results and mark sheets will be distributed within two weeks.A day after this announcement, on July 29, University declared results for semester-10 and 6 of the five-year and three-year law courses, respectively. The success rate of semester-10 students stood at 97.36%, while that of semester-6 students stood at 98.62%, MU stated in a press release.“Many of us have applied for jobs, which we cannot join till we submit the mark sheet. Similarly, some of us are in need of the physical mark sheet in order to apply for higher education. The university needs to understand our plight,” said Ankit Gada, another student.“Mark sheets are ready and some colleges have already collected the same. Students will receive mark sheets soon,” said an official from MU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-weeks-after-court-order-mu-final-year-law-students-still-await-mark-sheets-101628704891417.html
11-08-2021||Other||Heavy rain, strong wind likely across west UP in next 48 hours: IMD||Lucknow: Heavy to very heavy rainfall accompanied by strong winds is likely to occur in west UP districts in the next 48 hours, according to forecast issued by Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday. Moradabad, Sambhal, Saharanpur, Baghpat, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Amroha, Hathras, Aligarh and other districts will experience the change in climatic condition as per the forecast. The state MeT department has alerted administrations of the west UP districts about the forecast and advised ttham o take preventive measures to avoid any loss caused by the adverse weather conditions. “The rain will be caused by a strong western current arising over the Thar desert which is progressing towards east. The weather change will lead to heavy rain over western districts of Uttar Pradesh. Some districts in central UP may also be affected by it,” said JP Gupta, director of the state MeT department. Meanwhile, the state recorded 8 mm average rainfall on Wednesday. Rain was reported in over 24 districts of the state, including the state capital. The rain brought down temperature across the state and provided relief from high relative humidity. The maximum temperature in Lucknow was recorded at 32 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature was at 24 degrees Celsius. The MeT department has issued similar forecast for Lucknow for Thursday. The maximum temperature in the state was recorded in Banda where the mercury reached 41-degree mark. Prayagraj, Jhansi and Hathras also recorded temperatures close to 40-degree mark, as per the MeT department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rain-strong-wind-likely-across-west-up-in-next-48-hours-imd-101628704836747.html
11-08-2021||Gurugram||NHAI to construct flyovers at Manesar and Bilaspur||Two flyovers are set to come up at Manesar and Bilaspur, major dark spots on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, as part of a road infrastructure project by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to improve road safety and reduce congestion, officials said on Wednesday.According to the NHAI’s project document accessed by HT, four major bridges, five overbridges, seven minor bridges, six grade separators and 11 bus bays are planned to be constructed between Kherki Daula and Jaipur. Major improvement works, including converting four-lane roads to six-lane ones, will also be done.Officials said that tenders have been floated for the project and it is expected to take a year-and-a-half for the structures to be constructed. These will be designed for a speed of 100 kmph.Ajay Arya, project director, NHAI said that the bids will be opened on September 14. “The two structures at Manesar and Bilaspur, besides other bridges and structures, will greatly improve commute on the entire highway. Heavy congestion is witnessed in these areas and the number of accidents has been high as several state highways and main roads converge at these spots,” said Arya.NHAI officials said adequate pedestrian facilities, streetlighting, drainage and other safety structures would also be set up.With the primary focus on improving safety at these locations, NHAI officials said that adequate traffic control devices and road safety works will also be created. These include roadside signs, overhead signs and curb mounted signs along the identified stretches. The structures will also have a provision for W-beam crash barriers along the identified stretches at high embankment locations, officials said.Currently, the condition of roads at several locations on this highway is not ideal with proper maintenance works lacking, regular commuters on the roads connecting Gurugram, Rewari and Narnaul said.Vishal Bansal, a resident of Narnaul, who frequently travels on the highway, said that the new bridges on Gurugram and Rajasthan side will reduce commute time and also check accidents. “We get stuck at Bilaspur and Manesar regularly. Another bad spot is Dharuhera and NHAI should do something about that also,” he said.Due to heavy congestion and a high number of accidents, residents of Manesar, Bilaspur and Rewari have been demanding flyover on both these stretches.Union minister and Gurugram Lok Sabha member, Rao Inderjit Singh, said that he had taken up the matter of flyovers at Bilaspur and Manesar repeatedly with union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, who approved these projects a few weeks ago. “Traffic congestion on the entire highway is high and there are frequent traffic jams. The NHAI has finally floated the tenders and I hope the work will be completed at a fast pace. The accidents happening on this stretch will also reduce,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nhai-to-construct-flyovers-at-manesar-and-bilaspur-101628704051276.html
11-08-2021||Other||Ensure better implementation of NEP-2020 in UP: Governor||LUCKNOW UP governor Anandiben Patel asked for better implementation of the New Education Policy (NEP)-2020 in the state after viewing presentations on the issue by higher education department officials on Wednesday.Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma was also present on the occasion. According to a press statement issued by the Governor House, three presentations were made on the implementation of NEP-2020 before the governor. These were made by the higher education department, Dr Shakuntala Mishra National Rehabilitation University and Bhatkhande Music Institute.The governor praised the presentations and said the implementation of the plan must also be done in a similar manner. She said there must be uniformity in the syllabi designed for various colleges to enable easy migration of students and called for its physical implementation in colleges across the state. Anandiben Patel said the rehab university must begin the work to implement NEP-2020. The governor asked universities to sign MoUs to promote research and focus on job-based education for students.Expressing displeasure on the existing accounts system in universities, the governor said finance officers of universities should have up-to-date information about the bank accounts of the university, their balance and expenditure. She added that the assets register of the universities must be updated regularly.Deputy chief minister Sharma informed the governor that the state government and higher education department were taking all measures to ensure the implementation of NEP in UP and asserted that the state would be the first to implement NEP in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ensure-better-implementation-of-nep-2020-in-up-governor-101628702251351.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records jump in Covid-19 cases||Punjab on Wednesday registered a jump in Covid-19 infections, 107 cases surfacing in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 5,99,678.With no Covid-related death reported on Wednesday, the toll stood at 16,325, according to the health bulletin.The toll, however, included three deaths, which were not reported earlier, as per the bulletin.Ludhiana reported the maximum 34 cases, followed by nine in Amritsar and eight each in Bathinda and Fazilka.The state saw 54, 31 and 74 infections on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday respectively.It registered 118 cases on July 17 and since then, the state has been witnessing less than 100 infections daily.With the rise in the number of infections, the active cases rose to 517 from 460 Tuesday.With 45 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,82,836 Wednesday, as per the bulletin.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported five cases of Covid-19, taking the total count to 61,997, it said.With no death reported on Wednesday, the toll figure stood at 811. The number of active cases in the city was 35 while the number of cured persons was 61,151.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-jump-in-covid-19-cases-101628701145881.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||BMC prepares for third wave; to increase testing, contact tracing in Mumbai||To prepare for the anticipated third wave, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday decided to increase the number of Covid-19 tests, and contact tracing measures in Mumbai, from the present 15 high-risk contacts per positive patient to 20 high-risk contacts per patient. The decision was taken in a review meeting of the health department with municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, and additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is in charge of the civic public health department.As per predictions of experts and authorities, the third wave of Covid-19 cases is likely to be recorded anytime between September or October, during the festival season.Presently, BMC conducts between 30,000 and 40,000 Covid-19 tests per day. On Tuesday, a total of 36,720 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the city. So far, a total of 8,506,864 tests have been conducted, with an overall positivity rate of 8.67%.On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 285 fresh Covid-19 cases, and 9 deaths, taking the tally to 738,239, and toll to 15,968. There are 4,212 active Covid-19 cases in the city. As per BMC data available for 3,782 active Covid-19 cases, 29% are asymptomatic, 59% are symptomatic but stable, and 12% are critical patients.In the past 24 hours since Wednesday evening, 6,816 high-risk contacts of positive patients have been traced. There are 757 high-risk contacts in institutional quarantine at present.Among other preparations, the administration will take stock of the availability of beds, medical equipment, medicines, availability and storage capacity for oxygen, and manpower at all Covid care facilities, including Covid hospitals, Covid care centres 1 (CCC) and CCC2, and jumbo facilities. While CCC1 is used to quarantine asymptomatic Covid patients, CCC2 is used to treat mild symptomatic patients.BMC will also begin to strictly implement containment rules at quarantine zones, and micro quarantine zones in the city. Presently, there are two active containment zones, and 35 sealed buildings in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-prepares-for-third-wave-to-increase-testing-contact-tracing-in-mumbai-101628702011093.html
11-08-2021||Other||Ayodhya admn cancels religious processions||LUCKNOW The Ayodhya administration on Wednesday made it mandatory for outsiders entering the town to show a negative RT-PCR report and restrict movement of people in the Shrawan Mela. All religious processions were also cancelled in view of a possible third wave of Covid-19, said officials. Entry points to the temple town had been sealed while locals were being permitted entry by showing identity cards, they said. In view of the pandemic, the Ayodhya administration cancelled religious processions and all activities at Mani Parvat fair related with the holy month of Shravan. Now, all festivities had been confined to temples. “In view of possibility of third wave of Covid-19, all religious processions have been cancelled after consultation with seers. The step has been taken to make sure there is no crowd in Shravan Mela,” said district magistrate Anuj Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ayodhya-admn-cancels-religious-processions-101628701892857.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Ruckus at Kalyan Covid vaccination centre for unavailability of stock||A ruckus ensued outside Acharya Atre Theatre vaccination centre here on Wednesday after residents, standing in the queue since the previous night, didn’t get coupons.Angry residents raised slogans against civic officials after the counters were closed within half-an-hour. A 2km-long queue till Subhash ground was witnessed. Police intervened to control the crowd.Sandip Nimbalkar, medical officer, KDMC said that the crowd was constantly updated about the stock availability. Pallavi Bhagwat, deputy commissioner, KDMC, said, “A nodal officer will be appointed for managing the crowd and also providing information on vaccination to the people reaching the centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ruckus-at-kalyan-covid-vaccination-centre-for-unavailability-of-stock-101628701777848.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Special NDPS court rejects Siddharth Pithani’s bail plea||A special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) court on Wednesday rejected the bail application of Siddharth Pithani, flatmate of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, arrested in a drug related case following the actor’s death.Special judge VV Vidwans rejected the bail plea of Pithani who was picked from Hyderabad by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) headed by zonal director Sameer Wankhede.The NCB team had served notices to Pithani to join investigations under the NDPS Act in the drug case but, the investigators claimed, he had not co-operated. Pithani was subsequently picked from Hyderabad and produced before a Telangana court that had granted them transit remand to bring him to Mumbai.Pithani was the first person to see the actor’s body hanging from the ceiling on September 14, 2020. Hi statement was recorded by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) as well as Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which is the investigating the suicide case of the actor.Advocate Taraq Sayed, for Pithani, had claimed that Pithani had co-operated with the investigators from time to time, and that he was falsely implicated and there was no evidence against him. However, the court rejected his bail application.Rajput’s former girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik were also arrested in a drug case for procuring marijuana and were granted bail. Investigations from the drugs angle started after the agency discovered mentions of drugs in some WhatsApp chats after the actor’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-ndps-court-rejects-siddharth-pithani-s-bail-plea-101628701651154.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Chaos at Kalyan station on Day 1 of railway pass allotment||On the first day of the verification of documents for allotting local train monthly pass, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) verified documents of 2,506 commuters till 3pm on Wednesday at Kalyan, Dombivli, Titwala, Ambivli, Shahad, Thakurli and Kopar railway stations.As per the data collected from the seven railway stations, a total of 617 passes were issued in all these stations till 3pm. Similarly, 1,394 documents were verified at four stations of Diva, Mumbra, Kalwa and Thane by the Thane Municipal Corporation.Long queues were seen outside Kalyan and Dombivli stations from 6am on the backdrop of trains operating for fully vaccinated commuters from August 15. While some commuters were clueless about the procedure for the verification and allotment of passes, some had carried all the documents related to their identification and vaccination.“I have carried the vaccination certificate and my identification card. They were also asking for the Xerox copy of the ID card, which I didn’t have. It was not mentioned anywhere that the Xerox copy of the ID card was required. Moreover, we have to queue up twice, once for verification and the second time for getting the pass. This wastes a lot of time,” said Mahajan Surve, 40, one of the commuters at Kalyan railway station.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has deployed a dedicated team of ward officers, deputy commissioner and other staff members at the seven railway stations falling under its jurisdiction in two shifts, from 7am to 3pm and from 3pm to 11pm.Suhas Gupte, ward officer managing the counter at Dombivli station, said, “Today is the first day of verification and people have started arriving at the counter since morning. People are coming with the soft copies of their documents which will not be considered. They should bring the hard copies so that we can stamp on them. These will be further verified by the railway staff for allotting the pass.” Crowd better managed in ThaneWith six helpdesks at Thane, Kalwa, Mumbra and Diva stations, the crowd was well managed by the Thane Municipal Corporation at the railway stations.For Rajesh Jain, a resident of Tembhi Naka in Thane who travels to Crawford Market on a daily basis, getting a railway pass after a year-and-a-half was a relief. “I was fully vaccinated more than a month ago, so I could showcase my certificate and got a railway pass on Wednesday morning itself. There was no rush and the queue and verification counters were well organised. Currently, I am travelling by bus, which is expensive and time consuming as well. From next week I can take the train.”Dr Vipin Sharma, Thane Municipal Corporation commissioner, said, “The verification facility is available from 7am to 11pm and employees of TMC were given training on Tuesday. Those who are eligible and want to travel on a regular basis can avail the pass facility. I appeal to the residents to maintain social distancing and avoid crowding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/chaos-at-kalyan-station-on-day-1-of-railway-pass-allotment-101628701531347.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Despite objection, BMC seeks green nod for Deonar waste-to-energy project||Despite stiff opposition from residents and environmentalists, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on August 6 moved a proposal before the state environment department seeking environment clearance (EC) for its proposed 4MW waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the Deonar dumping ground. The BMC’s proposal — file number SIA/MH/MIS/47692/2019 — has been accepted by the state environment impact assessment authority (SEIAA) and is currently under examination by the state-level expert appraisal committee (EAC).BMC’s application for a green nod follows an online public hearing held on April 27, during which the project was met with criticism from those in attendance, particularly people living near the landfill. The minutes of the public hearing (which have been reviewed by Hindustan Times) does not reflect the widespread nature of the objections raised and have instead been drafted in a question-and-answer format which suggests that citizens’ queries regarding the project have been resolved.Several participants had pointed out that the WTE model has seen little success in other parts of the country, and should not be replicated in Mumbai. “Our main contention was that this project will not solve the problem of waste dumping in Deonar. On the contrary, we need to enforce source segregation. The minutes of the public hearing does not reflect any cognisance of the ecological pitfalls of this waste to the energy model. We had also requested that the public hearing itself be postponed to another date given that we were in the middle of a surge in Covid cases in April. That request was cleanly denied,” said environmentalist Anand Pendharkar.The broad argument posited by environmentalists was that the WTE model incentivises the production of waste instead of focusing on source segregation. Across Europe and even China, they had noted, WTE plants are being proactively shut down because they emit carcinogenic dioxins and furans. Moreover, given poor waste management practices in Indian cities, the calorific value of waste is low making it unsuitable for incineration and all the more harmful, emissions wise.“One important point which has not been reflected in that the draft environmental impact assessment (EIA) report was not made widely available before hearing. It is stated in the minutes that copies of the report were available at certain offices, but how are citizens, especially those who will be affected most by the project, supposed to know this? The report should have been placed online,” said Bilal Khan, a social worker who has been engaged with the local community living around Deonar for several years.Khan had pointed out, during the public hearing, that only 100 people were in attendance for the consultation whereas the population of the M East ward is at least nine lakh. “It is not acceptable to push a project without conducting any ground-level engagement,” Khan added. BMC officials, however, cited the ongoing pandemic as a hurdle and said that all rules of the union environment ministry related to public consultations have been followed in the matter.“All comments, feedback and objections have been duly noted. The expert appraisal committee will consider them and take appropriate action,” said Minesh Pimple, deputy chief engineer, solid waste management (projects), BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaidespite-objection-bmc-seeks-green-nod-for-deonar-waste-to-energy-project-101628701291157.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Silence on lifting 50% quota cap exposed charade of BJP, say Sena MPs||Backed into the corner by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over quota issues for Maratha community in Maharashtra, the Shiv Sena on Wednesday hit back saying the silence of BJP Members of Parliament (MPs) from Maharashtra on the 50% cap has “exposed their hidden motives”. Sena MPs added that the BJP used the Maratha quota issue to target the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government but the “charade” has been exposed.Sena MPs in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha backed the 127th amendment, which restored the power of state governments to identify Other Backward Classes (OBC) that are socially and economically backward, but sought an amendment allowing the states to go over the 50% ceiling. The amendment was necessitated after the Supreme Court (SC) in its order on Maratha reservations upheld the 102nd Constitutional Amendment Act that inserted articles 338B and 342A (with two clauses) after article 342 which said the President of India, in consultation with governors, would specify socially and economically backward classes, taking away the power of state governments to do so.Sena MPs launched an offensive on its former ally in New Delhi, saying the criticism of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) was to shift blame from the Centre to the state government. Vinayak Raut, Sena MP and its leader in Lok Sabha, said the BJP’s concern for Marathas and Dhangars was a “charade”, and the party has lost the moral right to speak on quota for the communities.“In the words of Devendra Fadnavis, a bill should be ‘fool-proof’ (Fadnavis had used the term for state’s quota for Maratha community), and therefore the Sena had suggested amendment in the said bill to allow states to go over the 50% cap on reservations. When the amendment was put to vote, all parties including the Congress backed it but the hidden motives of one party, the BJP which had been criticising the state government on the reservations for various communities, were exposed,” Raut told reporters in New Delhi.The MP from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg further added, “BJP’s concern for Dhangar and Marathas was a charade, which is now clear, after they did not back the amendment in Lok Sabha. Those who were speaking for Maratha and Dhangar communities have acted in a complete opposite manner in the Lok Sabha. The BJP has lost the moral right to speak on quota for Maratha and Dhangar communities.”South Mumbai MP and former Union minister Arvind Sawant said, “In the last year or so, MVA and Uddhav Thackeray were constantly targeted [on Maratha reservations issue]. A picture was being created that the state is not taking any constructive steps, and that they (BJP) have brought the reservation, but it did not stand in the courts. The bill brought in the Parliament has exposed that the criticism was false. It was always in the hands of the Centre and now it has gone back to the states.” Speaking in Rajya Sabha, Sena MP Sanjay Raut called the bill incomplete and of no use till the cap is lifted. “This bill is not a complete one. Till you remove the ceiling of 50% quota, it is of no use. [BJP MP] Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje is here, he was the leader of the agitation from the community. Today, even he feels that the 50% cap should increase.”Vinayak Raut said the 127th amendment bill, which was passed in Lok Sabha on Tuesday, was “very vague” which can “raise several issues” later. He said, “The states must have the right to exceed the 50% limit based on the backward class commission’s reports... None of the states will benefit from this amendment because if they have to give reservations to communities in their states they will have to go over 50% cap.”Responding to the criticism, BJP leader Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil said, “The Opposition had demanded Constitutional amendment on the reservations. They supported the bill in Parliament but now criticise it outside. This is their tactic to create an environment of doubt among the community.” Despite attempts, Union minister of state and Maratha leader Raosaheb Danve was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/silence-on-lifting-50-quota-cap-exposed-charade-of-bjp-say-sena-mps-101628701172972.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Bhiwandi murder: Third accused held; 2 more still absconding||A day after two persons were arrested for the murder of a 35-year-old Uber driver, Amrut Gave, Mahatma Phule police in Kalyan nabbed the third accused in the case.The police recovered Gave’s decomposed body early on Wednesday morning from the trenches of Kasara Ghat. He was stabbed by five persons who had booked his cab on August 1 and threw his body in the Ghat. All the five accused fled to Uttar Pradesh. The police arrested Aman Gautam (27), Rahulkumar Gautam (24) and Dharmendra Gautam (27) while Karan Gautam (28) and Bachai Gautam (24) are still absconding.Police inspector ST Jadhav said, “The crime was hatched by Aman with the sole purpose of stealing the car. All the five are from the same village in UP. They allegedly stabbed Gave multiple times. They threw both his body and the weapon used in the trench and escaped with the car.”Gave was the sole breadwinner of his family that included three children and his wife. He did several odd jobs to earn a living during the lockdown, one of which was driving.“The body was completely decomposed when we removed it from a 70-foot deep trench. It was stuck on a tree for almost nine days after the driver died. The body has been sent for post-mortem for further details. We have all the CCTV footage and other technical evidence against the accused.”Police officials detected this case as the car was linked to a fast tag. The car owner received many alerts of tolls being deducted. He found it suspicious and informed the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-murder-third-accused-held-2-more-still-absconding-101628700871005.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Is 1994 Pune ring road plan still feasible: Bombay HC asks state||The Bombay high court (HC) has sought to know from the Maharashtra government as to whether the plan for a ring road in and around Pune, conceived in the regional town development plan in 1994, was still a techno-economically feasible project in 2021.The court sought state’s response in plea by a developer seeking reliefs and directions to the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) to withdraw the order restraining Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) from issuing Occupancy and Completion Certificates to the developer who constructed a structure on the land meant for the ring road and even sold the units therein.The HC further sought to know from the state the time it would take to demarcate and acquire land for the project and the estimated cost. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the petition filed by Gera Developments Private Limited and interim applications filed by various persons on Tuesday, was informed by senior advocate Virag Tulzapurkar for Gera Developments that the petitioner was aggrieved by PMRDA order restraining MIDC from issuing the OC and CC for a multi-storey commercial building constructed by the petitioners on a leasehold plot of land belonging to MIDC. The proposed 128-km ring road around Pune was first conceived in 1994 by PMRDA and was to service 29 villages by connecting highways around the city and regulate pollution levels in the city by diverting heavy vehicular traffic from entering the city to reduce existing traffic congestion. The 120-metre-wide road is proposed to be constructed at a cost of ₹26,831 crore and will have 14 multilevel interchanges and eight major bridges to facilitate smooth traffic. The circular road is set to have 18 viaducts, 17 tunnels and four roadways over bridges. In a previous hearing, Tulzapurkar had informed the bench that the issuance of certificates was withheld on the grounds that, in pursuance of a development plan conceived in 1997, a ring road measuring 120m in width was proposed to be constructed which would cut across the plot of land on which the building was constructed. Tulzapurkar had submitted that his client had started construction of the building after receiving requisite permissions from MIDC in 2016 and the building was completed and commercial units in the building had also been sold, but possession was not granted to the buyers for want of the certificates. He said if the certificates were not granted, his client would become embroiled in proceedings which would be initiated by the buyers before MahaRERA, and hence sought directions to PMRDA to withdraw its restraining order to MIDC. On its part, Shyamali Gadre, counsel for MIDC, said it was bound by PMRDA orders and could not do much till the development authority issued an order to issue the certificates. Gadre, however, added that MIDC had written to the urban development department in November 2020, requesting them to grant approval to the building, failing which the government would suffer huge revenue losses. On the query of the court as to why PMRDA was sleeping while construction of the building started and woke up only when the issuance of the OC and CC came up, advocate Nitin Deshpande for PMRDA submitted that the authority was willing to sit with MIDC and petitioners and find a solution by reducing the width of the ring road from 120 metres by 45-60 metres and also by changing the alignment of the proposed ring road. Deshpande added that a proposal to that effect has been forwarded to the urban development department and a response was awaited. However, additional government pleader Manish Pabale refuted PMRDA’s claim and said that no such proposal was pending before the department. He submitted that the ring road was vital for the growth of Pune and would also reduce congestion, and hence there could be no compromise. After hearing all sides, the bench asked the state whether the plan conceived in 1994 was feasible today and if yes, the state should file an affidavit elaborating on the rough estimate of the total project cost and approximate time for construction, excluding the time to be taken for acquiring lands to be affected by the project. The state has also been asked to state the likely time to be taken for demarcation and acquisition of lands by August 18. The court has posted hearing of the petition to August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/is-1994-pune-ring-road-plan-still-feasible-bombay-hc-asks-state-101628700631367.html
11-08-2021||Other||MSBSHSE will conduct scholarship exams in offline mode for Classes 5 and 8 on August 12||PUNE: The Bombay High Court (HC) on Tuesday cancelled the Maharashtra government’s Common Entrance Test (CET) for admissions to Class 11, ruling that the offline exam would pose a threat to the lives of students in light of the covid-19 pandemic. The HC bench in its order said, “If the CET is allowed to be held, then a large number of students will be exposed and will face a threat to life. This will have a cascading effect.”However, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will conduct scholarship exams in the offline mode for Classes 5 and 8 on August 12. As per the MSBSHSE, over 6 lakh students from across the state are expected to appear for the scholarship examination. As per data furnished by the board, the highest number of students namely, 52,268 are appearing for the exam from the Pune district alone; followed by 46,043 students from the Ahmednagar district; more than 32,000 students from Nashik and Kolhapur; and more than 23,000 students from Solapur, Satara, Sangli and Aurangabad.Jyoti Waghmare, whose son is appearing for the offline exam for Class 5 scheduled on August 12, expressed the view that the exam should be conducted online for the safety of students. “Why are there two different decisions with respect to the offline exam? When the CET, Class 10 and Class 12 board exams, and all offline exams have been cancelled, why is the scholarship exam being held offline? It is not safe for children to appear for offline exams during the pandemic,” said Waghmare.T N Supe, divisional chairman of the MSBSHSE, cleared the air that the school-centres where the exam is going to be conducted have been instructed to follow all covid-19 norms to ensure that the students are safe. “The schools have been directed to sanitise the classrooms where the students will appear for the exam. Moreover, all students will be screened for temperature. Wearing masks is a must for the exam. Parents, students and teachers have been advised to avoid crowding outside the centres. All centres have been directed to take necessary covid-appropriate steps to ensure that the children are safe,” said Supe. So far, the scholarship exam has been postponed at least six times, he added.BoxTotal students in Maharashtra appearing for Class 5 and Class 8 scholarship – 632,665Total centres in Maharashtra — 5,687Total students appearing for Class 5 scholarship exam – 388,405Total centres for Class 5 scholarship exam – 3,394Total students appearing for Class 8 scholarship exam – 244,260Total centres for Class 8 scholarship exam – 2,293Source: MSBSHSEOn Wed, Aug 11, 2021 at 6:33 PM Roopesh.Raj@htlive.com <Roopesh.Raj@htlive.com> wrote:Get Outlook for iOSFrom: Namrata Devikar <namratadevikar22@gmail.com>Sent: Wednesday, August 11, 2021 6:22:07 PMTo: Yogesh M Joshi (English Content Management- Mumbai) <yogesh.joshi@htlive.com>; Roopesh Raphael Raj (English Content Management- Mumbai) <Roopesh.Raj@htlive.com>Cc: James Mathew (English Content Management- Mumbai) <James.Mathew@htlive.com>; Fatima Thomas Peter (English Content Management- Mumbai) <Fatima.Peter@htlive.com>Subject: Scholarship examCAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.Headline--Offline scholarship exam to be held on August 12Namrata Devikarpuneletters@htlive.comPune: The Bombay High Court on Tuesday cancelled the Maharashtra government’s Common Entrance Test (CET) for Class 11 admissions. However, on August 12, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will hold scholarship exams for class 5 and 8 in offline mode on August 12.For the scholarship examination, as per the board, over 6 lakh students from across the State are expected to appear for the examination. The Pune division has over 52,000 students appearing for the exam scheduled on Thursday.Bombay HC in its judgement on Tuesday said that offline examination would be a threat to the lives of students, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.Speaking about the exam, Jyoti Waghmare, whose son will be appearing for the offline examination for class 5 scheduled on August 12 said that the exam should be conducted online for the safety of the students.“Why are there two different decisions with respect to the offline examinations. CET, class 10 board, class 12 board, all offline exams were cancelled then why is the scholarship exam being held offline. Is it not safe for children to appear for online examination during the pandemic,” questioned Waghmare.As per the data furnished by the Board, the highest number of students, that is 52,268 students will be appearing from the Pune district. The second highest are from Ahmednagar district wherein 46,043 students will be appearing for the exam. Nashik and Kolhapur District have over 32,000 students registered for this exam. And Solapur, Satara , Sangli and Aurangabad have over 23,000 students registered in each district.Speaking about the preparation at centers, T N Supe, divisional chairman of MSBSHSE said that schools are instructed to follow all covid norms to ensure that students are safe.“The schools are directed to sanitise classrooms where the students will appear for the exam. Moreover, all students will be screened for temperature. And wearing masks is a must for the exam. Parents, students and teachers are advised to avoid crowding outside the center. All centers are directed to take necessary covid appropriate steps to ensure the safety of the children,” said Supe.He added that so far due to the pandemic, the scholarship exam has been postponed at least six times.After cancelling the class 11 CET, the high court bench in its order said, “If the CET is allowed to be held, then a large number of students would be exposed and would face a threat to life. This would have a cascading effect.”BoxTotal students in Maharashtra appearing for class 5 and class 8 scholarship-- 632665Total centers in Maharashtra--5687Total students for class 5 appearing for the exam-- 388405Total centers for class 5 scholarship exam--3394Total students for class 8 appearing for the exam-- 244260Total centers for class 8 scholarship exam--2293Source: MSBSHSEIMPORTANT NOTICE: “This email is confidential containing HT Media confidential information, may be legally privileged, and is for the intended recipient only. Access, disclosure, copying, distribution, or reliance on any of it by anyone else is prohibited and may be a criminal offense.Please notify the sender immediately by email if you have received this email by mistake and delete this email from your system.” Experience news. Like never before. Only on www.hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msbshse-will-conduct-scholarship-exams-in-offline-mode-for-classes-5-and-8-on-august-12-101628700390512.html
11-08-2021||Other||Confusion prevails over reopening of schools from August 17||PUNE Parents and teachers are confused about State government order on reopening of schools for Class 8 to Class 12 from August 17. On Wednesday, health minister Rajesh Tope said that chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray would discuss the reopening of schools with the task force, education department and health department. “Maharashtra Covid-19 task force has unanimously expressed a fear about reopening of schools as all students are below 18 years of age and are not vaccinated. The CM will meet and discuss with v the education department about the same on Wednesday evening,” said Tope. However, on Tuesday, the state government issued an order directing local governing bodies to take a call on reopening of schools if urban areas have been Covid free for over a month.After schools reopened in rural areas on July 15, one school in Bhor taluka of Pune district reported cases of positive students.Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association, said that confusion is prevailing regarding the decision to reopen schools.“The state government has given the respective district collectors the authority to decide on whether to reopen schools or not. However, on August 8, the order issued by the district collector clearly states that schools in the district will remain shut. The recent decision by the government is creating a lot of confusion,” said Gaikwad.He further added that even though students are not attending offline classes, teachers are regularly going to the schools.“Around 90 per cent of teachers in the district have taken the vaccine against Covid-19,” noted Gaikwad.In an interview on Wednesday, minister of state for education, Bacchu Kadu said that he is not in favour of only a few schools reopening now. “We can wait for two more months and then start all schools at once. I am not in the favour of reopening only a few schools now,” Kadu said.Sharing the confusion around the opening of schools, Pragati Kulkarni, mother of a Class 11 student said that there is a lot of confusion regarding the reopening of schools.“Children are eagerly waiting for offline classes, but due to the pandemic, there is confusion if schools will reopen or not and for how long. With the threat of a third wave, I feel it will be very unsafe for children to attend offline classes as they are not vaccinated. Moreover, students may not really follow social distancing once they are in school,” said Kulkarni.Dnyaneshwar Molak, additional commissioner of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said that the decision to reopen schools will be taken based on the directives of the state government.“A committee will be formed headed by the PMC chief and then the subsequent decision will be taken. As of now, there is no concrete decision whether schools will be reopened from August 17 or not. In the next few days, a meeting will be organised and the committee will decide,” said Molak.Sunanda Wakhare, secondary school officer, Zilla Parishad, said that schools in the rural parts are being monitored each day.“After reopening of schools in rural areas of Pune district, only one school was shut down after Covid positive cases were detected. As of now, 130 schools are running in the district. However, the school in Bhor taluka where positive patients were found is still shut. The decision on whether to reopen schools from August 17 or not will be taken on August 13,” added Wakhare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/confusion-prevails-over-reopening-of-schools-from-august-17-101628700270534.html
11-08-2021||Other||PMC to ask Maha-metro to create project report for HCMTR||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation has asked the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-metro) to prepare the detailed project report for the neo metro on the High-Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMTR).Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “As senior leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar both instructed to do the neo metro on HCMTR route, we instructed the Maha-metro to start preparation for the DPR.”BJP leader Fadnavis recently in the city instructed the ruling BJP to execute the hybrid metro on the HCMTR route, where one line would be reserved for private vehicles and the whole route will be elevated.Fadnavis also instructed Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and standing chairman Rasane to handover this work to Maha-metro. Earlier, HCMTR became controversial as the tenders were high. Before Fadnavis, Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar also took a decision to execute the neo metro, with the HCMTR a green corridor and no private vehicles on it.Fadnavis is in favour of introducing one more line for private vehicles.Maha-metro officials speaking anonymously said that there is a primary discussion for preparing a DPR, but the PMC has not given any official letter yet.“Neo metro was invented by Maha-metro. It has been accepted in seven cities in the country. We would definitely like to execute it in Pune,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-ask-maha-metro-to-create-project-report-for-hcmtr-101628699970399.html
11-08-2021||Other||Kolhapur positivity rate drops to 3.1% due to aggressive testing drive||PUNE While districts in western Maharashtra are still recording the highest positivity rate in the state, the silver lining is Kolhapur whose positivity rate – once the highest in the state – has dropped to match the state average of 3.1% only thanks to the administration’s strategy of aggressive testing in the district which has proved fruitful. As per public health department data, Kolhapur district recorded a 3.1% positivity rate same as the state average for the week from August 2 to August 8. Satara however continued to record the highest combined positivity rate and RTPCR positivity rate in the state at 6.7% and 6.8%, respectively.Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “The testing rate in Kolhapur is good. It has reflected in the positivity rate of the district which has reduced to match the state average. Sangli and Satara are still recording positivity rates of above 6%.”The Kolhapur district administration has undertaken a massive drive for door-to-door sample collection for RTPCR tests. Between August 2 and August 8, a total 121,347 samples were collected in Kolhapur district out of which 3,795 tested positive. Of the total number of tests, 109,680 were RTPCR tests through which 3,025 covid-19 cases were detected.Rahul Rekhawar, collector, Kolhapur, said, “By mid-July this year, the positivity rate of Kolhapur was around 13 to 14%. We started this targeted testing in villages where the number of active cases was high or on the rise. It helped us identify hidden cases and has shown positive results now. When we started the drive, there were 368 villages in the district with more than five active cases. Now, this number has plummeted to less than 170. The number of active patients now is only 40% of what it was on July 15. When we planned this drive, we made sure that there was no scarcity of testing kits. After constant follow-ups, laboratories in Mumbai are giving us results in 48 hours.”Dr Anil Mali, civil surgeon, Kolhapur district, said, “As RTPCR tests are most reliable, we are emphasising on doing the maximum number of RTPCR tests. In the Kolhapur district, almost 90% of the total tests are RTPCR tests. Currently, we are doing house-to-house RTPCR tests in the district. We are identifying villages that have more than five active cases and the drive is extended to such villages. The head of the family is tested on priority basis as they are likely to go out more often and come in contact with other people. So, it is more likely that they would test positive. This massive drive is being conducted for the past two weeks. Every day, we get up to 15,000 reports of RTPCR tests.”“We will continue this drive in the future as well. It has helped to identify asymptomatic cases. If such cases are identified and isolated at the right time, the likely spread of infection in the community can be prevented. There is a government lab for RTPCR testing in Kolhapur where 3,500 to 4,000 people are tested on a daily basis. Other samples are sent to other government-approved labs,” Dr Mali said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kolhapur-positivity-rate-drops-to-3-1-due-to-aggressive-testing-drive-101628699910435.html
11-08-2021||Other||PMC’s vax on wheels campaign ensures over 0.1 million get the jab||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s “vaccination on wheels” campaign has successfully completed 500 camps, with 104,340 beneficiaries vaccinated in three months.What began as an urgent initiative to bring under control the growing number of Covid cases, on April 12, 2021, has been successful in administering 0.1 million vaccine doses in the city.“Following the government norms to vaccinate working people and in large numbers, we thought of this campaign, with a focus on government offices,” said Vikram Kumar, municipal commissioner, PMC.The campaign began with three teams on the field and now has 14 teams which include along with PMC, CSR and NGO teams like Jeevika and Niramay. One team consists of a doctor, two nurses, a health care worker, a crowd control manager and a data entry operator. These campaigns were held in schools, community halls and at workplaces.“After government offices, we began with vulnerable groups like homes for seniors and homes for disabled children. Then super spreaders like shop associations and traders as well. We also vaccinated daily wage workers as well as hawkers. Transgenders had a special camp and although we faced resistance from sex workers, we got them vaccinated too,” said Vikram Kumar.The campaign continues in the slums and also covers maids and students travelling abroad.The second dose of vaccination began last week in the offices of the Income Tax department.“We plan to increase the teams from 14 to 20 to cover the city better and faster,” added Vikram Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmcs-vax-on-wheels-campaign-ensures-over-0-1-million-get-the-jab-101628699612311.html
11-08-2021||Patna||Backward classes, minorities could boycott census if caste based census is not done: Lalu||RJD chief Lalu Prasad Wednesday said people from backward classes and minorities could boycott Census 2021 if there is no enumeration of caste-wise population. “Not only in Bihar, but backward classes, scheduled castes and minorities could boycott the Census across the country if there is no caste count...” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/backward-classes-minorities-could-boycott-census-if-caste-based-census-is-not-done-lalu-101628699431502.html
11-08-2021||Pune||Coach remembers how a humble, mature junior went on to win an Olympic gold||PUNE As the halo from Neeraj Chopra’s Olympic gold medal for the javelin throw, won at the recently concluded games in Tokyo, arches out across India enveloping the nation with pride, Pune cannot, and must not be forgotten. “Staying down to earth is one thing which has helped Neeraj Chopra produce great results in his career till now. I wish it remains the same in the future,” commented Subedar Kashinath Naik. Naik won a bronze at the 2010 Commonwealth Games in the javelin throw. Under Naik, Chopra was trained at the early stage of his career at Patiala in Punjab. Chopra was enrolled as a Junior Commissioned Officer, at the rank of Naib Subedar, in the Indian Army on August 26, 2016. He was awarded the Arjuna Award in 2018 and the Vishisht Seva Medal in 2021 for his meritorious service. “Since 2015 we are observing him and he is very mature when it comes to handling the sports. During his junior days, he never feared to compete with senior players. This confidence was one of the main reasons he won gold in the Tokyo Olympics,” said Naik. In February 2021, Chopra had visited the Army Sports Institute (ASI). He was helped by the coaches and ASI officials to sort out the issue of passport before heading for training to Sweden. Thereafter, Chopra took a string of international training tours before heading to the Olympics “On February 6, when he visited Pune, Neeraj looked fit and he was hungry for medals. He spent some time with other Army officials and also visited my home. He is very humble and polite, which makes him a great sports person,” added Naik. Naik assisted Australian coach, the late Gary Calvert, when Chopra won gold with a junior world record at the U-20 World Championships in Poland, 2016. Sindhu at peace with her semi-final matchPV Sindhu, who won a bronze medal at the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, is used to pressure. Her ability to stay motivated won her the medal after going down in the semi-finals. “After the semi-final, I was really sad and it was a mixed feeling as I lost the opportunity to compete in the final and I have to prepare for the bronze medal match in a day’s time. My parents motivated me and my coach Park Tae Sang told me about how much I have worked for the last five years and finishing fourth or on the podium is two different things,” said Sindhu in the city on Wednesday. Sindhu felt the momentum in the semi-final shifted after the shuttle hitting the net cord at 18-18 in the first game and things could have been different if she had won the first set. “I was playing well and was ahead in the first set. I really could not change what had happened but yeah… such things happen and we need to move ahead,” she said. Tokyo was a completely different experience for Sindhu than the Rio games, as she went as an underdog in 2016 while in 2021 she was expected to win a medal. “It was a very different experience altogether, as people were saying we want a medal again. I took it in a positive way and gave my best on the courts,” said Sindhu. The ace shuttler is happy that many sponsors (private and government) are coming forward to support athletes from a young age. “Now things have changed, many corporate are coming forward to sponsor budding athletes. Even the government has launched various schemes which are benefitting the athletes. Sponsors in sports play an important role in the support system,” Sindhu said. Sindhu is getting ready to achieve new heights and new dreams after the Tokyo Olympics. Pune connection PV Sindhu fondly remembers her visit to the city when she was 16 to take part in Sushant Chipalkatti memorial badminton tournament at the Modern Sports Complex. “Having lot of tournaments at age group, state and national, benefits players and it should keep happening as players grow by participating in more tournaments,” said Sindhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coach-remembers-how-a-humble-mature-junior-went-on-to-win-an-olympic-gold-101628699190409.html
11-08-2021||Other||Wanted criminal, aide held in Uttar Pradeshafter encounter||MEERUT A commando sacked from his job was arrested with his aide after an encounter with the police in Bijnor on Tuesday night. Both were wanted by police of Rajasthan, Punjab, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh for their involvement in many heinous crimes, including robbery of 25 kg gold in Churu (Rajasthan) and another robbery in Amritsar (Punjab). Police recovered 300 gms gold looted during the robbery in Amritsar, two pistols and a motorcycle from them. SP (city), Bijnor Dr Praveen Ranjan said that Ranjeet alias Commando and his aide Amjad of Muzaffarnagar sustained injuries during exchange of fire and were admitted to hospital. He said that a constable Badal Dhaka also sustained bullet injury in his shoulder. Dr Ranjan said that both accused had over a dozen cases of loot, robbery and other crimes against them and they were also involved in the robbery in Mannapuram Finance Company in Churu. They looted 25 kg gold and ₹8 lakh cash from there on June 14. Earlier, on March 21, they robbed a house in Amritsar, decamping with 300 grams gold and cash. The SP said that Ranjeet and his gang members were unaware that the bag of gold looted from Manappuram Finance Company had chips and Rajasthan police started tracking them through GPS, recently arresting two gang members Shadab ( Muzaffarnagar) and Haneesh Thakur ( Mohali) in Hisar (Haryana). Ranjeet and Amjad managed to escape and went into hiding in Haridwar in Uttarakhand. The SP said Amjad used to visit his in-laws’ house in Bijnor and he tipped the gang about availability of gold in the office of Muthut Fincorp. The gang did a recce of the office on July 18 and the next day Ranjeet went there to commit a loot but a vendor Hoshram present in the office caught hold of him and Ranjeet opened fire. Ranjeet escaped from there and later Hoshram succumbed to his injuries. The official said that police parties were behind the gang since then. He said a joint team of city Kotwali and SWAT (Special Weapons and Tactics), which was on checking on Mandawar Road on Tuesday night, stopped two motorcycle-borne people near Malan river and they opened fire on the police. When chased, they left the bike on the road and entered into the roadside sugarcane fields. In exchange of fire, both criminals sustained bullet injuries and were arrested. Dr Ranjan said that Ranjeet was a commando and was fired in 2010 for his alleged involvement in criminal activities. A resident of Patiala in Punjab, he gradually entered into the world of crime and formed his gang, targeting companies and traders who dealt in gold. The gang committed crimes in Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Moradabad, Hapur, Saharanpur, Bijnor, Punjab, Delhi and Rajasthan and was wanted by police of these states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wanted-criminal-aide-held-in-uttar-pradeshafter-encounter-101628698411277.html
11-08-2021||Other||NMC team inspects GMCH in Purnia for MBBS courses||A two-member team of National Medical Commission (NMC) on Wednesday carried out day-long inspection of the newly established Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Purnia, which plans to start admissions for 100 MBBS seats from next year, officials said. Diplomate of National Board (DNB) courses have already started at the GMC in obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics and general medicine, which were allotted 12 seats each in March this year. The GMCH building is almost complete. Its superintendent and principal, besides 28 doctors and resident professors, have already been appointed. Besides these, 32 doctors of Sadar Hospital at Purnia will be accommodated in the GMCH. GMCH superintendent Dr Vijay Kumar, who accompanied the team during its inspection, was not available for comment.Civil surgeon Dr Santosh Kumar Verma said, “The GMCH will be inaugurated soon after the final nod of the NMC. By March 2022, it is expected to be fully operational.”The facility is spread over 23 acres of land of Sadar Hospital in Purnia. “Sadar Hospital will be handed over to GMCH, which will have 500 beds and 50 ICUs, 9 modular operation theatres, 519-bed hostel for students and a dharmshala of 200 beds for the attendants of the patients.The foundation stone of the medical college was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually in 2019. The construction work has been carried out by Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited (BMSICL) at a cost of ₹365.58 crore. With GMCH at Purnia, there will be 12 government medical colleges in Bihar, including AIIMS and IGIMS, which will have a total of 2,040 MBBS seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nmcteam-inspects-gmch-in-purnia-for-mbbs-courses-101628698350933.html
11-08-2021||Other||HC dismisses PIL seeking online sale, home delivery of liquor in UP||The Allahabad High Court has dismissed a PIL seeking framing of policy to permit online sale and home delivery of liquor in Uttar Pradesh. Dismissing a PIL filed by lawyer Gopal Krishna Pandey, a division bench comprising acting chief justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and justice Subhash Chandra Sharma observed, “Finding the subject matter as a policy of the state we are not inclined to allow online sale of liquor.” The counsel for the petitioner submitted that certain states have issued notification to allow online sale of liquor. It was in pursuance of the observations made by Supreme Court to the states to consider non-direct sale, including online/home delivery of liquor, to avoid over-crowding and to maintain social distancing norms in view of Covid-19. It was submitted that Madras High Court had permitted online sale of liquor.The chief standing counsel representing the state government opposed the petition and submitted that the prayer made was in reference to the policy decision and presently government was not inclined to allow online sale of liquor. The permission to sell liquor online by a few states was at the time when pandemic was at its peak to avoid over-crowding at shops.In the PIL, several reasons were cited like allowing online sale of liquor would mean more sale and revenue. Besides, there will be low cost of maintenance of shops. Rejecting the plea the court said, “Petitioner has shown its concern to increase the revenue of the state and other aspects which include purchase of liquor even by those who may be shy in making purchases from the shop. The reasons given are not to avoid overcrowding or to maintain social distancing to follow the Covid-19 protocol rather it is for different reasons than observed by the apex court.”The court delivered this decision on August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-dismisses-pil-seeking-online-sale-home-delivery-of-liquor-in-up-101628698172090.html
11-08-2021||Patna||Gopalganj: BMP jawan murdered, body dumped in mud||The police on Wednesday recovered the body of a 38-year-old Bihar Military Police (BMP) personnel allegedly after he was murdered by a group of armed miscreants under Thave police station in Gopalganj district. The deceased was identified as Arjun Dayal, a resident of Chitwan district in Nepal. He joined Gorkha battalion of BMP-1 in 2007, and was deputed near Thave temple since March this year. He was to leave for Bettiah on Wednesday after his transfer, officials said. According to the police, Dayal got involved in an altercation at a function, where he was with his friends, on Tuesday night after duty. His friends were allegedly in an inebriated condition at the function, police said.Officials said that Dayal was dressed in his uniform when his body was recovered with multiple stab wounds from behind the temple . Police suspect his friends’ involvement in the murder. “After his duty ended on Tuesday night, Dayal went with some local friends around 9pm to attend an orchestra function, where an altercation took place after some of his friends got drunk. Later, on Wednesday morning, he was found brutally murdered and body was recovered from back side of Thave temple. The body was dumped in mud, and only the hands and feet of the victim were visible,” said Sadar sub-divisonal police officer (SDPO) Naresh Paswan.According to the SDPO, the accused attacked Dayal with knives and a sharp-edged weapon. Dayal received stab injuries on his head, hand and neck, he said. Police have lodged a murder case in this connection at Thave police station, and sent the body for postmortem examination. Officials said that when he did not return to his barrack till late night, Dayal’s colleagues started searching him but in vain. The SDPO said police have identified the alleged accused and raids are to nab them. Saran range DIG Ravindra Kumar said the exact reasons behind the incident were being verified. “We are screening CCTV footage to identify the killer,” he said. Software engineer shot deadIn another incident, a software engineer was shot dead at his Katra locality-based house under Town police station in Vaishali, police said on Wednesday. The victim, identified as Suman Sekhar, worked at a Pune-based company and was working from home for last five months. The matter came to light around 9pm on Tuesday, when one of his neighbours went to his house only to find him lying in a pool of blood. Preliminary investigation suggested land dispute to be the reason behind the murder, police said, adding that Suman’s elder brother was also murdered two years ago. Sadar SDPO Raghav Dayal said, “Police got CCTV footage of a suspect, who came out from the victim’s house in mysterious circumstances. An empty cartridge was also recovered from the spot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/gopalganj-bmp-jawan-murdered-body-dumped-in-mud-101628698170979.html
11-08-2021||Patna||Vikramshila varsity: Six years on, project still a non-starter||Ahead of the 2015 assembly elections, one of the important components of the ₹1,25,000-crore special package for Bihar announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was to set up a central university near the ancient seat of learning at Vikramshila in Bhagalpur district. Six years on, even the land for the proposed university is not there. Bihar’s glorious history in the sphere of education is marked by two great institutions — ancient universities of Nalanda and Vikramshila – which flourished before the establishment of Oxford and Cambridge universities in the United Kingdom. Though the revival of Nalanda university has seen progress and the campus is being developed close to the ancient site, the remains of Vikramshila located near Antichak village in the Kahalgaon subdivision of Bhagalpur remain neglected for decades. The state just has to provide land for the central university, while the entire responsibility of infrastructure development and academic activities rests with the Centre. Bihar already has two central universities – Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) in Gaya and Mahatma Gandhi Central University in Motihari. While Centre arranged land for CUSB from the defence ministry and the campus is now buzzing, the Motihari Central University is still awaiting its campus over five years after its inception and is functioning from a makeshift campus. The Vikramshila issue was also raised in the Bihar Legislative Assembly in 2017 itself through a call attention motion by former Speaker and senior Congress leader Sadanand Singh and the Bihar government made a statement that the Bhagalpur district magistrate had been asked to identify three different plots of land so that the Central team could visit for site selection. However, a central panel could visit the site for the proposed Vikramshila Central University only this year, in March, and has submitted its interim report. The team was headed by the then CUSB vice-chancellor HCS Rathore and also comprised Central Public works Department (CPWD) and representatives of the Bihar government. “We have given a positive interim report pertaining to suitability of land shown to us to the ministry of human resource development. The 282-acre plot identified by the Bihar government should be sufficient, but land acquisition has to be completed. It is four kilometres from the ancient site. Now the decision has to be taken at the higher level,” Rathore said. Bhagalpur district magistrate Subrat Kumar Sen said the report regarding the land in the Kahalgaon circle has been sent to the ministry by the committee. “Once the ministry gives its nod and we get the money for acquisition, we will start the process,” he said. On November 20, 2015, the HRD ministry had requested the state government to provide two or three locations of 500 acres land, of which one suitable site (free or cost and free from all encumbrances) would be selected for the proposed university. However, the state government proposed to reduce the land area requirement to 200 acres, stating that most of the land in the state is agricultural and there is shortage of land area. Accordingly, it was decided that the state government may provide 200 acres to begin with and acquire another 300 acres for further expansion. Later, in 2018, three sites at Parshuramchak, Antichak and Kisandaspur were identified.Ancient universities of Nalanda and Vikramshila flourished before the establishment of Oxford and Cambridge universities in the United Kingdom. Remains of Vikramshila are located near Antichak village in Bhagalpur.Ahead of 2015 Bihar polls, PM Modi announced ₹1,25,000-crore special package for the state, of which setting up a central university near Vikramshila ruins in Bhagalpur’s Kahalgaon was a key component.On Nov 20, 2015, HRD ministry requested Bihar government to provide two or three locations of 500 acres, of which one site would be selected. State govt proposed to reduce the land requirement to 200 acres, citing shortage.In 2018, three sites at Parshuramchak, Antichak and Kisandaspur were identified. In March this year, a central team visited the 282-acre plot situated four kilometres from the ancient site of Vikramshila university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vikramshila-varsity-six-years-on-project-still-a-nonstarter-101628697990887.html
11-08-2021||Patna||Patna breathed only seven ‘good’ air quality days in last 7 months: Report||The capital city experienced only seven days of good quality ambient air, as categorised by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), in the past seven months this year.It was revealed in a report called Ambient Air Quality Assessment of Patna, carried out by the Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED) — an independent organisation working for environment conservation — based on data of air quality released daily by the CPCB. The analysis indicates that only 3% of the total days (7 months) were in the ‘Good’ category and the air quality in the city was not healthy to breathe on the remaining 97% of the days, where 66% of the days were in ‘Moderate’ and ‘Very Poor’ air quality category while only 31% of days fell into ‘Satisfactory’ category. These findings are significant as the state had been under lockdowns during the last seven months due to the Covid pandemic when most of the economic and industrial activities were temporarily ceased.The pollution trends show that January was the most polluted month, while July happened to be the least polluted month in the same period based on the monthly mean concentration of PM2.5. The average concentration of PM2.5 was 130 µg/m3 in January, while in February and March, it was 114 µg/m3 and 98 µg/m3, respectively. The average concentration in April and May months was 89 µg/m3 & 39 µg/m3. In June, the monthly mean concentration was 33 µg/m3 and in July, it was 25 µg/m3.Ankita Jyoti, senior program officer at CEED, said, “The clean air action plan (CAAP) -- notified by the Bihar state pollution control board (BSPCB) two years ago for Patna -- is an important response to curb air pollution. About half of the steps should have been implemented as per the mandates.” “The state government agencies must take formidable measures such as ensuring effective accountability mechanism to meet the air quality goals, facilitating a single-window access system to track measures undertaken, enhancing public access to the quarterly progress report of the plan submitted to the NGT and ensuring adequate representation of civil society organisations in the monitoring committee, besides holding effective public awareness programs in the city,” said CEED senior program officer.A comparative analysis of PM2.5 was also done for 2020 (Jan-July), which indicated that the PM2.5 was 25% higher in February, 31% in March and 50% in April this year. The average monthly concentration of PM2.5 is 15% higher in May as compared to last year, a total of 27% higher concentration was observed in June this year, while in July, it was only 5% higher.The statistics of the last five years indicated that air pollution in Patna is in critical condition and has shown an increasing trend since 2016 and citizens are forced to breathe in unhealthy air. For Instance, the annual concentration of PM10 was at least 3.5 times the national standard in 2016, 3.4 times in 2018 and 3.9 times in 2019. Though in 2017, the level of pollution decreased slightly, still it was 2.6 times more than the national standard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-breathed-only-seven-good-air-quality-days-in-last-7-months-report-101628697691065.html
11-08-2021||Ranchi||Doranda treasury case: Court rejects plea by Lalu, others, to defer hearings||In a setback for Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad, the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court here on Wednesday ordered day-to-day hearing in the Doranda treasury case from August 13, rejecting a recent petition of defence lawyers to adjourn proceedings till physical hearings start. Courts in Jharkhand are currently functioning largely in virtual mode owing to Covid-19 restrictions.The case, which involves fraudulent withdrawal of ₹139.35 crore from Ranchi’s Doranda treasury in 1995-96, is the biggest among the fodder scam cases as it involves maximum number of accused (170), highest amount of alleged defalcation and highest number of prosecution witnesses. Seventy of the accused, including former Bihar chief minister Jagarnath Mishra, died during the course of trial. Currently, 110 accused, including Prasad, are facing trial. After the prosecution completed its arguments in the case on August 7 in the case during a virtual hearing, lawyers of 89 of the 110 accused urged the court on August 9 to defer the hearings, citing difficulty in presenting “voluminous” documents virtually. The defence is to cross-examine witnesses next. Rejecting the petition, the court directed the defence to begin their final arguments from August 13, said CBI counsel BMP Singh. However, the court has directed that a limited number of lawyers can show the documents in physical form while following Covid-19 guidelines. Besides, a maximum of five lawyers can also argue in person, Singh said.Prasad’s counsel Prabhat Kumar said they will decide on the future course of action after getting a copy of the order. The RJD chief is currently out on bail after spending more than three years in jail following his conviction in three separate fodder scam cases in quick succession. If convicted in the Doranda treasury case, Prasad, who is currently staying in New Delhi, could land up in jail again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/doranda-treasury-case-court-rejects-plea-by-lalu-others-to-defer-hearings-101628697391317.html
11-08-2021||Other||BJP to embark on farmer outreach programme||LUCKNOW: Faced with unrelenting opposition from the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on the three farm laws, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to roll out farmer meets across the state. These meets are essentially the party’s farmer outreach initiatives which would include ‘Kisan Samvad’ (dialogue with farmers) from August 16 to 23 and ‘Kisan Sansad’ (parliament of farmers) from August 22 to 25. In western UP, home to BKU, the BJP has planned ‘Kisan Chaupal’ (farmers’ gathering). Top ministers and BJP functionaries would participate in these farmer outreach programmes, BJP leaders said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath too would be part of these initiatives, BJP leaders said. Various ministers of the Adityanath government would be part of these dialogues with farmers, BJP leaders indicated. The BJP’s farmer wing would organize these activities which were chalked out after BJP chief JP Nadda’s two-day UP visit, party leaders said. The party leaders would talk about the various initiatives undertaken by the BJP government at the centre and in UP for the farmers, party leaders said. At a recent meeting of the farmers’ wing, the BJP chief Swatantra Dev had described the ongoing agitation against the farm laws as a conspiracy fuelled by opposition. “BKU chief Mahendra Singh Tikait is unrelenting in his opposition against the farm laws. The BKU stir has been backed by several opposition parties, so the party would now directly interact with the farmers and explain the BJP line and various initiatives that had been taken for the farmers,” a BJP leader said. “Of the 403 assembly segments, about 299 have full or partial rural character. Hence we plan to cover as many assembly segments as we can, telling farmers what the three farm laws are all about and freely talk to them about their fears and dispel doubts,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-to-embark-on-farmer-outreach-programme-101628697271169.html
11-08-2021||Lucknow||Major rivers continue to surge in Uttar Pradesh, 605 villages of 24 districts flooded||With major rivers continuing to flow above the danger mark in Uttar Pradesh, the number of flood-affected villages in the state went up to 605 in 24 districts, an official said here on Wednesday.The Ganga was flowing above the danger level at Badaun, Prayagraj, Mirzapur, Varanasi, Ghazipur and Ballia districts, relief commissioner Ranveer Prasad said at a press conference in the state capital. The Yamuna was flowing above the danger mark in Auraiya, Jalaun, Hamirpur, Banda and Prayagraj districts while the Betwa river was in a similar position in Hamirpur, he said.The Sharda river continued to flow above the danger mark in Lakhimpur Kheri and so did the Kuwano in Gonda and the Chambal on the Uttar Pradesh-Rajasthan border, he added.Seventy-five villages were flooded in Hamirpur district, followed by 71 in Banda, 67 each in Etawah and Jalaun, 42 in Varanasi, 38 in Kausambi, 37 each in Chandauli and Ghazipur, 25 in Auariya, 24 each in Kanpur Dehat and Prayagraj, 23 in Farrukhabad, 20 in Agra and 17 in Ballia district. Villages were also flooded in Mirzapur, Gorakhpur, Sitapur, Mau, Lakhimpur Kheri, Shahjahanpur, Bahraich, Gonda and Kanpur districts, he said.Prasad said over 25 mm rainfall was recorded in 11 districts —Prayagraj, Chitrakoot, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh, Basti, Gonda, Sultanpur, Shravasti, Rae Bareli, Fatehpur and Lucknow — in the past 24 hours.The state government deployed nine teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in nine districts, 11 teams of the the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) in 11 districts and 39 teams of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) in 39 districts for relief and rescue operations, the relief commissioner said.The NDRF and SDRF teams rescued 536 people and 504 medical teams were deployed in the flood- hit areas, he added. Besides, 11,235 flood posts and 940 flood shelters were set up in the state and 1463 boats pressed into service for relief and rescue operations, he said.While link roads to 120 villages in various districts were cut off, agricultural land and houses were submerged in 113 villages, he said.Twenty-five villages were facing erosion to a sudden rise in the water level of the rivers, he added.A state government spokesperson said food packets and dry ration were being distributed among the people in the flood-hit areas. “Regular patrolling is being conducted in the villages as well as on the river embankments and other sensitive spots. The districts’ administration have been directed to set up community kitchens. Regular supply of essential commodities like petrol, diesel, kerosene and edible items is being maintained in the flood-hit areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/major-rivers-continue-to-surge-in-uttar-pradesh-605-villages-of-24-districts-flooded-101628695833584.html
11-08-2021||Pune||Pune court rejects bail application of arrested Amravati town planning joint director||Pune: Additional sessions judge SB Hedao has rejected the bail application of suspended Amravati town planning joint director Hanumant Nazirkar in the disproportionate assets case. Nazirkar and his family, including nephew Rahul Shivaji Khomane (31) of Shirwal in Baramati, stand accused of accumulating properties worth ₹82.38 crore in violation of the law. Along with Nazirkar, six other people, including his wife, daughter, son, nephew, and their lawyer have also been booked. Nazirkar’s bail was rejected by a special court in Pune in May. Nazirkar and Khomane were arrested in March in a case by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) registered at Alankar police station in June 2020. The eight family members booked in the case have been accused of illegally amassing assets worth ₹82,38,34,941, according to the police complaint in the case. The prosecution stated that the police investigation into the corruption case involving Nazirkar and his family has found that they have illegal property worth ₹82.38 crores besides 37 companies wherein they are the majority shareholders. Nazirkar had kept his illegal properties as collateral with a bank and Khomane had obtained a loan of ₹48 lakh of the said collateral pledged by the main accused. Later, he invested the said amount in one of the shell companies floated by his family members. Khomane had forged memorandums of understanding and 35 such bogus documents have been seized by the investigators, the prosecution stated. The investigators informed the court that they had to recover 346 agricultural receipts from Khomane and probe transactions of ₹87 lakh which took place in the personal account. They submitted that an investment of ₹23 lakh in Gitanjali realty company was to be probed further. Regarding Nazirkar, the prosecution said that his father-in-law had 37 properties in his name, while 17 properties were in Nazirkar and his wife’s name. Following his father-in-law’s death, a forged power of attorney was readied and all the companies, including properties, were transferred in the name of his wife Sangeeta Nazirkar, said public prosecutor Rajesh Kavediya. Nazirkar has three other cases registered against him - two in Baramati police station of Pune rural and one at APMC police station of Navi Mumbai. The police have been investigating the allegations against the Nazirkar family between January 1986 and March 2020 when he served in public office. The case was lodged under Sections 13(m)(b)(e), RW 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, and Sections 109, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 472, 474, 475, and 120(b) of Indian Penal Code at Alankar police on June 23, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-court-rejects-bail-application-of-arrested-amravati-town-planning-joint-director-101628695410101.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||'Not too late': Health minister on Manish Sisodia’s claim regarding Oxygen related Covid-deaths||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya responded to the Delhi government’s allegations that the Central government did not enquire about deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second wave in the national capital and said that it is not too late. The Delhi government can send the data by August 13, Mandaviya said attaching a screenshot of the mail sent by the ministry.“Respected Sisodia Ji, Here is the copy of the mail sent by my ministry to the Delhi government on 26th July. It's not too late yet! By August 13 you can send the data so that we can answer the question to Parliament. After reviewing with your officers, please send the necessary data as soon as possible,” Mandaviya tweeted on Wednesday.On Tuesday, in an online press conference, Manish Sisodia alleged that the Central government had not asked for data on deaths caused by a shortage of oxygen. “I read in the paper that the Central government is saying it has asked state governments to furnish details on deaths due to lack of oxygen. News reports have also said that 13 states have responded and only 1 state has done so while 12 states have not. I also read in the papers that the Central government has given states till August 13 to tell them if oxygen-related deaths have happened. Ever since I read this in the papers, I have been asking administrators if any letter has come from the Centre, and till today no such letter has come. Delhi government has received no such letter from the Central government,” Sisodia said during an online briefing.Also Read: Covid-19 in Delhi: Manish Sisodia calls for thorough probe into oxygen deaths“We accept that the oxygen crisis happened during the last wave of the pandemic. And without any probe, it is difficult to say if that has caused deaths. I am going deeper into whether it has or has not. I am stressing on the importance of thorough investigation into cases of deaths that can be related to oxygen shortage,” he added.The Union health ministry on Tuesday said 13 states and UTs of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab have responded to the query on oxygen deaths, with Punjab reporting “four suspected deaths” due to oxygen shortage. "When the question was raised in Parliament, states were specifically asked this question and as per reports received only one state mentioned suspected death and no state has so far said that there were deaths because of oxygen shortage," joint secretary Lav Agarwal said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led Delhi government has been involved in a tussle with the Centre on the matter of deaths due to oxygen shortage in the national capital. On May 4, Delhi government told Delhi high court that an expert committee could not ascertain whether 21 deaths at the capital’s Jaipur Golden Hospital took place because of oxygen shortage. Delhi health minister Satyandar Jain defended the findings by reasoning that it was based on “preliminary investigation” and that the matter needed more thorough investigation. The AAP government also hit out at the Centre for not letting it set up a larger expert committee to probe the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-too-late-health-minister-on-manish-sisodia-s-claim-regarding-oxygen-related-coviddeaths-101628694800685.html
11-08-2021||Other||UP govt allows markets to open on Saturdays; Sunday curbs to continue||LUCKNOW The UP government on Wednesday allowed markets to open on Saturdays after chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to consider a partial relaxation in weekend restrictions in wake of the Covid situation improving in the state, said home department officials. The curbs on Sunday will remain in force till further orders, they said.The UP government had issued guidelines, according to which markets, shops and business establishments were allowed to function from 6am to 10pm from Monday to Saturday, while Sunday will continue to be a weekly closure day. Additional chief secretary,-home, Awanish K Awasthi issued an order in this regard on Wednesday, which is to be followed from August 14.The CM asked the home department to present detailed guidelines in this regard. A senior home department official said detailed guidelines on the relaxation of weekend curbs had been prepared.Earlier in the day at a high-level review meeting with senior officials, the CM emphasized that Covid protocols should be followed everywhere and there should not be any unnecessary congregation of people anywhere.The CM asked officials to present appropriate guidelines regarding the new system while underlining the importance of continued police patrolling.After the review meeting, an official spokesperson of the state government said there has been a marked improvement in the Covid situation in UP, adding that there is not a single Covid patient in Aligarh, Amethi, Chitrakoot, Etah, Firozabad, Gonda, Hathras, Kasganj, Pilibhit, Pratapgarh, Shamli and Sonbhadra districts. The recovery rate stands at 98.6%.Not even a single fresh case of the infection was reported in 59 of the state’s 75 districts on Tuesday, whereas in the remaining 16 districts, the number of fresh cases was less than 10, the spokesperson said in a statement.In view of offline classes starting in secondary, higher, technical and vocational educational institutions after Independence Day, the chief minister asked officials to organise vaccination camps on the premises of universities, schools and colleges for students above 18 years of age.“In the schools of the Basic Education Council, the presence of teachers and other staff is increasing, so vaccination camps should be organised in these schools in accordance with the requirements,” the spokesperson said.According to the recommendations of a state-level advisory committee of health experts, physical classes should be started with 50% capacity in secondary, higher, technical and vocational educational institutions after August 15. The classes should be run in two shifts and full care should be taken to ensure adherence to Covid protocols, said the CM.The chief minister also said in schools of Basic Education Council, the process of new admissions should be started from classes 6 to 8. Assessing the situation, teaching-learning can be started in these schools from September 1, he added. Inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-allows-markets-to-open-on-saturdays-sunday-curbs-to-continue-101628694570867.html
11-08-2021||Pune||Pune reports 1,146 new Covid cases, 9 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 1,146 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths in 24 hours on Wednesday. This took the progressive count to 1.099 million of which 1.066 million have recovered, 18,985 deaths and 14,419 are active cases currently in hospital or home isolation. Pune also saw over 20,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 667 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 334,363 and with seven deaths reported, the death toll went up to 6,343. Pune city reported 283 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 506,345 and with reported two more deaths on the day the toll stood at 8,912. PCMC reported 196 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 259,143 and with no more deaths reported the toll stood at 3,424. Pune also saw 20,258 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Wednesday and totally 6,653,778 vaccines have been administered in total, including 4,951,233 first dose and 1,702,545 are second dose. A total of 296 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 91 are government and 205 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-1-146-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-101628693850032.html
11-08-2021||Other||UP govt institutes probe into diarrhoea outbreak in Lucknow’s Balu Adda||LUCKNOW The state government on Wednesday instituted a probe into the outbreak of diarrhoea in Balu Adda where two children died and several others took ill on Monday allegedly due to contaminated drinking water. In the past 24 hours, a dozen more people took ill and were given treatment at a health camp set up in the area since Monday. Locals staged a protest during the day demanding better sanitisation in the area. They alleged that they were getting contaminated water supply for the last few months despite complaints to civic authorities in this regard. “The CM took cognizance (of the incident) and I was asked to inspect Balu Adda. It is said the incident happened due to water. A probe will now be conducted, which will have an ADM along with an additional chief medical officer, a pollution control board official and two engineers,” said UP minister Suresh Khanna on Wednesday. The minister said an RCC wall had been constructed to keep the sewer line and the drinking water supply line separate while the nagar nigam was asked to sanitise the area. Chief medical officer Dr Manoj Agrawal, along with a health team, visited Balu Adda and met families there. Medicines were distributed to those ill and residents were asked to follow protocol for better hygiene. “We have deployed three ambulances in the area to take anyone to the hospital in case of illness,” said Dr Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-institutes-probe-into-diarrhoea-outbreak-in-lucknow-s-balu-adda-101628693671032.html
11-08-2021||Lucknow||No fresh Covid case in 59 districts of Uttar Pradesh: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said no fresh Covid-19 case was reported in 59 districts of Uttar Pradesh in the past 24 hours while the number of new cases was in single digits in the remaining 16 districts. Besides, there was no active Covid-19 case in 12 districts —Aligarh, Amethi, Chitrakoot, Etah, Firozabad, Gonda, Hathras, Kasganj, Pilibhit, Pratapgarh, Shamli and Sonbhadra.Reviewing the Covid-19 situation at a high-level meeting here, he also said Saturdays should be reserved for the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccines and appropriate arrangements should be made for vaccination of Buddhist monks, foreign nationals and the destitute.Twenty-seven new cases were reported across the state in the past 24 hours while 63 patients were discharged following recovery, he said.Although the state now had only 505 active cases, this was the time to be extra cautious, he emphasised.On an average, more than 2.5 lakh (250,000) Covid-19 tests were being done daily and 2.39 lakh (239,000) samples were tested in the past 24 hours, he said.The 24-hour positivity rate was 0.01% while recovery rate was 98.6% in the state, he said.Observing that the policy of tracing, testing and expeditious treatment was showing good results, he said 6.81 crore (68.1 million) Covid-19 tests had been done in Uttar Pradesh so far.In all, 16.85 lakh (1.68 million) people had recovered since March last year.Noting that 293 of the proposed 556 oxygen plants had become functional in the state, he said the training of technicians should be completed at the earliest.Underlining the need for vaccination for protection from Covid-19, he said 5.50 crore (55 million) doses were given in the state, including 4.64 crore (46.4 million) first doses and 86 lakh people had received both doses.Calling for the need to further improve the situation, he said those who needed to be given the second dose should be contacted well in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-fresh-covid-case-in-59-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-yogi-101628691450514.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai locals to resume: Special squad teams to check vaccine certificate, passes||In a bid to make commuting by local trains smooth for fully vaccinated passengers, the suburban railway authorities have developed a plan of action. Local train services will resume for fully vaccinated passengers from August 15.Special squad teams consisting of ticket checking staff and Railway Protection Force (RPF) will be deployed for inspection of vaccination certificates and railway passes both by the Central and the Western Railway. Ticket checking inspectors will be deployed inside local train compartments.At the entry and exit points of the suburban railway stations, the Maharashtra Police and Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel will be stationed for inspection 24/7.To avoid crowding and ensure social distancing on the railway platforms, more than 200 RPF personnel will be deployed near foot overbridges and on the platforms of the suburban railway stations.“We will be pressing in all our available personnel in order to ensure there is no crowding and to conduct surprise inspections to check travelling passengers,” said a senior Central Railway official.Presently both the Central and the Western Railway are operating 90% of its suburban railway services. The train services will be increased to 100% after an increase in passengers.“We will assess the passengers throughout the week and if we notice there is an increase in the number of passengers then 100% train services will be operated,” added the official.On Wednesday, 617 railway ticket window counters were opened for passengers to get their monthly passes on the Central and Western Railway. The Central Railway operated 341 ticket windows while the Western Railway operated 276 windows.The counters were opened on 113 railway stations — 75 on the Central Railway and 38 on the Western Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-locals-to-resume-special-squad-teams-to-check-vaccine-certificate-passes-101628691210521.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Will reimpose lockdown if medical oxygen demand surpasses 700MT: Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the state government will reimpose lockdown if the need for medical oxygen surpasses 700 metric tonnes. The state government also released a set of new rules and relaxations, which comes into effect from August 15, as it recovers from the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Tope announced that restaurants and eateries can operate till 10pm after August 15. It also allowed malls to remain open but with a rider that only vaccinated people will be allowed to enter the malls. Multiplexes and cinema halls will remain closed until further notice. Shops will also be allowed to remain open till 10pm. The state government made it clear that all the employees in these commercial establishments will have to be fully vaccinated. Gymnasiums and spas are also allowed to operate but with 50% capacity.Tope said that private offices can operate throughout the day with fully vaccinated employees.Maharashtra has also lifted the cap on weddings and will now allow 200 guests if a wedding is being held in open lawns and 100 guests if the wedding is being held in a closed area. The Maharashtra government said that places of worship will remain shut till further orders.Tope said that a task force has been set up to decide on reopening of schools, colleges and institutes of higher education. He said that the chief minister will hold a meeting on the issue with the task force. “The task force has expressed apprehension over opening up of schools as students have not yet been fully vaccinated,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-reimpose-lockdown-in-medical-oxygen-demand-surpasses-700mt-maharashtra-minister-101628690015103.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine inequity: Two-dose mandate for train travel will force people to get paid jabs||The mandate of being fully vaccinated to travel in Mumbai local trains has put a spotlight on the inequitable distribution of doses in Mumbai and rest of Maharashtra. Many commuters, who are in need to travel in local trains, will be denied access as they are still waiting to get the jabs. With limited doses available in the public sector, this mandate will also push people to get paid doses at private hospitals. “On one hand, the government has restricted travel to fully-vaccinated people and on the other hand, people willing to get vaccinated are struggling to find doses,” said Bhayander resident Shailesh Goyal, a member of the Zonal Rail Users Consultative Committee. “The shortage of vaccines in the public sector is unfair to lakhs of commuters who will be denied access. In a way, the government is forcing them to get vaccinated from private sector,” he said. Maharashtra has been reeling under a severe shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. Shortages have been recorded on multiple occasions since the nationwide vaccination drive began on January 16. For instance, last month, public sector vaccination drives in Mumbai were cancelled on five days due to shortage of doses, in addition to four Sundays when public vaccination drive remains officially closed. The private sector, on the other hand, has an estimated stock of around 1 million doses. This month, Mumbai civic body had to hold vaccination drives only at limited centres on three occasions due to severe shortage of doses. The last batch of 45,000 doses was received by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday and most centres were waiting to open their slots on Wednesday hoping to receive some doses. Mumbai has administered over 7.6 million doses to date. Around 9 million people aged above 18 years are eligible to get Covid-19 vaccine, but only 1.9 million or 21% have been fully vaccinated as of Wednesday. Only around 140,000 people in the 18 to 44 age group are fully vaccinated. “The 18-44 age group largely consists of the working, mobile population. Due to the vaccine shortfall, many of them will not be able to access local trains,” said Goyal, adding that the Central government should have distributed enough vaccines to states like Maharashtra where cities have a lot of dependence on public transport. Epidemiologist and health systems expert Dr Chandrakant Lahariya said the two-dose mandate for local trains is very restrictive, considering the fact that only a small percentage of the population is fully vaccinated. “The government can consider allowing those who have had the Covid-19 infection. Also, people who have taken one shot can be considered for local train travel, as it means they are committed to taking the second dose,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-inequity-two-dose-mandate-for-train-travel-will-force-people-to-get-paid-jabs-101628690250468.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Weekend travellers increase at Mumbai airport, passenger traffic up by 59% in July||Higher domestic flight capacity and ease in domestic travel restrictions have accelerated passenger traffic during the weekend at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA). The city airport registered 59% increase in passenger traffic in July as compared to June. According to airport officials, approximately 1.1 million passengers have flown in at least 1,400 flights across domestic and international destinations last month.Mumbai airport spokesperson said among the total number of passengers, CSMIA witnessed a capacity of approximately 0.5 million passengers over 4,000 plus flights only during the weekends, while June month observed 0.3 million passengers over 2,700 plus flights during the weekends.Looking at this upsurge in passenger traffic and easing of travel restrictions CSMIA reintroduced five domestic routes to Tier 2 cities like Bareilly, Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Ajmer and Porbandar. “The gradual opening of offices is complemented with an increase in the flight capacity, which has been the other factor for sequential growth from CSMIA. Weekends saw a majority of passengers travelling to Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad destinations from CSMIA in the domestic sector and Doha, Newark and Dubai destinations in the international sector,” the spokesperson said.According to rating agency ICRA- July 2021 witnessed a 132% year-on-year growth in domestic passenger traffic as Covid-19 cases continued to clock in low numbers during the month. Domestic passenger traffic also grew around 56 -57% (at around 48-49 lakh) in July, compared to around 31.1 lakh in June. According to ICRA, the airlines’ capacity deployment last month was around 90% higher than July 2020 (around 47,200 departures in July this year against 24,770 departures in July last year).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/weekend-travellers-increase-at-mumbai-airport-passenger-traffic-up-by-59-in-july-101628690130474.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||1,317 vaccinated at home in Mumbai till August 9, BMC tells HC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has informed the Bombay high court (HC) that 1,317 bedridden and severely ill immobile persons of the 4,889 registered for the drive, have been vaccinated at their homes till August 9.In an affidavit filed on Wednesday, the civic body has also responded to the query of the court on the role of NGOs and stated that the NGOs were roped in to help the civic officials before and after administering the jab.The affidavit is filed in response to public interest litigation (PIL) on home vaccination, which will come up for hearing today (Thursday). The affidavit filed by Dr Mangala Gomare, in-charge executive health officer, stated the civic health workers had collected data of persons in need of home vaccination by undertaking house to house survey and through a dedicated email id, and in all 4,889 individuals have registered for the drive so far.Dr Gomare added that 1,317 beneficiaries had been vaccinated since the drive was commenced from the K-East ward on July 30 on an experimental basis.In the previous hearing, the BMC had submitted that 602 beneficiaries had been vaccinated through a home inoculation drive without any beneficiary complaining of Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI). Thus, within a week BMC has managed to vaccinate more than one-fourth of total registered beneficiaries with the first jab. The affidavit submitted on August 10 before the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni in reply to the public interest litigation filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari has stated that as per the prayers in the PIL which sought directions to the centre, state and civic authorities to consider home vaccination for the bedridden and severely ill persons, after the success in the K-East ward, the drive has been ongoing in all the 24 wards. In response to the query by the HC on the need for roping in NGOs the affidavit states that as per the suggestion of the petitioner who sought post-vaccination observation of beneficiary for 48 hours, the civic authority expects the NGOs to help reduce the burden on the vaccination team by calling on the beneficiary coordinating with a local doctor and monitoring the beneficiary after receiving the jab. The affidavit has further stated that till August 9 none of the beneficiaries who received the jab had reported any incidence of AEFI. HC will hear the PIL on Thursday, August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1317-vaccinated-at-home-in-mumbai-till-august-9-bmc-tells-hc-101628689890421.html
11-08-2021||Other||Tripura relaxes Covid-19 curfew timings from August 12||Covid-19-induced curfew timings have been relaxed in Tripura and would be effective from August 12, according to the revised guidelines released by the government on Wednesday. According to the new guidelines, curfew in the state will be imposed from 10pm to 5am until August 31. “The situation has been reviewed in detail by the state government and it is felt necessary to modify corona restrictions in the state... Night curfew is imposed throughout the state from 10pm to 5am w. e. f. August 12, 2021 to August 31, 2021,” the revised order said. According to the curfew order, movie halls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, entertainment parks can be reopened with 30% capacity. Also Read | Tripura CM in Delhi to meet senior leaders; agenda not clear yetShopping malls, barber shops, standalone shops, beauty parlours, restaurants are allowed to open from 6am to 9pm, as long as social distancing is maintained and face masks are worn. All religious places have been allowed to open for people as long as Covid-19 norms are followed. Fifty persons can attend a wedding and 20 can attend a funeral, according to the new norms.Hundred percent attendance has been mandated in all government and non-government offices. Out of 80,416 Covid-19 cases so far, 205 cases have been recorded in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-relaxes-covid-19-curfew-timings-from-august-12-101628686470808.html
11-08-2021||Indore||Indore cop's sudden death leads to social media speculation on probable cause||Sudden death of an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) at his residence here in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday raised speculation on social media that consumption of spurious liquor might have claimed the life of the 48-year-old. However, police dismissed the "misinformation", saying the exact cause will be known after autopsy.The ASI, identified as Ajay Kushwah, was posted in the Hira Nagar police station in the city. Police officials said Kushwah went to sleep in his home last night. When his family members tried to wake him up on Tuesday morning, he did not respond. Later, doctors declared him dead. Some social media reports claimed that Kushwah was an alcoholic and might have died after consuming spurious liquor. "Kushwah probably died of a heart attack. Misinformation was spread that he died after drinking spurious liquor," police said, adding that postmortem is being performed on Kushwah's body to identify the exact cause of the death. At least five people died in the last 20 days in Indore after drinking liquor laced with methyl alcohol, according to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-cop-s-sudden-death-leads-to-social-media-speculation-on-probable-cause-101628685870509.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||59% growth in passenger traffic at Mumbai airport in July||Higher domestic flight capacity and easing of travel restrictions locally have accelerated passenger traffic with Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) registered a 59% increase in it in July as compared to June. Officials said approximately 1.1 million passengers flew on at least 1,400 domestic and international destinations from Mumbai last month.A Mumbai airport spokesperson said approximately 500,000 passengers travelled over 4,000 plus flights during the weekends alone in July. In June, 300,000 passengers travelled on 2,700 plus flights during the weekends.Looking at the surge in passenger traffic and easing of travel restrictions, CSMIA reintroduced flights to Bareilly, Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Ajmer and Porbandar.Also Read | BEST bus crushes senior citizen to death in Bhandup“The gradual opening of offices is complemented with an increase in the flight capacity, which has been the other factor for sequential growth from CSMIA. Weekends saw a majority of passengers travelling to Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad destinations from CSMIA in the domestic sector and Doha, Newark and Dubai destinations in the international sector,” the spokesperson said.According to the rating agency ICRA, July 2021 witnessed a 132% year-on-year growth in domestic passenger traffic as Covid-19 cases continued to dip during the month. Domestic passenger traffic also grew around 56-57% (at around 4.8-4.9 million) in July, compared to around 3.1 million in June. According to ICRA, the airlines’ capacity deployment last month was around 90% higher than in July 2020. There were around 47,200 departures in July this year against 24,770 departures in the same month last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/59-growth-in-passenger-traffic-at-mumbai-airport-in-july-101628686110383.html
11-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 2 dead in Illegal mine cave-in, efforts on to rescue 5 others||Bodies of two labourers were pulled out while five others were still buried under an illegal quartz mine in Asind area of Rajasthan’s Bhilwara, which caved in Wednesday afternoon, police said.Bhilwara superintendent of police (SP) Vikas Sharma said two bodies have been recovered and attempts to rescue the remaining five were on. The incident happened in the interior areas of Asind, near Lachuda village. There were three women among those buried under the rubbles.District collector Nakate Shivprasad Madan said the accident occurred at an illegal mining site, from where illegal miners had been arrested and equipment seized about three months ago. However, they returned after their release from jail around 8-10 days back.The villagers staged a protest following the accident and alleged that the administration didn’t act in time despite being informed about the ongoing illegal mining. There was no fencing or any other protection around the mining area.Officier feared that the labourers could be buried around 50-80 feet below.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-2-dead-in-illegal-mine-cave-in-efforts-on-to-rescue-5-others-101628685076843.html
11-08-2021||Other||Rape undertrials stripped, made to do sit-ups: Goa orders inquiry||Authorities have ordered an inquiry after a video purportedly showing three men accused of gang rape being stripped and made to do sit-ups allegedly by other prisoners amid cheers at Goa jail went viral.Inspector general (prisons) Venâncio Furtado called the incident deeply upsetting and added action will be initiated based on the findings of the inquiry. “I have asked the jail superintendent to submit the inquiry report within 24 hours. If other inmates are involved, we will take action as per the prison rules. We will also check whether Sections of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) are applicable, and we will accordingly take action. A message needs to go that such incidents will not be tolerated,” Furtado said. “If the jail staff is found to be involved, we will take action against them too.”Also Read | Tejpal’s acquittal left ‘impression on victims of sexual violence’: Goa govtThe three were among the four arrested for allegedly raping two teenaged girls at a beach in late July. The fourth arrested accused in the case has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been kept in a separate block.The case hit headlines after Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant questioned what the girls were doing out at night and asked their parents to introspect and take responsibility. He later said that his statement was taken out of context.Furtado said they would inquire whether such actions are a regular “ritual” wherein “freshers” in prisons have to undergo this torture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rape-undertrials-stripped-made-to-do-sit-ups-goa-prison-authorities-order-inquiry-101628684250092.html
11-08-2021||Other||Odisha CM gives cash awards to Olympic hockey players||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday felicitated four Indian men and women hockey players from the state and gave them cash awards ranging from ₹50 lakh to ₹2.5 crore for their sterling performances at the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics.At a function held in Bhubaneswar’s Kalinga Stadium, Patnaik gave cheques of ₹2.5 crore each to the Indian men’s hockey team vice-captain Birendra Lakra and defender Amit Rohidas following the national men team’s historic bronze medal-winning feat in Tokyo. The chief minister gave cheques of ₹50 lakh each to Deep Grace Ekka and Namita Toppo of the women’s hockey team as the women’s side reached the semi-final stage for the first time in the Olympics.The Indian men’s team defeated Germany 5-4 to win the bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics, the country’s first medal in the sport after 41 years. The women’s team, however, lost to Great Britain in the bronze medal play-off.Also Read | Odisha announces sports infra project worth ₹693.35 crorePatnaik also handed Lakra and Rohidas offer letters for appointment as deputy superintendent of police in the state police department. Rohidas works as a ticket checker in Western Railway’s Mumbai division while Lakra works as assistant manager with state-run PSU Bharat Petroleum Limited.Ekka presented the chief minister with the women’s team jersey signed by all the team members.He lauded the performances of the two teams and advised them to continue their hard work and bring more laurels to the country.The players expressed their gratitude with Lakra presenting the chief minister the Indian team jersey with signatures of all team members.The ₹2.5 crore award money to the hockey players is the second-biggest amount offered to them by any state government.The Punjab government announced that it would give ₹2.51 crore each to all the 11 players from the state who were part of the bronze medal-winning team. The Indian hockey team led by its captain Manpreet Singh and vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh, Rupinder Pal Singh, Simranjit Singh, Mandeep Singh, Gurjant Singh, Shamsher Singh, Varun Kumar, Dilpreet Singh, Hardik Singh and Krishan Pathak are from Punjab.Jharkhand will give ₹50 lakh each to all members of the Indian women’s hockey team who participated in the Tokyo Olympics. Their ancestral houses will be rebuilt into “pucca houses”.Haryana government will honour the nine Indian women’s hockey team players from the state with a cash reward of ₹50 lakh each while Mizoram will give ₹25 lakh to their player Lalremsiami, a government job and a plot in her hometown. The Manipur government has already announced a cash reward of ₹75 lakh and a suitable job for Nilakanta Sharma, a member of Indian men’s hockey team. Manipur will also give ₹25 lakh and a government job to Sushila Chanu Pukhrambam, one of the midfielders in the women’s hockey team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-cm-gives-cash-awards-to-olympic-hockey-players-101628683292019.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||On the learning curve in life’s eternal classroom||While the fear of gadgets is not uncommon among the children of the sixties/seventies in general, those of us in the pedagogy were singled out by the thunderbolt from the pandemic blues. We woke up on March 23, 2020, to abruptly assume the novel charge of online teachers. A tectonic shift from physical to virtual classrooms happened in a jiffy. PPTs, term-end presentations, assessments, evaluations, statistical data, PDFs, charts and Excel sheets were flung at us even before we rubbed our eyes open. It was assumed that we were all tech wizards who had been keeping our digital skills under wraps all this while. Oh my, who do we turn to now? Who would defuse the bombshell that had landed in the college campuses? The millennials in our lives, of course. In course of the bumpy ride from seminar to webinar, most of us had epic moments we can now look back at with a smile. The first gauntlet landed in the form of an invite to be a resource person for a week-long online workshop for research scholars, and I lifted it little envisaging the details of the drill that would ensue. The talks were to be forwarded to the coordinator as segments of audio-video recordings. Honestly, the delight of the talks was sucked out by the anxiety typical of a digibeet. My daughter, who had taken to work from home like duck to water, was in guffaws of laughter at my awkwardness. For me, the bizarre demand of talking into a static black screen was not only ruffling but also eerily post-human. We can look back at the bygone year with pride; the task of packaging lessons in totality for online platforms was daunting. Our homes changed into mini theatres and the natural animated spontaneity of the classroom was reworked into measured bytes of information. As the buzz of Webex, Zoom and Google Meet swept across, my comrades went into a virtual overdrive to keep the ship of education sailing. Our lot had not signed up for this! ‘Once a teacher, always a learner’ applied to the world of concepts not algorithms. Thankfully, our tech-savvy angels at home and our students in class held our hand and led us through the digi-tunnel we thought we had escaped. Wordsworth’s epigram, The child is the father of man, spun into play, not in the context of human nature, but that of the Almighty computer. Was there a generation in history that remained eternally schooled? That took directions from parents, and now constantly seeks instructions from children? Or to put it bluntly, were ‘beamers’ for their parents and are ‘boomers’ for the progeny? Yes, those who slogged their way up the academic ladder only to begin afresh in the kindergarten of technology in dire circumstances. Ironically, while the elders at home refused to understand what more was there to frantically learn, the youngsters with nimble fingers were surprised by how little we knew. manindersidhu7@gmail.com The writer heads the English department at Government College for Girls, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/on-the-learning-curve-in-life-s-eternal-classroom-101628682750387.html
11-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan likely to order reopening of schools for senior classes||Rajasthan government will soon allow resumption of in-person teaching in senior classes of schools in the state following a consensus in the five-member ministerial committee headed by health minister Raghu Sharma on Wednesday, considering the declining Covid-19 cases in the state, said a state official aware of the developments.The committee comprising Sharma, education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, minister of state for higher education Bhanwar Singh Bhati, minister of state for technical education Dr Subhash Garg and agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria will submit its report on the matter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot.“At present, the final year examinations (college) are going on and online admissions are being conducted. Detailed guidelines will be issued by the home department in the near future regarding the opening of educational institutions,” a minister said on the condition of anonymity.He added that the possible dates for reopening of schools for senior classes could be August 16 or September 1. More than a dozen states including Punjab, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh have announced reopening of schools for the students of class 9 to 12 with the ebbing of the second wave of the pandemic.The Rajasthan health department also suggested reopening of Anganbadis to ensure school children get nutritional meals after reopening.Only 11 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Rajasthan on Tuesday while the number of active cases has come down to 197. After Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, and Gujarat, Rajasthan has become the fifth state with near zero infection rate. In the last 10 days, no death due to Covid-19 has been reported in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-likely-to-order-reopening-of-schools-for-senior-classes-101628682029959.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Power regulator allows PSPCL to end pact with 3 NTPC plants||In its first move to allow Punjab State Power Corporation Limited to terminate an agreement with producers having higher generation cost, the state regulator has permitted PSPCL to relinquish allocated power from National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). This will save ₹115 crore annually that the PSPCL was paying to NTPC generating stations at Anta, Auraiya and Dadri as fixed capacity charges without even drawing power. The PSPCL had signed the power purchase agreement (PPA) in 1997 for these plants and was getting 49MW from Anta, 83MW from Auraiya and 132MW from Dadri, all gas-based power plants of NTPC. Also read: Indian Air Force drone crashes in field in Punjab; probe initiated, says reportBarring Dadri, the other projects have completed the useful life of 25 years. The PPA with these plants had a two-part tariff: Fixed cost and variable cost. As the variable cost of power, which depends upon the prices of gas from these plants was higher, the PSPCL was not drawing power from them. The power from these plants cost between ₹8 and ₹14 a unit, depending upon the cost of gas prices. Higher cost of power purchase Due to additional 3,920MW from independent power producers (IPPs) since 2013-14 and electricity from external sources under long-term PPAs, Punjab had surplus power. Since the PSPCL was not scheduling its allocated share from the gas-based stations, Punjab urged the Union power ministry to reallocate its share to other states. The PSPCL surrendered more than 90% of its share in 2018-19 and 88% in 2019-20 but is still paying fixed charges to Anta, Auraiya and Dadri power stations. The PSPCL paid ₹128.99 crore in 2018-19 and ₹115.11 crore in 2019-20 as fixed charges against power surrendered from these gas-based power plants. It said that continued allocation of power from the generating stations is a financial burden and is leading to higher cost of power purchase that is passed on to consumers and translates in tariff hike. NTPC opposes move to cancel PPA The PSPCL sought permission to relinquish its allocated share from the three stations of NTPC, which opposed the move. The NTPC contended that the PSPCL is power surplus, but according to projections it needs more power as it is going to be deficit in the peak season in 2023. Cancelling the PPA will lead to higher power cost in future for PSPCL, it said. The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) said that it has noted PSPCL’s submission that the variable cost of Anta, Auraiya and Dadri gas power stations is among the highest. “The allocation of power from these generating stations, which have high variable costs, is causing undue financial burden on the PSPCL and is leading to higher cost of purchase of power which is against the interest of consumers in Punjab,” the PSERC said in its decision. Decision to benefit power consumers Citing provisions of the power ministry to review the PPA after useful life, the PSERC said since the ministry has allowed discoms to surrender entire power from a project, the PSPCL is allowed to relinquish power from these projects. PSPCL chairman A Venu Prasad said this is a welcome decision and it will save around ₹115 crore for the PSPCL, which will reduce power purchase cost and ultimately benefit consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-regulator-allows-pspcl-to-end-pact-with-3-ntpc-plants-101628681730179.html
11-08-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: Nanasaheb Peshwa kick-starts Pune’s development with the Parvati temple complex||1740 served a big blow to the Maratha empire and Peshwa rule over Pune, as Peshwa Bajirao I passed away at Raver Khedi during the Malwa campaign. The passing of the legendary commander and prime minister of the Maratha Empire, who never lost a battle and contributed greatly to the expansion of Maratha territory, left a power vacuum. His able brother and second-in-command Chimaji Appa, too, passed away within a few months after falling ill. Balaji Bajirao alias Nanasaheb, born on December 12, 1721, was the eldest son of Bajirao I’s four sons and entered political administration at an early age at Chhatrapati Shahu’s Darbar. Nanasaheb had proven his prowess at diplomacy and administration, as he represented Bajirao at the darbar during Bajirao Peshwa’s military campaigns. He was ably mentored by Chimaji Appa, his uncle, from age of 15 as he frequented the Satara court. After the passing of Bajirao I, his mother, Kashibai and grandmother, Radhabai too, supported him in home and state affairs. At the age of 10, he was married to Gopikabai from the money-lender family of Rastes at Wai, on the recommendation of Chhatrapati Shahu.Over-ruling the opposition by the Bhosales of Nagpur, Chhatrapati Shahu who was fond of the young Nanasaheb and appointed him as Peshwa on June 25, 1740. Unlike his father Nanasaheb was more of a diplomat and strategist and did not take part in military campaigns of the Marathas. By the age of 19, Nanasaheb Peshwa was quick to establish his command over the administration which increasingly fell upon him due to the old age and ill health of Chhatrapati Shahu. While Nanasaheb was engaged in serving the Satara throne, he did not neglect the development of Pune. One of the most iconic developments during Nanasaheb’s times, which stands tall even today, is the Parvati temple complex on the hill.The village of Parvati existed from Shivaji Raje’s times. Archives provide us a reference of one Mahadbhat, son of Mudgal bhat from the family of Purandare, who were given inam of Parvati village. Even today, many residences of the Purandare family are seen in the vicinity. Due to the availability of flat land at the base and its nearness to the river, many Maratha sardars had their military base near Parvati hill. Before the Peshwas entered the scene, there existed a settlement named Jalakwadi at the base of the hill. Nawaloji Taware was a mother-caring son and was worried about his mother Sakharau’s chronic illness. No medicines helped her which left Navaloji worried. One night, a goddess came into his drams and told him that his mother’s illness will vanish if he serves the goddess with utmost devotion. Navloba searched the hill to finally come across an idol of the goddess Parvati. Nawaloji consecrated the idol and established in it a small shrine. His mother, Sakharau was cured by the goddess’ prasada and news spread far and wide. Thus, common folks started frequenting the hill temple of folk goddess, Parvati.This temple, coincidently, came to notice of Kashibai, Bajirao I’s wife which eventually led to expansion of the temple land establishment of the Parvati temple complex. The story goes that, Nanansaheb peshwa’s mother, Kashibai noticed the hill of Parvati, when she took up residence at a mansion near Mastani bagh, located at the foothill. She was intrigued by the crowds flocking to the hilltop and on enquiry, found out about the temple of Parvati and the devotee, Navaloji Taware Patil. She invited Navaloji Patil and expressed her wish to appeal to goddess Parvati to cure her ailing leg. She also vowed to construct a temple to the goddess if the leg was cured. The treatment of tirtha from the Goddess Parvati cured Kashibai’s ailing leg. Impressed with the spiritual power of the goddess, she appealed to Nanasaheb Peshwa to complete her vow of building a temple to the goddess. She also made sure that the income from the temple went to Navloji Patil.Nanasaheb Peshwa decided to establish a shrine on the hill in commemoration of the tutelary deity of the Peshwa family, Mahadev Shiva. Thus, the Panchayatana temple consisting of central idols of Mahadev Shiva, alongwith goddess Parvati, and Ganesha and separate shrines of Suryanarayana, Ganesha, Parvati and Lakshmi - Janardan Vishnu were erected. Thus, Shiva panchayatana consisting of the Peshwa clan’s five tutelary deities from Shrivardhan, Harihareshwar and Diveagar was established near Pune in 1749.Chhatrapati Shahu maharaj passed away in December 1749. Legend has it that as a gesture of reverence to Chhatrapati Shahu, Nanasaheb Peshwa brought his khadava (sacred clog) and Shivlinga used in his daily worship, to Pune. He established them under Mahadev Shivalaya on Parvati below the central shivlinga as a mark of respect. Nanasaheb Peshwa personally worshipped for a month after consecration, and continued thought out his life. He often made his residence at Parvati hill to continue the worship and sought solace from troubling political affairs. The temple started in the year 1747; the idols were ready by 1747 and construction of temple was completed in 1749.Idols of Ganesha and Parvati were made of gold; that of Shiva was made of silver with Parvati in gold, seated on his thigh. Ornaments were carved on sculptures and inset with various gem stones. Idols were adorned with new and colourful clothes, every day. Prasada was offered three times a day. All the nitya (daily) and naimaittik (occasional) rituals were performed in a strict manner. Temple activities of drum service, recitation of texts and mantras, devotional singing and charity for Brahmins were held on regular basis. The expense of the construction of the temple complex came to Rs39,977, and for rituals and feasts it was around Rs4,320. Khajagiwale, incharge of the personal affairs of the Peshwas were appointed to look after the management of the Parvati temple complex. The consecration of idols took place in April 1749 and the complex was named as “Devdeveshwar”. There is some debate about the exact date, but the anniversary of the establishment is celebrated on April 23 every year by the Devdeveshwar Sansthan trust, managing the Parvati complex today. The fame and prosperity of Devdeveshwar continued to grow. We shall look at the further history, events and the making of the Devdeveshwar complex on Parvati hill in the next column.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-nanasaheb-peshwa-kick-starts-pune-s-development-with-the-parvati-temple-complex-101628678971983.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||BEST bus crushes senior citizen to death in Bhandup||A 70-year-old pedestrian died as he came between the right front tyre of a BEST bus and electric meter cabin on the side of the road after the bus driver lost control and crashed the bus into the cabin in Bhandup on Wednesday morning.According to traffic police, the incident took place near Ashok Kedar Chowk in Bhandup (West) around 7.15am when the victim, Pundalik Bhagat, was out for morning walk. Police said at the time of the accident, the BEST bus on 605 route was going from Vikhroli bus depot to Bhandup railway station.As the bus reached Ashok Kedar Chowk, the driver, Baban Mane, 54, lost control over the vehicle and hit the electric meter cabin on the side of the road crushing the senior citizen, before dashing a rickshaw coming from opposite direction and injuring two others — Ravindra Tiwari, 65, and Mukesh Upadhyay, 44.All the three injured were taken to the hospital where Bhagat was declared dead as he had suffered severe injuries to his head and shoulder.Since the bus was stuck and could not be moved, traffic police officers removed it and handed over the driver to Bhandup police.“The driver told us that there was a slight curve on the road which he did not notice and lost control over the bus due to speed,” said a police officer from the traffic chowkie at Vikhroli.Officers added that since there is less traffic early morning, bus drivers tend to speed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/best-bus-crushes-senior-citizen-to-death-in-bhandup-101628678790350.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Teej 2021: Won’t earn much as markets close very early, say mehendiwalas||Festivals are the best days to make money for mehendi artists, but those based in Delhi-NCR claim that this year it’s not going to be the same. All major markets are expected to close by 8pm every day, thus making it impossible for mehendi artists to sit and work beyond that time. “People start coming in only by 7.30pm and by the time they sit to get their mehendi put, it will be close to 8pm. Is saal 30-40% business kum hoga humara because itni jaldi koi nai ayega. Also, it’s so hot during the day that no one is going to come before 6pm and by 7.30pm the market associations will start asking us to wrap up. It’s barely a few hours of business for us, and that will not be enough for festival days,” says Pitampura-based mehendi artist Kamal Marwadi. Booking home appointments, however, is something that’s providing a bit of relief to a few mehendi artists. “Jisne mehendi lagani hai, they will call us for sure. People are aware that it’s still not that safe to go to the markets. So, I’ve been getting a lot of calls from clients requesting me to come to their place and apply mehendi on their hands. I don’t take any appointments on the day of Teej, but did accept those requests that came a day or two in advance. Now, I’m totally booked,” says Shalimar Bagh-based mehendi artist Ritu Bagri, from Balaji Mehendi Art.Aastha Chandra, a Noida-based homemaker shares she too opted for a home appointment this Teej, and adds: “We always get mehendi applied on Teej. It’s so much fun when my mother-in-law and I go together to the nearby market. But, we used to go late evenings, eat something outside first, and then sit for our turn at the mehendiwala, by when it would be almost 10pm. But, this year that seems impossible. I don’t want to go to the market during the daytime because there will be so many people in the market, and honestly I’m still scared about Covid. So I’ve called a mehendi artist home. Utna fun toh nai hoga, but aur kya hi option hai.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/teej-2021-won-t-earn-much-as-markets-close-very-early-say-mehendiwalas-101628677667983.html
11-08-2021||Other||Roads riddled with potholes; Thane municipal corpn gets busy filling them||The number of potholes on Thane roads has increased from 1,500 to 2,104 within a fortnight, as per a survey conducted on Tuesday. Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) officials claim only 210 of these potholes are left to be filled. With a budget of over Rs2.25 crore for road repairs by TMC this year; the civic body has managed to fill up 1,804 potholes till now, they said.Also Read | Thane civic body starts door-to-door vaccination driveTMC deputy city engineer Arjun Ahire said, “The potholes that we have listed are in roads maintained by TMC, others are being filled by the respective agencies. A letter has been submitted to the agencies to complete repair work on the roads and then hand it over to us for maintenance. However, the procedure for the same has not been completed yet, but we are ensuring that the roads are repaired.” From among the 2014 potholes across the city, more than 400 potholes each have been found in Vartak Nagar and Diva areas. TMC is filling these potholes using three different technologies. “For the bigger potholes, we are using the ready concrete mix; for those along the drainage we are using the Water bound macadam (mixture of crushed stones, brick aggregate, filling material and water) method and near the metro work, paver blocks are being used to fill the potholes. The current dry spell in the city has made it easier to fill the potholes,” added Ahire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/roads-riddled-with-potholes-thane-municipal-corpn-gets-busy-filling-them-101628676389837.html
11-08-2021||Lucknow||Schools in Uttar Pradesh may reopen for classes 6-8 from September 1||With schools across Uttar Pradesh set to reopen for classes 9-12 from next week, the Yogi Adityanath-led state government is now likely to allow reopening of schools for lower standards as well. According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Live Hindustan, Adityanath has directed officials to begin admission procedure for classes 6-8 in schools under the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Council.“Classes can resume from September 1 after analysing the current situation of the coronavirus pandemic in Uttar Pradesh,” the chief minister was quoted as saying in a review meeting of Team-9, a government panel leading the state’s fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The panel is headed jointly by state health minister Suresh Khanna and medical education minister Jai Pratap Singh.Earlier, the state government had given permission for secondary schools to resume offline teaching for classes 9-12 from August 16. For this, CM Adityanath issued instructions to vaccinate all students aged 18 and above by organising vaccination camps on school/university/college premises. Schools had reopened earlier this year but the resumption turned out to be brief as the state, along with the rest of the country, was hit by a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Also Read | Most UP schools to reopen on Aug 16Now, with the second wave having largely receded, schools in several states have reopened for senior classes, while other states, too, have announced the schedule for resumption of on-campus classes. Among Uttar Pradesh’s neighbouring states, schools reopened partially for classes 10 and 12 in Delhi on August 9.On the Covid-19 front, Uttar Pradesh logged 27 fresh infections on the day, news agency ANI quoted medical education minister Khanna as saying. “Saturday lockdown should be lifted, night curfew will continue,” Khanna added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/schools-in-uttar-pradesh-may-reopen-for-classes-6-8-from-september-1-101628675027449.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||No illegality in awarding Maharashtra Sadan construction contract: Court||There was no illegality in awarding the contract for construction of Maharashtra Sadan in New Delhi in the noughties, a special court has ruled while discharging five accused including directors of a construction firm. The court on July 31 said it also found no substance in the allegation that the firm, KS Chamankar Enterprises, allegedly paid ₹13.5 crore to family members of Maharashtra minister Chhagan Bhujbal. Bhujbal was then the Public Works Department (PWD) minister and his plea for discharge in the case is pending. He has insisted there is no evidence to prosecute him. The court held there was no direct or circumstantial evidence to show illegal means were adopted in awarding the contract. The detailed order of the court was made available on Tuesday.Also Read | Local trains to resume for fully vaccinated: Mumbai begins allotment of passesThe court discharged former superintending engineer Arun Deodhar, and Krishna Chamankar, Pravina Chamankar, Pranita Chamankar, Prasanna Chamankar, the directors of the firm.“The developers M/s K. S. Chamankar Enterprises cannot be held responsible as there was neither any illegal act nor while doing legal act, illegal means were adopted, which is a basic and essential requirement of the criminal conspiracy. Whether the amount of ₹13.5 crore received by accused No. 1 (Chhagan Bhujbal) and 12 to 17 (Bhujbal’s family members and close aides) was of corruption or undue advantage or not, is a question of fact, which can be determined on the basis of the relevant materials,” said the court.The court said the prosecution is uncertain whether the conspiracy started in 2001 or 2005. “There is no specific allegation as to on which day and stage the alleged conspiracy started. In absence of specific allegations, the details, and in absence of specific evidence to even infer such conspiracy of various officers at different level and at different places, it is difficult to hold even prima facie hatching a plan by the public servants to cause undue benefit to the developer in the project.”According to the prosecution, the redevelopment project commenced in 1998. From 2001 onwards, a proposal of KS Chamanakar Enterprises for the redevelopment was under consideration of the various departments including the PWD. “It is a matter of record that since 2001, the process of the project started, and it was completed in the year 2006-2007. In the period of 2001 to 2007, several officers might have changed or retired,” said the court.The state’s Anti-Corruption Bureau, in its charge sheet filed earlier this year, alleged the PWD, which was then headed by Bhujbal, conspired to ensure the firm benefits from the project. The charge sheet cited government norms and added a contractor should not earn a profit exceeding 20% for a project. It added in this case, the firm is alleged to have earned 81.9% profit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-illegality-in-awarding-maharashtra-sadan-construction-contract-court-101628671230017.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi court discharges Kejriwal, Sisodia in assault case against bureaucrat||A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and nine other Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs in the connection with the case of assault on former chief secretary Anshu Prakash back in 2018. The court, however, framed charges against AAP MLAs Prakash Jarwal and Amanatullah Khan under Sections 186, 353, and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta passed the order on Wednesday. A detailed order, however, is still awaited.In a press briefing today, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia referred to the court verdict and called the day one of victory "of justice and truth"."The court said that all allegations in the matter were false and baseless," Sisodia said while speaking to reporters. "The chief minister (Kejriwal) was acquitted today in that false case."Sisodia reiterated his claim that the case was just a 'conspiracy' to bring down Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. "We had been saying that the allegations were false," he said. "It was a conspiracy hatched against the chief minister."Anshu Prakash, then the chief secretary of Delhi, had alleged he was assaulted during a meeting at the chief minister's residence on February 19, 2018, following which a first information report (FIR) was lodged against Kejriwal, Sisodia, and 11 other AAP MLAs. Prakash had claimed that he was called for a midnight meeting to discuss the release of the party’s advertisements related to the government completing three years in Delhi, and manhandled and assaulted during the course of the meeting.The chief minister, the deputy chief minister, and the other AAP MLAs denied any wrongdoing in connection with the incident. The party’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj even accused Anshu Prakash of making false allegations at the behest of the Union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-discharges-kejriwal-sisodia-in-assault-case-against-bureaucrat-101628664456633.html
11-08-2021||Patna||Bihar govt faces flak for making teachers sell used bags of midday meal scheme||The Bihar government’s directive to teachers to sell gunny bags used to supply mid-day meals (MDM) in schools has met with criticism, and even led to a teacher’s suspension. Bihar Primary School Teachers Association (BPSTA) president Brajnandan Sharma cited the suspension of a Katihar-based teacher ”without any enquiry” and called it too stringent a measure. “Every individual’s level of understanding and his perspective on a particular issue is different. Teachers resent such directions,” he said, adding that MDM duties affect their work. However, he said he had no issue with the government seeking a report on gunny bag sales. In his letter dated July 22, to district programme officers, the director of MDM scheme in Bihar, issued instruction that proceeds from sale of empty gunny bags be maintained in a separate account, in a prescribed format, and a report be sent within a week’s time. The government has fixed ₹10 as the price for each gunny bag. This comes in the wake of an audit of records related to MDM scheme, conducted by Accountant General Office, which detected a loss to the state exchequer as no financial records pertaining to the sales had been maintained. The director of MDM scheme has issued instruction for sale reports in 2014-15 and 2015-16. Amitabh Kumar Das, a former IPS officer and the chairman of The Bihar Viplavi Parishad, has criticised the government order, saying it was against the dignity of teachers to sell used gunny bags. Das has written to principal secretary of education department to recall this order. In Katihar, the suspension of a contract teacher for a video showing him selling used gunny bags has taken another turn. The teacher, Md Tamijuddin posted at Primary School Kantadeeh, was suspended on August 8 and departmental proceedings initiated against him. He has now released another video in which he can be seen appealing to the chief minister to revoke his suspension order with a film song.He said, “After the order for selling used gunny bags was issued, I tried to sell them in school and when no takers turned up as the government has fixed price ₹10 for each bag, I decided to sell them in the market just to obey the order of the department.” He added, “Many of the bags were damaged by flood waters .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-faces-flak-for-making-teachers-sell-used-bags-of-midday-meal-scheme-101628664749126.html
11-08-2021||Jaipur||Three men held for raping woman in Rajasthan’s Barmer||Three men allegedly raped a 23-year-old woman in front of her husband after abducting them in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, police said on Wednesday, and added the accused were arrested within hours of the sexual assault on Tuesday.Baldev Ram, a local police officer, said the woman told them she and her husband were on their way to Sindhari from Barmer town when the three abducted and assaulted them near a toll plaza. He added she said they raped her in a car before dropping the couple off near Sarnu.Ram said they formed police teams soon after the woman filed her complaint and arrested the accused Chunaram Jat, 20, Babu Lal Jat, 21, and Naresh Jat, 18. He added a search for their accomplice Kishan was on. Ram said the accused were due to be produced before a court on Wednesday. He added the woman’s medical report will also be received on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/three-men-held-for-raping-woman-in-rajasthan-s-barmer-101628664149105.html
11-08-2021||Other||Hockey team returns to hero’s welcome amid bhangra, dhol beats in Amritsar||Festivity was in the air as India’s bronze medal-winning men’s hockey team arrived in Amritsar, where they were accorded a warm welcome in Punjabi style on Wednesday morning. The players, 10 of whom are from Punjab, paid obeisance at Golden Temple before heading to their homes. The bronze medal was worth its wait in gold as India returned home with an Olympic medal in hockey, the national game, after 41 years. Also read: Views of Haryana, Punjab, Bihar, Bengal CMs were taken before passage of farm laws: GovtIndian woman hockey star Gurjit Kaur, who scored the only goal against Australia in a quarterfinal match, taking the Indian women’s team to the semi-final for the first time in the history of the Olympics, also arrived with members of the men’s hockey team at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport at 6.30am. They were received by Congress MLA and former Indian hockey player Pargat Singh along with Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira and family members of the players at the airport’s flying club. “We are at loss of words to express how happy we are to see the welcome we have received at the holy city on returning to Punjab after winning the medal. I hope next time we return with the gold medal,” said Harmanpreet Singh, a leading scorer of the team. Folk dancers, particularly bhangra performers, set the mood as they danced with gusto to the beat of the dhol, while slogans of Sat Sri Akal rent the air and the players were presented garlands and siropa (robes of honour) at the airport. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which had announced a reward of ₹1 crore for the team as an honour for winning the medal, sent a bus to bring the players from the airport to Golden Temple. A majority of the team members belong to Punjab. Six players are from the state’s Majha region. All wore sky blue turbans, the colour of the team. At Golden Temple, the players offered prayers and gratitude for their remarkable performance at the Tokyo Olympics in which they defeated Germany to win the bronze medal. A special ceremony was organised by the SGPC to felicitate them at the shrine. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur presented a cheque for ₹1 crore and honoured each player with a siropa as senior Akali leaders, including former minister Gulzar Singh Ranike, looked on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hockey-team-returns-to-hero-s-welcome-amid-bhangra-dhol-beats-in-amritsar-101628662648973.html
11-08-2021||Patna||Bizman shot dead by 2 motorcycle-borne men in Bihar’s Katihar||A 35-year-old businessman and school owner was shot dead while he was returning home after shutting his grocery shop on Tuesday evening. The incident took place beside the official residence of a chief judicial magistrate (CJM), near the official residences of the sub divisional officer (SDO) and sub divisional police officer (SDPO).The deceased has been identified as Pampam Jha. He owned a grocery shop at Mirchaibari Chowk and was returning home on his motorcycle when two motorcycle-borne men stopped him near CJM’s residence and shot him from close range. He was declared dead at the district hospital. Jha also ran a private school for junior classes.Soon after the incident, superintendent of police (SP) Vikash Kumar, SDPO Amar Kant Jha, station house officers reached the site.Also Read | Three traders murdered in a day in different parts of Bihar “A land dispute may be the reason behind the incident,” a police officer said. Meanwhile police have started obtaining CCTV camera footage from the area to ascertain the identity of the criminals. The SP said, “We are investigating the case from all angles.”No FIR had been lodged till the report was filed, and police have started carrying out raids on the basis of the preliminary statements of the family members of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bizman-shot-dead-by-2-motorcycle-borne-men-in-bihar-s-katihar-101628660788848.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Local trains to resume for fully vaccinated: Mumbai begins allotment of passes||The process for verification of documents and allotment of railway passes for local trains begain in Mumbai today. This comes in the wake of the Maharashtra government’s decision to resume local train services for fully vaccinated commuters in the city from August 15. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) set up 358 helpdesks at 53 railway stations in its jurisdiction for the verification of vaccine status. People began gathering at the verification counters set up at Kalyan and Dombivli railway stations since 6am on Wednesday. While junctions such as Kurla, Dadar, and Bandra saw a larger number of people gather at counters, no crowding has been reported at any other station so far.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward, said, “Operations have been going on smoothly at helpdesks at Dadar. There is no crowd so far, as citizens have also realised there is time till August 15 to get the passes issued.”While some were clueless about the procedure and allotment of passes, some carried all their documents to be sure. “I have carried the vaccination certificate and my identification card. They are also asking for a photocopy of the ID card...nowhere had they mentioned that a photocopy will be required. After waiting in the queue for verification, we must wait for the passes in another queue,” said Mahajan Surve,40, as he waited at Kalyan railway station. Another applicant who did not wish to be named said, “I think the government should also allow those who have taken the first dose as it is a matter of their livelihood too.”The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation has deployed a team of ward officers, deputy commissioner and others at the seven railway stations falling under its jurisdiction: Kalyan, Dombivli, Shahad, Ambivli, Kopar, Thakurli and Titwala stations. These teams are operating in two shifts of 7am-3pm and evening 3pm-11pm. The team first verifies the vaccination certificate of the applicant, scans the QR code on it and also verifies and collects a photocopy of the ID card. They then stamp the documents before sending the applicant to the railway counter to get the pass. “Today is the first day of verification. People are coming with soft copies of their documents which will not be considered. They should bring hard copies so that we can stamp them which will be further verified by the railway staffs for allotting the pass,” said Suhas Gupte ward officer, who is managing the counter at Dombivli station. Vasant Bhongade, ward officer at the Kalyan east counter said, “We have set up four counters and people have started coming for verification...There is a confusion related to documents as it is the first day. However, our team is guiding them.” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s health department, who is overseeing these operations, conducted rounds of some railway stations in the city on Wednesday morning. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar is also set to visit railway stations where helpdesks have been set up.A senior civic officer said, “Since fully vaccinated citizens also have to wait for 14 days after their second shot, before applying for passes, the sample size of fully vaccinated beneficiaries also opting for a train pass may be small. Among those fully vaccinated, those who want to take the train as well, may be a small number. We are yet to see how many passengers are opting for train travel.”According to data from BMC, a total of 1,914,771 beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated in Mumbai till date. Of these, 297,377 are healthcare and frontline workers; 646,939 are citizens above 60 years of age; 811,709 are citizens between 45 years and 59 years; 140,944 are citizens between 18 years and 44 years; 721 are lactating mothers; 8 are pregnant women; 16,889 are students or professionals looking to travel abroad, or those who were participating in Tokyo Olympics; 136 are physically or mentally differently abled beneficiaries; 26 are persons without identity proofs (prisoners/transgender persons); and 22 are bed-ridden beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/local-trains-to-resume-for-fully-vaccinated-mumbai-begins-allotment-of-passes-101628659829559.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal shuts down schools, barring residential ones, as Covid-19 cases surge||Just nine days after opening them, the Himachal Pradesh government has closed down all schools, barring residential ones, till August 22 amid a rise in Covid-19 cases in the past fortnight.The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, in Shimla on Tuesday night.Also read: India’s daily Covid-19 tally rises to 38,353; active cases lowest in 140 daysTeaching and non-teaching staff of schools shall, however, continue working from the educational institutions.The school education department will issue fresh standard operating procedures for the residential or boarding schools to contain the spread of coronavirus.RTPCR test must from August 13 The cabinet decided to make the RT-PCR test mandatory for all visitors to the state from August 13. Any person visiting the state shall be allowed entry on vaccination certificate or a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours. A rapid antigen test (RAT) negative report not older than 24 hours shall also be valid.Buses to operate at 50% capacity Buses will be allowed to operate at 50% of the seating capacity from August 13.For inter-state public transport buses, the transport department will frame a mechanism to check Covid-19 negative report or vaccine certificate. Only eligible passengers will be allowed to board buses.R-factor of 1.3 a concern Himachal Pradesh is among the eight states where cases have been rising and the r-factor is higher than 1. The state tops the rate of Covid-19 transmission in the country with the highest virus reproductive value of 1.3, indicating disease resurgence. Neighbouring Punjab also has an R-factor of 1.3.The R-factor or reproduction number refers to how many people an infected person can further infect on an average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-shuts-down-schools-as-covid-19-cases-on-the-rise-101628657488888.html
11-08-2021||Patna||Three traders murdered in a day in different parts of Bihar||A jewellery shop owner was among three traders who were shot dead by unidentified criminals in three separate incidents in rural Patna, Samastipur and Katihar districts late on Tuesday evening.In rural Patna, 40-year-old Mantu Kumar Gupta, owner of Maa Vindhyavasini Jewellers, was shot dead by motorcycle-borne assailants in Bihta Bazar. There are at least 30 jewellery shops in the area. In the past, several cases of firing and killing have taken place in Bihta for extortion. Police said around 8.30pm, criminals ransacked the shop before firing at Gupta from point blank range. SHO of the Bihta police station, Atulesh Kumar said Gupta sustained multiple injuries on his head and chest. Gupta was also involved in real estate business. The criminals assaulted his driver, Neeraj Kumar, as well for putting up a fight. Traders in the Bihta market believe Gupta may have been targeted for refusing an extortion demand. Neeraj said he saw the criminals fleeing on three bikes without registration numbers. SSP Upendra Sharma told HT, “Raids are on to nab the criminals.”Also Read | Covid-19: Bihar seeks deployment of Rapid Action Force during MuharramIn another incident, cement trader Rajesh Kumar Singh alias Raju, 45, was shot dead by six criminals on two motorcycles at Shivra, Samastipur. Sadar DSP Pritish Kumar said Singh owned a cement shop on NH-28. The incident occurred when he was returning home on his bike. Armed criminals intercepted him and fired indiscriminately. Police said Singh died on the spot. The motive for this murder is yet to be ascertained. Sources close to Singh’s family said he used to lend money and was also keen on contesting the upcoming panchayat election. In Katihar, grocery shop owner Pampam Jha, 35, was gunned down in a posh locality. Police said Jha was targeted near the residence of a chief judicial magistrate under the limits of Sahayak police station area. The place is a VVIP area. Jha was on way home at the time of the incident when he was intercepted by unidentified miscreants who pumped two bullets into his head. Katihar SP Bikash Kumar said Jha was rushed to the local hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. The police have taken some people into custody in connection with the murder. “The motive for this murder is said to be a land dispute,” said SHO Sanjay Kumar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/three-traders-murdered-in-a-day-in-different-parts-of-bihar-101628655928820.html
11-08-2021||Kolkata||Bengal asks for Central funds to implement master plan to check recurring floods||With at least six districts in south Bengal being hit by floods last week, the Mamata Banerjee administration has started pressing for central funds to implement a seven-year-old master plan to check the recurring floods. The state government will soon send a team comprising Trinamool Congress (TMC) ministers and legislators to raise the demand before the Centre. “The chief minister said that a team comprising ministers and legislators representing the constituencies, which are flooded, will soon head for Delhi and meet the union Jal Shakti minister to place the demand,” said a state minister, requesting anonymity. Senior TMC parliamentarians form both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will also join the delegation to raise a demand for Central funds, a TMC leader said. The delegation is likely to head for Delhi soon as Parliament’s Monsoon Session is going on. Also Read | Widespread, heavy rain likely over N-E for 4-5 days: IMD“We have been repeatedly telling the Centre to sanction funds for the Ghatal master plan, but they are not implementing it,” Banerjee said on Tuesday. Last week, chief minister Banerjee had visited parts of Howrah such as Amta and Udaynarayanpur, which were hit by floods; on Tuesday, she visited Ghatal on to take stock of the situation. She called it a man-made flood as it was triggered after the Damodar Valley Corporation released water through its dam. Even though the water level is receding, several areas are still submerged. The Ghatal master plan was drawn in 2014 by the TMC government. According to the plan, the Centre and state government have to bear the cost of the ₹1,238 crore project on a 50:50 basis. As per the master plan, several projects will be undertaken to desilt the rivers in and around Ghatal in West Midnapore district, repair the canals and build a dam on the Shilabati river, among other steps to check recurring floods. “We have been hearing about this plan for several years now. Please visit the state government’s irrigation department website and search for the master plan. It will show you the ‘page is under construction’. This tells everything about why the plan has failed to take off till now,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP vice-president in West Bengal. Meanwhile the India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata has warned of more rain this week. According to statistics shared last week, at least 23 people died and around 113,000 people had to be shifted to safer places. At least 400,000 hectares of farmlands were inundated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-asks-for-central-funds-to-implement-master-plan-to-check-recurring-floods-101628655388990.html
11-08-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand chief minister to felicitate Olympians Salima Tete and Nikki Pradhan||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren will felicitate Salima Tete and Nikki Pradhan at the state secretariat after the two members of the women’s hockey team return home on Tuesday after representing India at Tokyo Olympics. Sports minister Hafizul Ansari will receive the two at the Ranchi airport.“The two players are expected to land at 12.45pm at the Ranchi airport. Sports minister Hafizul Ansari would receive them at the airport. Thereafter, they would be felicitated by the chief minister at the Secretariat, and he would hand over cheques of ₹50 lakh each,” an official said.Also Read | Odisha announces sports infra project worth ₹693.35 croreAfter the women’s hockey team crashed out of the race for the bronze medal, Soren announced ₹50 lakh each for the two players.Ahead of Tokyo Olympics, the state government announced cash rewards of ₹2 crore for gold, ₹1 crore for silver, and ₹75 lakh for bronze to inspire the players from the state representing the country in Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-chief-minister-to-felicitate-olympians-from-the-state-101628654008990.html
11-08-2021||Other||Sec 144 imposed in Odisha’s Kendrapara amid opposition to water project||Officials in the coastal Odisha district of Kendrapara on Tuesday clamped Section 144 of CrPC in three grampanchayats amid massive opposition to the drawal of water from a river in the region for supplying piped water to people of neighbouring district.The Kendrapara district administration imposed prohibitory orders in Balakati, Bharigada and Barunadiha grampanchayats in Rajkanika block till October 8, and deployed 12 platoons of police in the area to prevent any law and order problem.“We had requested the government to construct an in-stream barrage over Kharasrota river and supply the water to Bhadrak district. Diversion of water from Kharasrota river will result in water scarcity in Kendrapara. The police cannot guard the project round the clock. We have decided that we will now allow supply of Kharasrota water to Bhadrak until the in-stream barrage is constructed,” said KBSS convenor and former Congress MLA of Aul Debendra Sharma.Also Read | Odisha announces sports infra project worth ₹693.35 croreSince the last two years, the people of Rajkanika are up in arms against the ₹892 crore mega drinking water project that would supply water from Kharasrota river in the area to 91 grampanchayats of Bhadrak district where groundwater has suffered saline ingress due to proximity to the Bay of Bengal. The people of Rajkanika fear that the drinking water project would not only result in the drying up of the riverbed, but deprive them of irrigation water to their farmlands and lead to acute drinking water crisis in the area. On October 16, more than 2,000 locals had formed a two kilometre-long human chain at Rajkanika to protest against the proposed project.The project is expected to solve the drinking water crisis for 650,000 people in 91 grampanchayats of Chandbali, Tihidi, Dhamnagar and Basudevpur blocks where the rampant drawal of groundwater over the years resulted in substantial draw-down of the groundwater table causing massive saline ingression in and around the villages.With the nearby rivers of Baitarani, Kansbans, Salandi and Mantei not having enough water to meet the requirement of people in these 91 grampanchayats, the state government in 2019 proposed the mega drinking water project to supply water would be supplied through a 15.5km long pipeline after treatment. By 2050, a maximum quantity of 86 million litres of water per day is proposed to be diverted from the river.The Kharasrota is a tributary of Brahmani river.“We suspect that the project will supply water to private companies in Bhadrak districts to run their plants and industries. Once the pipe water supply project starts the water level in Kharasrota will fall drastically and adversely affect farming in Kendrapada district. The project would also adversely affect the entire Bhitarakanika National Park as it is dependent for its survival on this river which is the only source of fresh water as the other rivers are saline in nature,” said secretary of the KBSS, Bidhan Das.A Bharatiya Janata Party leader last year had filed a petition against the project in the National Green Tribunal alleging various environmental damages due to the proposed project. But the tribunal dismissed the petition in November last year.However, Kendrapara district collector Amrit Ruturaj said the intake of water from Kharasrota would hardly affect the total flow in the river during the lean season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sec-144-imposed-in-odisha-s-kendrapara-amid-opposition-to-water-project-101628653529522.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Strong winds likely today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to experience strong surface winds during the day on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 27 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 36 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature on Tuesday was 35.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, and the minimum was 25 degrees Celsius.Also Read | Widespread, heavy rain likely over N-E for 4-5 days: IMDDelhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 125. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 101.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the satisfactory category due to moderate wind. Under little rain condition dust from unpaved road will increase. But faster wind from north-west will lead to more ventilation. As a result, AQI will be in satisfactory category for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-strong-winds-likely-today-says-imd-101628650408145.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local train travel pass to be issued from today: All you need to know||As Mumbai local train services are set to open this week, the process to issue passes for travel will begin from Wednesday for those who have been fully vaccinated and are through with their 15 days of the post-jab waiting period. The local train services are scheduled to open for fully vaccinated citizens from August 15, city mayor Kishori Pednekar announced on Tuesday.The passes will be issued at railway stations after verification of the vaccination status, according to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).As per the release, interested commuters can obtain the required pass by submitting a hard copy of their Covid-19 vaccination final certificate with a photo ID. The civic staff at a help desk will check the validity of the final vaccination certificate on the CoWin app."Once the verification is completed and both the documents are found to be valid, the certificate and the identification proof will be stamped in the prescribed format," the BMC said. The stamped certificate will have to be presented at the ticket window to get a QR code-based pass.The administration has set up a total of 358 help desks at 53 railway stations falling under the BMC's jurisdiction for the same, as per a report by the PTI. Apart from this, help desks will reportedly be set up at 56 suburban stations falling in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (outside BMC limits) by the respective authorities.These help desks will be operating from 7am to 11pm in two consecutive sessions. The process of issuing monthly season passes will continue on all seven days of the week till further orders.The BMC is also creating an app to assist people in obtaining the pass online. "The process of making this facility available online is underway. But it may take a little more time," the BMC also said.Further announcing the guidelines, the BMC said that if a person fails to produce even one of the two documents - vaccination certificate and photo ID - they will be denied from entering the railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-travel-pass-to-be-issued-from-today-all-you-need-to-know-101628646412763.html
11-08-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi launches 2nd leg of Ujjwala scheme in Uttar Pradesh||In an indirect attack on various non-Bharaitya Janata Party (BJP) governments in the country in the past, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it was unfortunate that people had to wait decades for basics like hospitals, roads and electricity, as he launched the second phase of the Ujjwala cooking gas scheme in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.“We are entering 75th year of independence and when we see the progress made in the past seven and a half decades, we realise that certain conditions and situation could have been changed decades ago,” Modi said after launching Ujjwala 2.0 (Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana) and distributing LPG connections at a programme at Mahoba in Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region via videoconferencing.Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Hardeep Singh Puri and state chief minister Yogi Adityanath attended the programme with the latter making a token distribution of LPG connections on the occasion.The prime minister, who interacted with Ujjwala scheme’s five beneficiaries including one from Gorakhpur, used the occasion to highlight his government’s work on providing basic needs to the society. “Will our energy waste in fulfilling basic needs? How can a family or a society progress and realise big dreams if it has to struggle for basic needs?” he asked.“Our sisters and daughters will be able to contribute to the nation building only if their problems of kitchen and home are taken care of. We have worked on mission mode to resolve such issues,” the PM added.Modi referred to the upcoming Raksha Bandhan festival to connect with women, saying he was delighted to get blessings of his sisters well in advance.Keeping up with his recent messages on sports in the wake of the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, the prime minister used the occasion to connect with the people of Bundelkhand, saying Ujjwala 2.0 was being launched from the land of brave, Mahoba, adding that the region is home to legendary hockey player Major Dhyanchand after whom the highest award for sportspersons has been recently named and it will inspire millions of the youth. He said by their exemplary performance at the Tokyo Olympics, the country’s sportspersons have given an indication about the future of sports.Giving statistical details about achievements of his government, he said under the first phase of Ujjwala scheme LPG connections have been given to 80 million women from the poor and deprived sections of society. The prime minister said India was close to achieving 100% gas connection coverage, adding that the number of gas connections distributed in the past seven years was higher than the total connections in the country till 2014.“We saw how much this helped during the Covid-19 pandemic. When there was no movement and businesses were closed, crores of poor families were given free gas cylinders for many months,” he said.“In the last six years, more than 11,000 new LPG distribution centres have opened across the country. Uttar Pradesh alone had less than 2,000 distribution centres in 2014. In UP now, there are 4,000 such centres giving employment to thousands of youths,” he added.Elaborating on the scheme, Modi said in Ujjwala 2.0 a self-declaration of address will work to get a LPG connection in other states as well. He said efforts were also being made to supply piped natural gas while expeditious work was being done to give PNG connections in UP and northeastern states at the earliest. The PM said a target to give PNG connections to 2.1 million households in over 50 districts of Uttar Pradesh has been set in the first phase. He added that efforts were also being made to boost use of CNG in transportation.Stating that the World Biofuel Day on Tuesday was a reminder about the targets on clean energy front, he mentioned plans to promote “gobar dhan” – tapping cow dung for energy. Modi said India was close to achieving the target of 10% blending of ethanol in petrol and would aim for 20% blending in coming years. He added that vehicles will use 100% ethanol in future.The prime minister said farmers from Uttar Pradesh will be benefitted the most with the option of making ethanol from sugarcane. He said ethanol worth ₹7 lakh crore was bought from producers last year. He said a number of units linked to ethanol and biofuel have come up in the state and plants were being set up in 70 districts to make compressed biogas. He also announced that three big complexes were coming up to make biogas from ‘parali’ including two at Badaun and Gorakhpur in UP and another at Bhatinda in Punjab.Meanwhile, CM Adityanath said 15 million families in the state availed the benefit of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana in its first phase.“Six years ago, the prime minister launched the first phase of Ujjwala Yojana from Ballia district in eastern UP. In the first phase of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), 1.5 crore (15 million) families in Uttar Pradesh availed the benefit of the scheme,” he said.Rajendra Chaudhary, spokesperson for the Samajwadi Party, said, “Mahoba has been chosen as the venue to launch the scheme in view of 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should not indulge in politics of betrayal. Ujjawala has not helped the poor due to high cost of cylinder.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-launches-2nd-leg-of-ujjwala-scheme-in-uttar-pradesh-101628644142199.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal to launch 'faceless' transport services today in Delhi. Check details||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will launch the transport department's 'faceless' services today (i.e. on Wednesday, August 11). Confirming the launch earlier this week, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said that this unique initiative will allow citizens to apply for various transport-related services, including registering for a learner's driving license test, from the comfort of their homes. Since people will be able to apply and get various documents like registration certificates without having to show up at a motor licensing office (MLO), it will essentially make the process 'faceless'.However, the 'faceless' transportation services of the Delhi government will not allow a person to apply for a permanent driving license and vehicle fitness certificate in a similar manner, confirmed transport minister Kailash Gahlot earlier this week."All services except permanent driving license and vehicle fitness are now faceless," Gahlot was quoted as saying by news agency PTI, "...thereby meaning applicants don't have to visit transport authority offices."'Faceless' transport services will essentially make Delhi the first state or Union territory in the country to bring all transport-related services online. According to government officials, it will help people save their own hard-earned time and money by not having to physically visit the MLOs. Maharashtra is also reported to be trying out a similar model.Also Read | Delhi govt waives custody charges on impounded vehicles till September 30Kejriwal is expected to launch the 'faceless' transport services in Delhi today from the IP Estate MLO, and trials for online learning tests have already begun at the Sarai Kale Khan and Vasant Vihar offices. More than 50 people have also been provided learning licenses so far, said officials privy to the development.Kailash Gahlot, the transport minister of Delhi, was even seen congratulating on Twitter a resident who had given his learner's license test online. "You are one of the country's first to pass this facial recognition enabled E-LL test," Gahlot said after congratulating the applicant. "Delhiites get true freedom from long queues."Notably, the Delhi transport department had been working on providing certain essential services online since as early as February this year. The services included those related to driving license and registration certificates such as duplicate copies, change in address, international driving permit, and transfer of ownership.According to officials, the majority of transactions at the transport department offices are related to driving licenses and registration certificates. In 2019, over 1 million transactions were related to driving licenses, and nearly 1.3 million were related to registration certificates, records with the state transport department showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-delhi-faceless-transport-service-today-check-details-101628638906605.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Man held for derogatory comments against Congress leader||A 30-year-old man from Uttam Nagar has been arrested for allegedly making anti-Muslim comments and derogatory remarks against Congress leader Alka Lamba in a viral video.The suspect, Vikas Sehrawat alias Mallik Sehrawat, was earlier arrested in March by the Ghaziabad police for delivering similar speeches in a viral video outside a temple before getting bail three months ago.DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said they received a complaint against Sehrawat from Lamba on Monday. Lamba also tagged the Delhi Police in a post on Twitter and attached the purported hate speech video.DCP Thakur said Sehrawat is being questioned. “Our police team succeeded in tracing the accused in the area of police station Bindapur and he (Sehrawat) was taken in police custody from his house,” he said.In his videos, Sehrawat describes himself as a Hindu leader and a nationalist. Earlier, he was accused of threatening to kill a journalist and AAP lawmaker Amanatullah Khan.Lamba, the former MLA from Chandni Chowk, said, “He is a notorious man and belongs to some right wing organisation. He is connected to Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, priest of the Dasna temple. Some months ago, he had made derogatory comments against me and the Ghaziabad police had arrested him. But even after coming out on bail, he makes such inflammatory comments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-held-for-derogatory-comments-against-congress-leader-101628633554434.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||New Metro e-buses to be rolled out from August 12||Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will start plying its first-ever batch of electric feeder buses on a trial basis along two Metro routes -- from Shastri Park metro station to Gokulpuri Metro station and to Mother Dairy -- from Thursday, senior officials said on Tuesday.Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said the trial will see 25 low-floor e-buses plying in the two routes.“Only passengers having a Delhi Metro smart card or Metro DTC smart card will be allowed to avail the services on these e-buses. They can use their smart card to pay for the cashless travel since these buses are fully contactless and conductor-less, enabling entry and exit through turnstiles in the bus by using the smart card... Services shall be available for Metro commuters only,” Dayal said.Senior officials said that passengers will be permitted entry only at Metro stations, and that the buses will stop only at the designated stops for dropping the passengers.“No entry of passengers will be permitted at other stops on the route. Similarly, for buses going to Metro stations, entry shall be allowed from all stops, but exit shall be allowed only at Metro stations. This is to ensure that only genuine Metro passengers use this service,” DMRC said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-metro-e-buses-to-be-rolled-out-from-august-12-101628633385119.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: On Zafar’s way...||It no longer needs to be known as Delhi’s Fleet Street, the London road famous for newspaper offices. At least some newspapers that were once located here have wholly or partly moved to other areas. And yet it stays rich—with history. Here’s a walk down the Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg.Reach ITO crossing. Start walking down the road named after Delhi’s last emperor. On the right stands a building decked with mosaic panels, showing figures in various costumes. Shankar’s International Dolls Museum houses more than 60,000 dolls from across the world, including a Flamenco dancer from Barcelona, a jazz musician from Harlem, and a doll “presented by Madame Tito, the First Lady of Yugoslavia.” The dolls currently remain unvisited, the museum is closed due to the pandemic.Keep walking, and turn right into a lane. Beyond is the Delhi Gate Qabristan. Many Old Delhi dwellers are in eternal sleep here—one new grave is of Chawri Bazar’s Haji Miyan, the Walled City’s living landmark who died in the Covid’s second surge. The legendary cook Kallu Mian Nihariwalle of Turkman Gate bazaar, who died some years ago, is also buried here. One of the most recent graves is of Chitli Qabar’s Muhammed Bi, a great-grandmother who died some weeks ago of age-related causes at 98. The cemetery is pock-marked with giant unwieldy trees. Bougainvillea creepers crisscross over some of the narrow paths. The graves spread out as unsystematically as the houses in the Walled City. Cats roam boldly.(Another turning in the road goes to the ruins of Feroze Shah Kotla. But it is so extensive that it needs an excursion exclusive to itself.)Walk back towards the main road, and keep straight till you reach Shaheedi Park, the lovely park rarely talked of. It has Bhagat Singh’s statue. The park slab informs that it was built in the very place where, in September 1928, the revolutionary freedom fighter “decided to form the Hindustan Socialist Republican Association to establish an independent Socialist Republic in India.” The garden also has a Sufi shrine—a grave covered with green and red chadars.Further ahead, the road divider turns into a weedy island with a stone gateway. This is Khooni Darwaza, or the “bloodied gateway”. Old Delhi gossipmongers insist that blood drips from its stone walls during monsoons. Bahadur Shah Zafar’s sons were killed here by the British after the uprising of 1857.The road ends with Parsi Anjuman, a centre for Delhi’s tiny Parsi community. It has the only Parsi fire temple in north India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-on-zafar-s-way-101628633266168.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Club found violating Covid-19 norms, 1 held||Delhi Police on Tuesday arrested the manager of a nightclub in Punjabi Bagh and are on the lookout for its owner, after the establishment was found to be violating Covid protocols and serving hookah openly in the premises.Police said the night club had an open terrace where they found around 100-120 persons consuming hukka.DCP (west) Urvija Goel said that a total of 25 hookahs were recovered. The manager of the restaurant has been arrested in the said case and accused Arpan Gupta (owner of the nightclub) is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-club-found-violating-covid-19-norms-1-held-101628631209331.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Tihar DSP, four others booked in FIR over gangster’s murder||Prawesh Lamaprawesh.lama@hindustantimes.comNew DelhiOn the night of August 3, when a Delhi Police officer reached Tihar’s jail number 3 after getting a distress call on the 112 helpline number from alleged gangster Ankit Gujjar’s family about him being assaulted inside the prison, the jail officers told police that Gujjar suffered “simple injuries”, according to a First Information Report (FIR) filed on Monday evening against the Tihar deputy superintendent Narendra Meena in the alleged murder of the gangster.HT has seen the copy of the FIR, in which police have also noted allegations of bribery and extortion by jail officers. Along with Meena, Gujjar’s family has also named three constables and an assistant superintendent in their complaint. However, the accused have not been named in the FIR.A prison officer, who asked not to be named, said the deputy superintendent and three others have been suspended pending magisterial inquiry and police investigation.A prisoner, who was released on bail the same night, told Gujjar’s family that he saw jail officers assaulting Gujjar.When an assistant sub inspector(ASI) from Hari Nagar police station visited Tihar as part of the probe, the jail staff told the ASI that “Gujjar was fine, he was given medicines for simple injuries and a deputy superintendent was admitted to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay(DDU) hospital”, the FIR said.According to the FIR, the police officer returned after he was told that Gujjar and two others assaulted jail officers during an inspection of their cell.The following morning, Delhi Police received information from the jail officials that Gujjar was found dead. When police visited the jail this time, they found two other injured prisoners (earlier lodged with Gujjar) in another cell. Gujjar’s post-mortem report said “cause of death was due to haemorrhage” because of the “cumulative effect of multiple blunt force injuries”.Until his arrest in August 2020, Gujjar,29, was one of western Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted persons. Accused in at least eight murders among other criminal cases, Gujjar carried a reward of ₹1.25 lakh at the time of his arrest --- ₹1 lakh announced by Uttar Pradesh police and ₹25,000 by Delhi police.According to the FIR, Gujjar’s mother, Geeta, has accused jail officers of demanding ₹1 lakh as protection money inside the prison. As evidence, Geeta has also submitted a recording of a phone call between Gujjar and his sister, Shivani, that purportedly took place on August 2.“Ankit had told my daughter (Shivani) that he had paid ₹50,000 to the jail officers but was unable to pay the remaining money. He told Shivani he was worried for his life as he was unable to pay the money,” read Geeta’s statement to the police, in which she has demanded the arrest of the jail officers.The FIR also mentions the version of the jail officers as noted by the police’s investigating officer.Deputy superintendent Meena told the police that they conducted an inspection inside Gujjar’s cell on April 3 afternoon and found a cell phone, data cable and knife. Meena said Gujjar and two other inmates of the cell number 3 assaulted him and other officials, after which Gujjar was transferred to another cell and the other two prisoners were sent to a different cell. The jail officers told the investigating officer that between 6am and 6.30am on August 4, when they went to check on Gujjar during the roll call of inmates, he was found unconscious and was rushed to the jail hospital. Gujjar was declared brought dead.According to the autopsy report conducted by a board of doctors, noted that Gujjar had deep wounds on his neck, left occipital region, right eyebrows and haemorrhage over the cerebral hemispheres of brain.Advocate Rishi Sood, who filed a petition in court seeking FIR against the jail officials, said, “Police registered an FIR after the court’s direction. We want police to conduct a thorough investigation and arrest all officers who were involved. The CCTV footage of the prison is important and must be preserved carefully.“The court has directed that the CCTV footage be preserved. In their report, the jail officers have mentioned that they used minimum force, which is a lie as is evident from the post-mortem report findings. We have been told that prison officers are threatening other inmates to take the blame for my client’s murder or claim that there was a riot inside the jail. This is false and baseless,” advocate Sood contended,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tihar-dsp-four-others-booked-in-fir-over-gangster-s-murder-101628630752838.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Jantar Mantar event: Court to hear Ashwini Upadhyay’s bail plea today||A Delhi court on Tuesday sent lawyer and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, along with three others, to judicial custody for two days in connection with the alleged anti-Muslim sloganeering at an event on Jantar Mantar on August 8.Duty magistrate Tanvi Khurrana also sent two more accused, Vinit Bajpai and Deepak Singh, to police custody for one day, rejecting the police’s request for three days’ custodial interrogation. The judge said that the “time period sought for police custody remand is not justified”. The court said the purpose for which the police was seeking a remand of three days can be conducted within one day.Additional public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava, representing the probe agency, said the police will require the custody of the accused to reveal the connection of the accused persons with other outfits, to find the source of funding for the event, the hidden agenda behind commission of offence, the object thereof, the modus operandi behind the huge gathering, the source of spreading information and identification of other accused persons.The police urged the court to remand Upadhyay and three other accused, Preet Singh, Vinod Sharma and Deepak Kumar to 14 days judicial custody.Shrivastava submitted that the accused may create “unruly situation”, and it will not be appropriate to release them in wake of important events such as the Independence Day and the ongoing monsoon session of the Parliament.The judge, directing that Upadhyay’s bail application be heard on Wednesday, also told the police to read out the contents of the FIR to him.Upadhyay’s counsel, Ashwani Dubey said despite arresting his client, the police did not give a copy of the FIR to him.“My client is cooperating in the investigation and as soon as he received a call at midnight, he rushed to the police station at 2am. Since then, he is not being allowed to take calls. He has also not been provided with a copy of the FIR and is not being allowed to meet his family,” Dubey said.Shrivastava said the FIR cannot be given to the accused because it is sensitive and “they are under no obligation to supply the document in line with a Supreme Court order”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jantar-mantar-event-court-to-hear-ashwini-upadhyay-s-bail-plea-today-101628629826002.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal clears ₹10 lakh aid for family of minor rape victim||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday approved ₹10 lakh assistance for the family of the nine-year-old Dalit girl, who was allegedly raped and murdered at a crematorium near the Delhi cantonment on August 1.“Delhi CM approves the compensation of ₹10 lakh to the family of minor Delhi cantt (cantonment) victim,” said an official in the chief minister’s office, who did not wish to be named.On August 4, Kejriwal visited the girl’s residence, promised ₹10 lakh assistance, and directed a magisterial probe into the matter. He assured the family the government will engage top lawyers for the case.Several groups have been protesting against the alleged rape and murder for over a week now. They have been demanding justice for the girl and her family. Four people, including a priest at the crematorium, have been arrested over the alleged rape and murder.The accused told the girl’s family that she was electrocuted while fetching water from an electric water cooler installed inside the crematorium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-clears-rs-10-lakh-aid-for-family-of-minor-rape-victim-101628628753260.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt to make 7 makeshift hospitals in next 6 months||The Delhi government will build seven makeshift hospitals with 7,000 ICU beds in the next six months to prepare for a potential third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), state health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday.Jain said he spoke to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister, to seek approval for the projects on Tuesday. These seven makeshift hospitals will be constructed by the public works department (PWD) in Sarita Vihar, Shalimar Bagh, Sultanpuri, Kirari, Raghubir Nagar, GTB hospital, and Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya, he added. “The hospitals will be completed within the next six months positively and all the concerned departments will be working on a war footing. Though these hospitals will be temporary, they are being constructed from a long-term perspective as Covid-19 is here to stay at least in the near future,” Jain added.The Delhi government has put in place a graded response action plan for the steps that are to be taken at various stages of the third wave, in case Covid-19 cases begin to spike again. The administration is planning to set up nearly 37,000 Covid beds, excluding those in Covid care centres. Of the 37,000 beds, 12,000 will be ICU beds.Jain said he believes the third wave, if it comes, will be milder than the second wave in Delhi at least because majority of the cases that emerged during April-May this year were caused by the Delta variant, implying majority of the population may already have antibodies.80% samples tested showed Delta variant“In the tests done during the second wave in Delhi, we could see that more than 80% of the samples showed the presence of the Delta variant. The genome sequencing of the samples during the second wave and after have been done; the results of both show that about 80% of the sample population was infected by the Delta variant of the virus,” said Jain.“Since the Delta variant originated in India, we have already faced the wrath of this variant during the second wave. The other countries need to prepare themselves now as the variant is spreading there. Delhi has already battled and overcome the Delta variant wave. Analysis of the reports from Delhi that were sent to ICMR also pointed out that Delhi was battling the Delta variant during the second wave. Therefore, I don’t think that the Delta variant should be a cause of concern for us anymore as the entire second wave was because of the Delta variant,” the minister said.In the last wave, the Delhi government prepared 22,000-23,000 beds of which 6,000 were ICU beds. “This time we have doubled the number of the ICU beds and have added more beds overall as well. Along with this, the Delhi government has also started a graded response system,” he said.The graded response action plan, which harks back to a similar mechanism to fight air pollution during pre-winter months, was drafted by an expert committee formed by the Delhi government and approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on July 8. It classifies outbreak severity into four bands – yellow, amber, orange and red – with each representing a more severe outbreak and, thus, stricter curbs than the one preceding it.According to the plan, private offices, malls, weekly markets and the Metro will be shut down in Delhi if the test positivity rate (TPR) rises above 2%, and the city will be put under a curfew if the number breaches 5%, according to a new Covid-19 action plan approved by authorities that sets clear thresholds for curbs that kick in from as low as 0.5% TPR in order to scuttle an outbreak.The colour-coded classifications take into account three factors: the test positivity rate over two consecutive days, new cases over a seven-day period, and the average weekly hospital occupancy rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-govt-to-make-7-makeshift-hospitals-in-next-6-months-101628627661846.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar wheat pilferage: 8 more officials chargesheeted, 2 suspended||The Punjab food and civil supplies department on Tuesday issued chargesheet against eight more officials and suspended two in connection with the pilferage of wheat worth ₹20 crore from Pungrain godowns in Jandiala Guru sub-division of Amritsar district. A total of five officials have been suspended while 10 were chargesheeted so far. Those issued charge-sheet on Tuesday are deputy director Rajnish Kumari who was posted as district food and civil supplies controller (DFSC) in Amritsar from 2018 to 2019. Those suspended are assistant food and civil supplies officer Cheery Bhatia and supervisor Rajinder Bains. The DFSCs issued chargesheet are Satvir Singh Mavi, Rajnish Kumari, Mangal Das and Talwinder Singh. The current DFSC Raj Rishi Mehra and his predecessor Jasjit Kaur have already been charge-sheeted. Food and civil supplies officer Himanshu Kakkar and supervisors Nishan Singh and Randhir Singh were also charge-sheeted on the orders of minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. At least 1.45 lakh wheat bags weighing 50kg each (87,164 quintal) and 56,000 bags of 30kg each (16,800 quintal) were missing from the Jandiala Guru godowns. The department had earlier placed district food and supplies officer (DFSO) Amarinder Singh, assistant food and supplies officer (AFSO) Arshdeep Singh and inspector Jasdev Singh — under suspension. As the department’s vigilance wing has started physical verification, a parallel investigation has been handed over to the state vigilance department. Senior officials say that the stock was verified from home. Ashu has asked the department to complete the investigations before the start of paddy procurement in October. He has also issued instructions to start a system of electronic physical verification of stock. Jasdev Singh, the custodian inspector in Jandiala Guru, is absconding for about a month and his house has been found locked. He has been traced to Dubai and his wife is learnt to be in Turkey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-wheat-pilferage-8-more-officials-chargesheeted-2-suspended-101628626467662.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder meets Amit Shah, seeks 25 CAPF companies, anti-drone gadgets for BSF||Amid an escalating threat to the state’s security from across the border, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday asked Union home minister Amit Shah to urgently provide 25 companies of central armed police forces (CAPF) and anti-drone gadgets for the Border Security Force (BSF) for protection against Pakistan-backed terror outfits. Citing the recent heavy influx of weapons, hand grenades and improvised explosive devices (IEDs) into the state, the CM told Shah at a meeting in New Delhi that the security situation was grave and needed the Centre’s immediate intervention with Pakistan’s ISI also raising the ante ahead of the Independence Day and in the run-up to the Punjab assembly polls. Also, Amarinder sought CAPF deployment in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mohali, Patiala, Bathinda, Phagwara and Moga districts, as well as anti-drone technology for the BSF at the borders, according to an official release. He pointed to the threat to the security of vital infrastructure, installations and public events being attended by individuals facing “high threat”. Citing inputs from central and state agencies, corroborated by disclosures made by arrested terrorists, the CM said potential individual and mass indiscriminate targets include trains, buses and temples, prominent farmer leaders, RSS shakhas/offices, RSS, BJP and Shiv Sena leaders based in Punjab, deras, Nirankari bhawans and samagams. Specific inputs about 5 such farmer leaders had been received but they had refused to take security offered by Punjab and Haryana police. “With the Punjab assembly elections scheduled in early 2022, many militant and radical operatives are being pressurised by the ISI to carry out terror attacks,” he warned. The CM told Shah that between July 4 and August 8, 2021, foreign based pro-Khalistani entities, working in close collaboration with the ISI, had managed to induct over 30 pistols, one MP4 Rifle, one AK-47 Rifle, around 35 hand-grenades, sophisticated laboratory made tiffin bombs, over 6 Kg RDX and assorted hardware for fabrication of IEDs (9 detonators, 1 multiple timer device and fuse-wire). Raises farm laws, fertiliser shortageCiting social, economic and security implications of the prolonged farmers’ agitation, Amarinder pressed Shah for immediate repeal of the farm laws. The CM expressed concern over the fear of elements from across the border trying to exploit disgruntlement against the government, seeking an enduring and expeditious solution to the farmers’ concerns. “While these protests have so far been largely peaceful, one can sense rising tempers, especially as the state moves towards elections in early 2022,” he warned. Amarinder also flagged the urgent need to compensate farmers for the management of paddy straw at the rate of ₹100 per quintal and to address the growing fear of shortage of DAP. He urged Shah to immediately advise the officials of the fertilizers department for enhanced allocation of DAP stocks to Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-meets-amit-shah-seeks-25-capf-companies-anti-drone-gadgets-for-bsf-101628626405930.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Youths take out protest march in Karnal over constable exam paper leak||Agitated over the cancellation of the written exam for recruitment of male constables in Haryana Police following answer key leak, hundreds of aspirants took out a protest march in Karnal on Tuesday.The youths demanded a high-level probe and strict action against those involved in the racket. The protesters accused the government of earning money from youth by opening these vacancies time and again and the recruitments not being completed.They submitted a memorandum addressed to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in this regard.The aspirants said they were preparing for the exam for the past couple of months in vain as it was cancelled due to failure of the government and the HSSC.They alleged that the government is playing with the sentiments of the youths and such incidents were repeated on many occasions earlier this year where written exam for the posts of gram sachiv were cancelled following paper leak.Similar protest was held in Kaithal as well where the youths took out a protest march near the mini-secretariat. They demanded strict action against officials if found involved in the case. They also demanded that the government fix the syllabus for HSSC exams.One more accused heldThe Kaithal police have arrested one more person for his involvement in the constable exam paper leak.Superintendent of police Lokender Singh said the accused allegedly helped main accused Narender Singh, of Hisar, to get the answer keys.However, police did not disclose his identity. With this, the cops have arrested 14 people in the case so far including four candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youths-take-out-protest-march-in-karnal-constable-exam-paper-leak-101628626404789.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC restrains trial court from proceeding further in I-T cases against Amarinder, son||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday asked a Ludhiana trial court not to proceed further in income tax cases against Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh.The high court was hearing the income tax department’s plea that the trial court be restrained from passing the final order, pending the listing of three petitions on the issue before the bench. The IT department had told the bench that the trial court is likely to pass the final order in view of a revisional court quashing the summoning order against the two. Both are aware of the proceedings in the high court but have not appeared as notice could not be served on them since 2019, when the HC took cognisance of the matter. After February 2020, the matter could not be taken up due to the pandemic. On July 22, the I-T department had moved the HC demanding the hearing in its 2019 plea be advanced.“This court is of the opinion that the CJM should not pass any further orders on the complaint,” the bench of Justice GS Sandhawalia observed, posting the matter for November 18 and also asking that both be served the notices for adjourned date. The I-T department had moved the high court in 2019 against the November 2018 order of the court of additional sessions judge, Ludhiana, quashing the summoning order passed against Amarinder and Raninder in these cases. A trial court had earlier issued summons to both to appear in person in three cases of alleged tax evasion and amassing wealth in other countries.Both are facing allegations of furnishing false statements and willful omission in providing required information to the I-T department that had filed criminal complaints against them in a Ludhiana court in 2016.As per the department, the two were beneficiaries of foreign assets maintained and controlled through various business entities and also of foreign bank accounts with a Geneva-based bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-restrains-trial-court-from-proceeding-further-in-i-t-cases-against-amarinder-son-101628626403781.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||8 new molecular labs to be operational in Haryana soon, will boost Covid testing||In apprehension of the third wave of Covid-19, eight new molecular labs will be made operational in Haryana in the next couple of months.As per officials of the district health department, with setting up of these labs, the number of government labs will increase to 19 and per day testing capacity will increase to 1.02 lakh.The new labs are being set up in Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jhajjar, Fatehabad, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal, Hisar and Mahendergarh.As per the latest status report shared by the state health department, renovation work for three labs in Mahendergarh, Fatehabad and Kaithal has been completed and the machines will reach soon.Funds for remaining labs have been allocated and tenders for renovation work for Hisar, Charkhi Dadri and Kurukshetra has been completed. Renovation will be completed in next one month.The tender for renovation of existing lab at civil hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh could not be floated yet. Officials said it will take around two months to make the lab operational.As per officials monitoring these labs, total expenditure including machines will be around ₹1.50 crore and these labs will be equipped with RT-PCR machines for Covid testing.Dr Rajender Kumar, in-charge of RT-PCR lab in Kaithal said the molecular lab has been set up at the newly-constructed building in Kalayat and all required machines including RT-PCR machine, RNA extraction machine, two deep refrigerators and four safety cabinet for this lab reached Kaithal on Tuesday.A virtual meeting to review preparedness by districts in apprehension of third Covid wave was held on August 6, under additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Rajeev Arora.Directions were issued to civil surgeons and deputy commissioners concerned for timely completion of setting up of these labs.A committee of Ambala district molecular lab microbiologist Dr Seema, and Panchkula district molecular lab microbiologist Dr Neeraj was set up to provide technical support and other inputs required to establish these labs expeditiously.The district authorities where these labs are being set up have also written to the National Health Mission for appointment of the required staff.There will be requirement of one microbiologist, 10 lab technicians, four computer operators and two Class-4 employees to make the lab fully-operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8-new-molecular-labs-to-be-operational-in-haryana-soon-will-boost-covid-testing-101628626043708.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Manish Sisodia calls for thorough probe into oxygen deaths||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said a thorough probe was needed into deaths related to oxygen shortage during the last Covid-19 wave in the Capital, and asserted that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government will soon share the details in this regard with the Centre.“We faced a major oxygen crisis during the last wave of Covid-19. As a government, we are taking all steps to ensure that it doesn’t happen again in case of potential future waves. But we appeal to the central government to take the issue seriously. I have come across news reports today which said that the central government has claimed to have sought response on oxygen deaths from 13 states so far of which only one has accepted deaths caused by oxygen shortage. We have also learnt that states were given time till August 13 to respond to the Centre’s queries on the issue. However, we (Delhi government) have received no letter from the central government with any query on oxygen deaths,” said Sisodia in a video press briefing on Tuesday.At its peak, Delhi recorded around 28,300 cases in a day, and a positivity rate exceeding 36% on April 20 and 22 respectively. Around that time, at least 31 Covid patients allegedly died due to oxygen shortage in two hospitals. Several deaths linked to oxygen shortage were reported from other states, too. However, a political blame game ensued between the Centre and the Opposition when the Union government on July 20 told Parliament that no state identified oxygen shortage as the cause of deaths caused by the second wave of the pandemic.Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said last month that the data was based on reports from states and UTs. During a discussion in the Rajya Sabha last month, he said that state governments were asked to report all such deaths.Sisodia said, “We accept that the oxygen crisis happened during the last wave of the pandemic. And, without any probe it is difficult to say if that has caused deaths. I am going deeper into whether it has or has not. I am stressing on the importance of thorough investigation into cases of deaths that can be related to oxygen shortage.”On May 4, the Delhi government told the Delhi high court that an expert committee could not ascertain whether 21 deaths at Jaipur Golden Hospital in north Delhi’s Rohini happened because of oxygen shortage. The leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) later cited this submission to accuse the AAP of hypocrisy on oxygen-related deaths.The AAP government in Delhi criticised the central government, saying it did not let the city government probe such matters by setting up a larger expert committee. Health minister Satyendar Jain pointed out that the submission in court on deaths in Jaipur Golden hospital was based on “preliminary” findings and the matter needed more investigation.In a status report before a local court, the Delhi Police on August 3 said that the deaths at Jaipur Golden Hospital were not caused by lack of oxygen. However, families of the people who lost their lives termed it a “whitewash” by the authorities and demanded a fair probe into the deaths.“The death summaries mention respiratory failure or cardiac arrest. It’s written in a technical language. We are demanding a proper investigation,” said Erick Massey whose mother Delphin Massey was among those who died at the Rohini hospital.The family members have alleged that the hospital management should be punished, but police, with mala fide intention, have neither arrested nor set up an inquiry against the hospital.Sisodia on Tuesday said all states should be given enough time to “investigate” such matters. “Without that, how can they draw conclusions. Though we have not been asked yet, we have decided to share such details with the Centre very soon. And I appeal that it should be made public along with details of other states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-manish-sisodia-calls-for-thorough-probe-into-oxygen-deaths-101628623958159.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||18-point agenda, Sidhu figure in Captain-Sonia meet||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday informed Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi about the progress made on the 18-point to-do list and continuous criticism of the state government by newly appointed state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu ahead of next year’s assembly polls. Amarinder, who was given the 18-point agenda by the party high command for implementation, was meeting the Congress chief for the first time since his trenchant critic’s appointment as the state unit president a little over a fortnight ago. After the meeting, All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat said he (Amarinder) informed the Congress president about the action initiated by the state government on the agenda and the progress achieved. Rawat said she advised that the state government and the party organisation have to work together. “The Congress president also asked me to ensure that both (Amarinder and Sidhu) work within their respective limits, but cooperate with each other,” he told journalists on continued factionalism in the state unit. The chief minister updated Sonia on the steps to cancel the controversial power purchase agreements (PPAs), progress made in sacrilege and police firing cases and action taken against drugs, persons familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Amarinder termed the meeting as extremely satisfying. “Met @INCIndia president #SoniaGandhi ji in Delhi this evening to discuss various state related issues. Spent an extremely satisfying one hour with her,” the chief minister said in a tweet posted by his media adviser after the meeting. The meeting was closely watched in the state Congress which has been gripped by a sense of disquiet due to the ongoing battle of wits between the rival camps. Sidhu was elevated as part of the high command-brokered formula to put up a united face, but the plan has not worked so far. The new Punjab Congress chief and other detractors, who had rallied behind him, have continued to take digs at the government, questioning it on the 18-point agenda to try and corner the chief minister. Sidhu and cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had raised questions over the government’s handling of drug cases and action against gangsters, respectively. Though the meeting came amid talk of a possible cabinet reshuffle, Rawat said there was no discussion on it. “The chief minister did stress the need for balance as there is no Valmiki minister,” he said.Earlier, poll strategist Prashant Kishor called on Amarinder after he reached Delhi for his meeting with the Congress president. Kishor had resigned as the chief minister’s principal adviser last week, stating that he was a “temporary break” from active role in public life. Amarinder wanted Kishor, who had worked with him in 2017, to manage the party’s campaign again. Political circles in Delhi have been abuzz with talk of his induction into the Congress with a senior leadership role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18point-agenda-sidhu-figure-in-captain-sonia-meet-101628625744060.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali shamlat land scam: ED raids 14 properties of revenue officials, property dealers||The enforcement directorate (ED raided 14 properties belonging to Punjab revenue officials and property dealers in Chandigarh, Mohali, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana in connection with the Mohali shamlat land scam. The sleuths of the central agency seized some documents during search of the premises, it is learnt. In November 2020, Punjab vigilance bureau (VB) had booked 11 people, including then naib tehsildar Varinderpal Singh Dhoot, then kanungo Rughubir Singh, patwari Iqbal Singh, namabrdar Gurnam Singh and property dealer Sham Lal and others, for allegedly usurping a village common land Seonk village of Majri block in Mohali district. Prime accused Dhoot and Sham Lal were also arrested in November last year. The case dates back to 2017 when Dhoot was posted as the naib tehsildar in Majri. He allegedly sold off 99 acres of shamlat land in Seonk village in connivance with his junior revenue officials and private individuals fraudulently, leading to losses to the government exchequer in crores of rupees. According to the FIR, the accused prepared forged land documents and got the village common land registered in the name of people known to them in lieu of hefty amount of money. Later, the land was sold in plots at high rates. On Tuesday, ED searched Dhoot’s properties in Hoshiarpur and Chandigarh, besides those belonging to other accused in Mohali and Ludhiana. The ED had registered Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) against the accused revenue officials and private persons under the Prevention to Money Laundering Act (PMLA) at its Jalandhar office in March this year. A vigilance bureau official on condition of anonymity said Dhoot was close to a Hoshiarpur-based influential Congress politician and the two once shared a house in Sector 8, Chandigarh. In May this year, Punjab vigilance bureau again booked Dhoot and property dealer Sham Lal, along with other nine accused, for the manipulation of revenue records during the process of division and mutation of Majrian village in Majri tehsil of Mohali district. He allegedly transferred ownership of ‘khewat’ number to known beneficiaries to make huge profits illegally through power of attorney. DA inquiry against Dhoot still on Punjab vigilance bureau is yet to complete its reinvestigation launched in February this year into the allegations of disproportionate assets against Dhoot. The directions for reinvestigation came after new facts emerged in the corruption case against him. In November last year, HT had reported that Dhoot faced another case of disproportionate assets which was pending with the vigilance headquarters, after the Jalandhar VB “watered down” the investigation and recommended departmental action. The agency had detected several monetary transactions among builders, developers and Dhoot, besides investments in two prime marriage palaces in Hoshiarpur district. The vigilance is also probing the source of funds for Dhoot’s house in Sector 8, Chandigarh. When contacted, vigilance bureau officer Daljinder Singh Dhillon confirmed that the inquiry was not yet complete as the information is being verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-shamlat-land-scam-ed-raids-14-properties-of-revenue-officials-property-dealers-101628625683681.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sonepat shocker: Minor sisters poisoned to death after gangrape||Two minor sisters aged 14 and 16, hailing from Bihar, were allegedly gangraped and poisoned by four men in Sonepat’s Kundli area, said police.Police on Tuesday arrested four accused who have been identified as Arun, Phool Chand, Ram Suhag, and Dukhan Pandit, all hailing from Bihar.The victims and the accused were neighbours, police said.The incident came to light on Tuesday when the Rai police received postmortem reports of both the minor girls from a Delhi hospital which confirmed that they were gangraped and some pesticides were used to poison them.A day earlier, the victims’ mother, who is a widow, had told the police that her daughters, who were undergoing treatment at a Delhi hospital, had died.She told the police that a snake had attacked her daughters when they were sleeping at their rented home in Sonepat’s Kundli area on August 5.But after police received the postmortem reports, she confessed that the girls were gangraped and the accused had poisoned them using pesticides on August 5 night.Kundli police station SHO Ravi Kumar said they had conducted postmortem examinations of both the minor girls as their mother seemed reluctant to reveal all details of the case.“After we received the postmortem reports which stated that the girls were given pesticides before being gangraped, we contacted their mother. The victims’ mother said she had four children - two sons and two daughters,” the SHO said.“On the night of August 5, the four accused, who are labourers, barged into her rented room. They gangraped the girls and gave them pesticides. When the mother raised an alarm, they threatened of killing both her minor sons as well,” the cop said.“The woman rushed both her daughters to a hospital in Delhi, where they died. The accused threatened the woman to state snakebite as the reason behind her daughters’ death,” the SHO added.He said they have arrested all four accused under Sections 302 (murder), 376-D (gang rape), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 4, 6 and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.“We will produce the accused before a local court on Wednesday and seek their remand to investigate the case from all angles,” the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonepat-shocker-minor-sisters-poisoned-to-death-after-gangrape-101628625623815.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||HP assembly: Forest clearance given to 600 projects, says CM||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said that his government has taken up with the Centre the matter of granting clearance under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA) on the lines of other states. He said that at present, such cases from Himachal are approved by the Supreme Court and about 600 of them have got the nod in the recent days. He was replying to a question asked by Congress MLA Jagat Singh Negi.The chief minister said the DPRs of six roads in Kinnaur are ready but these works could not start due to pending clearance. He said that he has also spoken to the Prime Minister and Union home minister in this regard. Thakur said that such cases were not being listed in the SC due to the pandemic. He said government was making efforts to get clearance for other cases as well. The CM said the government has sought forest clearance for Himachal on the lines of other states. Replying to another question raised by Congress member Sunder Singh Thakur, he said ‘Nai Raahein Nai Manzilein’ scheme launched by the government aimed at developing new tourist places. He said under the scheme, a helipad is being constructed at the south portal of Atal Tunnel. Thakur said Chanshal valley is being developed from skiing point of view and Janjehli is being developed as a new destination, while Shiv Dham is coming up at Mandi, known as Chhoti Kashi. He said Bir Billing is being developed as an adventure sports hub and work is also underway to develop a water sports centre at Pong Dam. Cooperation and urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said that the role of KCC Bank in the irregularities revealed in Talai Village cooperative society will be investigated. He said that in order to prevent such discrepancies in future, the government has made necessary changes in the Act, under which now only members of the committees will be able to deposit the amount. He was replying to a question asked by MLA Jeet Ram Katwal.Minister Bhardwaj said that according to the amended Act, it will now be mandatory for the cooperative society to get audit done within six months. He said that a panel of BCom, MCom and chartered accountants has been prepared for conducting the audit. He said in 2017-18, a case of embezzlement of ₹32.71 crore had come to the fore in the cooperative society. He said irregularities of ₹36.90 crore came to light till March 31, 2019. “ ₹17.7 crore has been returned to those who deposited the amount and the properties of the accused in this case have also been seized,” he added. Govt considering constituting Swarn Aayog: CM Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said that the state government was mulling constituting a Swarn Aayog (commission for upper caste) on the demand of people. Congress MLA Vikramaditya Singh raised a point of order after the question hour. He said members of Kshatriya Mahasabha had met him regarding their demand. He said the government should think about it by rising above politics. Responding to the Congress legislator, Thakur said he (Singh) had invited the people of Kshatriya Mahasabha and raised the issue in the House. The CM said members of Kshatriya Mahasabha had also come to him. He said they used abusive language outside his residence. “Himachal Pradesh is a peaceful state. It is not proper to raise slogans against any caste,” he added. The CM said Swarn Aayog has been constituted in only two states of the country and the government is studying all aspects and will take a decision at the right time.He said the government is studying the commission formed by Madhya Pradesh government.Cong stages walkoutDissatisfied with the reply of Himachal health minister Rajiv Sezal over corona crisis, Congress legislators staged a walkout.They alleged that Sezal did not reply to the issues they raised during the discussion, which was initiated by Congress MLA Inderdutt Lakhanpal on Monday and 17 members had participated in it. Congress members alleged that the state government failed to tackle the second wave. CM Jai Ram Thakur, while intervening, castigated the Opposition over the walkout. Terming it irresponsible, he said the Opposition should have rather listened to the measures adopted by the government to fight the pandemic. He said no such situation arose in the state where a patient was without a bed. He said patients from other states also came to Himachal for treatment, while reiterating that there was no shortage of oxygen. Giving details of the measures taken by his government, Thakur said there were 800 ventilators in the state. He said that the Centre provided 500 ventilators to Himachal. The CM added that Himachal was the first state where vaccine wastage was zero percent. He said there was lack of leadership in the Opposition and its leaders were trying to grab the headlines. Jal Shakti minister Mahhender Singh also condemned the Congress’ walkout .Uproar in Vidhan Sabha over RSS remarks The Congress walked out of the House for the second time on Tuesday during a discussion on the welfare schemes being run for women, senior citizens, differently abled and weaker sections of the society. Tempers ran high after Congress member Jagat Singh Negi made remarks about the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Queen Victoria. Amid the din, CM Jai Ram strongly condemned the Opposition’s behaviour and termed it an insult to the democratic system. He said that the remarks made by the Congress legislator about the RSS should not be a part of the proceedings. He added that top leadership of the Congress has also respected the Sangh. Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said that it was wrong to comment on the RSS. He said what was not spoken on the topic is expunged from proceedings||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-assembly-forest-clearance-given-to-600-projects-says-cm-101628625578295.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Pakistan back to playing its ugly tricks: J&K DGP||J&K director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh on Tuesday said that “after a brief lull following renewed truce deal between the two DGMOs on February 25, infiltration into Jammu and Kashmir resumed” and added that “terror camps across the border were still intact.” He also said that 57 Kashmiri youths, who had gone to Pakistan on valid passport and visa, joined terror outfits there. “Out of them, 17 crossed the LoC and got killed in various encounters. Thirteen of them are still active and we are keeping an eye on them,” he told reporters at Rajouri. “Pakistan’s terror camps across the border being run by ISI and other sister agencies are still intact. There is no let up in their activities,” he said. In recent times there were three encounters in Rajouri sector — Daddal in Nowshera, Sunderbani and Pangai in Thannamandi. “All these were fresh groups, which had infiltrated recently,” he added. The DGP said that the four terrorists, who were eliminated in Bandipora on July 23 and 24, had infiltrated from Machail and Gurez sectors. The DGP also informed that a new and disturbing trend has come to the fore. “We have observed a trend that many youths in 2017-18 travelled to Pakistan. We have 57 such cases before us…they went to Pakistan on valid documents but joined terror activities there. Seventeen of them are still in Pakistan and we are keeping an eye on them as well,” he said. The DGP said this was the reason behind more strictness of late on granting student visa to those desirous of visiting Pakistan. “In Bandipora, where we killed four terrorists, we had a mix of two Pakistani and two local terrorists. So, they have now adopted this strategy of mixing two Pakistani terrorists and two locals,” he added. The DGP said that Pakistani agencies were at work and wanted to activate “old contacts” to spread terrorism in Jammu. “But their efforts have been foiled successfully so far and we will keep doing so. Pakistan raised a new Ghazwat Force to create communal disturbance in J&K, but we neutralised it,” he said. He admitted that there were some terror activities in Reasi, Kishtwar and Doda but the security forces were keeping an eye. He added that the attack on IAF station in Jammu on June 27 and dropping of weapons, IEDs, narcotics and cash by drones were all new modes of operation of Pakistan and accordingly, the security forces in J&K have strengthened their grids to tackle the new challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakistan-back-to-playing-its-ugly-tricks-j-k-dgp-101628625577170.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tokyo Olympics: Rousing welcome to women hockey players back home in Haryana||Amid beats of dhol, distribution of sweets and cheers, three players of the Indian women’s hockey team were given a rousing welcome on their arrival at their hometown Shahbad.Rani Rampal, Navneet Kaur and Navjot Kaurj reached Shahbad on Tuesday evening, where residents had made arrangements to welcome them. People showered them with flowers, and garlands of currency notes.“They could not win a medal but are still winners as they won our hearts with their performance by reaching the semi-finals,” said Rani Rampal’s father.Shahbad residents were elated as three girls of their town were part of the squad.“We are happy with their performance,” said Navjot’s father Satnam Singh.The players’ families said they have prepared food of their daughters’ choice to celebrate their return after a long gap.The women’s hockey team had reached the semi-finals and also lost a bronze medal match to Great Britain but their families said their struggle will inspire more young players to take the legacy forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tokyo-olympics-rousing-welcome-to-women-hockey-players-back-home-in-haryana-101628625575602.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Concerns mount as Himachal’s positivity rate rises up to 1.9% in a week||As Himachal continues to witness a spike in the Covid cases, the state’s positivity rate also rose by 0.6% over past one week, showed the health department data.The state recorded positivity rate of 1.9% in the week from August 2 to August 8. In the week preceding that, the positivity rate was 0.3%. A spokesperson of the Himachal Pradesh National Health Mission said the state saw a 56% increase in the fresh infections last week compared to the week before that (July 26 to August 1).Last week, 88,887 samples were tested for Covid of which, 1,726 turned out positive. Himachal’s total case tally stands at 2,08,616. Mandi district, which is emerging as a hotspot, registered highest positivity rate of 7.6%. Last week, 276 cases were reported in Mandi while the positivity rate was 4.2%.Lahaul and Spiti is second on the list with a positivity rate of 3.5%. However, the number of tests (776) and positivity cases (27) is low as compared to other districts.The positivity rate was 3.3% in Chamba, where 394 samples were found positive. In terms of absolute number of cases, Chamba is on the second spot after Mandi. A total of 12,071 tests were conducted in the district. With 233 cases and 2.8% positivity rate Shimla is on the third spot, where 8,399 samples were tested. Kullu, where 4,044 tests were done, is the next on the list with positivity rate of 2.2%.Hamirpur and Kangra recorded positivity rate of 1.5%, while in remaining districts it was below 1%.Sirmaur logged lowest positivity rate of 0.2% with 15 people found infected out of 8,793 tested.Thirteen people died of the contagion during the week and the case fatality ratio was 0.7%. In the preceding week, seven people had died and the CFR was 0.6%.419 fresh cases reportedMeanwhile, Himachal recorded 419 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, while the death toll mounted to 3,521 after two more patients succumbed.Recoveries have reached 2,02,755 after 185 people recuperated. The active cases have gone up to 2,318. Chamba has highest 582 active cases, followed by 424 in Mandi, 328 in Kangra and 306 in Shimla.Meanwhile, Himachal recorded 419 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, while the death toll mounted to 3,521 after two more patients succumbed. Recoveries have reached 2,02,755 after 185 people recuperated. The active cases have gone up to 2,318. 113 test +ve in J&KJ&K on Tuesday recorded 113 fresh Covid infections and two deaths. The active cases reached 1,298, while recoveries mounted to 3,17,081. The overall cases in UT have reached 3,22,771 and the death toll is 4,392.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/concerns-mount-as-himachal-s-positivity-rate-rises-up-to-1-9-in-a-week-101628625565045.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farm stir: Toll suspension causing ₹4.8-cr daily loss to 24 BOT projects||The farmers’ stir in Punjab and Haryana against the Centre’s three agriculture laws has led to toll suspension in 24 road projects, causing an aggregate revenue loss of ₹4.80 crore per day, according to rating agency CARE Ratings. The projects — 13 build-operate-transfer (BOT) national highways and 11 BOT state highways — have suffered an estimated revenue loss of ₹1,060 crore till July 31 due to the ongoing agitation. The farmers, mostly from the two agrarian northern states, have been protesting against the three agriculture marketing laws, passed by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre, for the past more than eight months. They laid siege to toll plazas and have been allowing free passage to vehicles. Though their implementation has been stayed by the Supreme Court, the farmer unions have refused to budge till the three controversial laws are repealed. Barring a few toll plazas, toll collection on most state and national highways in the two states has remained suspended for the past several months. These BOT road projects are in addition to the highways managed and maintained by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) which has also suffered toll revenue loss. There are no signs of the agitation ending anytime soon as both the central government and the farmer unions have not had any talks in the past six months. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh said they would not allow toll plazas to operate till the time the Centre accepts their demands. “They (private companies) collect money from people who are now benefitting from free passage,” he said, dismissing the revenue loss claims. CARE Ratings, in a statement on Monday, said the disruption of toll collections for state projects since October 2020 accentuated with no fee collection at toll plazas since December. The NHAI, the nodal agency for development of national highway projects, had in July decided to compensate the private highway developers for their toll revenue loss, acknowledging the farmers’ stir as an “indirect political force majeure (FM) event”. ‘Projects may opt for termination’ It said that nine out of NHAI’s 13 build-operate-transfer projects in Punjab and Haryana were facing liquidity constraints even prior to the FM event due to significant underperformance in toll collection. It foresees these stressed BOT projects opting for termination of concession due to sustained force majeure. This is likely to comprise projects worth ₹4,800 crore opting for termination. In the rating agency’s view, project termination risk is perceived lower for 11 BOT projects of Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) with an aggregate cost of ₹740 crore. These road projects had relatively lower outstanding debt and were self-sustainable prior to the farmers’ stir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-stir-toll-suspension-causing-4-8-cr-daily-loss-to-24-bot-projects-101628625563763.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||OBC leaders meet Sidhu, seek better representation in govt||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday held a meeting with party MLAs and leaders belonging to other backward classes (OBCs) during which several of them sought better representation in the state government and ticket allocation in the assembly polls due early next year. The newly-appointed state chief met them as part of the meetings being held with party leaders before the long-awaited revamp of the organisational set-up of the state unit and to understand bottlenecks in the welfare of state’s OBCs. At the meeting, several party leaders, including MLAs, spoke about the lack of adequate representation in the state government and non-cooperation from district officials, besides raising issues relating to their areas. Moga MLA Harjot Kamal Singh said that several leaders pressed for representation in the government and various bodies in proportion to their population, adding that OBCs constitute 31% of the state’s population. Nawanshahr MLA Angad Saini said the issue of resentment among the backward classes over no representation in the state cabinet also came up. A party statement said that nine MLAs were among those who attended the two-hour-long deliberations held by the state unit president during which issues of reservation and labour welfare were also stressed upon. Punjab Congress working president Sangat Singh Gilzian was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/obc-leaders-meet-sidhu-seek-better-representation-in-govt-101628625267302.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine stock low, drive at limited centres in Mumbai||Amid shortage of stock, the vaccination drive will be held at limited public centres in the city on Wednesday. This is the third time within a week that Mumbai has faced a shortage of vaccine stock, due to which some public vaccine centres had to remain closed. In its statement on Tuesday night, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said, “Vaccination will be held at limited BMC and state vaccination centres tomorrow, between 9am and 5pm.” The BMC received 45,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses on Saturday night, facilitating the vaccination drive in the city on Monday. Following this, Mumbai has not received more vaccine doses. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “We have not received vaccine doses after Saturday. It is likely that we will receive some doses on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the centres which have stock available will continue the drive on Wednesday. Moreover, the BMC has doses of Covaxin, so some centres will administer there.”On Tuesday night, the BMC tweeted that 11 public vaccination centres will administer Covishield on Wednesday, and 13 public centres will administer Covaxin. On Tuesday, 43,003 beneficiaries were vaccinated, of which 12,973 received their second dose, and 30,030 received their first dose. So far, a total of 1,914,771 beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated in Mumbai and 5,741,716 got their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-stock-low-drive-at-limited-centres-in-mumbai-101628625203805.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid task force gives nod to reopen malls, eateries||The Maharashtra Covid task force, in its discussion with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, has given its go-ahead to reopen malls and extend the timings for eateries and restaurants. The task force is preparing a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the state to allow reopening of malls and extend timings of eateries and restaurants beyond the current deadline of 4pm. However, the final call will be taken by the CM. Ministers and senior officials said the chief minister could take a decision on further relaxation of curbs after Independence Day. They added that opening up all activities in one go will not be “prudent”, and therefore, the CM is moving cautiously. Thackeray on Sunday announced that those who have taken two doses of vaccines will be able to travel in suburban local trains from August 15. Maharashtra, meanwhile, added 5,609 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 6,363,442. It added 137 fatalities, pushing the toll to 134,201. The active case count in the state stood at 66,123. Mumbai added 239 fresh Covid-19 cases and five fatalities, taking its total to 737,954 and toll to 15,959, respectively. Active cases in Mumbai stood at 4,501. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 179,402 samples, and had a positivity rate of 3.12%. “The SOP to reopen malls and allow restaurants and eateries to operate till 10pm is being prepared. The task force opined that mall employees, workers in the shops have to be double vaccinated. A mechanism on who will be allowed inside malls is being worked out. The chief minister will take a call once the SOP is submitted,” the official said, requesting anonymity. Task force chief Dr Sanjay Oak refused to comment on the development. State minister and guardian minister of Mumbai city Aslam Shaikh said representatives from restaurants industry want timings increased till 10pm. “The government is still deliberating on their demands. The government must be given time to reopen everything. Things will be streamlined in a week... Restaurants will be allowed more time to operate at an appropriate time,” Shaikh said. The task force, according to another state official, has cautioned the state on reopening of religious places and pushing back reopening of secondary schools in urban areas till Diwali at least. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the CM will decide on further restrictions soon. “We must wait and watch for a few days...the CM will decide soon. Currently, restaurants are operating at 50% capacity. With regards to temples [places of worship], public functions, weddings etc, we think we must wait more. If we hastily open up things it can lead to more transmission,” Tope said. Mumbai and the cities and towns in Mumbai Metropolitan Region collectively added 707 new cases and reported 19 deaths. A chunk of infections on Tuesday were reported from Ahmednagar, Pune, Solapur, Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts. Collectively, the eight districts and urban (municipal corporation) areas added 4,326 fresh cases and 97 fatalities. These areas contributed 77.12% of the total cases and 70.8% of the fatalities reported on Tuesday. Sherry Bhatia, President, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), in a statement, said, “We would like to thank the State Task Force headed by Dr Sanjay Oak for recommending the easing of restrictions on restaurants. In our last week’s meeting, the Hon’ble Chief Minister had assured the industry that he would personally discuss the subject with the State COVID Task Force and arrive at a decision soon. This is a big relief for hotels and restaurants across Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-task-force-gives-nod-to-reopen-malls-eateries-101628625023779.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||2020 hooch deaths: Accused Ludhiana businessman gets bail for want of evidence||A court in Tarn Taran has granted bail to a Ludhiana-based businessman, one of the main accused in Punjab’s worst-ever hooch tragedy that claimed nearly 140 lives last year, as the special investigation team (SIT) could not find any substantial evidence against him in its probe that was completed a few months ago.Rajeev Joshi (51), owner of RC Joshi and Company, Ludhiana, was arrested by the police for allegedly supplying two drums of methyl alcohol to Ravinder Singh, alias Pinka of Moga, also an accused. The police had said the methyl alcohol was further used for preparing spurious illicit liquor. Two SITs were formed to investigate the case — one under the supervision of deputy inspector general (DIG Ferozepur range) Hardial Singh Mann, and the other headed by inspector general (IG Amritsar border range) SPS Parmar. The Mann-led SIT investigated the cases registered in Tarn Taran. Earlier, during the case hearing, Joshi’s counsel AK Vermani said his client was falsely implicated in the case. It was Joshi’s second bail application. Earlier, his first bail plea was rejected by court considering “seriousness” of the case. Dozens of people had also lost vision after consuming the spurious illicit liquor in Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Amritsar districts in July and August last year. Nearly 100 of the total deaths were reported in Tarn Taran district alone. A case under sections 302 (murder), 304 (death by negligence), 307 (attempt to murder), 328 (hurt by poison), 326 (grievous hurt), 272 (adulteration), 109 (abetment), 114 (abettor), 201 (disappearing evidence) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Excise Act was registered at the Tarn Taran police station initially. Joshi and some other persons were named in the case later on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2020-hooch-deaths-accused-ludhiana-businessman-gets-bail-for-want-of-evidence-101628624965009.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s first floating restaurant at Sirhind in deep waters||Once considered a landmark on the Amritsar-Delhi highway, Punjab’s first floating restaurant at Sirhind in Fatehgarh Sahib district is in a shambles with no proper approach road. Due to its uniqueness, the eight-room eatery in the middle of the Bhakra mainline canal hit the headlines in the 1970s and went on to become a place of attraction among commuters and tourists alike. Not only this, the restaurant run by the Punjab tourism department was once a stopover of buses running between India and Pakistan. But with the widening of the national highway and high twin-bridges on the canal, the restaurant lost its approach road and is no more visible from the main road. The idea of building the floating steel structure was conceived by architects Jeet Malhotra and Amar Rajinder Singh of the state department of architecture in 1971. Completed in 1972, the structure with a vaulted roof rests on a wooden deck which floats on five cylinders tied together. The deck served as an extension of an indoor seating area and is bridged to both canal banks. It was inaugurated by the then chief minister Zail Singh and remained his favourite stopover when he travelled on the highway. Also, many successive CMs would stop at the eatery.“Had there been little coordination between the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the Punjab government, this five-decade-old masterpiece would not have lost its charm. The helplessness of the state tourism department is evident because this complex has been shut completely,” said Surinder Bahga, an architect and former chairman of Indian Institute of Architects.Sanjay Bansal, an industrialist from Sirhind, said “Due to a lackadaisical approach of the authorities concerned, the tourist attraction has been left to decay. The state government should at least preserve such structure for their heritage value.” Public works department (PWD) superintending engineer Parvinderjit Singh said matter he will take it up the matter with the NHAI to ensure passage for this architectural marvel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-first-floating-restaurant-at-sirhind-in-deep-waters-101628624963988.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body starts door-to-door vaccination drive||Ten days after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) too has started door-to-door vaccination drive. The civic body has formed a team which will visit those who are bed-ridden once a week across the city and vaccinate them based on the registration. The civic body has published the link for registration to avail the facility on their social media pages and the official website.“We have started this special drive to vaccinate those who are bedridden due to long illnesses or any physical disability. A team of three, including a vaccinator, medical officer and data operator, will visit those who have registered and administer jabs across Thane city,” said TMC chief Dr Vipin Sharma. TMC has already started several special vaccination drives to reach out to the destitute, mental hospital residents and jail inmates. It also has four mobile vaccination vehicles that are stationed at different parts of the city to vaccinate as many as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-starts-door-to-door-vaccination-drive-101628624544799.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Only 18% in Mumbai Metropolitan Region are fully vaccinated||While the state government has announced to allow fully vaccinated people to travel in local trains from August 15, the percentage of people who have received both the doses stands at 3.1 million or around 18% of the 17 million targeted citizens in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) — a significant number of whom use the Mumbai suburban train service. The cities in MMR are governed by nine municipal corporations and nine municipal councils and account for around 24 million citizens. Of the total population, 17 million are aged above 18 are and are eligible for vaccination. Mumbai has vaccinated its 1.99 million citizens with both the doses against targeted population of 9 million, while in Thane, Raigad and Palghar the number stands at 766,501; 219,904 and 197,592, respectively. In cities like Thane, Mira Bhayander and Kalyan-Dombivli the percentage of fully vaccinated citizens are 11%, 15% and 16%, respectively. In smaller cities and rural parts, the number hovers between 6% and 9%. “Unlike Mumbai, we have vaccination centres at scattered locations and the number of private facilities is also less. We hope to get more doses this month,” said Dr Manish Renge, district health officer of Thane.Renge, added, “Until June, we had regular supply of vaccine doses — twice or sometimes thrice a week. However, nowadays we receive doses only once a week. After we distribute those doses, we have to suspend vaccination drives until we get more from the state. AS there is no fixed number of vaccine doses that we receive from the state, we are unable to plan in advance. We distribute the doses immediately to ensure everyone has access to it.”Barring Mumbai, other cities in MMR are lagging behind in fully vaccinating citizens. “The availability of vaccine doses is the major problem before the municipal corporations in MMR. The state should have provided more doses in the cities in MMR as the mobility is more in MMR because of the high rate of urbanisation and industrial activities. On the contrary, some rural districts have been given more doses, disproportionate to their vaccination rate,” said an official from state’s relief and rehabilitation department.An officer from the health department, however, said it was a strategic move to open up local trains in graded manner. “Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the daily footfall in locals was around 7 million, which has come down to 1.9 million currently. By allowing fully vaccinated people, 1.5 million more citizens will now be allowed from August 15 and it will be a manageable number of commuters. During the first wave, categories of commuters were added gradually to allow them to travel. But this time, we have linked permission with vaccination to make it simpler. On the other hand, it will also work as a trigger for people to rush to get vaccinated,” he said.“It is a wise decision as the number of commuters expected to travel will not be more than 1.8 million, as 40% of 3.4 million are either senior citizens or travel in their own cars. This will also help the government give a push to the vaccination drive as many people, who were still not coming forward for vaccination, will come now. At the same time, the government should ensure that commuters follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. The state and Central governments should ensure that the vaccines doses, at least in MMR, are increased by three times more,” said Dr Avinash Bhondve, Maharashtra president of Indian Medical Association.Thane district, which comprise of six municipal corporations and two municipal councils, has been facing a shortage of vaccines since almost a month, on many occasions the vaccination drive has been suspended due to the unavailability of vaccines. The total number of vaccines received from the state is divided across the district based on the population. According to district health department officials, every time they receive doses, they ensure equal distribution. For example, if the total population of the district is 1 crore and a particular corporation has 2 million citizens while another taluka has 5 lakh citizens, then 20% of the received doses is given to that corporation and 5% to the taluka.“We have the capacity to administer 21,000 doses per day, against which we get around 12,000 doses weekly. The doses we get from the state are equally distributed in rural and urban areas. There was an initial hesitancy to get the shot among tribals, but awareness drives have helped in increasing the percentage,” said Dayanand Suryawanshi, district health officer, Palghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-18-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-are-fully-vaccinated-101628624303660.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||FYJC CET cancelled: Maharashtra students now worried about higher cut-offs||While the Bombay high court’s quashing of the common entrance test (CET) for first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions ended months of anxiety, lakhs of students are now worried about the high cut-offs for Class 11 seats, as the admissions will now be conducted on the basis of Class 10 marks. Online registrations for FYJC admissions will commence from August 16. This year, Class 10 board exams across several school education boards had to be scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. Results for the Class 10 batch were instead based on students’ performance in Classes 9 and 10. This decision helped boost marks of students across school education boards. While the overall success rate of Secondary School Certificate (SSC) students was 99.5% this year, Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) students in Maharashtra and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) students from Pune region (which includes Mumbai) boasted of a 100% success rate. The high success rate meant a rise in the number of students scoring 90% and above. Many ICSE and CBSE schools witnessed 50% or more of their batches scoring 90% and above. Similarly, figures made public by the Maharashtra state board revealed that in SSC, 104,633 students received more than 90% marks and 957 (including 32 in Mumbai division alone) got 100% this year.“Every other student seems to have scored 90-95% in their boards, which will reflect in FYJC admissions merit lists. There is a good chance the first and second list across top colleges will end at 90% or above,” said Marie Fernandes, principal, of St Andrew’s College, Bandra.Considering no exam was held for Class 10, the government decided to conduct a CET, based only on the state board syllabus, in order to bring students from all boards on the same platform for FYJC admissions. While the exam was optional, the state minister for school education had clarified that in the first common merit list, priority will be given to those students who take the CET. Nearly 11 lakh students had already registered for the exam, which was scheduled to be conducted in physical mode on August 21. “When exams around the country have been called off considering the pandemic, the Maharashtra government’s decision to conduct an exam for 11 lakh students was wrong. We are beyond thrilled that the judiciary understood our plight,” said Tanisha Rai, an ICSE student. “The problem was also that it was to be based on state board syllabus. My daughter dropped science as a subject in Classes 9 and 10 and then suddenly, the government was expecting students like her to study such a subject in less than a month to appear for the CET,” said Adar Daruwala, parent of an ICSE student. “For a change, not just students from other boards, but even SSC students have scored very well this year. We were not sure if we would have the choice to skip the CET, especially after our results, because no one wanted to miss the chance to bag a seat in coveted colleges,” said Anusha Karwar, an SSC student from Balmohan Vidyamandir, Dadar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fyjc-cet-cancelled-maharashtra-students-now-worried-about-higher-cutoffs-101628624183489.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No anticipatory bail for Raj Kundra in another case filed by Maharashtra cyber police in Nov||In a setback for businessman Raj Kundra, the sessions court on Tuesday rejected his anticipatory bail application (ABA) in a case registered by Maharashtra cyber police in November last year for allegedly showing obscene content on some over-the-top (OTT) platforms. Kundra’s counsel Sunil Kumar Sharma and Vinayak Tare argued on Tuesday that as there was already a case registered against him for showing obscene content on his Hotshots app, he can’t be arrested for a similar offence again. The court, however, rejected his ABA. Public prosecutor Shankar Erande, who appeared for the Maharashtra cyber police, strongly objected to the ABA. Last year, the Maharashtra cyber police had booked the director or owners of various OTT platforms and websites for allegedly showing obscene content. The FIR was registered by a retired customs officer who had named several OTT platforms in his complaint. Actress Sherlyn Chopra had also recorded her statement in the matter. In a separate case relating to Kundra’s bail plea in a crime branch case, in which he is currently in judicial custody, the hearing will be held on August 20. The police on Tuesday submitted their application opposing Kundra’s bail on various grounds, including threatening complainants. The police said they had seized 72 hard disks, three SAN boxes and eight servers from Kundra’s office and found that till now Hotshots had showed around 51 obscene videos. The court is likely to hear the arguments on the next date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-no-anticipatory-bail-for-raj-kundra-in-another-case-filed-by-maharashtra-cyber-police-in-nov-101628624003674.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Canada extends ban on flights from India till September 21||Students flying to Canada for studies were disappointed as the Canadian government on Monday (Canada time) extended flight ban till September 21. The ban was earlier valid till August 21.Indians wishing to fly abroad have been facing hurdles with several European and Western countries imposing a ban on flights originating from India. During the second wave of Covid-19, the country saw a rapid spread of the virus, leading to several countries deciding on flight bans. Canada has extended its ban on direct passenger flights from India until September 21 amid the South Asian country’s enduring struggles to contain the spread of Covid-19 within its borders, Transport Canada said. “Based on the latest public health advice from the Public Health Agency of Canada, Transport Canada is extending the Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) that restricts all direct commercial and private passenger flights to Canada from India until September 21, 2021, at 23:59 EDT,” the department said in a statement. The ban was first imposed on April 22 and has already been rolled over several times. It is the fifth time the ban has been extended.Rahul Singh, a Kandivali resident whose son has to fly to Toronto to complete his final year in Bachelor of Computer Science from Rayson University, said, “My son came to India due to the pandemic. He has to go back for his final year. However, we are struggling to find a way out to send him back. With this extension of ban, things will be more difficult as we don’t have more options and travelling by Mexico is costing nothing less than ₹. 2.25 lakh. The government needs to help students and save their educational year.”Jay Bhatia, managing director of Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI), said the number of flights and seat capacity is limited due to the ban on commercial flight operation restrictions by the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA), hence prices are high. “Further this is due to the increase in demand and less supply,” said Bhatia.Travel fare for students heading to UK or US is not as high as Canada. For instance, Mumbai to London one-way economy fare for direct flight on Virgin Atlantic for August end is around ₹1.19 lakh. “If we buy a ticket for December third week and return, economy class airfare is ₹124,000. Mumbai to New York one-way economy fares on Virgin Atlantic for August is around ₹83,000, and return in December third week, return economy class fare is ₹88,000,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/canada-extends-ban-on-flights-from-india-till-september-21-101628623943576.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||After curbs ease, Mumbai locals see increase in commuters||Around 6 million passengers travelled by local trains last week after lockdown restrictions were eased. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) eased relaxations in the city on August 2, allowing essential and non-essential shops and establishments to remain open till 10pm while hotels and restaurants are allowed to remain open till 4pm. All indoor and outdoor sports activities apart from swimming have also been allowed. Following this, the suburban railway network has witnessed an increase in number of passengers. Nearly 3.4 million passengers travelled by trains on Central Railway (CR) and 2.6 million passengers on the Western Railway (WR) last week. Before relaxations, around 800,000 people travelled by local trains on CR and nearly 500,000 on WR every day. “We have witnessed an increase in the number of passengers throughout the week after relaxations were announced. People who are not authorised to commute have also been found travelling,” said a senior railway official. General public are presently not allowed to travel by local trains. Only people working in essential care and citizens travelling for medical purposes are permitted to commute. The railways have also witnessed an increase in the number of ticketless commuters. Between April and July, 304,000 passengers were fined for travelling without ticket and proper identification on CR and 234,000 passengers on WR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-curbs-ease-mumbai-locals-see-increase-in-commuters-101628623767798.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC: ‘Why have replies to petitions challenging IT rules not been filed?’||Expressing surprise at the Centre for not filing replies in any of the petitions filed across various courts in the country challenging the new IT Rules announced by the Ministry of Electronics and Information and Technology in February and implemented in May 2021, the Bombay high court has asked the Centre to file a reply as to why it should not pass interim orders on the petitions.The directions were prompted after the petitioners, which include a senior journalist and a digital news portal, submitted that they were living in fear of the rules and hence its operation should be stayed till the court passed its verdict in their petitions. The court has asked the Centre to file the affidavit by Friday. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the petition filed by senior journalist Nikhil Wagle and digital news portal The Leaflet was informed by senior advocate Darius Khambatta and advocate Abhay Nevagi that the new rules were draconian and gave unbridled access to the privacy of individuals which was against the rights granted to citizens by the Constitution. On Monday, additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union of India informed the bench that the Supreme Court would be hearing an application seeking transfer of the two petitions to the apex court hence the bench should not proceed. However on Tuesday, Singh informed the court that the SC had not taken up hearing of the application. The bench then referred to the prayer of the petitioners to grant interim stay on the operation of the Rules and sought to know from them as to what would be their stand if their prayer was granted. “If the Rules are held up in the final writ petition and the writ fails subsequently, you cannot use our stay as a shield. During the period of the stay, you must continue to engage in activities with a sword hanging over your head,” remarked the bench. When the court sought to know from the parties whether a workable solution on the issue was possible if the rules were stayed, the petitioners submitted that they would continue to function as they functioned prior to the introduction of the Rules and would be liable for action in the event of breaching the laws that were prevalent prior to the Rules. However, ASG Singh requested the court not to pass any interim orders as the Centre’s reply was almost ready and would be filed by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-why-have-replies-to-petitions-challenging-it-rules-not-been-filed-101628623765060.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||As schools reopen, Ludhiana police commissioner orders verification of staff||With educational institutes reopening for students after the drop in Covid-19 cases, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal has ordered schools and colleges to deposit a list of their staff to the police station concerned.Agrawal said for the safety of students, verification of school staff, including drivers and conductors of school buses, was important. Besides schools and colleges, factories and other establishments also need to deposit the record of gardeners, drivers, watchmen and other employees who live on the premises to the police station concerned.Ban on assembly of five or more peopleThe police commissioner on Tuesday extended the ban on assembly of five or more people under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) for two months. As part of the order, all protests, rallies and marches have been banned anywhere in the city except at the PUDA ground in Sector 39-A on Chandigarh Road. Even for this venue, a prior permission from police is mandatory.Security instructions for gold loan companies, banksThe commissioner has also ordered all gold loan companies, banks and other financial institutions to install night-vision CCTV cameras to cover the access road, all entry and exit points, reception desk and other vital points inside the branch with storage of up to 30 days and power backup. The DVR/NVR and UPS of these devices should be at inconspicuous locations to prevent damage by miscreants. The devices must be equipped with remote recording and storage of footage for any eventuality.Managements of such facilities also need to ensure functional burglar alarms, with access points near the seats of the branch manager, cashier and other officials of the branch. These alarms should be linked to the head offices, where an effective communication system should be in place to immediately alert the police control room (PCR).All branches should have a BSNL landline phone with an auto dialer. As soon as the alarm goes off, a teleprompter should automatically inform the PCR regarding the suspicious activity in the branch in a pre-recorded message. The alarm should be audible to neighbouring areas up to 100 metres to alert any police team and civilians in the vicinity.The security staff at such establishments must be hired only after police verification, and the name and phone numbers of all visitors must be recorded in a register.Proper records at spa, massage centres To deter illegal activities at spa and massage centres in the city, the police commissioner has asked their owners to maintain proper records, including a copy of photo identity cards of all customers.In the orders issued under Section 144 of the CrPC, Agrawal directed that all foreign staff at such centres must have a work visa.Besides CCTV cameras are mandatory at entry, exit and reception points, and the recordings must be stored for 30 days. Owners must ensure there is no secret entry or exit passage.Employees here also need to undergo police verification through the closest station.Centres storing liquor, drugs, hookah and other intoxicants for customers will be penalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-schools-reopen-ludhiana-police-commissioner-orders-verification-of-staff-101628623763747.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||WhatsApp hacker dupes Mumbai doctor of ₹1.50L||A 75-year-old doctor from Mulund is the latest victim of cyber fraudsters that operate through hacking WhatsApp. The fraudsters hacked the WhatsApp of the doctor’s friend in Bahrain and sent him message for urgent financial help due to a medical emergency.”On July 30 when I was checking patients at a Mulund hospital, I received a missed call on my phone from a friend, also a doctor who lives in Bahrain. When I tried calling back I couldn’t get through his phone number. Later I received WhatsApp message from his number, saying he was stuck in an important meeting and needed his help for a money transaction. He asked me to send ₹1.50 lakh to a person in India on his behalf for a medical emergency. My friend said that once his meeting was over he would send me the money. He also sent me the photo of the Indian patient in the operation theatre,” the complainant doctor stated in the FIR. The Mulund doctor responded to the message and immediately transferred the amount. Two hours later when he contacted his friend in Bahrain, he found that his friend never sent the WhatsApp messages to him. It turned out that the money was transferred to Meghalaya-based bank accounts and was withdrawn immediately. Police suspect that the cyber fraud groups that dupe people by WhatsApp hacking method are reactivating again. “Two-three years ago several such cases were reported to police. It seems, now they are back in action. These fraud groups generally target Indians having friends and relatives abroad,” a senior officer said.The Navghar police registered an FIR on Saturday. Cyber expert Ritesh Bhatia said a hacker starts WhatsApp on his/her device with the target person’s mobile number and then contacts the person posing as WhatsApp company representative informing the person there is an hacking attempt on his/her WhatsApp account. The hacker further says that in order to secure the account the user needs to share a code with them which has been sent by the server on the user’s number, using which the hacker gains control of the account. Another expert Vicky Shah said, “People must activate two step verification or two-factor authentication on not just on WhatsApp, but on all other social media accounts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/whatsapp-hacker-dupes-mumbai-doctor-of-rs-150l-101628623643649.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2 arrested with drugs worth ₹18 crore||Mumbai zonal officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) have arrested a 25-year-old Tanzanian national at Mumbai airport for allegedly smuggling cocaine by concealing the contraband in her body. A total 810 gram of Cocaine, stuffed in 66 capsules, worth ₹8 crore, has been seized. The accused, Kitewana Wardah Ramadhani, who travelled from Dar-e-Salam to Mumbai by an Ethiopian Airways flight, was apprehended based on an input. Doctors noticed some foreign objects in her stomach during her X-ray screening. In another case, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested a Mozambique national allegedly carrying 70 capsules containing cocaine worth ₹10 crore inside his abdomen. Fumo Emanuel Zedequias was held at the city airport on August 8. During interrogation, he conceded that he was carrying drugs in his abdomen. He later started feeling uncomfortable and requested medical help. “He was taken to JJ Hospital where under the care of a doctors he has discharged a total of 70 capsules containing 1.029 kg cocaine. He is still under medical observation, said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-2-arrested-with-drugs-worth-18-crore-101628623463581.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra drops ‘inactive member’ clause for housing society polls||The Maharashtra government has dropped the provision of “inactive member” who were barred from casting votes and contesting housing society elections. This was in reference to the amendment carried out in 2018 where the government mandated that any member who has not attended five consecutive general body (GB) meetings be declared “inactive member”. Recently, the Maharashtra law and Judiciary department has carried out amendment in section 26 of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, 1960. It said that “in respect of the elections of societies to be conducted on or before 31st March 2022, all the members of the society shall be eligible for voting unless otherwise ineligible for voting”. This new order has been welcomed by housing activists on the grounds that attending GB meetings is voluntary and should not become a yardstick of members being declared inactive. “If citizens are allowed to contest as well as cast votes in our parliamentary democracy irrespective of their record of public service or their history of taking part in voting, then why is there discrimination with housing society members,” asked advocate Vinod Sampat, who deals in real estate cases. Similar is the contention of Ramesh Prabhu, chairman of Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association (MSWA) who said, “Societies are taking the same maintenance amount from all members irrespective of their participation in GB meetings. Then all should be allowed to exercise their franchise in the society elections.” Housing activists said since all members contribute to the maintenance of the building, it was unfair to debar them. Housing society elections across the state have not been held since the past two years owing to new rules being framed and the Covid-19 pandemic. The government has now given extension to the current managing committee to continue till August 31. Housing societies, too, welcomed scrapping of the clause. “Many members tend to avoid attending GB meetings as there are fights, and they do not want to take part in such untoward incidents. However, depriving them of voting or taking part in elections was a wrong step which has now been rectified by the government,” said Dhaval Shah, chairman of Lokhandwala-Oshiwara Citizens’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-drops-inactive-member-clause-for-housing-society-polls-101628623403527.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai schools prepare for reopening after relaxation of curbs||With a week to go for city schools to reopen for middle and senior students, school managements are prepping campuses even as parents’ associations seem unwilling to send their children back to school in the midst of a pandemic. The state on Tuesday issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) which stipulated that schools are not allowed to seat more than 20 students in a classroom, one student per bench, with at least six feet distance between benches, among other things. The state empowered civic bodies to take a decision on the reopening of physical classes based on the existing Covid-19 pandemic situation in their city. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad last week announced that physical classes for Standard 8 to 12 in cities and Standard 5 to 8 in rural areas will resume on August 17. Across Mumbai and Thane, schools are putting protocols in place to ensure that if students return, proper Covid-19 behaviour is adhered to. While some schools are keen on distributing the students across classrooms and webcast a class, others want to stagger attendance and use a hybrid model of teaching. Others have begun to sanitise the campus and install mask disposal bins as well as temperature checks at entry points. Still others are mulling over assigning one desk to each child for the rest of the semester. “In international boards, classes 10, 11 and 12 are board exams and already these students have suffered because of missing school and practical classes for one academic year. Our schools have not more than 25-30 students per class plus we have the infrastructure to ensure students follow social distancing protocols while in school,” said Kavita Aggarwal, chairperson of Mumbai International Schools’ Association (MISA) and director of D G Khaitan School, Malad. The headmistress of a school which follows the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that the school would divide the students into separate classrooms. “We’ll use smart classrooms to ensure that whatever is being taught by a teacher in one classroom will be transmitted to the other classrooms as well at the same time. Live interaction will also be made possible to clear doubts from students, if any,” she said. “A robust health check mechanism for all staff and students has been put in place wherein all those entering the school premise will be thoroughly checked. Temperature will be screened and periodical self-health declaration before resumption and regularly thereafter will be done. We will re-open our schools in accordance with the regulations laid down by the state government,” said Jyotsna Mayadas Principal, Euro School in Thane. “Common areas in the school premises will have a distance marker or floor markings to ensure social distancing is maintained among students and staff at all times. Floor marking provisions have been made in the corridors and elevators as well. Moreover, mask disposal provisions have been made across the school premises with adequate posters and banners to reinforce safety procedures and policies,” she added. “We plan to divide the class in half with 50% attendance online and the rest in school; the concept of blended learning is in the pipeline so that none of the students miss out on classroom education. We plan to have only one child on each bench and mention their name on it as well making it a permanent seat; although sanitation will be carried out regularly,” said Ranjna Jangra, principal of B K Birla School, Kalyan. Not all schools, however, have the capacity to do so. State board schools, which have more students per class, face a shortage of teachers to implement such plans. “With online classes, 100-150 students can attend the class together and a teacher can pay attention to everyone but once physical classes begin with the social distancing norms in mind, we can’t have more than 25-30 students in one classroom. This means a teacher will have to go from one class to another to teach the same subject to students of the same batch,” said the principal of a state board school, who chose to remain anonymous. Meanwhile, parents’ groups are not keen to resume physical classes, especially in cities where Covid-19 numbers are still being recorded. Arundhati Chavan, president of Parent-Teachers Association United Forum said that the government should try pilot batches to understand the challenges posed by physical classes to schools and students. “Who will be responsible if one or more student contracts the virus?” she asked. Most schools HT spoke to said that they would take the cue from parents despite the presence of SOPs. Meanwhile, students are concerned that the change will come at the cost of a disturbance to their schedules. Spruha Londhe, 14, student of Delhi Public School, Nerul, said, “This is a very crucial academic year for me as I am in class 10; for the previous batch it was marks from the entire academic year that led to their final scores. So we have to ensure consistent performance throughout the year. If we have to shift between online and offline classes it will be difficult to adjust and maintain consistency in academics.” The headmistress of a Santacruz-based school which follows the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that the school would divide the students into separate classrooms. In November last year, the school education department had released a similar circular announcing re-opening of schools for classes 9 to 12 in a phased manner. By January 2021, another circular was released directing students from classes 5 to 8 be brought back to school in groups and maintain Covid appropriate behaviour on campus. Both these circulars, however, were revoked once Covid cases started rising again and the state government called for another complete lockdown starting mid-April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-schools-prepare-for-reopening-after-relaxation-of-curbs-101628623223573.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Man stabs friend after being teased over height in Bhiwandi||A man was stabbed to death by his friend in Shanti Nagar, Bhiwandi, on Monday after he teased the accused over his height.The victim, Mohammed Azgar, 20, was waiting near Nuri Nagar area when the accused, Samir Shaikh, 21, was passing through the same lane. Azgar allegedly teased Shaikh for being too tall. Shaikh then took out a knife and stabbed Azgar. He tried to escape after killing Azgar, but a few passers-by who saw the incident nabbed him, assaulted him. They informed the police and handed the accused over to the them.An officer from Shanti Nagar police station said, “Azgar had, in the past, teased Shaikh several times. Similarly, on Monday, he taunted Shaikh about his tall frame. This enraged Shaikh. He then took out a knife that he was carrying and stabbed Azgar to death. Shaikh’s two friends tried to help him flee from the spot but passers-by, who witnessed the incident, intervened and caught him. We are searching for the other two accused. Meanwhile, the accused who suffered severe injuries has been admitted to Sion hospital in Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-stabs-friend-after-being-teased-over-height-in-bhiwandi-101628622803573.html
11-08-2021||Lucknow||Flood scene grim in UP, relief work on war footing needed: Akhilesh||Attacking the UP government over the floods in the state, Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday claimed that the situation was grim and that the government and the administration must carry out relief work on a war footing.“Till now, the chief minister is only doing aerial surveys of flood-affected areas and no relief was reaching at the ground level. Floods have wreaked havoc in Purvanchal and Bundelkhand regions of the state. Hundreds of villages are marooned, thousands of hectares of agricultural land is inundated. Cattle have fodder problems. Waterlogged villages are not getting any government help. Etawah, Jalaun, Auraiya, Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Hamirpur, Varanasi, Lakhimpur Kheri and a dozen more districts are flood-affected,” a statement issued by the Samajwadi Party quoted him as saying.Akhilesh also alleged that the UP government had failed to take any concrete steps and make strategy in the last four years to tackle floods. Before rain, all the money allocated for repair of bunds and relief work was lost to corruption, he further alleged.The former CM also asked his party cadre to work hard to provide relief to flood-affected people. “BJP government only talks about good days but when it comes to helping people in times of crisis, it vanishes”, Akhilesh alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/flood-scene-grim-in-up-relief-work-on-war-footing-needed-akhilesh-101628622684441.html
11-08-2021||Lucknow||Special drive on Saturdays for those waiting for second Covid vaccine dose||The state health and family welfare department has decided to organise a special vaccination drive on every Saturday (starting August 14) for those beneficiaries who are waiting for their second jab of Covid-19 vaccine.Giving this information, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said, “The state government is committed to giving thrust to the Covid vaccination drive across the state. It has been observed that a large number of people who have taken the first jab could not get the second as they lack time due to work. Some of them are unable to book the slot on CoWIN app for vaccination. The state government has decided to reserve Saturdays for the second dose.”“Those who are waiting for the second dose can avail the services to get themselves fully vaccinated. On Saturdays, two-hours from 9 am to 11 am will be reserved for the people who have booked their slots for vaccination and after 11 am people can walk in at the vaccination centres to get the second jab even without booking the slot,” he said.From Monday to Friday, Covid vaccination will be for both the first and second doses. The state government is working to get maximum vaccines from the Centre to give momentum to the vaccination drive,” Prasad added.“The state government has also decided to vaccinate teaching staff, non- teaching staff and personnel involved in transportation of the school staff and students on priority. The workplace vaccination centres will be set up in the offices of basic shiksha adhikaris (BSAs) and district inspectors of schools (DIoSes) for the inoculation of teaching and non-teaching staff,” he said.“The state government has already issued an order for the vaccination of foreigners staying in UP on a priority basis, while focused vaccination drive will be launched for the homeless and beggars soon,” Prasad added.63 dists report zero fresh cases, UP logs 25 new casesTwenty fresh Covid cases and one death were reported in Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours, according to the official data on Tuesday.“There are a total 545 active Covid cases in the state. No fresh cases were reported in 63 districts while there were no active cases in nine districts,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad.Four cases each were reported from Prayagraj and Maharajganj, while two cases each came to fore from Varanasi and Gautam Buddh Nagar districts. One Covid death was reported in Prayagraj, he added. Prasad further said the recovery rate in Uttar Pradesh was 98.6% while daily positivity rate was 0.01%.“Meanwhile, 2,06,178 Covid samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours taking the total number of samples tested so far to 6.78 crore. On Monday, 8.76 lakh doses were administered taking the total doses administered so far to 5.44 crore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/special-drive-on-saturdays-for-those-waiting-for-second-covid-vaccine-dose-101628622507739.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana councillor’s husband in soup for manhandling cops||The husband of Congress councillor Kitty Uppal was arrested on Tuesday for assaulting two police personnel in Jamalpur.In his complaint, ASI Baldev Singh stated that he and ASI Ram Krishan were on PCR patrolling duty in Jamalpur on Sunday night. They took a break and were having ice-cream outside a shop when Deepak Uppal, husband of Kitty Uppal, councillor from ward number 21, arrived there in a Maruti Suzuki Swift with some more men. By repeatedly honking, Deepak asked the cops to move their PCR vehicle and also misbehaved with them. When ASI Krishan tried to film the incident on his mobile phone, Deepak snatched his mobile and threw it away. He also manhandled ASI Singh when he intervened.ASI Mewa Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had arrested Deepak and a hunt was on for his accomplices.They are facing a case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant from discharge of public function), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-councillor-s-husband-in-soup-for-manhandling-cops-101628622383442.html
11-08-2021||Other||Male teachers decry posting of women counterparts in Government Inter Colleges in Prayagraj||: Recent transfer of women teachers in Boys’ Government Intermediate Colleges (GICs) across the state has not gone down well with their male counterparts. A large section of male teachers is objecting to these transfers, claiming the transfers are against government norms. Uttar Pradesh (UP) has 1,108 Government Intermediate Colleges (GICs) and 1,186 Government Girls Intermediate Colleges (GGICs). Recruitment of assistant teachers and lecturers for these institutions are done by the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC). The male teachers said on July 13, eighteen women teachers were transferred to GIC–Prayagraj and this meant that there were 39 women teachers against 61 male teachers in the college. “These transfers are in violation of the set norms. There is no provision of having male teachers in GGICs and women teachers in GIC (Boys). However, the GIC-Prayagraj which is located in the heart of the city is a much-preferred choice of all and many women teachers have got posted there in violation of the guidelines,” claimed Rajnath Yadav, a senior male teacher at the college. “There were separate cadres of teachers for government boys’ and girls’ schools in the state. Appointments as well as seniority determination and promotion of the male and women teachers were done separately, the male teachers claimed. “Strangely, these women teachers have been posted here while applications of male teachers also vying for a transfer were overlooked. Five of the 18 women teachers transferred at GIC-Prayagraj have not even joined duty yet,” said Ramphal Bharti, another teacher of GIC-Prayagraj. “These transfers are in gross violation of set government guidelines. Our recruitment, cadre, transfers and seniority are all separate from the women teachers and even in the education directorate, different sections handle our affairs. Right at the time of recruitment, the advertisements clearly indicate the count of posts available in men’s and women’s branch of the colleges and while applying online, an applicant is required to choose the cadre according to their gender,” said Rameshwar Pandey, the state general secretary of Rajkiya Shikshak Sangh (Pandey faction).He said that at GIC-Prayagraj, the first female teacher was transferred in 2012 and since then this practice is continuing.“This year we are getting reports of women teachers being posted in GICs at most of the district headquarters including Lucknow, Bareilly, Meerut, Agra and Etawah. If this continues, all the posts of male teachers would get filled up by women teachers,” he maintained. Male teachers point out that the transfer of women teachers at GIC-Prayagraj is happening despite number of vacancies in many girls’ colleges.However, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma who is also the state’s secondary education minister had a different take on the issue.“Transferring women teachers in government intermediate colleges (GICs) is in practice for the past two years now. There were some vacancies in these schools and so we decided to post excess women teachers in those institutions where there was shortage of teachers,” he said.“Now, some GICs have also been opened to girl students and so we want women teachers there also. We wish to assure that no one would be affected through this move,” he added. BOXMale/Female teaching posts at GICs/GGICs in UP As per the UP Education Directorate records, there are a total of 9,028 posts of male assistant teachers (for teaching classes 6 to 10) and 4,356 posts of male lecturers (for teaching classes 11 and 12) at GICs. Out of the 4,356 posts of lecturers, 2,190 are filled by promotion of eligible assistant teachers while the remaining 2,066 are filled through recruitments. Similarly, there are a total of 9,366 post of female assistant teachers (for teaching classes 6 to 10) and 4,272 posts of female lecturers (for teaching classes 11 and 12) at GGICs. Out of the 4,272 posts of lecturers, around 50% are filled by promotion of eligible assistant teachers while the remaining 50% are filled through recruitments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/male-teachers-decry-posting-of-women-counterparts-in-government-inter-colleges-in-prayagraj-101628621783536.html
11-08-2021||Other||Ex-serviceman, wife killed in mishap on Amritsar-Pathankot highway||An ex-serviceman and his wife were killed after their car had a head-on collision with a school bus on the Amritsar-Pathankot national highway near Soyian village on Tuesday morning. The deceased were identified as Narinderpal Singh, 46, and Gurpreet Kaur, 45, of Rajouri district of Jammu. Two students, identified as Arveen and Akashdeep Singh, who were inside the bus, received minor injuries in the incident. Police said the couple was heading to Jammu in their Maruti Suzuki Alto car (JK-11-C-1695). When they reached near Soyian village, a school bus that was coming from the opposite side careened to the wrong side of the road and rammed into their car. “Narinderpal died on the spot while his wife was declared brought dead at a private hospital,” said assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Naresh Kumar. He further informed that the two injured students are stable and undergoing treatment at a private hospital.The ASI said preliminary investigation suggests the bus driver, Ravel Singh, was not following the traffic rules. “We have registered a case under Section 304 A (death by negligence) against the driver and school management,” he added. The ASI said most of the children travelling in the bus were students of class 11 and 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exserviceman-wife-killed-as-bus-rams-into-car-on-amritsar-pathankot-national-highway-101628621603552.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government allows resumption of schools from August 17||The Maharashtra government has allowed resumption of offline classes in schools from August 17, even in urban areas. Offline classes have been allowed for classes 8 to 12 in urban areas and for classes 5 to 7 in rural areas. An order to this effect was issued on Tuesday. The state government has also empowered civic bodies of cities such as Mumbai and Thane to take a decision on reopening physical classes in schools, based on the existing Covid-19 situation.The order specifies a standard operating procedure (SOP) for schools, in which the school education department has asked the school managements to follow certain rules pertaining to seating arrangements and maintaining social distancing and Covid-19 protocols in the schools. Classes will have to be conducted in two sessions and for each session, only 20 students would be allowed in a classroom. Only one student should be sitting on each bench, according to the SOP. Covid protocol will have to be followed in schools. “Only those cities and districts are allowed to restart physical classes in schools where the daily cases are on decline for the last one month. All the teachers are expected to get vaccinated and the concerned district collectors should make arrangements accordingly. Do not allow entry to parents in schools to avoid crowding. Physical classes should be resumed on alternate days in the beginning and only important or core subjects be taken for studies,” stated the order issued by the state school education department.“Physical classes should be conducted in two sessions; allow only one student on each bench; maintain at least six feet distance between two benches, do not allow more than 20 students in each session and strictly follow all the other Covid protocols such as mask, hand wash with soap etc. Students having any symptoms should be immediately sent back to home and ensure he or she is tested for Covid-19. If found positive, school should be immediately closed and sanitised. Students should be isolated and their treatment be started on doctor’s advice,” it added.Physical classes in schools were shut in Maharashtra from March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state. Schools in rural areas were already allowed to resume physical classes for Class 8 to 12 students from July 12. Nearly 5,947 schools resumed offline classes in rural areas where Covid-19 cases are on decline.In rest of the state, district collectors have been empowered to take a decision on resuming offline classes based on their existing situation of Covid-19. It includes 11 districts where the positivity rate and growth rate is still higher than the state’s average. They are Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Solapur, Ahmednagar and Beed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-allows-resumption-of-schools-from-august-17-101628621544508.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rape survivor attacked with acid to force her to withdraw plaint||A 38-year-old rape survivor was attacked with acid by an unidentified man at Andheri, allegedly to force the woman into withdrawing the rape case, registered on the basis of her complaint two months ago. According to the Andheri police, the woman sustained burns to her legs as the accused threw a plastic balloon, filled with acid, on her late on Saturday. The police are now scanning CCTV footage of the area to identify and nab the accused.The woman, a property consultant, had separated from her husband since 2010 and lives with her only daughter. In her statement to the police, she said on Saturday after closing her office, she was waiting for an autorickshaw at Bisleri junction on the western express highway in Andheri (East) around 10.50pm when an unidentified person threw the balloon with a note, ordering her to take back her rape complaint.She added that after the attack, her business partner and a few other people, who were nearby, heard her screams and rushed her to a hospital. Police officers said that the partner had got into a relationship with one Bobby Tukaram Bhole a few months ago.On June 3, 2021, the survivor filed a case of rape, extortion and threat against Bhole and her friends, Zakir Shaikh, Mahesh Bhole, Kapil Bhole, Akash Malhotra and Mayank at Malwani police station under sections 376, 384, 385, 506, 326 and 34 IPC. Since the past two months, the victim had allegedly been getting threats from Bhole to take back her case. She has filed a written application regarding these threats at Sahar police station,“We have registered a case under section 326 (A) of the IPC and are tracing the man who threw the acid to ascertain whether he was hired by Bhole to commit the crime. We are at present scanning the CCTVs of the WEH to identify the accused,” said Indrajit Mohite, inspector, Andheri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rape-survivor-attacked-with-acid-to-force-her-to-withdraw-plaint-101628621543368.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER study: Respiratory infection among infants down 96%||The Covid-driven lockdown restrictions helped babies survive viral respiratory infections with the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) witnessing a 96% dip in cases of acute viral bronchiolitis (AVB) among infants after the pandemic.In a research study, which was published in the Indian Journal of Paediatrics on August 4, the doctors from PGIMER’s department of paediatrics revealed that only a few cases of viral respiratory infections were reported from North India during the peak of Covid-19.AVB is often a common cause of hospitalisation among infants, leading to significant morbidity and occasional mortality.“AVB is common in infants during extreme winters. From November 2019 to February 2020, as many as 3,770 infants were admitted to PGI’s paediatrics ward. Of them, at least 173 were diagnosed with AVB. The infection was so severe in 14 of them, they succumbed to the infection. Also, 37% of the 173 infants required paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) admission and 15% required mechanical ventilation,” said Dr Suresh Kumar Angurana, assistant professor, department of paediatrics, PGIMER.Dr Suresh added, “From November 2020 to February 2021, only eight out of 1,589 infants were diagnosed with the infection. Also, none of the infants required PICU admission or mechanical ventilation. The mortality rate was also recorded as zero.”“During the lockdown, social gatherings and events were restricted and schools, day-care centres, crèches, playgrounds were also shut. Due to this social isolation, exposure to the outside environment decreased and cases of viral infection dropped significantly. Even when they were reported, severity was low,” added Dr Suresh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-study-respiratory-infection-among-infants-down-96-101628621485909.html
11-08-2021||Other||Ahead of 2022 UP polls, BJP raising 2 lakh village health volunteers’ force||LUCKNOW: Mayank Gupta, 40, a medicine shop owner from Azamgarh has a new designation – swasthya swayamsevak (health volunteer). Armed with a kit, some lessons from doctors on the basic dos and don’ts to adopt to avoid Covid-19 spread, a booklet and some essentials like pulse oximeter, medicines and thermometer, he is part of the nearly 2 lakh health volunteers the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to deploy in the state’s countryside. “All these preparations are being made ahead of the much-talked about third wave. As a responsible party,, we have taken this unique initiative to help the people, should the third wave strike,” said Gupta, who is also the BJP’s treasurer in the district. At the day-long training session on Tuesday, the party’s national general secretary CT Ravi, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev and state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal told the nearly 460 mostly young volunteers who had come to Lucknow that they would now train more volunteers at the district level. While the exercise, months ahead of the 2022 UP polls, would obviously help the BJP connect better with the villages which had witnessed widespread grief during the second Covid--19 wave in April and May, the health volunteers denied that the initiative had a political reason. “Our leaders made it clear that though the BJP had taken up the initiative to post health volunteers in villages, yet the exercise to train volunteers would not remain confined to the party. In fact, we would be willing to train other social organizations irrespective of the party affiliation,” said Indra Nigam, 34, an accountant and a BJP volunteer from Gorakhpur who took the lessons. He works with BJP’s IT team in the district. Some health volunteers, however, admitted that along with raising awareness about Covid safeguards, they would also popularise the various efforts made by the Narendra Modi government at the centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in UP, to help the poor through various schemes and initiatives. “We are BJP workers from districts so we will also talk about the party and government initiatives “ a health volunteer said. The idea of health volunteers to be posted in villages was first mooted by BJP general secretary (organization) BL Santhosh during his visit to the state capital in June. Back then, the move to deploy health volunteers was announced immediately after the extensive devastation caused during the second Coovid wave in April. The BJP also invited Dr Suryakant from King George’s Medical University’s (KGMU) department of pulmonary medicine to coach the doctors who too had come for the training session. “There were teams of nearly five or more people, including a doctor, from across the districts for the training session in Lucknow. Dr Suryakant interacted with the doctors as well as us. He stressed on the use of certain medicines, their dosage for various age groups and what can instantly be given,” said Sanjay Ram, a health volunteer from Gorakhpur. Each team which arrived from districts had a party person, a doctor from the district, an information technology person and a coordinator. “Now, these people would train volunteers. For instance, there are 1294 gram-panchayats in Gorakhpur region, and we will help train one male and one female volunteer in each of these panchayats,” he said. “God forbid if Covid strikes again, we will be ready with some essentials like medicines. In case someone is displaying symptoms, we will, based on the person’s condition, decide whether he/she requires home quarantine or needs to be shifted to the nearest primary health centre,” he added. It would be mandatory for the health volunteers to be vaccinated and create awareness about double dose vaccination too, the volunteers said. “We have been given the mantra of ‘mera booth, Covid mukt (my booth, Covid free)’. But we will work for creating a Covid-free environment not just at the booth-level but in society too,” one of them said. Details of all the sick, the volunteers said, would be fed into a portal and shared with the party and the government for proper monitoring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-2022-up-polls-bjp-raising-2-lakh-village-health-volunteers-force-101628621483808.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Universal passes for local train travel at railway stations from today||Ahead of starting local train services for those fully vaccinated in Mumbai and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) from August 15, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday declared to start issuing mandatory universal passes from Wednesday (August 11). The universal passes will make the commuters eligible to obtain monthly railway passes for travel as the state government has declared that daily tickets will not be issued.Universal passes embedded with a Quick Response (QR) code will be made available to the commuters through both offline and online. While the offline facility is starting from Wednesday, the online facility is expected to be launched in the next 24 to 48 hours after completing all the necessary testing. In the offline system, universal passes are going to be available at special help desks set up at railway stations by local civic bodies. Citizens can approach the nearest railway stations and get the universal passes after proper verification of their vaccination certificates.In Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is setting up 358 help desks at 53 railway stations that come in its jurisdiction for the verification process, the officials said. Across the MMR, help desks will be opened at 109 railway stations. Citizens who are fully vaccinated for Covid-19 and have completed 14 days since their second Covid-19 vaccine shot are eligible to travel in local trains and will be issued universal passes.“All the fully vaccinated persons wishing to avail the monthly season pass will first approach these help desks and show their fully vaccinated certificate along with a government issued photo ID (preferably Aadhar Card). They should carry a photocopy of the photo ID also for stamping purposes. After verifying the authenticity of the vaccination certificate by scanning the QR code followed by due diligence like matching of names on documents, dates of both doses, passage of minimum 14 days since second dose of vaccination etc., the person at the help desk shall put special stamp on certificate of vaccination submitted as well as on the photocopy of the I-Card. After this, the commuter can go to the railway ticket counter to obtain a monthly pass,” stated the standard operating procedure issued by the state revenue department on Tuesday.The commuters have been asked to carry all the three documents, while traveling i.e. universal pass, railway pass and photo identity card.The help desks will operate in two shifts — first between 7am to 3pm and second between 3pm and 11pm.The state government has asked the railways to ensure that all the ticket counters are opened and fully functional. It has also asked the BMC or other local bodies of MMR to set up enough number of help desks in view of the number of commuters that may require this service so that passes can be provided within reasonable time.“Once the online system for issuing the universal passes is operational, the eligible citizens will not be required to go to help desks at railways stations. They can obtain the universal passes through a portal developed by the state government and then can approach the railway counter directly to get a monthly pass,” said a senior official from the relief and rehabilitation department.The motive behind authenticating fully vaccinated persons through QR codes or verifying documents is to ensure that only fully vaccinated people would travel by local trains besides those who fall under essential services category. “We have got the API (Application Programming Interface) from the central government for the Cowin portal. We have also started the testing process, but it has to go through several rounds of security tests. We are trying to complete the procedure and make the portal ready in the next 24 to 48 hours,” said Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, relief and rehabilitation department.API testing is a type of software testing that aims to determine whether the APIs that are developed meet expectations when it comes to functionality, performance, reliability and security for an application.The portal developed by the state government will be linked with the Cowin portal for verification. Once the registration is done on the state government’s portal, the information will be verified using the API linked with Cowin and will be certified back to the state portal. The user will then get a link to take a selfie and upload back to the portal for the generation of the universal pass, the officials said.Commuters, who will obtain universal passes through the online system, will have to carry only two documents: universal pass and monthly railway pass.However, government employees, semi government employees, and essential service workers can continue to travel by local train irrespective of their vaccination statusAccording to data from BMC, a total of 1,914,771 beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated in Mumbai till date. Of these, 297,377 are healthcare and frontline workers; 646,939 are citizens above 60 years of age; 811,709 are citizens between the age group of 45 years and 59 years; 140,944 are citizens between the age group of 18 years and 44 years; 721 are lactating mothers; 8 are pregnant women; 16,889 are students or professionals looking to travel abroad, or those who were participating in Tokyo Olympics; 136 are physically or mentally differently abled beneficiaries; 26 are persons without identity proofs (prisoners/transgender persons); and 22 are bed ridden beneficiaries.While citizens who have not received both doses of their vaccine, or even a single dose of their vaccine will not be allowed to enter the railway premises at all, government and semi-government employees, and essential services workers can continue to travel by train, regardless of their vaccination status.In its statement on Tuesday, BMC said, “Citizens are requested not to crowd railway stations, as the helpdesks will be operational all seven days in the week. Strict legal action under the epidemic act will be taken against citizens, if fake vaccination certificates are found.”The statement was issued after a meeting between BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, railway authorities, and police authorities on Tuesday afternoon. Civic officers of the public health department, deputy municipal commissioners, and assistant municipal commissioners of all 24 administrative wards in the city were also present at the meeting.Nodal officers have been appointed at the railway station level for coordination between the railway authorities, civic authorities, and the police, a senior civic officer said. To avoid crowding at railway stations, the state government has directed the police to allow entry on railway stations only to those commuters having universal passes or vaccination certificates along with identity cards between August 15 and 31. After which police may decide on random checks or other means to ensure that only authorised travellers are moving in the railway station, states the order.The railways have decided to open 617 railway ticket window counters for passengers that will issue monthly passes on the central and western railway. Of them, 341 windows will be functional on central railway stations and the rest 276 ticket windows on western railway stations, a railway official said.Both the zonal railways have provided the number of entry and exit points of every suburban railway station to the state police force and all entry and exit points will be manned by security personnel 24/7. Special squad teams will be formed by the railway authorities to check tickets and vaccination certificates inside local trains, he said.The state government as well as the zonal railways are also considering to issue quarterly and yearly railway passes to the commuters from September.The railways have decided not to increase the number of train services immediately. “We will increase the number of train services after there is a rise in the number of passengers. We will then operate local trains in 100 percent capacity.” said a CR official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-universal-passes-for-local-train-travel-at-railway-stations-from-today-101628621364743.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Dadumajra dump site nowhere near being cleared||Well past its original deadline, the legacy waste mining project at the Dadumajra dump site is progressing at a snail’s pace with more than 60% garbage yet to be removed.Moreover, the municipal corporation (MC) officials have also conceded that the work is unlikely to be completed this year.The ₹33-crore project was launched with much fanfare in December 2019 by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore in the presence of MP Kirron Kher.Under this project, around 5 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of waste, which had been lying at the spot for more than 20 years (till 2005), was to be bio-mined and processed through scientific procedures, and the entire land of about 25 acres was to be reclaimed for future use for scientific waste treatment and disposal.At the inauguration ceremony, officials had stated all the 5 lakh MT waste would be cleared within 18 months. On the ground, however, the work has even failed to meet the extended deadline, which the MC had allowed in the wake of the pandemic.Even UT adviser Dharam Pal has maintained that removal of legacy waste and sanitation was one of his priorities. The daily generation of solid waste in the city is around 550-600 MT, but only 70-80 MT waste is processed every day.New deadline uncertainMC commissioner KK Yadav said, “Of the total 5 lakh MT legacy waste at the site, more than 2 lakh MT has been removed. We expect the work to be completed by March-end next year.” A number of reasons have been put forward by the MC officials for the slow pace of work. but largely the pandemic has been blamed for the missed deadlines. Now, the officials are blaming the monsoon: “The garbage becomes too moist to be removed during rains. So work has been slowed down for the last 10 days,” said an MC official, who didn’t wish to be named. In winters too, the work will be suspended. “The work is likely to pick pace only next year after winter ends. We expect it to be finished by the third quarter next year,” added the official. Officials are now contemplating imposing a fine on the firm undertaking the work. “A penalty would be imposed on the firm if the work is further delayed as per the contract,” said Yadav. Project doesn’t cover removal of 4.5 lakh MT wasteThe legacy waste mining project doesn’t cover another 4.5 lakh MT of waste that was dumped at Dadumajra site after 2005.The MC is expecting to finance removal of additional 1 lakh MT through central funds under the Swachh Bharat Mission. No timeline has been set for its removal, and the proposal is only for removing 20% of the post-2005 legacy waste.Dyal Krishan, president of the Dumping Ground Joint Action Committee, said, “For the last 25 days, no work has been going on at the site. As per our estimates, no more than 20% of work has been completed so far.”Stating that categorising the waste into pre-2005 and post-2005 hasn’t solved the residents’ problems, Krishan said, “The garbage mound is only getting bigger every day. They work on one site but dump more on the adjacent site. In December 2019 we were told the site would be cleared, but it was an eye-wash.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-dadumajra-dump-site-nowhere-near-being-cleared-101628621363680.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Online admissions to Class 11 open till August 19||The online process for admission to Class 11 in city’s government schools is set to begin from Wednesday.This year, a total of 42 senior secondary schools are open for admission, which includes two schools that have been upgraded to senior secondary level.The last date for filling admission forms will be August 19. The final list will be displayed on August 31.The education department plans to start classes for Class 11 from September 4 onwards and whether they will be offline or online will depend on further orders.The online admission process will cater to around 15,000 candidates, who can register online at www.chdeducation.gov.in or www.nielit.gov.in/chd by paying a fee of ₹130. There is only one registration form for all streams.Candidates scoring above 60% have to fill up a minimum of 10 options of schools/streams of their choice while candidates with a score of 60% or below are required to fill in a minimum of 15 options.Students who have passed Class 10 from a board other than CBSE; those who have passed the compartment exam and/or Class 10 in any year except 2021; and the candidates claiming benefit for reservation under any category shall have to submit a scanned copy of the relevant certificate/documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhonline-admissions-to-class-11-open-till-august-19-101628621303383.html
11-08-2021||Other||Wastewater treatment helps Gurdaspur village turn dirty pond into source of irrigation||Once an eyesore and health hazard for residents, a dirty pond in Peroshah village of Harigobindpur block of Gurdaspur has now turned into a valuable source of irrigation—thanks to the liquid waste management project initiated in September 2019.The Rs. 27.89 lakh project, which was started with the use of MGNREGA and panchayat funds, employed the Thapar technology to treat wastewater flowing into the pond.Gurdaspur deputy commissioner (DC) Mohammad Ishfaq said, “Residents of Peroshah village realised that proper disposal of wastewater was necessary for their own well-being. Earlier, water from open drains used to spill on to the roads and into the pond, which not just polluted the water and emitted foul smell but also posed a health hazard by serving as a breeding ground for mosquitoes and other insects.”Besides treating the water flowing into the pond, desilting was also carried out, which increased the storage capacity of the pond to 65 lakh litres.The village, which has a population of 817 individuals residing in 147 households, generates approximately 1.12 lakh litres of wastewater a day. This water is treated and stored in the pond, which is then used to irrigate up to 18 acres a month. Earlier, two tube wells were required to do the same.As part of the project, the area around the pond was also cleaned and renovated. A few benches were also set up for residents to come and sit in their leisure time. “This project has changed the face of the village. People from nearby villages come here to see this technology,” said Sukhraj Singh, a village resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wastewater-treatment-helps-gurdaspur-village-turn-dirty-pond-into-source-of-irrigation-101628621123365.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Tread cautiously, say experts as Mumbai opens up ahead of predicted third wave||Lockdown relaxations in Mumbai are coinciding with the anticipated third wave predicted to hit the city around mid-August to September. With extension in timings for commercial shops, opening of offices, discussions over opening malls and the upcoming festival season, the possibility of accelerating the third wave cannot be denied. While reviving the economy of the financial capital is crucial, experts said the administration should tread cautiously and be prepared to introduce quick micro-containment measures through robust monitoring of cases. Epidemiologists estimate that there is typically a 100 to 120-day gap between peaks of two waves. In Mumbai, the peak of the second wave was recorded in April. While the peaks have varied in cities and states, most experts predict that India’s third wave may come anytime between August and December. “These predictions are subject to assumptions,” said Soumitra Ghosh, associate professor at the Centre for Health Policy, Planning and Management, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS). “But we have to be extremely cautious, assess the situation on a daily basis and put all efforts in vaccinating citizens,” he said. Multiple factors come into play for a surge in any outbreak. These include probability of contact between individuals, number of susceptible people, and infectiousness of the agent among other things. “Will the lockdown relaxations lead to an increase in the number of cases? The answer is definitely yes,” said Jacob John, professor at the department of community health, Christian Medical College, Vellore. “But will it lead to a wave? This is unlikely, unless a new variant starts spreading rapidly,” he said. The second wave was predominantly driven by the Delta variant. A mutation of Delta known as AY.1 or Delta Plus is already in circulation. Experts estimate that at least one-third of Mumbai’s population is unexposed to the virus by natural infection or is unvaccinated. This susceptibility is a perfect ground for a surge as well as for new variants to emerge. “Cities will have to open up at some point in time, but authorities have to be very sensible about the process. A lot of thought has to go into what kind of activities need to open up so that the marginal population does not suffer more. Also, the risk has to be balanced with immunisation,” said John. Nearly 9 million people aged above 18 years are eligible for vaccination in Mumbai. The city has administered over 7.6 million doses, but only about 1.9 million people or 21% of the eligible population has been fully vaccinated so far. Epidemiologist and health systems expert Dr Chandrakant Lahariya said it is important for activities to resume, but in a calibrated manner. “If malls open up, there can be a limit on the number of people who are allowed inside at a given point of time. If people in certain market areas or shops are flouting Covid-19 norms or masking and distancing, they should be locked down. Cities will have to adopt a dynamic, granular approach towards containment and lockdown measures,” said Lahariya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tread-cautiously-say-experts-as-mumbai-opens-up-ahead-of-predicted-third-wave-101628621064371.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Public bicycle sharing to kick off on Aug 12||The first phase of the public bicycle sharing project is all set to start from Thursday. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will launch it from Shanti Kunj in Sector 16. As many as 1,250 bicycles, including pedal-assisted e-bikes, will be available at 155 docking stations. Around 225 bicycles are already available following the city’s participation in the Union government sponsored Cycle4Change competition. After it ended in May, they were continued to be made available to the public for free.Now, users will have to pay ₹10 per half an hour. Those availing of annual membership at ₹500 will have to pay ₹5 per half an hour. They will be able to borrow the bikes by registering on the ‘Smart Bike’ app. All of them are GPS-enabled and will be monitored from a command-and-control centre with 24x7 helpline facility.Around nine cycles will be kept at every station. The major ones include Rock Garden, Punjab and Haryana High Court, Sukhna Lake, PGI and Sectors 17, 22, 34, 35 and 43.The project is being developed in four phases of 1,250 cycles and 155 docking stations each. The ultimate target is to make available 5,000 cycles with a network of 617 stations.App for tracking garbage collection vehicles to be launchedBadnore will on Thursday also launch a mobile app to track door-to-door garbage collection trucks. A solid waste management vehicle tracking and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) facility will also be made operational.The project has come up at a cost of around ₹5.8 crore. Through SCADA, MC officials will be able to live monitor and track the movement and activity of the trucks on their monitor screens.The system will let the officials know in real-time when the vehicle become stationary, for how long and for what reasons. In case the delay is because of the households, the system will allow garbage collectors to report it. They will also be able to register complaints against households who don’t give segregated garbage. The mileage will also be monitored.The administrator will also launch the SCADA for the tertiary water supply, which is expected to improve the supply and minimise wastage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhpublic-bicycle-sharing-to-kick-off-on-aug-12-101628620946962.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate: 93% votes polled in professors’ constituency||The two constituencies of teachers of Panjab University (PU) campus went to polls on Tuesday for the election of four members to the PU senate. Polling was held at five booths and counting of votes will be on August 12.In the professors’ constituency, 260 (93.19%) out of 279 votes were cast. Around 93.16% polling was recorded at the university auditorium while 100% polling was recorded at the varsity’s regional centres in Ludhiana and Muktsar. Around 83.33% votes were polled at SS Giri PU regional centre, Hoshiarpur.From the constituency of associate/assistant professors, 402 (91.57%) of 439 votes were cast. At PU regional centres in Kauni and Muktsar, 100% polling was recorded, while 92.35% votes were polled at university auditorium on PU campus. At regional centres in Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur, 84.62% and 84.21% polling was recorded, respectively.Five candidates are in fray from the professors’ constituency and seven from associate/assistant professors.“The voting at all the five centres was held in a free and fair manner and no untoward incident was reported,” PU said in an official communique.Now, the registered graduates’ constituency, which is the largest with 3,61,869 voters, will go to polls on August 18, along with the constituencies of heads and associate/assistant professors of affiliated arts colleges. Voting for the constituency of faculties will be held last on August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-93-votes-polled-in-professors-constituency-101628620890424.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||DCPCR starts reading campaign to improve literacy levels in childcare institutes||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Tuesday started a “reading campaign” in child care institutes (CCIs) across the national capital with an aim to enhance the foundational literacy and numeracy skills of children residing there.According to a statement issued by the commission, it had conducted a baseline assessment of all the children residing in CCIs in Delhi. “It was found that 52% of children were able to read words in Hindi and 55% of students were able to identify two-digit numbers. This poor learning level in CCI is the same as the dismal learning levels across states in India. Approximately 70% government school children are unable to read a Grade III level text (ASER Report, 2020). Hence, a dedicated intervention to strengthen the learning levels of children in CCIs was launched,” the statement read.There are 101 CCIs across Delhi housing child victims of trafficking, sexual violence, parental incarceration, parental death and child labour.DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu said a dedicated team, consisting members of the commission, district child protection officers, members of child welfare committees in Delhi, mentor teachers from the Directorate of Education (DoE), volunteers and members of NGO Pratham, will work on the project.Kundu said the project is in line with the Delhi government’s flagship “Mission Buniyaad” project launched in city public schools in 2018 to improve learning levels among students. “Every day the team members will conduct reading campaigns in CCIs for two-three hours under this project. The idea is to improve the learning levels of children residing in CCIs... For example, if a child cannot read a sentence or a paragraph or doesn’t even know the alphabets, he or she will be taught from that level. This methodology is known as ‘teaching at the right level’,” he said.The campaign will continue until November 14 which is celebrated as the children’s day every year. “The goal is to ensure 100% children are able to read Hindi fluently with comprehension and perform arithmetic operations such as addition, subtraction, multiplication and division, by this November,” Kundu added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dcpcr-begins-reading-campaign-to-improve-literacy-levels-in-childcare-institutes-in-delhi-101628620886600.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi enters its second break monsoon phase, no rain likely till Aug 16: IMD||On Tuesday, Delhi and parts of the National Capital Region (NCR) entered the “break monsoon” phase, which will result in a dry spell till at least August 16. This, according to weather forecasters, will also lead to a rise in temperature in the coming days.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said from Tuesday afternoon, the break monsoon conditions set in over Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, south-west Uttar Pradesh, west Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, as winds blowing over the region changed course from the humid easterlies to the dry westerlies. Such conditions are likely to continue till at least August 16, forecasters said.“The monsoon trough has moved north, towards the Himalayan foothills. During this period, parts of north-west and central India will mostly remain dry, till the trough starts moving south again,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.According to weather experts, a break monsoon is a phase of the south-west monsoon, when there is a stoppage in the monsoon rain. This pause could last a couple of days or even extend for a fortnight.The break monsoon phase is characterised by a northwards shift of the monsoon trough, closer to the foothills of the Himalayas, leading to a decrease in rainfall in many parts of the country. While rainfall decreases in parts of north, north-west and central India, this phenomenon also results in increased rainfall along the Himalayan foothills, in north-east India and also the southern peninsula.Weather experts said while break monsoon conditions are common in north-west India in July and August, what is rare this time is the fact that this is the second break monsoon phase in Delhi. The first one hit the national capital even before the onset of monsoon this year.“Break monsoon conditions are not uncommon in this region in the month of August, but this time we saw a break in June itself, even before the south-west monsoon arrived. That is a rare event, but not completely unheard of,” said a senior Met official, asking not to be named.The official explained that in June, at the time of its onset, and in September when it starts receding, monsoon usually does not go into a break phase. It is in July and August, which are the rainiest months, when such conditions are generally seen, he said.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services, a private weather forecasting agency, also agreed that break monsoon conditions in the months of July and August could extend up to 10-15 days. He also said this break from rains could also impact the overall rainfall that Delhi receives this month.“This August, even before the city entered the break phase, we did not see a lot of rainfall as compared to what we saw in July. It is difficult to say at this time if this break condition will impact the cumulative rainfall of the month. But for heavy rain to revive, there needs to be favourable weather conditions to support the trough shifting back southwards and, currently, there are no such signs,” Palawat said.IMD data shows that currently the Safdarjung weather station, taken as representative of the entire city, has a monthly rainfall deficit— it received 63.2mm rains as against a normal of 94.5mm, while Palam station recorded only 55.5mm rainfall against a monthly average of 100.8mm.Forecasters also said in the coming days, because of the change in wind direction, the temperature is likely to go up by a few degrees.“Since we are now getting dry westerly winds, the temperature will also start rising from tomorrow (Wednesday),” IMD forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-enters-its-second-break-monsoon-phase-no-rain-likely-till-aug-16-says-imd-101628620887253.html
11-08-2021||Other||Punjab to emulate Haryana model of farmland record integration||Punjab has decided to go with the Haryana model of farmland record integration for paddy procurement under its new system, which will come into place from October.Mandi board secretary Ravi Bhagat said that three state departments: revenue, food and civil supplies and mandi board will work together on a common digital platform.The departments will integrate a database of an estimated 10 lakh farmers and cultivators in the next one-and-half months.“On examining various models, the one adopted by the Haryana government was found to be the most impressive. As per central government’s instructions, payment mode for this year’s major kharif crop –paddy-- will be through the land integrated system,” he added.Master trainers from mandi board department have been given practical training on the new software and field teams will start the exercise of compiling data from the next week.Allaying speculations, the official clarified that the new system has specific columns for landowners and cultivators. He also denied claims that government agencies have asked farmers to submit ‘farad’ or land records.“We do not require any land ownership documentation. Revenue department has digitised land details whereas the mandi board has details of ‘J’ forms obtained by farmers at the respective crop procurement centres. These details will be integrated for the food and supplies department (that is mandated for crop procurement) for direct payment to paddy growers,” said Bhagat.Unlike Haryana, Punjab has not planned satellite mapping of crops at this stage.“But the adopted system is sufficient to build data of acreage of crops in the state. In view of Punjab’s different dynamics where sizeable agriculture land is given on lease informally by NRIs, interests of farmers cultivating land on lease have been well protected in it,” added the mandi board secretary.Sources privy to the forthcoming system say field teams of different agencies may be engaged for fields inspections in suspected data cases.“Punjab has around 28,000 registered arhtiyas, who further have 20 to 200 farmers associated with them. Details with arthiyas can be cross-checked with the state’s land detail registry for confirmation,” says the official.Official sources said the step of integrating land records with food grain procurement will make the purchase system transparent. They added that the government intends to ensure that crop cultivated by farmers is procured as per policy with no scope for malpractices.“In the traditional open-ended purchase system, it is a known fact that huge quantities of paddy are purchased by unscrupulous traders, in connivance with officials, at lower prices from others states, and later sold to government agencies at MSP (minimum support price). With the integrated system in place, the agencies have prior information about farmers and cultivators and the estimated quantity of paddy or wheat they can produce, thus excess arrival of paddy can be spotted easily,” said a government functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-to-emulate-haryana-model-of-farmland-record-integration-101628620886118.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||DDA approves norms for multilevel parking on PPP mode||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Tuesday approved the development control norms for multilevel car parking (MLCP) lots to come up on a public private partnership basis.DDA officials said the norms have defined the floor area ratio for multilevel parking facilities and have made it mandatory for agencies to get a traffic impact assessment (TIA) done and prepare a traffic management plan (TMP). The proposal was approved in a meeting chaired by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, who is also the chairman of DDA.According to the norms, the FAR for a multilevel parking on a 3,000 square metre plot is 100 whereas for a 6,000 square metre plot, it is 60. The new norms allow the private concessionaire to use the MLCP for commercial purposes to recover the cost of the project.A senior DDA official said, “The current modification has adopted a graded approach for apportionment of commercial FAR on plots and the FAR will vary depending on the plot size. The norms have introduced flexibility in provisioning of commercial FAR for specific size of plots provided the stipulated condition of TIA and TMP is fulfilled.”In the meeting, the DDA also approved a policy for allotment of CNG (compressed natural gas) station sites. The land-owning agency has approved the provision for e-auction of CNG stations. A senior DDA official said, “Earlier, the land was allotted for five years and an increase in rates was not fixed as it was related to the average auction rates. Under the new policy, the tenure of the licence is 10 years which is renewable up to 30 years and the increase in the licence fee is fixed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-approves-norms-for-multilevel-parking-on-ppp-mode-101628620885048.html
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||Indian Army is a force to reckon with: Haryana governor||Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Tuesday said that India in 2022 is not what it was in 1962, in reference to the Indo-China war that India lost. He was in Ambala Cantonment for the felicitation ceremony of 25 gallantry award winners, as part of the Kharga Corps Independence Day celebrations at Raina Auditorium. The winners include 10 former army men, 10 serving in the forces and five war widows/veer naris. “During the 1962 war, the nation was weaker, but now under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several advancements have been made in the Indian Army. Now, if enemy forces attack, our army hits back harder. Even China has understood this and we have seen a demonstration at Galwan,” Dattatreya said.The governor added that the appointment of Bipin Rawat as Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) to coordinate between the three forces and four times compensation to families of martyrs are bold steps by the Union government. “Many advanced missile systems have been added in the Army’s fleet that will ensure that our forces are ready to face the enemy at anytime,” he said. On his arrival at Ambala Cantonment, he first paid homage to the War Heroes at Kharga War Memorial and also witnessed new generation weapons and equipment and lauded the efforts of the Armed Forces. During the ceremony, Lt General NS Raja Subramani, General Officer Commanding (GOC), Kharga Corps, said that as the nation celebrates its 75th anniversary of independence, the force is also observing its golden jubilee.  “It was raised during the liberation war in 1971. In 1975, Western Command was set up in Chandimandir and 10 years later, the Kharga Corps was established at Ambala Cantt ,” the GOC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indian-army-is-a-force-to-reckon-with-haryana-governor-101628620883370.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||‘Schools ready to bridge learning gap’: Sisodia after meeting with principals||A day after the Delhi government issued guidelines for the partial reopening of schools in the capital, education minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday met the heads of several government schools and said that the schools are not only ready to bridge the learning gaps but also the emotional well-being of students when they return.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday allowed students of classes 10, 11 and 12 to visit school for admissions and board exam-related work. Schools and colleges in the national capital have been closed since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Classes briefly resumed in a staggered manner between January and February before being suspended again due to the fourth wave of the pandemic in the Capital.While interacting with the principals of government schools in south-east Delhi district, Sisodia said, “The cases of Covid in Delhi have now been controlled to a great extent. During the special PTM, most of the parents agreed that schools should reopen because, in the last 1.5 years, there has been a lot of damage to the education of children. We have to bridge the loss of learning as well as cater to the mental and socio-emotional well-being of children. Our children and teachers have gone through a harrowing phase of Covid, we need to get them out of that phase.”“It is heartening to see that the heads of schools are ready to not only bridge the learning gap when schools open but also cater to social-emotional well-being when children return to school,” he said, directing the school heads to strictly follow the Covid appropriate guidelines.The education minister also sought suggestions from heads of schools regarding the reopening. Some principals suggesting measures to “reunite students with teaching-learning process again” during the first week, and few also recommended arranging professional counsellors for students.According to a statement issued by the government on Tuesday, the principals of government schools in the district were given a three-day training ahead of the reopening of schools. “Training is also being given on how to reduce the learning gap of the children once schools reopen and reconnect them with learning,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/schools-ready-to-bridge-learning-gap-sisodia-after-meeting-with-principals-101628620823305.html
11-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC extends general stay on demolition, eviction, dispossession till August 30||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday extended the general stay on demolition, eviction and dispossession, granted last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and extended from time to time, till August 30.The court also clarified that as lockdown norms were relaxed to a large extent and courts across the state had started functioning physically, there will be no need to extend the general stay beyond August 30.HC had initiated a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) soon after nationwide lockdown was announced in March last year and restrained authorities from carrying out any proposed demolition of structures or eviction and dispossession of occupants due to the pandemic. The larger bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta, justice Amjad Sayed, justice SS Shinde and justice Prasanna Varale, while deciding whether to extend the order for interim protection passed last year, said as the situation had been normalised it was not inclined to extend it further. The bench observed that the protection was granted as courts were not functioning physically and people could not approach courts for reliefs. However, in light of the situation improving, there was no need to extend it any further. “The interim order is till August 13 and we will extend it one last time till August 30. So, whoever has been enjoying protection so far will get two weeks to approach courts now that restrictions are being lifted and we are also functioning physically,” said CJ Datta in the order. The court held that such interim protection was granted because of the crisis created by the pandemic and access to justice was not clear. “Now since the crisis is on the wane leading to easing of lockdown restrictions as well as lifting of Covid-appropriate behaviour protocol coupled with the fact that courts have started functioning as in pre-pandemic days, the situation which required interference of courts requiring protective interim orders is no longer required. However, public at large which believe they are being protected by the orders will be protected only till August 30 and not beyond that,” said the order. The court, however, kept the suo motu PIL pending in the event that such protective orders were required to be passed again in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-extends-general-stay-on-demolition-eviction-dispossession-till-august-30-101628620763403.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||BJP leader among six arrested for anti-Muslim sloganeering at Jantar Mantar||Delhi Police on Tuesday arrested Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashwini Upadhyay and five other people in connection with an event at Jantar Mantar two days ago where anti-Muslim slogans were allegedly shouted.Videos shot at Sunday’s event -- which organisers claimed was held to push for the abolition of “colonial-era laws” -- showed people shouting communal slogans, triggering outrage . After the videos went viral on social media, activists filed police complaints on Monday.Police said it didn’t grant permission to the event organised by Upadhyay under the banner of Bharat Jodo Andolan (Unite India movement). Upadhyay, a former Delhi BJP spokesperson, said no inflammatory slogans were raised on Sunday.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said that apart from Upadhyay, Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma, and Vinit Bajpai were arrested.A senior police officer, who did not want to be named, said that the six were arrested following raids conducted at various locations in Delhi-NCR on Monday night.“All six have been booked on the alleged charges of promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony, disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant, and defying Covid-19 guidelines laid by the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA), said the officer, adding that the FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code’s sections 153 A and 188 and 51 of Disaster Management Act.Preet is the director of an organisation called “Save India Foundation” and is also among the organisers of the event. Deepak Singh and Vinod Sharma are learnt to be associated with two different right-wing organisations, the police said.Searches were being conducted on Tuesday to nab other people, who have been identified among those seen raising communal slogans in the video. Two of them were identified as Pinki Chaudhary, chief of Hindu Raksha Dal, and one Uttam Malik (whose affiliation with any organization is not known), another police officer said, requesting not to be named.The Hindu Raksha Dal is a fringe organised which had also purportedly claimed responsibility for the violence on JNU campus in January last year.In a video shown on a news channel, Pinki Chaudhary can be heard taking the responsibility of the incident and saying in Hindi, “…Hindu Raksha Dal takes the responsibility of it. I take the responsibility…people came to the venue through us…whoever were there (at the venue) were our people…If any youth have done something wrong, the government should pardon them because in such a crowd someone comes from somewhere and says something…” Chaudhary is saying in the video.HT cannot independently verify the authenticity of the video.“Six people have been arrested after an FIR was registered at the Connaught Place Police Station related to provocative sloganeering at a programme held near Bank of Baroda,” Yadav said.HT tried to contact Upadhyay on Tuesday but his phone was switched off.On Monday, the police registered a case against unknown persons under Indian Penal Code’s (IPC) sections 153A (promoting enmity) and 188 (disobedience to order). Relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act were also included in the case because Covid-19 guidelines such as social distancing and wearing masks were violated during the event, the police said.Upadhyay on Monday said that he has filed a written police complaint seeking an investigation to verify the authenticity of the videos and strict action against people spreading “religious frenzy”.Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, said the protest was held to demand 222 British-era laws be abolished. “We have seen the video but have no idea who they are. The police should take strict action against the persons who raised the slogans,” she said on Monday.The sloganeering provoked outrage. In a tweet, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said: “What a disgrace to read of an unauthorised BJP demonstration where communal slogans & hate speech were voiced…Expecting exemplary action from @DelhiPolice – only stern action & condign punishment will prevent such misbehaviour recurring.”Delhi BJP refused to comment on the incident and arrest of BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay. A senior BJP leader said that the event was not organised by BJP.The Aam Aadmi Party also refused to comment.Anil Chaudhary, Delhi Congress chief, said that such inciting statements aimed at spoiling the secular fabric of the national capital will not be tolerated and the police should go into a detailed investigation into the backgrounds and motives of the people who were caught.“For the last few years, since the northeast Delhi violence, we have seen repeated attempts to spoil the secular fabric of Delhi. We will not allow this particular section to disturb the peace that we proudly uphold. To raise such provocative slogans right in the heart of the Capital should attract strict action,” Chaudhary said.In the afternoon on Tuesday, nearly 40 supporters of the arrested men gathered at the Connaught Place police station and sat on the road to protest against the arrest. The protesters, including self-proclaimed Hindu leader Ragini Tiwari, first reached the police station and demanded the release of the arrested men. When they were asked to leave, they all blocked the traffic on a road outside the police station. All of them were later removed and sent back to their destination by bus, the police said.Around 4 pm, over 100 civil society members and student activists Civil society members and student activists gathered near Jantar Mantar to protest against the anti-Muslim slogans raised purportedly during Sunday’s event organised in the same area to demand the abolition of colonial-era laws.“The protesters had not applied for the police permission for their protest on Tuesday. They had given a call on social media and reached near Jantar Mantar. We removed all of them in buses. A total of 25 men and nine women were detained at the Mandir Marg police station and later released,” said DCP Yadav.Among the protesters were members of All India Students Association (AISA), Students Federation of India (SFI) and other student groups and civil society members.Condemning the detention of protesters, AISA in a statement said, “Delhi police has detained AISA activists and other protesters form Jantar mantar who gathered to protest against the hate mongering by BJP-RSS. Whilst their hate gathering was allowed to continue, the protest call for Justice and against communal bigotry was abrupted by Delhi Police by detaining students, activists and people of Delhi.”SFI also issued a statement saying that some of their members were also detained by the police. “Today’s gathering was aimed resisting the communal polarization with a message of peace and secularism...SFI strongly condemns the hypocrite character of the Delhi Police, wherein on the one hand gatherings by BJP and RSS organisations to fuel genocidal and communal sentiments are permitted, and on the other, citizen’s protest calling for peace and harmony are attacked,” said SFI Delhi president Sumit Kataria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-leader-among-six-arrested-for-anti-muslim-sloganeering-at-jantar-mantar-101628620463183.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport’s Terminal 1 likely to reopen by mid-October||After remaining shut down for over one-and-a-half years, Terminal 1 (T1) of the Indira Gandhi International airport may finally be made operational by mid-October as the Delhi airport has been witnessing rapid increase in the number of passengers over the last few weeks, officials said.Delhi airport recorded around 100,000 passengers on Monday, which is nearly half of the average daily footfall of 200,000 recorded before Covid-19 rocked the country. Officials said the daily passengers’ figure stood at around 45,000 two weeks ago.A Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) official, on the condition of anonymity, said a decision on the date of reopening is being considered, adding that the reopening will be smooth even with just a week’s notice as they have already carried out all the maintenance work.Sachin Badshah, the deputy inspector-general (DIG) of CISF, said that his force is already stationed at all terminals for security, and said that they are ready for T1 to be made operational.T1 was shut on March 25 last year, two days after international flight operations were suspended due to the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country.After two months, as air operations resumed in the country, only Terminal 3 was opened. Terminal 2 resumed functioning on October 1 last year but was shut again in May, only to resume operations last month.Officials had earlier decided to open T1 in March but the plan was dropped due to the second wave.Though DIAL officials said they are yet to decide on a date, the reopening plan said T1 will initially see around 120-150 flights a day, including both departure and arrivals. Before the pandemic, the terminal used to cater to at least 250-300 flights, which translates to around 45,000 passengers, in a day, said a DIAL official.Terminal 1, which caters to domestic flights, sees operation of only SpiceJet and Indigo carriers.An official said that the terminal’s expansion, “which will take at least a year and half”, will double the passenger capacity from 20 million to 40 million passengers per annum. The work will be completed by the end of 2023.Under the current expansion plan, the apron area of T1 will be expanded to 6.29 lakh sq metres from 2.82 lakh sq metres. The total area of the terminal, including departure and arrival, will be 1.92 lakh sq metres, around three times of the existing 64,000 sq metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-airport-s-terminal-1-likely-to-reopen-by-midoctober-101628620162589.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Bihar man, wanted in murder and extortion cases, arrested from north Delhi||A 23-year-old man from Bihar, allegedly involved in four murder cases including that of the chairman of an agricultural cooperative society, and two extortion cases, was arrested from north Delhi in a joint operation carried out by the Delhi Police’s crime branch and the Bihar Police.Police said that the suspect, Rupam Singh from Motihari East Champaran, who was arrested on Monday, is a school friend of Suman Jha, who runs an extortion gang in Bihar and is involved in 22 cases of murder and extortion.According to police, Singh allegedly used to make extortion calls on WhatsApp using an international number and even demanded ₹10 lakh from a businessman dealing in furniture in Bihar’s Motihari.Singh, who secured bail in two murder cases in 2019, was wanted for his alleged involvement in two more murders between December 2020 and March 2021.In July this year, Singh allegedly tried to extort ₹2 lakh from another businessman in Motihari, following which a case was registered at the local police station, said joint commissioner of police (crime) Alok Kumar.Joint CP Kumar said that on Monday, the Bihar Police shared information about the presence of Singh in north Delhi’s Gopalpur near Wazirabad.“Accordingly, a joint raid was conducted and Singh was arrested from a rented room in Gopalpur. He was handed over to the Bihar Police for further legal action,” said Kumar, adding that Singh had made the last extortion call on Sunday.Police said that Singh dropped out of college, where he was pursuing an arts course, in 2017.He joined Jha’s gang in March 2019, and soon he, along with another gang member, killed two men in Ghorasahan in East Champaran. He also allegedly tried to murder his relative in May 2019.Thereafter, in August 2019, Singh was arrested with illegal firearms but he managed to secure bail in all the three cases in November 2020.“A month later, he, along with three others, killed one Ranjeet Singh Thekedar. In March 2021, Singh and two others murdered Pawan Gupta, a Primary Agricultural Credit Society (PACS) chairman in Motihari, which led to a law and order situation in the area. Thereafter, he made extortion calls to two businessmen for ₹2 lakh and ₹10 lakh respectively in July and August,” added the joint CP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-man-wanted-in-murder-and-extortion-cases-arrested-from-north-delhi-101628620102613.html
11-08-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal tells officials to expedite development works in unauthorised colonies||The Delhi government has completed 613 road and street development projects in the city’s unauthorised colonies between 2013 and 2018, an official statement said.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday chaired a review meeting of the special projects in which, the statement said, he stressed on completion of works within “stipulated deadlines” as at least 237 more projects are to be completed by the end of this year.Most street and road development works inside unauthorised colonies are done by the municipal corporations. But, contracts for development works in these colonies were issued under the Delhi government’s special projects by the Flood & Irrigation department and Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC) between 2013 and 2018.Delhi has nearly 1,800 unauthorised colonies -- unplanned residential settlements where properties had no legal sanction to be registered on paper and transactions were not recognised until recently. In 2018, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which comes under the central government, launched a scheme for registry of properties in such colonies by bringing them under the ambit of the PM-UDAY scheme. Roughly around 6 million people -- which is around one-third of Delhi’s population -- are believed to be the residents of the city’s unauthorised colonies, according to government’s estimates.The development works in unauthorised colonies are significant at this point because Delhi goes to municipal polls next year. Currently, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is in charge of the city government, and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rules all three municipal corporations in the city.“All officers should get their projects completed within the stipulated time so that the residents can get these necessities as soon as possible. Adequate funds will be provided to maintain the speed and quality of work; finance department will disburse the required amount... Irrigation and Flood Control Department and DSIIDC officials present detailed project reports of ongoing projects to CM Arvind Kejriwal,” said the statement issued by the government after Tuesday’s review meeting.The meeting was attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, urban development minister Satyendar Jain, Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev and senior officers from the departments concerned, said the statement.The Irrigation and Flood Control Department has unauthorised colonies in 47 assembly constituencies under its purview where a total of 784 unauthorised colonies have been earmarked. Of these, road and street construction projects have received administrative approvals and expenditure sanctions in 755 project works. 737 works have been taken up as of date in 535 unauthorised colonies. Officials said 441 projects have been completed and the rest are under progress.The unauthorised colonies where the flood and irrigation department has taken up major road projects include Narela, Bawana, Timarpur, Mundka, Sultanpur Majra, Patel Nagar, Sangam Vihar, Vikaspuri, Uttam Nagar, Shalimar Bagh, Matiala, Najafgarh, Malviya Nagar, Sangam Vihar, Badarpur, Okhla, Kondli, Gandhi Nagar, Ghonda, Gokalpur, Vishwasnagar, Laxmi Nagar, Mustafabad, Model Town, Chandni Chowk, Moti Nagar, Rajouri Garden, Mehrauli, Seemapuri and Rohtash Nagar.The statement further said, “Presently DSIIDC is doing development work only in 11 assembly constituencies in which, Chhatarpur, Deoli, Bijwasan, Karawal Nagar, Dwarka, Palam, Janakpuri, Patparganj, Krishna Nagar, Rohini, Delhi Cantt assembly constituencies are included. Apart from this, some colonies falling in Kirari, Vikaspuri, Gokulpur and Bawana assembly constituencies have been handed over to DSIIDC for doing development work. Thus, DSIIDC has been entrusted with the responsibility of undertaking development work in 352 unauthorized colonies. Out of this, construction of road and rain water drain has been completed in 172 colonies, while work is in progress in 69 colonies and funds have been released for proposed work in 111 colonies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-tells-officials-to-expedite-development-works-in-unauthorised-colonies-101628619683178.html
11-08-2021||Pune||CET for FYJC admissions cancelled: Pune students disappointed; cut-offs to be higher, say principals||As the Bombay High Court on Tuesday quashed the state government’s decision to have Common Entrance Tests (CET) for Class 11 admissions, there will be a major impact on admissions this academic year. The cut-off marks for prominent colleges will be higher, as per principals.On May 28, the state government issued a notification about conducting the CET exam which was scheduled on August 21. In an order by the bench of Justices RD Dhanuka and Riyaz Chagla it was observed that, “The Maharashtra state government does not has the power under law to issue such a notification and this court can intervene in the extreme case of gross injustice, such as this.”The high court has also instructed the state government to carry out the admission process within six weeks on the basis of Class 10 and internal assessment marks. Prof Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College said, “There would certainly be an increase in cut-offs for this year’s admissions, as the passing percentage and number of students is high compared to last year. As always, our college cut-offs are high, last year it was as high as 97.6 per cent for Arts and 97 per cent for Science. It is excepted that cut-offs will increase marginally this time as now CET has been cancelled. It will be completely based on Class 10 marks and assessment.”Principal Avinash Takawale, president of the Nationalist Teachers Association, said, “The state government has completely failed in its case before the HC and it is now going to impact lakhs of students. This is going to adversely impact careers as well.” As the Class 10 examinations were cancelled this year due to the pandemic, the passing percentage of students was 99.95 per cent, which was 4.65 per cent more than last year. While 957 students scored 100 per cent marks, over one lakh students scored above 90 per cent this year. Students are unhappy with the decision. Vaidehi Kamte a student said, “I had joined a special batch of CET classes and was preparing well for the exams and suddenly we are told there won’t be any examination. This is irritating as well as demoralising for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cet-for-fyjc-admissions-cancelled-students-disappointed-cut-offs-to-be-higher-say-principals-101628613563254.html
11-08-2021||Pune||After Mumbai, Pune demands opening up of local trains||PUNE: Following chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s announcement that all those persons in Mumbai who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 can resume local train travel, residents of Pune district are demanding the same relaxation.Thackeray on August 8 announced that all those in Mumbai who are fully vaccinated and have completed the 14-day period after their second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine can apply on a specially-created application (app) for a special railway pass on their smartphones. However, the scenario in Pune is different.Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson, Pune railway division, said, “Currently, approximately 3,500 to 4,000 people are travelling every day via local trains. Once the decision is made by the state government, we will then plan accordingly.”Harsha Shah, chairperson, Railway Pravasi Group, said, “Why is Pune being given step-motherly treatment? If locals can start in Mumbai, they should be started for all in Pune as well; we are ready to follow all instructions. People from the Pune district who travel every day to Daund, Ranjangaon, Chakan, Dehu and other places for work have been spending twice the amount of money on transport. The government should think about it seriously.”Only eight trains have been allowed between Pune and Lonavla, that too for essential services due to Covid restrictions. Not only Pune to Lonavla, but Pune to Daund also sees heavy traffic with people returning to their offices facing severe logjams. An office-goer who has to travel from Khadki to Daund every day said, “I don’t feel like riding a two-wheeler as it is not a safe option but am still doing it as we are no longer allowed to work from home. Like Mumbai, local trains should be opened for the common public in Pune as well.”Meanwhile, the railways are keeping track of bogus passengers who are trying to travel by train despite being ineligible due to Covid regulations. “Once the person is caught without an id, s/he will not be allowed to complete the journey. Generally we find 15 such cases every day. The government should allow the general public to travel now,” said a travelling ticket examiner (TTE) on condition of anonymity at Chinchwad station on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-mumbai-pune-demands-opening-up-of-local-trains-101628612961827.html
11-08-2021||Pune||60 officials claim vehicle allowance, but still use PMC cars: survey||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) claims 60 Class-I officials are currently claiming a four-wheeler allowance, but are still using vehicles provided by the civic body. Based on complaints received by the then additional municipal commissioner, Rubal Agarwal, the PMC vehicle depot conducted a survey and, on Tuesday, sent a list to the chief accountant for further action. Agarwal, in her capacity as additional municipal commissioner, before she recently got transferred, had ordered the vehicle department to scrutinise records to establish the use of official vehicles.Hitendre Kurane, superintendent, PMC vehicle depot, said, “As per the order, we have 60 officials who are using PMC four-wheelers for official visits, as per PMC Motor vehicle policy-2016. However, these 60 officials are also claiming a four-wheeler allowance.”The additional commissioner, in her order, had asked the chief accountant to recover the travelling allowance from salaries of officials guilty of claiming both benefits.A senior official of the account’s department, speaking anonymously, said, “We cannot reveal the names of officials, but we will recover the allowances from their salaries. Now, we are calculating the time period and the amount.”There are 170 Class-I officials, including the commissioner, additional commissioners, zonal commissioners, heads of department (HoDs), superintendent engineers, assistant municipal commissioners, deputy commissioners, and assistant medical officers. Executive engineers are eligible to use four-wheelers only for field visits, but they have to take permission from an additional commissioner. The corporation pays ₹3,150 per month as a four-wheeler allowance to executive officers, and ₹4,200 per month for posts above the level of an executive officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/60-officials-claim-4-wheeler-allowance-but-still-use-pmc-cars-vehicle-depot-survey-101628612601851.html
11-08-2021||Pune||Pune civic body approves ₹392 crore for drainage work in 11 merged villages||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Tuesday, cleared work on drainage and sewage treatment plants in 11 villages merged into the municipal limits in 2017. The standing committee approved ₹392 crore to be spent on repairing or developing drainage lines, a major issue in these 11 villages.Even though these 11 villages merged in 2017, PMC has not been able to allocate any substantial amount for basic development work here, until now. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “The standing committee has given its nod to carry out sewage related works in the 11 villages merged in 2017 in PMC.”The villages, which were earlier under gram panchayats, continue to face neglect and the civic body has been unable to spend even 10 per cent of the ₹100 crore approved for developmental work. Residents of the villages continue to face problems related to infrastructure, including road, sewage and drainage issues. After the merger, PMC had made a budgetary provision of ₹100 crore for giving basic amenities in these villages. Officials from the administration claim that most of the proposals for various development works in the areas are in the tender stage. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, who put the proposal before the standing committee, said, “All these works will be carried out in the next three years. PMC will need to make a budgetary provision for the same work in the next three years’ budget.”The area falling under the jurisdiction of PMC is 80 sqkm, with the total population of these villages at 0.278 million. Nationalist Congress Party’s city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “Ruling BJP is approving all these work in such a way that they believe they will not get power in the future.”Congress leader Arvind Shinde has already challenged this proposal and filed a PIL (public interest litigation). The 11 merged villages are: Uruli Devachi, Phursungi, Bavdhan Budruk, Lohegaon, Hadapsar (Sadesatra Nali), Mundhwa (Keshavnagar area), Shivane, Dhayari, Undri, Ambegaon Khurda and Ambegaon Budruk||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-approves-392-crore-for-drainage-work-in-11-merged-villages-101628612061920.html
