12-08-2021||Lucknow||Convey govt’s development work to people on I-Day: UP chief secy to DMs||Uttar Pradesh government is set to use the Independence Day celebrations across the state on August 15 to highlight its achievements ahead of 2022 assembly elections in the state. A 31-point circular highlighting the state government’s achievements has been worked out and sent to all the district magistrates by chief secretary RK Tiwari, asking them to hold programmes on August 15 to convey to people its priorities to bring about development and how it was working to make UP a ‘Sarvottam Pradesh’. It also says that people should be inspired to follow ideals of “panth nirpekshata” (secularism). Besides giving broad outlines on flag hoisting in the forenoon, the chief secretary in his order dated August 6 said, “If possible freedom fighters should be invited to these programmes with respect.” “Large participation of people should be ensured on this occasion to inspire and educate people and create an atmosphere of peace and amity in the state,” said chief secretary while asking the district officials to hold these programmes at block, tehsil and district levels. “Whichever party is in power will always like to use any such opportunity to take its achievements to the people. It is all being done keeping in mind 2022 assembly elections in the state and there is nothing wrong with the move,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University. Giving details about preparations being made for possible third wave of Covid-19 and how the state government has been able to contain the pandemic, the chief secretary said, “State government was following the idea of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas evam sabka vishwas’ to make ‘aatma nirbhar bharat’ and remains committed to realise the resolve of ‘Saaf Niyat, Sahi Vikas’ (honest intent and right kind of development) to bring prosperity in lives of the people of all sections of the society.” Asking district officials to use the occasion to inspire the people about idea of secularism, the chief secretary further said, “Throwing light on the original idea of ‘panth nirpekshta’ (secularism), people should be inspired about how nation and society can be built by having love for each other and not by hatred and enmity but by respecting each other’s religion, caste, ideas and great personalities.” “Historical decisions and steps oriented towards development and public welfare indicate that the state government is most sensitive towards common man’s development and security and the law and order situation. The state government is turning challenges into opportunities for development… This country can develop and progress with mutual confidence, amity and unity among the people of all religions and communities,” said Tiwari. When contacted, Tiwari said there was nothing new in issuing the circular. “Independence Day celebration is an opportunity to tell people about what the state government is doing for the people. Such circulars are issued every year though focus may be different in different years,” he said.“We have asked for compliance of Covid-19 guidelines at these programmes,” he said when asked whether any programme was organised during the pandemic last year. “The BJP government has done nothing in the past four and a half year. It should not indulge in any politics on the occasion of Independence Day,” said Samajwadi Party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/convey-govt-s-development-work-to-people-on-i-day-up-chief-secy-to-dms-101628792867820.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||KEM Hospital becomes first public institution in Mumbai to conduct hand transplant||A young man from Madhya Pradesh underwent a hand transplant at Parel’s KEM Hospital, which became the first public-run institution to carry out the procedure in Mumbai. The 14-hour-long surgery was completed early on Thursday by a team of doctors led by plastic surgeon Dr Vinita Puri. Doctors said the next 10 days will be critical to know if the limb was accepted by the recipient’s body successfully. “All we need is good wishes and prayers for the patient right now,” said Puri, adding, “Seven to 10 days after the transplant is the most critical phase.” After the transplant, the recipient was shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) where he will be monitored round the clock. “The recipient is a double amputee in his late twenties,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital. The team of doctors attempted to transplant both hands, but could go ahead with transplanting only the right hand. The procedure also marked the city’s first dual-hand donation. The young organ donor was declared brain dead at a hospital in south Mumbai, after which the family consented to donate all organs, tissues and hands. The family’s noble gesture gave a new lease of life to four patients suffering from end-stage ailments — the kidneys were transplanted to two patients in KEM and Nanavati hospitals, the liver to a patient at SRCC Hospital and the lungs were sent for transplant at a hospital in Hyderabad. The donor’s heart could not be retrieved. Thursday’s hand transplant procedure is first for a public-run hospital and the second one in the city. Mumbai’s first such procedure — a bilateral hand transplant — was carried out on train accident victim Monika More in August 2020 at the privately-run Global Hospital. The hands were donated by a family of a brain dead patient in Chennai. Hand transplants are difficult procedures and much more technical than solid organ transplants like kidneys or liver. These procedures are known as composite allotransplantations and involve connecting two main arteries, bones, multiple veins, nerves and tendons. “Hand transplants are extremely challenging procedures,” said Dr K Subramania Iyer, who led the team that carried out India’s first such procedure at Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences in Kochi in 2015. Since then, there have been only about a dozen such procedures in the country. The first person who underwent the bilateral hand transplant is doing very well and is employed as a transplant coordinator at Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences. “We are yet to see a massive rise in the number of organ transplants in the country. Hand transplants are even more difficult due to reluctance of the families, lack of awareness among transplant coordinators among other things,” he said. According to Iyer, the lack of donor hands is a major problem in driving the hand transplant programme ahead. “We have seven people on our waiting list as of today,” he said. Mumbai has carried out four cadaver organ donations in the past three days and 22 throughout this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kem-hospital-becomes-first-public-institution-in-mumbai-to-conduct-hand-transplant-101628792327797.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||1,150 IIT-Bombay students got job offers during 2020-21 placement season||Around 1,150 students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) were recruited by 292 companies in the campus placement season of 2020-21, despite Covid-19 affecting the recruitment process. According to data mentioned in the institute director’s report released last week, of the total 1,261 offers made by recruiters, 1,150 were accepted by students. This is marginally lower than last year’s 1,209 offers. The Covid-19 pandemic played spoilsport in the campus recruitment process last year after which most IITs chose to conduct the placement process online. Last year when the pandemic broke out, many companies rescinded their offers made to students during the placement drive of 2019-20. “Given that the placement season was conducted during a raging pandemic and given the market conditions, we are very happy with the number of offers students received,” said a member of the placement office of IIT-B, on the condition of anonymity. A total of 58 international offers were made this year, with the highest salary being ₹1.4 crore (approx. Euro 157,000). The highest domestic salary offered was ₹64 lakh.However, the average salary dropped by around 10% in 2020-21 compared to the previous year. The average cost to company for a student had increased from ₹17.49 lakh in 2018-19 to ₹20.08 lakh in 2019-20, but it decreased to ₹17.91 lakh in 2020-21. “The average salary is subjective to various aspects of the placement season. Considering the pandemic and the market, it is not a significant drop,” said the official. This year, too, the institute has decided to continue with an online placement season in the interest of students’ safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1150-iit-bombay-students-got-job-offers-during-2020-21-placement-season-101628792088926.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra issues GR to reduce school fees by 15%||Wary of adverse reactions from parents, the Maharashtra government on Thursday decided to go ahead with its decision to reduce school fees by 15%, despite the opposition from several cabinet ministers. A government resolution (GR) to this effect was issued by the education department on Thursday evening. Coincidentally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday announced a statewide agitation for reduction in school fees, saying the government is full of education barons, who don’t want this to happen. Several Nationalist Congress Party-Congress ministers run private educational institutions. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad had on July 28 declared the cabinet had decided to slash private school fees for the current academic year by 15%. The decision was taken on the lines of the Supreme Court’s (SC) order for reduction of fees for schools in Rajasthan. Last month, the Apex court had asked the Maharashtra government to consider its May judgement to collect 15% lower school fees. The court was hearing a special leave petition filed by schools against the Bombay High Court order dated March 1, 2021 that had vacated the stay on the government resolution (GR) (issued on May 8, 2020) restraining schools from hiking fees for the academic year of 2020-21 in view of the pandemic. The state school education department also wanted to bring in an amendment to the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011 as the government has no powers to intervene in matters related to fees in private unaided schools. According to the legal advice sought by the department, the government resolution will have no legal standing without the government having jurisdiction to intervene. Other ministers were, however, of the view that there was no need to intervene in matters related to private schools as they were facing financial issues. They also said that amending the existing fee regulation act was unnecessary, and an order (GR) was enough to implement it. The proposal for amendment in the act could not be approved in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. In its GR issued on Thursday, the school education department referred to the SC order and said, “For the academic year 2021-22, all schools should reduce fees by 15%. In cases where fees were already paid by the parents, the excess amount (15% of the total fees) should be adjusted in the coming months of this academic year and if it is not possible then it should be returned to the parents. In case of a dispute over fee reduction, divisional grievance redressal committees can be approached and their decision will stand final… No school management should stop students from attending physical or online classes or appearing for exams in case full or partial fees are pending. The management is also not allowed to hold their exams results.” “Most private schools have reached a decision in mutual understanding with parents over fees. They have also collected the fee amount and any such order is likely to create a mess,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity. Another senior NCP minister said, “The proposal for reducing 15% fees was not opposed in the cabinet meeting. There were differences over the way the decision needs to be implemented.” State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said, “Many private schools are shut for more than one-and-a-half years. If the parents are in financial trouble, we can understand, but if the parents will pay lower fees otherwise, the school management will not be able to pay the salaries of their staff.” “Issuing a GR makes no sense as it will not stand in the court of law,” said a senior school education official, wishing not to be named. There has been a constant demand from parents to reduce school fees as people are in trouble owing to subsequent lockdowns imposed to contain Covid-19 pandemic. Soon after the Supreme Court order, parents from Maharashtra in a letter addressed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Gaikwad urged the state to grant some relief to parents of private schools in the state. It was written on behalf of Indiawide Parents Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-issues-gr-to-reduce-school-fees-by-15-101628792087700.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Railway pass is now available online too||The state government on Thursday made available online a facility to get season ticket for railway travel from August 15. Citizens who are fully vaccinated and have completed 14 days after their second dose can get the e-pass through a link that can be accessed on all browsers – http://epassmsdma.mahait.org. Once applicants upload their documents and these are verified, an e-pass will be generated on the weblink. The e-pass needs to be saved on the applicants’ mobile phones, and produced at ticket counters to get the monthly railway pass. The offline verification process will still continue at 53 railway stations in the city, where Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has set up help desks, and at 109 railway stations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. However, those who apply online, do not need to separately do the verification process offline at railway stations, and can directly avail the railway pass at ticket counters. Tickets will be issued by the railway authorities. Meanwhile, on Thursday, the second day of issuing monthly railway passes, 20,637 monthly railway passes were issued to passengers till 5pm. Of these, 14,688 were issued by the Central Railway (CR) and 5,949 by the Western Railway (WR). On the Central Railway, the highest number of passes was issued from Dombivli (1,033) on the second consecutive day. Similarly, on the WR, the maximum number of passes was issued from Borivli (496). Twelve air-conditioned (AC) local train passes, 4,105 second class passes and 638 first class passes were issued by the WR on Thursday till 5pm. Authorities have stated that the number of passengers is fewer than anticipated. “The possibility of many passengers not being fully vaccinated or the 14-day gap could be the reason,” said a senior railway official. A total of 34,353 monthly suburban railway passes were issued to passengers on day one on Wednesday. The CR had issued 22,689 monthly passes, while the WR issued 11,664. The state government’s MAHA-IT, Maharashtra Knowledge Innovation Society and a couple of start-ups, played an active role under relief and rehabilitation department’s principal secretary Aseem Kumar Gupta to roll out the portal. “We got in touch with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for integration of our portal with Co-WIN for verification of details related to vaccinated people. After the announcement by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday, all procedures were completed in just two days,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department. The department has reportedly spent around ₹3 lakh to activate the system. The official said that the state was mulling the idea of using the universal pass for entry for train, air travel and also for entry at malls, theatres, markets. “It is a foolproof system enabled with blockchain technology integration and nobody can fudge with the data, as was found to have done in earlier systems. Except for the photograph, all other information is obtained from Co-WIN using application programming interface. It is very easy to use as the citizen gets OTP for initial verification within seconds and the QR-code enabled pass in the next 24 hours,” the officer said. The state expects a maximum of 2 million people to register themselves for the universal pass. “Of the 3 million citizens fully vaccinated in MMR, more than 40% are either elderly people or don’t travel by train. Of the remaining, some may go for offline registration,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-railway-pass-is-now-available-online-too-101628791429535.html
12-08-2021||Other||UP RERA to revive stuck projects by roping in RWAs||Lucknow: The UP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP RERA) is planning to revive stuck housing projects across the state with the help of resident welfare associations and home buyers’ associations. Of late, UP RERA has successfully revived several housing projects that were lying incomplete or were stuck due to various reasons, including non-compliance with orders of the regulatory authority. Recently, the UP RERA also authorised the Plumeria Homes Welfare Association to complete remaining development work of Rohtas Plumeria Homes housing project in Gomti Nagar here. The registration of this project was revoked on August 3, 2019, after the promoter violated various regulations of the RERA Act. “The national capital region of Uttar Pradesh has had its share of delays in real estate projects, causing misery and suffering to thousands of homebuyers. Most often these delays are due to promoters failing to fulfill commitments made to homebuyers,” said Rajive Kumar, chairman, UP RERA. According to RERA officials, based on the audit done by consultant Currie & Brown last year, it has come to light that around 40 projects in Gautam Buddh Nagar district have been found as net positive surplus and are viable for completion under this model in future. This approach is ideally suitable for projects where the promoter is keen to complete the project but is unable to do so either due to expiry of registration of the project with the UP RERA or due to differences with the allottees. “The UP RERA is planning to extend this approach to various other projects in the state which are stalled either due an impasse between the promoter and the homebuyers or the completion date (as declared by the promoter) has lapsed, including the one-year extension permissible under section 6 of the RERA Act,” said a RERA official. This process will ensure a quick and lasting solution to the stalled projects and safeguard the interests of homebuyers, he added. Under the banner of Uttar Pradesh Aggrieved Home Buyers’ Rights Association, home buyers from all over the state had decided to analyse all pending housing projects and approach the UP RERA for their completion, said Alok Singh, convenor, Uttar Pradesh Aggrieved Home Buyers’ Rights Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-rera-to-revive-stuck-projects-by-roping-in-rwas-101628791427888.html
12-08-2021||Lucknow||Labs to maintain record of 15-day travel history of people going for Covid tests: Lucknow DM||In the wake of anticipated third wave of the pandemic, the Lucknow district administration has ordered all labs conducting Covid-19 tests to maintain a record of 15-day travel history of people going for the tests.Besides, hotels have been directed to inform the district administration if they come across any tourist from other states.“Contact tracing is the most important aspect when it comes to taking measures to check the virus outbreak. It will be possible only if the department is aware of the travel history of the people. Hence, the labs have been asked to maintain a record of 15-day travel history of those going for Covid tests,” said DM Abhishek Prakash while heading a meeting that he called to check the preparedness in the wake of anticipated third wave of the pandemic. The DM also directed the laboratories to load the data on to government portal compulsorily within 24 hours. “Initially, it was observed that the labs had a laid back approach in uploading the data on the portal. But now they should ensure that both negative and positive reports are uploaded on the portal timely,” he added. Besides, he also emphasised on feeding error-free details of the people going for Covid tests. “Earlier, there were many discrepancies in the data following which the teams had to face immense difficulties in reaching out to the people for contact tracing. Hence, it has been directed to cross check the details being provided by the people at the time of Covid test,” the DM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/labs-to-maintain-record-of-15-day-travel-history-of-people-going-for-covid-tests-lucknow-dm-101628791371572.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC raps state for not registering cases against sub-standard chikki suppliers||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday rapped the state government for not registering a first information report (FIR) against contractors who allegedly supplied sub-standard chikki to state-run schools in 2015. After being informed that the awarding of contracts for supplying chikki was also controversial, the court asked the petitioner to furnish details on whether there was any illegality and procedural lapse in awarding the contracts and whether the contractors were ineligible. The court has directed the state to respond and posted hearing after three weeks. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing public interest litigations (PIL) filed by activist Sandeep Ahire and others, was informed that the PILs filed in 2015 had sought a court-monitored inquiry into the alleged scam wherein sub-standard chikki was distributed to children studying in state-run schools as well as the irregularities in awarding contracts running into crores. The court was also told that an earlier bench of the HC had passed an interim order through which contracts and payments to the contractors were stayed. In 2015, Pankaja Munde, the then state women and child development minister, had come under fire from various quarters for allegedly favouring certain suppliers to provide chikki under Integrated Child Development Scheme by awarding contracts worth ₹206 crore arbitrarily. The issue had worsened after reports emerged that the chikkis were adulterated and not fit for consumption.While making submissions on Thursday, the advocate for petitioners said lab reports of the substandard chikki had shown there was mud and clay in them. He further submitted that nearly 24 contracts amounting to over ₹206 crore had been sanctioned in a day to three contractors without following the process of issuing tenders. The bench was informed that the contracts were awarded in violation of a 1992 state government resolution (GR) which laid down procedures to be followed while awarding contracts. After hearing the submissions, the bench asked the petitioner to give a list of points as to how the procedure of awarding contracts for chikki was not followed. “Focus on procedural aspects and see whether the procedure was as per norms. See whether it was tainted or an illegal contract and if contractors were ineligible. We can go into the question of inferior quality of the product at a later stage,” said the bench. The HC also asked the petitioners and the state to furnish the Central government policy for distributing nutrients to children. When government pleader Priyabhushan Kakade replied that no FIR had been filed against the suppliers of alleged substandard chikki, the court said, “Why are there no offences registered under the Food Safety Act against the suppliers? Your officers are busy filing offences against adulterated pedhas and barfis, why not in this case where children are suffering?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-raps-state-for-not-registering-cases-against-sub-standard-chikki-suppliers-101628791311707.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Mandatory full vaccination rule for shops, malls not practical, say Mumbai traders||The state government’s mandate to compulsorily employ fully vaccinated employees in their premises has acted as a spoiler for the shopkeepers, offices and malls. Their contention is, though the move is noble, it is not practical as the state faces an acute shortage of vaccines.The state government, while easing the lockdown restrictions, had announced that all those who are working in shops, offices and malls need to be fully vaccinated and must complete another 14 days after receiving the second dose.The Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT), an association of traders and manufacturers termed the order as impractical. “We appreciate the concerns of the government, but at the same time, we need to keep in mind that there is a shortage of vaccines,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, CAMIT.Gurnani cited that if anyone has taken his first dose of Covishield in August, he will be getting his second dose in November. In the case of Covaxin, he will have to wait for 28 days and then another 14 days for antibodies to develop before joining work.The Retailers Association of India (RAI), while welcoming the opening of malls, called the vaccination clause regressive. “Majority of the people working in malls are in the age bracket of 18-45 years. How can we resume the operations of the malls if they are not allowed to come to work?” questioned Kumar Rajgopalan, chief executive officer, RAI.Even hotels and restaurants, that are now allowed to operate till 10pm questioned the decision. “Till now, we were allowed to operate till 4pm without our staff getting vaccinated. Now after the extending the timings by six hours, they want us to be fully vaccinated,” rued Amrish Arora, managing director, Fountain Hospitality Private Limited (FHPL), which runs four restaurants including Flamboyante and Fountain Sizzlers, “We are ready to get our staff tested every 15 days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mandatory-full-vaccination-rule-for-shops-malls-not-practical-say-mumbai-traders-101628791128388.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Reduce future chaos on roads, frame parking policy: Bombay HC to state||The Bombay high court (HC) expressed concern over the future of the society if a proper policy for vehicular parking was not made, and warned that there would be utter chaos if the number of vehicles in individual families were not restricted to the parking space owned or available to them, as they end up parking their excess vehicles on the sides of the road outside the building, thus making it difficult for movement of pedestrians and other vehicles. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Navi Mumbai resident and activist Sandeep Thakur, was informed that the petition challenged the government notification which amended the Unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations (UDCPR) Rules, permitting developers from reducing car parking space. Thakur submitted that the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) had relaxed off-street parking norms in favour of developers, as a result of which vehicles owned by flat owners were being parked outside buildings. Thakur sought to quash and set aside the off-street parking provisions framed by NMMC and to restrain NMMC from acting upon the said provisions. After hearing initial submissions, the court expressed anguish at the way in which NMMC had reduced parking space. Referring to the condition of Mumbai, the court said, “We expect the state government to ensure that new and planned cities do not face issues due to illegal on-street parking the like of which we see in Mumbai due to roadside car parking which results in congestion.” The PIL has further claimed that off-street parking regulations have been formulated without any requisite survey, and sought a departmental secretary-level inquiry and urged for suitable action against officials involved in finalising the rules. The petition also sought direction to developers who secured development permissions after December 2, 2020, to make arrangements for off-street parking inside premises of complexes based on provisions prevalent prior to the amended rules being introduced. The bench said that roads were flooded with vehicles and almost 30% of the roads were taken away by vehicles parked on both sides. “These are genuine public concerns which have to be taken into consideration and there is a need to come up with long-term measures so that we do not have a chaotic society. There has to be a policy in place,” said justice Kulkarni. While suggesting ways of reducing new vehicles, the bench said the state could have a policy wherein purchase of new vehicles was allowed only to those who had their own parking space. “Reduction in purchase of new cars is needed. You cannot have four-five cars in a family just because you can afford, unless requisite parking is granted in the premises of society. It was mentioned earlier that the state would make it mandatory for everyone to show parking space before vehicle registration. What is the status of that policy?” the bench asked the state counsel. The bench also suggested that just like Pune had adopted multi-level basement parking in new residential and commercial complexes, Mumbai should also adopt similar measures to ensure that roads are not lined with cars. The court also sought to know about the status of the Mumbai civic boy’s drive to penalise vehicle owners to the tune of ₹10,000 for parking vehicles on the road if there is a dedicated public parking space nearby, and said that it should be implemented strictly. The bench then directed the state to file an affidavit in reply to the petition and the queries raised by the court within two weeks and added that no further extension would be granted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reduce-future-chaos-on-roads-frame-parking-policy-bombay-hc-to-state-101628790887636.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Rise in Delta variants, vaccine shortage main concerns amid relaxation in Maharashtra||Even as Maharashtra government has relaxed Covid-related restrictions, officials from public health department are faced with two main concerns — rise in Delta and Delta Plus cases, and acute shortages of vaccines. Anticipating a third wave, public health experts said these two issues could contribute to aggravating Covid-19 cases. While medical experts have described the relaxations as a ‘calibrated thought’, they are emphasising on robust mass immunisation which is lagging behind due to shortages of vials.Since the start of the second wave in mid-February, the state has sent over 8,000 samples for genome sequencing to identify variants of Sars-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19. Almost 80% of the samples have tested positive for the Delta variant. On the other hand, Delta Plus (AY.1), a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant (B.1.617.2), was detected in the state during the second wave. In June, the Union health ministry declared it as the variant of concern.The number of Delta Plus variant cases increased from 21 in June to 65 in August. At present, the positivity rate of Maharashtra stands at 2.11% which is higher than the national average of 1.34%. Six districts in the state — Beed, Pune, Sangli, Satara, Sindudhurg and Solapur — are still recording seven-day high positivity rates between 7% and 4.6% while the state’s average is 3.3%.The Delta variant is more transmissible while the Delta Plus variant is believed to defeat vaccines and immunity against the infection. Dr Lancelot Pinto, epidemiologist and pulmonologist from Hinduja Hospital, said the Delta Plus variant, in addition to having mutations seen in the Delta variant that renders it potentially more transmissible than the Alpha variant, also possesses the K417N mutation (lysine-arginine in the spike protein).“The concern now is that the presence of this mutation in the Delta Plus variant might render it immune to the antibodies produced by vaccine, past Covid-19 infection or new antibody cocktails used in treatment,” said Pinto. “However, this hasn’t yet been proven and might not necessarily be the case, and the rarity with which the Delta Plus variant has been reported makes it not a variant of concern yet. But we do need to be vigilant and monitor its spread closely.”Priority should be on vaccinationVaccine shortage across the state is hindering the immunisation process. An analysis of the data shows that in the past 11days, the number of inoculation dropped to 3,165,269 compared to 4,670,787 between July 20 and 30.When HT inquired with peripheral civic-run hospitals, many said they do not have vials for the past two days. Dr Pratima Patil, medical superintendent of Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivli, said, “Though people are coming forward to get vaccinated, we can’t inoculate them as we don’t have the stock. We don’t know when we will get vials again.” The situation was similar with Bhagwati Hospital in Borivli and Bhabha Hospital in Kurla. With relaxation in Covid-19 restrictions, medical experts said robust mass immunisation programme is the need of the hour which can help divert the third wave by increasing sero prevalence among citizens. “The available vaccines in India have shown good response to the predominant variant, which is the Delta variant. Data from the United Kingdom also confirmed that Covishield offered them protection from getting severe cases and hospitalisation. So, it is essential that people take both the shots of vaccines for better immunity,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, director of critical care, Fortis Hospital, and member of state’s Covid-19 task force.When asked if it is a reasonable idea to relax the restrictions in a state with over 140 million citizens amid rising cases of Delta variants, Pandit said “Governing bodies have put a lot of thought into this calibrated unlocking. We need to be cognisant, act as responsible citizens, and shoulder the responsibility of wearing double masks despite being vaccinated, and not host social gatherings that could turn into super spreader events. If we adhere to this, unlocking will be smooth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rise-in-delta-variants-vaccine-shortage-main-concerns-amid-relaxation-in-maharashtra-101628790407447.html
12-08-2021||Other||UP CM unveils HN Bahuguna’s statue||Lucknow Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday unveiled a statue of freedom fighter and former UP chief minister late Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna on the premises of Yojna Bhawan. The statue was unveiled as part of the programmes under ‘Azaadi Ka Amrit Utsav’ and ‘Chauri Chaura centenary celebrations’. Yogi also inaugurated an exhibition on the life and works of Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna. Speaking on the occasion, he said that Bahuguna’s personality was towering, and he was multifaceted. He made a significant contribution in the freedom movement. His contribution to the state as its chief minister too was unforgettable, Yogi said. Former chief minister of Uttarakhand and Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna’s son Vijay Bahuguna thanked the CM for the statue of his father. BJP MP and Bahuguna’s daughter Rita Bahuguna Joshi too expressed gratitude to Yogi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cm-unveils-hn-bahuguna-s-statue-101628790227918.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra asks local officials to decide on school reopening||It is up to local officials to decide, taking into consideration the COVID-19 situation in an area, whether physical classes should resume at schools, Maharashtra School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Thursday. Asked about the confusion about the government's announcement to resume more physical classes at schools from August 17, Gaikwad said the decision-making has been decentralized. The state task force on COVID-19 at a meeting on Wednesday night opposed the decision to reopen more classes at schools. Gaikwad was not present at the meeting. The minister told reporters on Thursday that municipal commissioners in urban areas and collectors and Zilla Parishad CEOs in rural areas have been given discretion to take decision. "There is no compulsion (on the state government's part) to reopen schools. The COVID task force members were not aware of our Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). There will be a meeting again. Our (education department's) secretary is studying the SOP of the task force,'' Gaikwad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-asks-local-officials-to-decide-on-school-reopening-101628790071221.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to get 159,000 vaccine doses on Thursday night; drive to resume on Saturday||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was set to receive 159,000 vaccine doses on Thursday night, which will be distributed to vaccine centres on Friday. Vaccination drive will resume in the city only on Saturday from 9am to 5pm.There will be no vaccination in the city at public vaccine centres on Friday. In a statement on Wednesday, BMC had announced that vaccination drive has been suspended for Thursday and Friday, due to shortage of vaccines.Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of BMC’s public health department, on Thursday evening said, “We are to receive 159,000 vaccine doses tonight. Around 10,000 or so are Covaxin doses while the rest are Covishield.” BMC had previously received 45,000 vaccine doses on last Saturday.On Wednesday, 39,538 beneficiaries were inoculated in the city. Of the beneficiaries, 11,758 received their second dose and 27,779 with the first dose. So far, a total of 1,926,530 citizens have been fully vaccinated and 5,769,495 beneficiaries have been vaccinated with their first dose in Mumbai.Due to shortage in vaccine doses, fewer beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the city as compared with the vaccination capacity. On August 10, 43,003 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 12,973 received their second dose and 30,030 the first dose. On August 9, 97,967 beneficiaries were vaccinated of which 32,226 received their second dose and 65,741 the first dose. On August 9, BMC-run vaccine centres administered jabs to 46,969 beneficiaries, state and centre operated vaccine centres to 3,980 beneficiaries, and private centres vaccinated 47,018 beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-get-159-000-vaccine-doses-on-thursday-night-drive-to-resume-on-saturday-101628790047517.html
12-08-2021||Gurugram||Governor Dattatreya to be in city on Independence Day||Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya will attend the Independence Day celebrations in the city as the chief guest, officials said. According to a letter issued by the state administration on Thursday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will unfurl the flag at Faridabad, deputy chief minister will be present at Mahendragarh and state governor Bandaru Dattatreya will be in Gurugram. In an order issued on August 9, the state administration also restricted the gathering for Independence Day celebration at the district level to 1,000 people. Social distancing, Covid-19 appropriate behaviours and mask discipline have to be followed. “It is also advised that these functions be held preferably in stadiums with a seating capacity of more than 5,000 persons so that adequate social distancing norms could be observed,” read the order. Currently, the Covid-19 cases in the district are in the trough, with nearly 50 cases being reported every week. On Thursday, the district reported five new Covid-19 cases, with 75 active cases overall. The tally of Covid-19 cases in the district is 180, 977 and the death toll is 920.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/governor-dattatreya-to-be-in-city-on-independence-day-101628789630809.html
12-08-2021||Gurugram||Trio pulled up for illegal constructions on Old Railway Road||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Wednesday issued a show-cause notice to three persons in connection with the illegal construction, development and sale of around 50 flats and as many shops on Old Railway Road in Old Gurugram. The department has directed these individuals to stop further construction on the plot and also asked them to explain by August 17 why no action should be taken and the plot restored to its original condition as per the master plan. RS Bhath, the district town planner (enforcement) said that they had received a complaint that illegal construction of flats had been carried out on a plot on Old Railway road in the revenue estate of Gurugram village without any permission from the department or other agencies. “We had received a complaint based on which an inspection was conducted on Wednesday. We found that around 50 flats were constructed without any permission from authorities. A large number of shops have also been constructed in violation of rules and we have issued a show-cause notice to three persons in this connection,” said Bhath. The notice issued by the enforcement department states that a site inspection was conducted on August 11 following a complaint. “The allegations levelled in the complaint are found correct and the construction work is still going on at the site. It has been found that an unauthorised colony has been carved out in the land situated in kila number 0/1358 in the revenue estate of village Gururgam without any approval/permission from the competent authority,” the notice said. The notice stated that these flats and shops are being sold in violation of the Haryana Urban Development Act of 1975. DTCP officials said that if a satisfactory reply is not received, they will issue a final notice to the violators and initiate action. Over the past month, this is the third such instance where notices were issued to real estate dealers and developers for constructing flats illegally. Last week, the department had issued a notice to developers and owners of Sai Lane Colony on Old Railway Road, which, officials said, has been constructed on around 5,000 square yards in violation of rules. Before that, a case was registered against 22 people for building and selling plots illegally in Sector 65.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/trio-pulled-up-for-illegal-constructions-on-old-railway-road-101628789629533.html
12-08-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination camps for factory workers, labourers in Basai to be increased||To tackle the rush of factory workers and labourers arriving at Basai health centre for Covid-19 vaccinations, the district has planned to increase the number of camps for vaccinating people. Officials said that people start forming queues from midnight to collect tokens distributed at the health centre for vaccinations on a first-come, first-served basis. “It has come into the notice that workers were reaching Basai health centre from midnight in large numbers, queuing up to take the tokens. Considering the inconvenience faced by the people, an additional camp was set up with proper seating arrangements. A special camp will be set up for pregnant women too,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.According to Singh, vaccine doses have to be equally distributed to all health centres but considering the heavy footfall, an additional camp was organised on Thursday to provide more than 100 doses as first shot and 200 as a second shot to people at two sites in Basai. The Basai health centre has been getting a footfall of more than 250 people every day. Overall, 2,013,511 vaccine doses have been administered in the district till now. On Thursday, about 12,977 doses were given, of which 7,748 vaccine shots were at government hospitals and 5,229 were at private hospitals. For Friday, the district health department has opened slots for 3,800 first-shot jabs and 5,710 second-shot jabs.According to the government data, at least 54% of people in 45-60 year age group have been inoculated with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccines. Gurugram is currently second in the state, after Ambala, after covering 81% of the 45-60 age group. In the 18-44 year category, about 91% of people are vaccinated in Gurugram, which is the highest across the state, followed by 65% in Dadri and 61% in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-camps-for-factory-workers-labourers-in-basai-to-be-increased-101628789628356.html
12-08-2021||Gurugram||30-year-old held at Sector 14 checkpoint for posing as a cop||A 30-year-old man was arrested for posing as an inspector of the Haryana Police in an attempt to pass through a police barricade quickly in Sector 14 on Wednesday, the police said. A fake identity card, which the suspect allegedly used to avoid paying toll at borders, was recovered from his possession. According to the police, he tried to cross a checkpoint at Atul Kataria Chowk in Sector 14 by flashing the fake identity card.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that one of the policemen on duty signalled the driver of a white Swift to stop, but he tried to accelerate and was boxed in with barricades. “The suspect started abusing the constable. He claimed that he was inspector Prince of the Haryana Police and was on duty. He also threatened to take action against the men on duty. Becoming suspicious, the constable asked him for his identity card, which he handed over to them,” he said. Sangwan said the constable checked the ID card and found it to be fake. “He called his station house officer and informed him about the same. The man was asked to exit the car. When senior officials questioned him, he could not give a satisfactory reply and revealed that he was using a fake identity card of the Haryana Police to avoid paying toll at borders, cross police checkpoints and exert influence,” he said. The suspect was identified as Prince Madan, a resident of New Colony in Palwal, and preliminary investigation revealed that he has no past record, the police said. The police said that the name mentioned below his picture was that of a commissioner of police and did not match with the name he introduced himself with. A case was registered under sections 170 (impersonating a public servant), 420 (cheating), 467 (whoever forges a document which purports to be a valuable security or a will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (used as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 14 police station. He was remanded to two-day police custody on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/30yearold-held-at-sector-14-checkpoint-for-posing-as-a-cop-101628789569269.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 6,388 new cases; experts call for caution while easing curbs||As the state government decided to ease the lockdown, many experts have expressed their apprehension and suggested to be cautious in the backdrop of an impending third wave. The state on Thursday recorded 6,388 cases and 208 deaths. The state’s case tally has now reached 6,375,390, while the toll stands at 134,572.There were 210,675 tests done on Thursday, while the number of recoveries clocked at 8,390. There are currently 62,351 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 14,423 patients, followed by Sangli with 7,027 active patients and Satara with 6,573.According to Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor, Maharashtra government for Covid-19 management, such easing should be done in a staggered manner. “We should first open with districts having less number of patients and less positivity rate,” said Dr Salunkhe. “These areas should be strictly monitored and in case of any surge in cases, these patients need to be isolated,” he said.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his Sunday address, had warned the citizens that the pandemic is still not over. He said that people should take care especially during upcoming festival season.From August 15, malls have been given the green signal to open their premises. In addition, hotels and restaurants have been given an extension of timings till 10pm from the previous 4pm. Even weddings in lawns have been allowed with 200 people and in a closed environment, 100 guests or 50% capacity of the hall, whichever is higher.According to Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, the twin approach of mass vaccination and strict action against those who defy the Covid-appropriate behaviour should be adopted by the government. “There is no doubt that the relaxations are necessary, but at the same time, the government needs to deal strictly with those who don’t obey the rules and endanger the lives of other people,” said Dr Gilada. “If there is a shortage of vaccines, then the vulnerable section should be vaccinated first,” he added.Meanwhile, on Thursday, Mumbai clocked 281 new Covid-19 cases with seven deaths. The city’s tally has reached 7,38,520 with 15,975 deaths to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-6-388-new-cases-experts-call-for-caution-while-easing-curbs-101628789447766.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||5th sero-surveillance starts in Mumbai; 8,000 samples to be collected across 24 wards||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday began the fifth sero-surveillance for coronavirus, in the city, in view of the anticipated third wave. As part of this survey, around 8,000 samples will be randomly collected from slum and non-slum areas across 24 administrative wards. These will be tested at Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital at Sion.Seroprevalence studies are conducted to understand past exposure of an individual to a virus and to know the extent of the spread of infection in the population, with the prevalence of antibodies.The fifth serosurvey is being conducted with the help of IDFC Institute and ATE Chandra Foundation, BMC said in a statement on Thursday. Sample collection in slum areas will be done through municipal dispensaries, and in non-slum areas through clinics of selected general practitioners.So far, four surveys have been conducted by BMC in Mumbai. The first and second serosurvey was done in July and August 2020, in three wards; the third survey was conducted in March 2021 in all 24 wards; and the fourth survey was conducted from May to June this year, in the pediatric age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5th-sero-surveillance-starts-in-mumbai-8-000-samples-to-be-collected-across-24-wards-101628789207392.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||No coordination between Maharashtra government, ministers, task force, alleges Fadnavis||Maharashtra leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday claimed that there is no coordination between the state government, the ministers and the task force. He was commenting on the issue of schools re-opening in the cities. Fadnavis also accused the state government of indecisiveness in decision making, leading to confusion in combatting the Covid pandemic. Fadnavis was in Thane and Navi Mumbai on Thursday to attend various events. He claimed the government is misleading citizens on the Maratha reservation issue, which it wants to delay till the local body elections in the state. Responding to a query about the ongoing confusion over the reopening of school in Maharashtra, Fadnavis said, “I think there is no coordination between the state government, the ministers and the task force, which leads to confusion among the students as well as their parents.” Fadnavis added, “The decision-making process of the state government is not up to the mark. There is a lot of confusion. A minister says that schools will start in the state and the next day it is reported that the task force is against it. There is obviously a lack of coordination among the departments. The state government needs to get its act right and plan efficiently to face future hurdles.” Accusing the state government of misleading on the Maratha reservation issue, Fadnavis said, “Unless there is a census, the OBCs cannot be declared and unless that happens reservation cannot happen. The government has not initiated any process for it as yet, and is indulging in blame game despite the Central government clearing all hurdles.” He claimed that the state government is deliberately delaying the local body elections. Castigating the state minister Nitin Raut and Congress for raising the issue of atrocities on women in Uttar Pradesh he said, “There are atrocities on women, especially from the economically weaker sections in Maharashtra every day. How many of them have Nitin Raut met, extended help or condemned the incident.” Citing several instances in the state, he said, “I have a very long list of such cases and there has been inaction in several cases.” (Inputs from Gautam S Mengle)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-coordination-between-maharashtra-government-ministers-task-force-alleges-fadnavis-101628788967285.html
12-08-2021||Other||Seva Vikas Coop Bank loan fraud: 3 new cases registered||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad police have registered three new cases against a former chairperson, directors, staff members, and loan beneficiaries of the Seva Vikas Co-operative Bank, in a loan fraud estimated to be worth ₹429.57 crore, said Krishna Prakash,cCommissioner, Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The chairperson and directors are facing at least 14 cases and are out on bail now. All new cases have been registered at Pimpri police station.The accused include Amar Mulchandani, Manohar Sadhuram Mulchandani, Dr Gurubaksh Matnani, Vijaykumar Gopuchand Ramchadanani, Narendra Pandhuragn Brahmakar, Pankaj Prakash Masand, Dheerak Sadhi Bhijwani, Bharti Prakash Anand, Data Ashok Mulchandani,Deepa Jeevat Mangtani, Rajesh Popat Sawant, Chandrashekhar Ahirrao, Ashok Sadhuram Mulchadnani, and Pakash Shivan Das Pamnani, according to police. Among the bank employees, there are 16 other names in the case along with three groups of benediciaries.An SIT including police inspectors Balkrushna Sawant, Sriram Paul, Vasant Babar, and Devendra Chavan, led by assistant police commissioner Prerna Katte and deputy police commissioner Sudhir Hiremath has been formed.The bank loan was granted to groups of people while flouting many rules, according to Commissioner Prakash.“It is clear that the loans were used as a front and the money was going to someone else,” said Commissioner Prakash.The cases were registered based on an audit report submitted by Rajesh Udhavrao Jadhvar, special auditor of the Maharashtra co-operatives department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seva-vikas-coo-bank-loan-fraud-3-new-cases-registered-101628787047909.html
12-08-2021||Other||63 rescued turtles airlifted to Assam to be released into wild||PUNE The state forest officials airlifted 63 turtles from Pune to Assam, to be released into their natural habitat on Thursday. The turtles include endangered species like the Indian roof turtle, the crowned river turtle, brown roof turtle and spotted river terrapin. The turtles were rescued during various seizures in the state, an official said, adding that the animals were flown to Assam on Thursday afternoon.The exercise was a joint initiative by the state forest department and the Turtle Survival Alliance.“This is the first time endangered and rare species of turtles are being sent by air to be released into their natural habitat in the north eastern state,” Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forest (Pune division), said. In Guwahati, the turtles will be handed over to the Turtle Survival Alliance and forest officials from Assam. Of the 63 turtles, 55 were with the Indian Herpetological Society, Katraj, and eight were with the RESQ Charitable Trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/63-rescued-turtles-airlifted-to-assam-to-be-released-into-wild-101628786386733.html
12-08-2021||Kolkata||Bring back cycles on Kolkata roads: Ruskin Bond among others appeal to Mamata||Several prominent personalities, including a Trinamool Congress parliamentarian and authors, made an appeal to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to lift the ban on cycling from 64 arterial roads in Kolkata.Terming the West Bengal government's ban unjustified, SwitchON Foundation, a not-for-profit group, that launched a campaign #BringBackCycles, said in an open letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee that cycles are not only zero-emission transportation but also enables livelihoods and reduces congestion in the city.The West Bengal government in consultation with Kolkata Police had in 2014 banned cycling on 64 major thoroughfares of the capital city Kolkata, including Camac Street, Shakespeare Sarani, Mahatma Gandhi Road, citing safety hazards and pace of vehicular movement on arterial roads.The letter, signed by eminent personalities such photojournalist Raghu Rai, actor-film director Aparna Sen, archer Rahul Banerjee Archer, Trinamool MP Saugata Roy, iconic singer Usha Uthup, filmmaker Anupam Roy, economist Jean Dreze, oncologist Dr Suman Mallick, actor Anindya Chatterjee, sportsperson Dola Banerjee, journalist and human rights activist Sumanta Banerjee, pointed that the traffic cops of Kolkata Police enforcing the ban are themselves highly susceptible to respiratory ailments due to air pollution, which further increases chances of morbidity from the Covid-19.Vinay Jaju, the founder of SwitchON Foundation, which also started the Bengal Clean Air Network, said, "Ironically, those who have implemented the cycling ban, are themselves most vulnerable to air pollution as per a study."The study, titled 'Evaluation of the impact of ambient air pollution on respiratory health of traffic police in Kolkata', by researchers from Sister Nibedita Government General Degree College for Girls, Kolkata and the University of Kalyani, found high levels of particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10) behind reduced lung function, especially among police personnel in north Kolkata followed by south and central zones.A total of 228 police personnel participated in the study of which 128 undertook pulmonary lung function tests. Researchers found that traffic constables were at a higher risk group, likely to develop respiratory dysfunctions. PM 2.5 and PM 10 were found to be associated with decreasing respiratory and cardiovascular health of traffic police, leading to the risk of death. The survey also showed many traffic cops with restrictions of lung expansion, obstruction, and narrowing airways.“From the study, we found PM 2.5 and PM 10 are key polluting agents in Kolkata. Although ambient air quality varies across locations and with seasons, traffic cops working were found to be seriously vulnerable due to long term exposure,” said Dr Subhashis Sahu, associate professor and the head of the department of physiology at the University of Kalyani, who also co-authored the study.The letter also found support from legendary author Ruskin Bond and novelist Amitav Ghosh, who is also known for his literary works focussing on climate change and human migration, as well as actor Dia Mirza, cricketer Varun Aaron, Indian documentary filmmaker Anand Patwardhan, senior advocate Justice Anjana Prakash, Mahatma Gandhi's great-grandson Tushar Gandhi, and activist Aruna Roy.“Cycles are making a comeback in cities across the world. They don’t pollute the atmosphere. They don’t cause traffic jams. We need them in Kolkata and every other town and city," Ruskin Bond said.Dr Sahu explained that traffic police personnel working especially in central Kolkata frequently complain of poor respiratory health. “The longer exposure to a polluted environment causes more impairment of pulmonary function parameters,” he said, adding that for improvement of air quality, less polluting transportation such as cycles was key.Kolkata has been grappling with severe air pollution and ranks 25th among the 1,000 most-polluted cities globally, as per a 2019 report by the World Health Organization.Vinay said his organisation has appealed to the commissioner of Kolkata Police to lift the ban and help implement a cycle safe infrastructure for Kolkata. “We have already addressed the issues inhibiting them from having a cycle track in and around the city. This is why we consulted a wide range of mobility experts from across the country who were in favour of keeping cycling at the centre of the mobility planning for sustainable development in cities,” he said.Trinamool Congress MP and a close aide of Mamata Banerjee, Saugata Roy, said, “I am all for cycles. I want cycles back on the roads of Kolkata. This would reduce pollution and save fuel. All over Europe, cycles are a new rage. Let cycles come back. Our party MPs went by cycle to Parliament on the first day of the Monsoon session.”Echoing him, Padma Shri awardee singer Usha Uthup who even created a cycling song in her own unique style to support the campaign shared that it took a lockdown in the entire country to make people fall in love with cycles once again making them extremely popular.“Today the youth are back on the roads cycling, not only for their health but also for the health of the city. Bicycles are the need of the hour across lanes and bylanes of the city under the Kolkata police’s jurisdiction. Zero restrictions and infrastructure support promoting cycling will help city residents to start commuting short distances using cycles, which will eventually pave the way for commuters to look at this as a recognised mode of transport. In the long run, bicycles will help us stay fit, ensure we have fun, and also breathe clean air by cutting down on vehicular pollution,” she said.Former additional director of Central Pollution Control Board, Dipankar Saha said that the vehicular emissions in Kolkata are a significant contributor to deteriorating ambient air quality. "The city needs dedicated infrastructure to support cycling such as a bicycle corridor to ensure that citizens focus on non-polluting mobility that improves one's health and physical well being. No bicycle track should be constructed along vehicular lanes with busy traffic. As far as possible, bicycle lanes should be considered along with the greens, forest etc which will definitely increase health criteria," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-kolkata-cycling-ban-revocation-air-pollution-open-letter-101628774330205.html
12-08-2021||Other||Minor held for killing abusive father||PUNE The Pune rural police have apprehended a minor for bludgeoning his father to death for assaulting, torturing, and starving him.The arrested boy is 16 years of age, while the deceased is a man in 50s, according to the police.The now-deceased man used to come home, often under the influence of alcohol, and turn violent towards the boy, according to a complaint lodged by the minor’s elder brother.The man had thrown the boy out of the house at night and forced him to sleep in the cowshed without any bedding after beating him up.Enraged by the treatment meted out to him by his drunk father, the child used a metal instrument from the cowshed and hit him in the head, causing a fatal head injury, according to the police.The family has a business of milk production and distribution. Natives of Pimprigaon in Haveli, the family had recently moved to Davdi village in Khed. The child killed the father in the shed in their house.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Khed police station. Police inspector Satishkumar Gurav is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-held-for-killing-abusive-father-101628786206573.html
12-08-2021||Other||4, including husband, booked for woman’s death by suicide||PUNE: A man, his parents, and one other person have been booked for forcing the parents of the man’s wife not to reveal to doctors that she had attempted to die by suicide.The 29-year-old man allegedly told the woman’s parents not to tell doctors that his wife had consumed 20 pills of the anti-viral drug Dolo, 650mg. The accused man and the now-deceased woman married on May 31, 2020 and the woman was declared dead on Sunday, 14 months after the wedding, according to the police.The woman died under treatment at Dr DY Patil Hospital. The parents of the woman believe that the concealed information created roadblocks for the doctors to diagnose and treat their daughter. The woman was driven to suicide by her in-laws who made continued demands for dowry, according to police. The family of the accused were upset over the lack of grandeur at the wedding and gifts to the man’s side of the family. The accused had also allegedly demanded ₹5 lakh cash as dowry, according to the police.The accused allegedly abused the woman physically and mentally. A case under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide), 498(a) (domestic violence), 304(2), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506(1) (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at Chikhali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-including-husband-booked-for-woman-s-death-by-suicide-101628786086505.html
12-08-2021||Other||Motorbike rider killed after ramming into pole in Chandan nagar||PUNE A motorbike rider was killed after he rammed into an electricity pole in Chandan nagar on Tuesday night.The deceased was identified as Pramod Krushna Bolake (29), a resident of Sriram Society in Namdevnagar, Vadgaonsheri.Bolake was riding with Vishal Kumar (19), also a resident of Vadgaonsheri.The two were speeding from Ahmednagar road towards Khulewadi road around 10:30pm when they hit a speed-breaker and lost control of the vehicle, according to the police. The vehicle then skid and rammed into an electricity pole, killing Bolake and grievously injuring Kunar.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the 19-year-old pillion rider who was injured in the accident.A case under Sections 279, 304(a), 337, 427 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 119/177 and 184 of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Vimantal police station. Sub inspector MV Bidwe of Vimantal police station is investigating the case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/motorbike-rider-killed-after-ramming-into-pole-in-chandan-nagar-101628786026587.html
12-08-2021||Other||Hello, Sharad Pawar speaking... 3 booked for ‘fake’ phone call||A case has been registered at Chakan police station against three people for making a phone call, with one of the three pretending to be Sharad Pawar, Nationalist Congress Party supremo, to extort money from a contractor in Khed.The three were identified as Dheeraj Pathare, Gurav, and Kiran Kakade, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner, Pimpri-Chinchwad police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Prataprao Vaman Khandebarad (54), a resident of Kadachiwadi, Khed.“Khandebarad had taken a loan from Pathare with 13 acres as collateral. Pathare had charged a high interest rate of 10% per month. After some time, as Khandebarad could not pay back the money, Pathare took ownership of the 13 acres, but the demand for the money did not stop,” said commissioner Prakash.When Pathare kept asking for money Khandebarad registered a case under the Maharashtra Moneylending (Regulation) Act, 2014.In January, Pathare started making life-threats to the complainant, his wife, and his brother-in-law on their personal mobile numbers, according to the complainant. On April 30, he went to their home and threatened to kill them if they did not give ₹5 crore in interest.“Then he came up with an idea and collaborated with two others to pretend to be Sharad Pawar. Gurav spoke as Sharad Pawar and Kakade pretended to be his assistant. They used an online platform that enabled them to show the caller ID as the residential number of Sharad Pawar,” said commissioner Prakash.A case was registered under Sections 387, 504, 506, 507, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Chakan police station. Senior police inspector Lalsingh Rajput is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hello-sharad-pawar-speaking-3-booked-for-fake-phone-call-101628785848292.html
12-08-2021||Patna||Bihar: 1.36 lakh candidates to take B.Ed entrance test today||Altogether 1.36 lakh candidates have registered to take the Bachelor of Education (B.Ed) combined entrance test (CET) on Friday at 276 exam centres spread over 11 cities of the state.Officials of Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), the nodal university for conducting the test this year, said preparations have been done keeping Covid-19 safety protocols in mind. The exam will be held offline in single sitting from 11am to 1pm.A total of 1,36,772 candidates have registered for the exam. This comprises 75,525 male students, 61,238 female and nine transgenders. In Patna alone, 40,793 candidates have registered for the exam across 70 exam centres.State nodal officer Ashok Kumar Mehta said, “All preparations have been done for conducting fair and peaceful examination. Centre superintendents will ensure implementation of standard operating procedures, including thermal screening, sanitisation, minimal contact and alternate seating arrangements. Candidates have been instructed to wear mask and bring sanitiser.”Meanwhile, Patna district administration has also geared up to make necessary arrangements for conducting the exam. “Adequate number of static magistrates, police force and flying checking squads have been deputed at exam centres. They will join by 9am,” said a senior official of the district administration.The Bihar B.Ed CET is conducted for admission to such courses offered by different colleges affiliated with 15 state universities, including Patna University, Aryabhata Knowledge University, Nalanda Open University and Patliputra University. There are around 354 government and self-financing B.Ed colleges in Bihar, with more than 35,000 seats approved by the National Council for Teacher Education.The exam was earlier scheduled to be held on May 30. However, it was postponed thrice due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-1-36-lakh-candidates-to-take-b-ed-entrance-test-today-101628785667229.html
12-08-2021||Other||‘Land deals led to Katihar mayor’s murder ’||The police on Thursday claimed to have cracked the case of murder of Katihar mayor Shivraj Paswan, saying all 16 accused had been arrested and that personal enmity arising out of land deals was the reason behind the killing.Katihar superintendent of police (SP) Vikash Kumar said, “We have arrested 16 people, including the 12 accused named in the FIR. The case has been solved,” he said.Shivraj Paswan, 40, was shot dead on July 29.The SP said the murder was a fallout of personal enmity owing to land dispute between key accused Neeraj Kumar Paswan and the slain mayor. According to the police, both dealt in buying and selling land. “Shivraj managed to buy a piece of land in Katihar town which Neeraj has been eyeing for a long time. This led to Neeraj eliminating the mayor with the help of his henchmen,” SP Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/land-deals-led-to-katihar-mayor-s-murder-101628785607753.html
12-08-2021||Other||Ramtekdi industrial estate members to meet PMC with proof of garbage dumping||PUNE: The Ramtekdi Industrial Estate’s initiative to install cameras to catch the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the action of illegally dumping garbage on their industrial plots has proven successful. The residents and members of the industrial estate will tomorrow meet Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials, including municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, solid waste management department head Ajeet Deshmukh, and additional municipal commissioner (estate) Kunal Khemnar with proof that the garbage is being dumped inside the estate by trucks belonging to the PMC itself.Residents and members of Ramtekdi Industrial Estate were forced to take such action after they did not get any response despite writing several times to the PMC solid waste department about the alleged garbage dumping inside the estate. According to Shenaz Chawla of Pune Waste Warriors, a non-profit committed to cleaning up India, “There is continuous dumping of garbage which has accumulated to mountainous proportions, which is very destructive and hazardous for the industrial estate.” The only good outcome of the constant complaints was to bring citizens together to help catch the PMC in the action of dumping garbage on live CCTV footage. According to citizens, the amount of garbage brought in trucks is never-ending with almost 40,000 tonne of garbage having accumulated inside the estate.The industrial estate has over 140 companies and there are also some residences nearby that are affected by the garbage dumping. Rajesh Bhojwani, who owns a unit in the estate said, “We had a meeting with Vikram Kumar who stated the problems but was also very constructive and suggested constituting a citizen and civic body engagement association to help arrive at a solution. We have that meeting tomorrow where we will show the officials proof that despite their claims that not a single vehicle is dumping garbage, the reality is quite the opposite.”The estate also houses the corporation-approved Rochem unit that was installed a decade ago to generate electricity from waste however estate residents and members allege that they have never really seen it working.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ramtekdi-industrial-estate-members-to-meet-pmc-with-proof-of-garbage-dumping-101628785606497.html
12-08-2021||Other||Katraj residents see red over frequent power cuts||Siddharth GadkariAt a time when homes have morphed into offices and classrooms due to the covid-19 pandemic, the residents of Bharat nagar, Jambhulwadi, Dattanagar and Gujarwadi road area of Katraj have turned irate owing to the frequent power cuts cramping their lives. They are blaming the Maharashtra State Electricity Development Corporation Limited (MSEDCL) for its lackadaisical approach as their situation is worsening despite repeated complaints. Forced to deal with physical inconvenience, water shortages and loss of business due to the outages, residents have threatened to intensify their agitation and not pay electricity bills if their problems remain unsolved. Meanwhile, MSEDCL officials are claiming that they have resolved the residents’ difficulties.Sunil Deshmukh, a resident of Krupashrushti society, said, “For the past fortnight, we are facing irregular power supply. There are 40 bungalows and 100 families in our society. At a time when education has gone online and most people are working from home following pandemic restrictions, interrupted power supply is extremely annoying. Sometimes, there are up to three power cuts within an hour…”Mahendra Kolhe, a resident of Blue Spring society of Jambhulwadi, said, “Our children have been unable to regularly attend online classes for the past one week. Work and classes are going awry due to the power cuts. We have to go to our relatives’ homes for our children’s online classes.”Dhanashri Patil, a resident of Dattanagar area of Jambhulwadi, said, “My older daughter is a software engineer and has been working from home but her work gets hampered. My younger daughter is in Class 10 and faces problems with online studies. It is difficult to even get water on time in the society.”Deepak Sargar, a resident of Gujarwadi road area of Katraj said, “Whenever we call the MSEDCL office, we get stereotypical replies that work is underway and that there is a fault in the underground cable and it will take time.”Sanjay Ghodke, additional executive engineer of the Dhanakawadi sub-division of MSEDCL, said, “There was a problem of interrupted power in Dattanagar and Bharat nagar area of Katraj but it has been solved. Due to an underground cable fault, there were frequent power cuts in this area. The urban areas are expanding and the old cables cannot take the additional load. So we changed the underground cables. An underground cable fault takes more time to identify as compared to overhead cables. However, we are trying to solve the problem as early as possible.”“Narrow lanes and unavailability of space for installation of transformers are some of the hurdles in the way of uninterrupted power supply. The Pune Municipal Corporation has given an assurance to provide space for transformers and other electricity-related utilities,” Ghodke said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/katraj-residents-see-red-over-frequent-power-cuts-101628785246448.html
12-08-2021||Other||Pune Ganesh mandals agree to no processions this year||PUNE Prominent Ganesh mandals in the city have committed to tone-down the annual Ganeshutsav and to ensure no processions were taken out during the festival.No fresh applications for permissions to erect stalls, stages or other festival-related infrastructure will be accepted by the PMC or the police this year. Permissions granted in 2019 stay in place for 2021.A meeting with representatives of the Ganesh mandals and PMC office-bearers, including the mayor, was held on Thursday.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, along with police personnel were present.The Ganesh festival will start on September 10, and end on September 19 this year.Mayor Mohol said, “All Ganesh mandals promised to keep it down, like last year and only carry out religious programmes.”Against the background of Covid-19, Ganesh mandals asked the PMC to give them any health information that they can distribute to the faithful.One representative of a Ganesh mandal, requesting anonymity, said, “Last year, Pune was the first city which announced that there would be no Ganesh festival. This year, considering the chances of a third wave, mandals will behave more responsibly and help the authorities.”No sale of idols on roadsPune mayor Mohol said, “PMC has decided to allot land for sale of Ganesh idols on various grounds and in school premises in the city.” Like last year, citizens should immerse the idol at home. PMC will also provide mobile water tanks, area wise, where citizens can immerse the idols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-ganesh-mandals-agree-to-no-processions-this-year-101628784586399.html
12-08-2021||Other||Pune locals to wait for Mumbai to resume train services||PUNE: While Mumbai gears up to resume local train services following chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s announcement that persons fully vaccinated against Covid-19 can return to train travel, residents of Pune will have to wait till Mumbai recommences train services. The same applies to those who commute regularly between Pune and Lonavala and Daund junction.A K Singh, senior public relations officer, central railway, said, “Let Mumbai restart its local train services and see how the protocols laid down by the state Government work from August 15. We will wait to see the response and then take a call after the government gives us the nod.”Thackeray had announced that fully vaccinated commuters who had completed the 14-day period after their second dose of the covid-19 vaccine would be able to procure special railway passes on a specially-created application (app) on their smartphones.Manoj Jhawar, Pune public relations officer, central railway, further said, “Ever since Mumbai announced resuming local train services for fully vaccinated commuters, there is a lot of speculation from around 4,000 daily commuters to and from Mumbai and Daund. But till the state government takes a call, we cannot do anything about it. During the coronavirus pandemic, only eight trains were allowed between Pune and Lonavala, that too for essential services, owing to Covid restrictions.”New coach for DQ on Independence Day On the occasion of Independence Day on August 15, a new coach will be added to the iconic train, the Mumbai-Pune Deccan Queen. Responding to commuters’ suggestions, the central railway has fitted an end coach – a wide window dome one – to the Pune end of the train for an unrestricted view of the ghats.The Deccan Queen is the second train on the central railway to get a vista dome coach with the first being the Deccan Express which has seen a very good response from commuters. The 34-seater fully air-conditioned vista dome coach has a large trailing window in the rear, huge side windows for panoramic views, a top made of see-through glass, and 180 degree swivel chairs for an unparalleled viewing experience. A one-way reserved ticket in this coach costs Rs915. Ever since booking has begun on August 8, the coach is almost always full and on the train’s return journey from Pune to Mumbai on August 16, it has a waiting list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-locals-to-wait-for-mumbai-to-resume-train-services-101628784526436.html
12-08-2021||Other||7 blocks in Pune district report less than 21% of kids immunised||PUNE Due to the ongoing pandemic, seven blocks in Pune district have reported less than 21 per cent routine immunisation among children. As per district health officials, these talukas have reported less immunisation due to the rise in Covid cases in the past few months. With the threat of a third wave of Covid, routine immunisation among children is important, officials noted. Velhe, Ambegaon, Purandar, Bhor, Junnar, Indapur, Baramati in Pune district have reported less than 21 per cent full Immunisation for children as of June 31, 2020.Speaking about the numbers, district health officer Bhagwan Pawar said that the target for each taluka every month is eight per cent.“Likewise, till June end, the total immunisation in each taluka should be around 25 percent. By August end, it should be 33 percent,” said Dr Pawar.While routine immunisation for children is important, it will help us strengthen the fight against Covid, said officials.Dr Sachin Edke, district immunisation officer, said that due to the rise in Covid cases, many on-ground workers were not able to meet the targets.“They are now being directed to identify how many children are left out and to complete a door-to-door survey. Regular immunisation camps will help cover the required number of beneficiaries,” said Dr Edke.“To fight against the third wave of Covid, full Immunisation of children between the age group of zero to five years is important. We have directed the primary healthcare centres to conduct regular immunisation camps. If some children are left out, door-to-door immunisation will help with the coverage,” said Dr Edke.He added that officials in the respective blocks are instructed to complete the coverage targets by the end of August.Along with Pune district, other districts also reported a similar situation. There are 131 blocks in the state which have reported less than 21 per cent immunisation of children this year.Fully immunisiedBlocks -- % of children immunised of June 31Velhe--21Ambegaon--21Purandar--21Bhor--21Junnar--21Indapur--20Baramati--19Source: District health officer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-blocks-in-pune-district-report-less-than-21-of-kids-immunised-101628784346530.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records first death from Delta Plus Covid-19 variant||The city has recorded its first death due to the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19. A 63-year-old woman patient who was fully vaccinated, according to the civic body, succumbed to the infection. The Delta Plus (AY.1) is a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant of Sars-CoV-2 (B.1.617.2) and was detected in the state during the devastating second wave. In June, the union health ministry declared it as variant of concern.According to initial information provided by the civic health officials, the deceased patient was a resident of the eastern suburbs. She had several comorbidities, including diabetes. She was one of seven patients in the city who recently tested positive for the Delta Plus variant. According to a civic official, the patient, who was vaccinated with Covishield, was detected with Covid-19 on July 21. She had dry cough, loss of taste and body ache. She was admitted to ICU on July 24. She was on oxygen support and was administered steroids and remdesivir, but died on July 27. “The patient had lung disease and obstructive airway disease, for which she was taking oxygen treatment at home before the Covid-19 infection. She didn’t have any travel history,” said an official. Six of her family members have also been found Covid-19 positive. Two of them have been detected with the Delta Plus variant after genome sequencing. The death takes the state’s toll due to Delta Plus to two. Last month, an 80-year-old woman from Ratnagiri became the first Covid-19 patient in the state to succumb to the with Delta Plus variant of the infection. The senior citizen died on June 13 and her genome sequencing report, which identified her as infected with AY.1, was submitted to the state health department on June 20.At present, the total figure of Delta Plus variants in Mumbai has increased to 11 from one in June. Of the latest seven patients identified with Delta Plus variant, three were fully vaccinated, while one had only taken the first shot. “Majority of the seven newly identified patients belong to the 17-38 common age group. All seven are female,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Amid growing cases of Delta Plus in the state, which currently stands at 65, medical experts stressed the need to ramp up vaccination. “What experience from across the world has consistently shown us is that when rates of vaccination are high, even if variants cause surges in infections, such infections tend to be of a milder nature and do not cause hospitalisations or deaths on a large scale. We also need to do our best to limit crowds, as overcrowding has consistently led to spread over the past 18 months,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, a pulmonologist and epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-first-death-from-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-101628784167104.html
12-08-2021||Other||3 fresh cases of delta-plus variant in Pune district||PUNE The State health department said that even though there is a slight increase in the number of delta-plus Covid cases, the overall number is not high. Of 20 fresh cases of the delta-plus variant detected on Wednesday, three are from Pune district. State officials said that of 65 cases so far, 33 are from the age group of 18 to 45 years.Genome sequencing for these cases is done by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB).Of these, three cases are from Pune district and three from Thane district. The maximum number of cases were found in Jalgaon district, where 13 people tested positive, while 12 tested positive in Ratnagiri district and 11 in Mumbai. Three patients tested positive in Palghar. Nanded, Gondia and Raigad district reported two cases each. Chandrapur, Akola, Sindhudurg, Sangli, Nandurbar, Aurangabad, Kolhapur and Beed reported one patient, each taking the total to 65 cases.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said that in districts where the delta-plus variant has been found, information about the patients is being collected and patients are being monitored closely.“There is an increase, but the increase in the number of patients is not that high. Delta-plus and delta variant cases are reported because there is a detailed sequencing of tests done. We have so far tested 10,000 samples through genome sequencing and only 65 have tested positive for the delta-plus variant,” said Dr Awate.He added that contact tracing is also carried out for delta-plus variants. “As per a memorandum of understanding (MoU), signed by Maharashtra state and IGIB, genome sequencing on 100 samples from each district is to be done every month,” said Awate.Post the genome sequencing, 80 per cent of cases are positive for delta variants. “And 65 individual samples have been tested positive for the delta-plus variant,” said Awate.Speaking about the delta and delta-plus variant, Dr Dnyaneshwar Mote, member of the Pune city Covid task force for Social Action said that the virus will have variants.“These variants are more contagious than other variants. The situation is getting worse worldwide and India should be alert. To tackle the situation, the best solution is to fully vaccinate the population. As more people are vaccinated, there will be increased immunity, which will stop the virus from mutating into further dangerous variants,” said Mote.BoxDelta-plus Covid variant Fresh cases as of August 12Mumbai - 7Pune - 3Nanded, Gondia, Palghar and Raigad -- 2Chandrapur and Akola -- 1Total fresh cases -- 20Total cases so far -- 65||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-fresh-cases-of-delta-plus-variant-in-pune-district-101628783806447.html
12-08-2021||Other||Decision on 10pm deadline for Pune will be taken at Covid review meet: civic chief||PUNE After the state government’s order on Wednesday announcing operation timings for various businesses till 10 pm, the issue of whether shops and malls in Pune will also get an extension to daily closing times will be discussed at the weekly Covid review meeting, officials said. After the latest round of relaxations being implemented in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad from Monday, restaurants are allowed dine-ins till 10 pm. Shops, malls, gyms, salons, beauty parlours, and spas are allowed to operate till 8 pm. The state government’s latest order, effective August 15 throughout Maharashtra, allows shops and malls to also operate till 10 pm. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said that the matter would be discussed at the weekly review meeting. “At the weekly Covid review meeting this particular matter will be discussed,” said Vikram Kumar. Business operators from various sectors, especially malls and gyms, feel that it would be beneficial to have a closing timing of 10pm. “Pre-Covid, we used to have batches till 10pm and many used to come to gyms directly from offices and then go home. Now, mostly people are working from home and have to work till late evening. So if we are allowed to operate till 10pm then more people would be able to join,” said Nilesh Kale, president, Pune Fitness Club Association. Mall operators also shared the same thought. “We welcome the decision to extend timings. Especially the food and beverage operators who would hope to get more patrons during this time,” said Mahesh M, chief executive officer (CEO), Creaticity Mall, Pune. He also added that the precondition of allowing only fully vaccinated people in malls will discourage those with a single jab. “With all safety and hygiene protocols in place and with plenty of outdoor and open spaces, we are well suited to provide the ideal environment for shopping and dining, but we are looking forward to further relaxations soon,” said Mahesh M. Representatives of the traders’ association however said that they are comfortable with the 8pm deadline for now. “In the main market of Pune, late afternoon and evening are peak hours. Customers usually come till 8-8.30 pm. So the current closing timing of 8 pm is fine now,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary, Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decision-on-10pm-deadline-for-pune-will-be-taken-at-covid-review-meet-civic-chief-101628783506375.html
12-08-2021||Lucknow||Yogi surveys flood-affected areas in Varanasi by boat, assures all possible help||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday surveyed the flood-affected areas in Varanasi and took a boat ride from Rajghat to Purana Pul area to assess the situation. He said there was no dearth of funds for giving relief to flood-affected people and told officials that assistance must reach them in time.He also interacted with flood-affected people in a relief camp at Alia Garden and at a relief centre at JP Mehta Inter College in Varanasi. Besides asking about the well-being of the people, he distributed flood relief material.“There is no need to worry. The state government is with you. All possible help will be given,” he said and instructed the officials to ensure that no stone was left unturned to assist the affected people.The chief minister also reviewed the flood situation and relief work in four other districts — Ghazipur, Bhadohi, Chandauli and Mirzapur of eastern Uttar Pradesh — via video conference. He will visit Ghazipur on Friday morning.Instructing officials to deploy a nodal officer for every flood- hit village, he said the control room may be used to extend relief. Asking officials in Varanasi to stay alert till September, he said if it rained in Uttarakhand, the water level of the Ganga would increase in Varanasi.No flood victims should be deprived of relief material, he said, adding that the district administration should seek the cooperation of public representatives.Officials said 141 villages were flood-hit in Mirzapur. The chief minister told the Mirzapur district magistrate that boats were not seen in the Chunar area during a flood survey and arrangements must be made there immediately.He asked senior police officials to deploy women constables at relief centres for the security of women there.According to the Central Water Commission, the Ganga was flowing at 72.32 metres in Varanasi, about a metre above the danger level of 71.262 metres but the water level had now become stable after rising for the past few days.A total population of 39,490 has been affected in Varanasi district and there are 22 flood relief centres in which 3237 people are staying. As many as 111 boats have been engaged to help people in the district where 161 villages are affected.The police are operating 42 boats in Varanasi where 25 sub-inspectors are keeping vigil along with 100 constables.While 5300 ration kits have been distributed to the flood affected people, cooked food is being provided to 3950 people every day through community kitchens.Thirty-two medical camps have been organised every day, through which 1260 people have been given medicines and ORS packets were distributed to 660 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-surveys-flood-affected-areas-in-varanasi-by-boat-assures-all-possible-help-101628782546995.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Dharavi reports no new Covid-19 cases for second straight day, active caseload at 16||No new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported from Dharavi in Mumbai for the second consecutive day on Thursday as the total confirmed cases from the area remained unchanged at 6,992.The active caseload in Dharavi stood at 16, according to the latest data. Earlier, on three other days namely, August 3, 8 and 11, the colony had not reported a single Covid-19 case, news agency PTI reported, citing a senior health official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Further, in June and July too, there were no cases reported from Dharavi on some days, PTI also reported. Notably, the place was one of the hotspots of the disease in Mumbai during April this year as the second wave of Covid-19 hit Maharashtra. At its peak, there were 99 single-day cases in Dharavi on April 8, 2021.Also read | Follow Mumbai’s home vax module, HC asks civic bodies across MaharashtraMeanwhile, out of the 6,992 confirmed cases, 6,596 people have recovered from their illness and been discharged from hospitals, according to the official. The first case of Covid-19 was reported in Dharavi on April 1.On Thursday, Maharashtra reported 6,388 new Covid-19 cases and 208 more fatalities as the state’s tally reached 6,375,390 cases and the death toll climbed to 62,351, according to a bulletin from the state health department. The state currently has 62,351 active cases of the disease. Among the districts Pune with 14,423 cases remained the highest contributor to the state’s active caseload tally.The capital city of Mumbai witnessed 279 new cases of the disease in the last 24 hours and seven more fatalities. So far, 738,522 people have tested positive for the disease while 15,975 have lost their lives in Mumbai. The city’s active caseload was recorded at 2,928 as of 6pm on Thursday, according to a bulletin from the BMC.Covid-19 vaccination has been temporarily halted on all government-run vaccination centres and BMC centres on August 12 and 13 and would be resumed on August 14 following fresh supplies, the BMC had tweeted earlier on Wednesday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dharavi-reports-no-new-covid-19-cases-for-second-straight-day-active-caseload-at-16-101628781727526.html
12-08-2021||Lucknow||Active Covid cases drop below 500 in Uttar Pradesh: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said the number of active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh had dropped below 500. The chief minister was reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state with senior officials engaged in the management of the disease. The term active cases refers to the number of patients currently under treatment.“Today, the active Covid cases in the state have gone below 500. To be precise, the number is 490. The state is doing 2.5 lakh (250,000) Covid tests daily on average. The (24-hour) positivity rate is stable at 0.01% and the recovery rate is 98.6%. Yet, there is a need to stay alert and be cautious. A little neglect could cause serious trouble,” the chief minister said.He said 54 districts did not report even a single fresh Covid case in the past 24 hours while 20 districts recorded fresh cases in single digits.In the same period, the state reported 43 fresh cases across Uttar Pradesh while 71 patients recovered.“With 10 cases, Maharajganj is the only district that has reported cases in double digits. All these infected persons reside in the same place on the Gorakhpur-Maharajganj border. Apart from their movements in Gorakhpur, they do not have any travel history. Send a team today to the area and do special contact tracing. Collect samples and bring them to Lucknow for genome sequencing and exercise special alertness in the area. Keep district administration and health teams on alert,” the chief minister said to the officials concerned.The chief minister also said the state had administered 5.55 crore (55.5 million) doses of Covid-19 vaccines till now.The chief minister also talked about cases of infectious diseases caused by contaminated water recently in Lucknow. “Some negligence regarding the management of sewer lines has been noticed in some parts of the state. In some places after laying sewer lines, roads were not relaid, while in other places mixing of sewer water into drinking water has been reported. This happened because of lacunae in planning. Such cases were noticed in Lucknow,” he said.“Take immediate notice of all such incidents and rectify the problems. Also, act against those who were responsible for the incidents,” he asked the urban development department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/active-covid-cases-drop-below-500-in-uttar-pradesh-yogi-101628781527021.html
12-08-2021||Pune||Pune district sees 1,180 fresh Covid positive cases, 18 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 1,180 fresh Covid positive cases and 18 deaths in the past 24 hours, according to the state health department. Eight deaths were reported from Pune rural, eight deaths from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and two deaths from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). PMC has so far reported 506,658 Covid cases and 8,914 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 259,320 cases so far and a total of 3,432 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 335,053 total cases and 6,351 Covid deaths. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,101,031 Covid cases. Of this, 1,067,600 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 19,008 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 14,423 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 8,390 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,175,010. The recovery rate in the state is 96.86%. Across Maharashtra, 6,388 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 208 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.11%. The state health department stated that of the 50,326,812 laboratory samples, 6,375,390 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 12.67% of patients till Thursday. Currently, 398,397 people are in home quarantine and 2,507 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-sees-1-180-fresh-covid-positive-cases-18-deaths-101628781286275.html
12-08-2021||Pune||Pune crime branch seizes narcotics worth ₹5.20 crore in past 30 months||Pune: The Pune crime branch has filed 273 cases, arrested 374 drug peddlers and seized narcotics estimated to be worth ₹5.20 crore during the past 30 months. It has filed 36 cases in 2021 as compared to 119 in 2019. The anti-narcotics cell has seized drugs worth ₹1.53 crore in 2021, as against ₹3.83 crore in 2019. At least 56 persons were arrested by the department in 2021. The corresponding count in 2019 was 157, according to the crime branch officials. The narcotics seized by the crime branch and the customs department in joint operations include marijuana, hashish, mephedrone, cocaine, LSD and brown sugar. The police have filed the cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The crime branch officials said that narcotics smuggling mainly take place in slums, labour camps, posh societies and places visited by youth for entertainment and outings. Koregaon Park, Kalyaninagar, Yerawada, Mundhwa , Baner, Hinjewadi and Mohammadwadi have emerged to be the hotspots for narcotics trade. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “As per the directions of the police commissioner, we have started a zero tolerance policy towards narcotics trade in the city and launched a complete crackdown leading to many arrests and seizure of drugs. Special squads have been readied to bring an end to the drug menace and dossiers are being prepared on drug suppliers and couriers. Public awareness about the dangers of drugs and crime branch crackdown have led to reduction of narcotics trade in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-crime-branch-seizes-narcotics-worth-rs-5-20-crore-in-past-30-months-101628780446204.html
12-08-2021||Patna||BJP to take out Jan Aashirwad Yatra in Bihar from August 19||After Chirag Paswan’s faction of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and the Janata Dal (United) or JD (U), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is all set to launch its Jan Aashirwad Yatra from Gaya on August 19.The yatra will roll out in Bihar under the leadership of RK Singh, who was elevated to the rank of Cabinet minister during the recent expansion of the Narendra Modi Cabinet. The BJP is organising Jan Aashirwad Yatras for its newly inducted union Cabinet ministers across the country. Thirty-nine ministers who joined the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s new Cabinet in last month’s reshuffle will hold massive rallies in their respective states.“The yatra will seek to inform people about the achievements of the BJP-led union government and programmes aimed at boosting employment through its focus on self-reliance,” said BJP Bihar president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal while talking to mediapersons on Thursday. Also Read | Bihar Cabinet greenlights Panduka bridge, to be made by 2024In the first week of July after the split in LJP, party leader Chirag Paswan embarked on an Aashirwad Yatra in Bihar, while JD (U) leader Upendra Kushwaha started a Bihar Yatra on July 10. Paswan’s uncle and union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras is also scheduled to start an Abhar Yatra from his parliamentary constituency Hajipur on August 16. BJP leaders said that through this yatra, the party wants to portray that the Modi government is giving representation to weaker sections and various communities, especially at a time when regional parties in Bihar have made caste census an issue. “On July 8, the Modi Cabinet expanded and for the first time in the history of India, 27 backward people got to participate in the government of India. For the first time, there are 12 scheduled caste ministers and eight scheduled tribe ministers in the union Cabinet,” said Jaiswal. There are six ministers from Bihar in the union Cabinet.“The yatra will start on August 19 from Gaya and culminate at Ara on August 21. During this period, union minister RK Singh will address a gathering of intellectuals in each of the districts while deputy CM Tar Kishore Prasad will join the yatra at Ara,” said the BJP state president. The yatra will include visits to places of religious significance, paying tributes at memorials and statues of national heroes, addressing the public, overseeing the distribution of food grains under the PM Anna Yojna and even visits to vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-to-take-out-jan-aashirwad-yatra-in-bihar-from-august-19-101628779186929.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Follow Mumbai’s home vax module, HC asks civic bodies across Maharashtra||Expressing satisfaction at the progress of home vaccination drive in Mumbai and other municipal areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the Bombay high court (HC) has asked other municipal corporations in the state to consider replicating the home vaccination module of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) within their limits.The HC was informed that the BMC had inoculated 1,317 bedridden and immobile individuals of the 4,889 registered persons without any incidence of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) till August 9. The drive was started on a pilot basis on July 30 in the K-East ward. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while perusing the affidavit filed by the BMC and submissions made by the petitioner advocate Dhruti Kapadia observed, “This figure constitutes roughly 25% of total registered beneficiaries. The encouraging part is that none of the persons vaccinated had any AEFI. We record our satisfaction that the BMC has been moving in the right direction. We expect the corporation to cover more such bedridden individuals in the days to come.” The petitioner advocate Kapadia who along with advocate Kunal Tiwari had filed the public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the Centre, state and BMC to initiate door-to-door vaccination for people aged above 75 years, the disabled and the bedridden while addressing the court on Thursday submitted that she was happy with the way the drive was going and urged the court to direct BMC to include people above 75 and 80 years in the scheme as well. Kapadia, however, submitted that the affidavit filed by the BMC on August 10 responding to the queries of the court on the number of people provided jabs at home and the role of NGOs that had been roped in was not clear and hence the BMC should clarify. The BMC affidavit stated that the NGOs would provide support to the teams conducting home vaccination by calling beneficiaries prior to the visit of the team as well as do a follow up with the beneficiary after the jab was administered. The court observed, “With respect to the nature of support received from NGOs, presently there is nothing on record precluding the corporation from taking help from NGOs to administer vaccines.” Additional government pleader Geeta Shastri for the state submitted that the suggestions furnished by Kapadia on providing a helpline and introducing biometrics for beneficiaries without proper documents had been forwarded to the state Covid task force for consideration. Shastri assured the HC that once the task force considers them, appropriate action will be taken to implement the approved suggestions for the benefit of the class of people. The court also took on record the submissions by Kapadia that Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation and Thane Municipal Corporation had also started home vaccination in their jurisdiction and said, “We encourage other corporations of this state to initiate measures for home vaccination of bedridden individuals following the same pattern adopted by BMC.” The court then asked the state and other authorities to inform it about further developments based on its directives and posted further hearing of the PIL on September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/follow-mumbai-s-home-vax-module-hc-asks-civic-bodies-across-maharashtra-101628775046705.html
12-08-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM Bommai says extra precautionary measures needed in border districts to control Covid-19||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that more precautionary measures were needed in districts surrounding the state’s borders to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He also directed the officials in the border districts to be vigilant to the spread of the virus.Bommai made the remarks during his visit to Mangaluru, the headquarters of Dakshina Kannada district, where the Covid-19 cases have seen a significant spurt recently. “I have come here to review the Covid-19 situation. Our objective is to completely control Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada district. There is a need to take extra precautionary measures in the border regions,” news agency PTI quoted Bommai as saying.Asking district officials to allow people from the neighbouring states into Karnataka only after checking their negative report of a Covid-19 test, Bommai said that he plans to visit other border districts soon. The chief minister visited Mysuru earlier and is scheduled to visit Udupi on Thursday.Also read | Kerala reports 23.5k Covid cases, 116 deathsIn Mangaluru, Bommai inaugurated a new intensive care unit at the Wenlock Madison government hospital. “We are increasing the number of ventilators, ICU beds and oxygen beds. We started the programme to be ready to deal with any challenge. We need to be more prepared,” he said. Further, he said that his government would set up an ICU unit in the paediatric centres in the district and 100-bed Taluk hospitals.As many as 1,826 people tested positive for the disease in Karnataka on Wednesday taking the total confirmed cases so far to 2,922,875, according to a bulletin from the state health department. The state has been reporting over at least 1,100 new infections every day since the past few days. Meanwhile, 36,881 people have succumbed to the illness so far.Dakshina Kannada is one among the five districts where more than 100,000 cases have been reported so far. It lies on the state’s border with neighbouring Kerala. Bommai’s directions on more precautions came as Kerala continues to report a high number of daily new cases.On Wednesday, 23,500 people tested positive in Kerala and the test positivity rate stood at 14.49%, according to the state government’s data. Karnataka already has implemented some restrictions such as mandatory Covid-19 negative certificate and testing on travellers arriving in the state from Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-says-extra-precautionary-measures-needed-in-border-districts-to-control-covid19-101628770460345.html
12-08-2021||Other||Uttarakhand CM Dhami felicitates hockey player Vandana Kataria||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Thursday felicitated hockey player Vandana Kataria at her residence over her performance in the Tokyo Olympics. He also handed over a cheque of ₹25 lakh to her. The Indian women’s hockey team crashed out of the race for the bronze medal at the Olympics.Dhami called Kataria Uttarakhand’s pride and said as a part of the Indian women’s hockey team for more than a decade, she has made everyone proud through her hard work and dedication.Also Read | U’khand Congress leader Harish Rawat says his Twitter account among those lockedDhami on August 8 also conferred on her the Tilu Rauteli award, which is given annually to 22 women for their exemplary services. He also announced Kataria will be the brand ambassador of the state’s Beti Bachao, Beti Padavo campaign.Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party state president Madan Kaushik also felicitated Kataria. Lawmaker Adesh Chauhan has assured of repairing a road leading to Kataria’s house in Haridwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhand-cm-dhami-felicitates-hockey-player-vandana-kataria-101628770534524.html
12-08-2021||Other||Uttarakhand villagers find new ways to deter illicit liquor suppliers||People of around a dozen villages in Uttarakhand’s Almora district have decided to discourage liquor suppliers from entering their villages by thrashing them with stinging nettle leaves. The villagers have also decided the blacken the faces of such liquor suppliers. The stinging nettle plant, which is found in abundance in the Himalayas, has fine hairs on its leaves and stems which contain chemicals that are irritants. These chemicals are released when the plant comes in contact with the skin, causing red rashes, pain and itchiness. “Liquor has destroyed not only the social fabric here but also ruined many families. Those involved in illicit liquor trade supply it to villages here,” said Mukesh Rautela, president Ekta Manch of Sheetlakhet area in Almora district.Also Read | Uttarakhand CM meets Amit Shah with request for an AIIMS in Kumaon region Villagers of around a dozen villages, includingTalla Tikhoon, Naula, Salla, Syahidevi, Champakhali, Matila, Dol, and Dolpokhra took part in the procession on Sunday under the banner of Ekta Manch to protest against the illegal liquor supply. Meena Bonal, president of the women wing of the Manch, said, “Miscreants are supplying the liquor door to door here. Several villagers, particularly the young, are getting addicted. We have informed the local administration about this illicit trade, but of no use.” Pankaj Bhatt, senior superintendent of police Almora said, “Our police teams conduct raids as well as random checking to stop the smuggling of the liquor. Police have seized a considerable quantity of liquor smuggled into our district. We will intensify our drive against this trend.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhand-villagers-find-new-ways-to-deter-illicit-liquor-suppliers-101628770294641.html
12-08-2021||Patna||STF arrests four alleged arms smugglers from Bihar’s Lakhisarai||A team of special task force (STF), with the help of Lakhisarai police, arrested four alleged arms smugglers late on Wednesday. They also recovered four pistols, eight magazines, and five cell phones from the men in Lakhisarai. The accused allegedly sold the weapons, illegally manufactured in Wardha, Munger, to criminals in Delhi-NCR. They reportedly bought the firearms for ₹20,000-25,000 and sold them for around ₹50,000. The arrested men were identified as Mohammad Ahmadullah, Mohammad Waliullah, Mohammad Ali Sher Raza alias Azad and Mohammad Shahjad, all natives of Bahera and Manigachhi in Darbhnaga district. Also Read | Bihar to ramp up oxygen generation, storage by August 31Lakhisarai SP Sushil Kumar said Ali Sher is wanted by Delhi Police for over 23 cases of murder, loot and kidnapping. During interrogation, the accused reportedly confessed that they brought pistol from Munger and were on the way to Delhi in their Ford Eco-Sport SUV. It may be recalled that it was in Wardha that a racket was busted in 2018 wherein arms smugglers were supplying weapons such as AK-47 assault rifles to criminals and Maoists after smuggling them out of the ordnance factory in Jabalpur. More than 20 AK-47 assault rifles were seized and the case was taken over by NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/stf-arrests-four-alleged-arms-smugglers-from-bihar-s-lakhisarai-101628769574416.html
12-08-2021||Kolkata||Man abducted in Bengal for antique coins he never possessed||Police in West Bengal have arrested six people for allegedly abducting a man to get 19th-century antique coins worth ₹20 lakh he falsely boasted of possessing. Investigators cited the probe so far and added the man was trying to cheat the six men by claiming to have the coins.“We received a complaint from a woman alleging that her brother Akash Sardar was kidnapped by a few men and that the abductors have demanded a ransom of ₹20 lakhs. Six persons have been arrested from Bansdroni in south suburban Kolkata,” said Maqsood Hassan, additional police superintendent, Baruipur.Sardar allegedly took ₹20,000 advance from the six with the promise that he would hand over to them the coins in a few days as he had to steal them from his home. He later told the six the coins were not with his family anymore and he could arrange them. “But when he failed to give the coins and was also not refunding the money, the men abducted him and demanded a ransom of ₹20 lakh, thinking that if they do not get the coins they would get the ransom of an equal amount,” said a second police officer.Also Read | Bengal governor Dhankhar meets PM Modi in Parliament, TMC takes a potshotPolice cited preliminary investigation and added two of the alleged abductors, Sheetal Agarwal and Shanawaz Mollah, were interested in the deal because they collect antique coins. “They first demanded the coins as ransom. But when the family members said that there were no such coins, they demanded a ransom of ₹20 lakh,” said a third officer.Police arrested the six after they sent Sardar’s sister with a bag to Bansdroni to hand over the ransom amount to the abductors. When two of the accused came to receive the money, a police team accompanying her intercepted them. Sardar was later rescued from a car parked nearby while the other four alleged abductors were also arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/man-abducted-in-bengal-for-antique-coins-he-never-possessed-101628768794416.html
12-08-2021||Other||4 kids with flu die in MP village, 42 found ill||Four children, aged between five and nine who suffered from fever and flu, have died in Madhya Pradesh’s Khandwa district over the last two weeks and another 42 are ill, an official said and added their samples were sent for Covid-19 testing on Thursday.Chief medical and health officers D S Chauhan said a case has been registered against a quack, Gulab Singh, for treating the children which resulted in the deaths. He blamed Singh’s carelessness for the deaths.Also Read | Indore becomes India’s first ‘Water Plus’ city. Here’s why it mattersA second official said the quack was treating 46 kids suffering from fever, cold, and flu in Langoti village of the district. “Four children died. After the matter came to light on Wednesday, a survey team visited the village and found another 42 children ill. The villagers informed the team that Gulab Singh was treating them,” the official said.The parents of the children said they were forced to seek Singh’s help as there are no medical facilities in their village. Ashok Patil, who lost his nine-year-old son, said, “In a nearby primary health centre, we did not get any medical facilities as there is no doctor. They refer patients to a hospital that is 60 km away. We do not have enough money to go there so we consult the quack for ₹50.” Patil added his son died because of poor health facilities and action should be taken against local health officers.District collector Anay Dwivedi said an inquiry has been ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-kids-with-flu-die-in-mp-village-42-found-ill-101628768434680.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||10 injured as unsafe building collapses in Ludhiana||At least 10 people, including two children, were injured after a two-storeyed building collapsed in Ludhiana’s Industrial Area on Thursday morning. Three adjoining buildings, including the one housing more than 150 quarters of labourers, were damaged after the incident at RT Woollen on RK Road. Also read: US reported 35% increase in new Covid-19 cases last week, India 2% decline: WHOSeven of the seriously injured, including a two-year-old child, have been hospitalised. More than 100 labourers were present in the quarters when the adjoining building, which was in a dilapidated condition, collapsed at 8.45am. Spread over 2,000 square yards, the building had been declared unsafe after a fire broke out at the unit on May 24 last year. Despite complaints by the owners of nearby buildings, including Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) councillor Swarandeep Singh Chahal, the municipal corporation (MC) and the owner failed to raze the unsafe structure. The MC had sealed the building on August 5. Chahal had expressed the fear that the unsafe building could collapse during the rainy season. The owner of adjoining buildings, including former Congress district president Jagmohan Sharma, criticised mayor Balkar Sandhu and the civic body for inaction after the owner allegedly removed the seal and restarted work inside the unsafe building. The labourers said that the remaining part of the unsafe building could collapse any time. The MC has sealed the main gate of the factory to save its skin after the incident, while no senior MC official visited the spot. Police from Moti Nagar police station reached the spot and said an FIR is being registered against the owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-injured-as-unsafe-building-collapses-in-ludhiana-101628767594299.html
12-08-2021||Pune||Taste of life: True story about a chef, sexism and kitchen politics, all in Pune 90 years ago||I met Narhar Shivram Gadre in the summer of 2015. He was 92 then and lived with his unmarried grandson in a single room in an old wada near the erstwhile Prabhat Talkies. I was trying to trace the whereabouts of a gentleman who ran a small eatery in Appa Balwant chowk. This eatery exclusively sold misal and had shut down in the late 1970s. A shopkeeper who knew Gadre well directed me to him that evening.Gadre had been a cook in a couple of famous restaurants in the 1940s. He did not remember anything about the joint which sold misal near his house, but he knew of a few others. Would you please tell me more about those restaurants, I had asked him. He asked me my surname, and satisfied, proceeded to tell me about them. I had heard about most of them earlier. Their owners, menus, and chairs – everything seemed familiar when Gadre narrated anecdotes of his visits to those places in his younger days.What about the restaurants where you worked, I asked him. I do not remember much, he said.A few weeks later, I visited him unannounced again. I requested him to tell me about his experience as a cook at the restaurants. He was hesitant this time too. I persisted. He asked me my surname, went silent for a minute, and then started to narrate the story of his life.He was 12 when he came to Pune from Deolali near Nasik. His father had passed away, and he had to earn a living for his mother and two younger siblings. One of his father’s friends in Pune took him to a restaurant in Budhwar peth and requested the owner, Mr Deodhar, to employ him. Deodhar owned two restaurants in the city at the time that were famous for the misal they served.Gadre started by washing plates and cleaning tables at the restaurant. He was a quick learner. He would observe the cook make chivda, ghavan (soft, thin pancakes made of rice flour), and usal (legume curry). Deodhar had been observing the young boy. Impressed with Gadre’s honesty and intelligence, he decided to enrol him in a school. It was decided that Gadre would attend the school for five hours daily and spend the rest of his time working at the restaurant.In a couple of years, Gadre started assisting the main cook, and by the time he was 19 and ready to enrol in a college, he had learned all the skills to be the chief cook. Deodhar promised him that he would start another branch of his restaurant and appoint him as the manager after he got a degree. Gadre never went to college. On August 8, 1942, Gandhi launched the Quit India Movement in Bombay, and many students took to the streets after dropping out of schools and colleges. Gadre was arrested briefly after participating in a protest march on August 11 near SP College. He was released three months later.He worked in Deodhar’s restaurants after that for another four years before they were shut down. He could have easily been employed in another restaurant, but decided not to be a cook anymore. He enjoyed cooking, but also wanted to study further and earn a living as a clerk in a government office. He wanted society to treat him with respect. Being a cook meant that he had no social status. Gadre realised this when he could not find an educated girl to marry him. He was ridiculed for aspiring to marry a girl who could read and write.Food and cooking is an area that has followed strict gendered patterns, markedly dependent on a division between professional and domestic spaces. Professional gastronomy has long been a man’s world, defined by great masculine figures and built upon “masculine” values of toughness, strength, and discipline. By defining domestic cooking as a feminine task, men strengthened their domination over women. Conversely, in the public sphere, men used cooking to earn money. As breadwinners, men used cooking to control the participation of women in the public sphere as both customers and cooks.The political and social discourse centering on nationalism in the early and mid-20th century Maharashtra strengthened gender stereotypes and gender hierarchies. Wielding a whisk, wok or spoon affected the social status of a male. Cooking for Maharashtrian men was a means of breadwinning rather than a calling or an artistic and creative occupation. Men either cooked at weddings or during religious rituals, or in restaurants. Male cooks were looked down upon and followed a hierarchy where the ones employed in restaurants were given a lower status than those who cooked at weddings. In Europe, the professional chef was associated with professionalism and pride of cooking as a masculine tradition with its great masters. The male chef was seen as antithetical to the female model concerning cooking: the housewife. She was associated with traditional values of domestic cooking, family, and food that oriented with a care-for-others role.This dichotomy hardly existed in Maharashtra where male chefs who cooked to earn a living were considered “feminine”. Society saw food-related activities as a female pursuit because cooking, for men, did not come as a natural obligation. Hence, men who cooked for money were deemed unworthy to fit into the nationalist model of a strong, ruthless, patriotic male.It was too early for society to consider that gender was a social construct, a continuum, and stereotypes were created. Men suffered social expectations to behave accordingly to the then male stereotype, which most of them chose to conform to.Gadre taught himself to use a typewriter and worked with an insurance company for the rest of his life. He married a girl who could read and write and had four children. He helped his wife in the kitchen. The family rarely visited restaurants since it was looked at with disdain. Gadre instead cooked misal and sabudana wada at home. He passed away last year due to Covid-19.Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can becontacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-true-story-about-a-chef-sexism-and-kitchen-politics-all-in-pune-90-years-ago-101628766514568.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||High court grants anticipatory bail to former Punjab DGP in corruption case||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini in a corruption case. He had moved the court on Wednesday. The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan after arguments from the state and his lawyers, had reserved the matter for the verdict, which was pronounced on Thursday. “The former DGP has been granted anticipatory bail by the high court,” said senior advocate APS Deol, who appeared for him. Saini’s bail plea was dismissed by a Mohali trial court on August 6. Also read: Himachal landslide: Death toll rises, many still feared trapped; CM visits siteOn August 2, the Punjab Vigilance Bureau registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and criminal conspiracy against the former DGP along with six others, including PWD XEN Nimratdeep Singh and his father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal, who owned the Sector-20 house in Chandigarh. The agency alleged Saini acquired the house in a fraudulent deal with fake documents and questionable financial transactions. The trial court termed the allegations against him “gravest” in nature, warranting his custodial interrogation. Saini has denied the allegation all along and claimed that he is being targeted as he was instrumental in probes against chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and some persons close to him, during the previous SAD-BJP regime. This is the fourth FIR against him since his retirement by the incumbent government, he said. Saini argued that he bought the property for ₹10.25 crore and was not aware of the manner in which the house was acquired by its earlier owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-former-punjab-dgp-in-corruption-case-101628764294776.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||‘Encouraging’, says Bombay HC on no adverse affect during BMC’s Covid-19 home vaccination||The Bombay high court on Thursday said that it was encouraging to see that no adverse reaction was observed in bed-ridden beneficiaries, who received the Covid-19 vaccine under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) home vaccination programme. The court also said that other civic bodies and district councils in the state should follow the initiative and implement the home vaccination programme.Remarks by the court came after the BMC submitted an affidavit earlier on Wednesday in which it said that 4,889 bed-ridden people had registered for home-vaccination and 1,317 were inoculated, news agency PTI reported. The BMC also noted that no adverse reaction was observed in any beneficiaries. The door-to-door vaccination was implemented as a pilot project in Mumbai on July 30.Following this, a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said that the BMC was moving in the right direction on the door-to-door vaccination programme. “This statement is very encouraging. We record our satisfaction that the BMC has been moving in the right direction. We hope and trust that more such people are covered in the home vaccination drive,” PTI reported the HC bench as observing.Also read | 1,317 vaccinated at home in Mumbai till August 9, BMC tells HC“We would encourage all other municipal corporations and district councils across the state to initiate measures for home vaccination of bed-ridden individuals in accordance with the state government's policy and following the same pattern as adopted by the BMC,” the bench added.Advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought directions for the Union government to begin Covid-19 vaccination at home for senior citizens above 75 years of age, specially-abled people and for people who are bed-ridden or wheelchair-bound. The petition said that such people would not be able to go to vaccination centres.Earlier, the centre had not introduced the door-to-door vaccination drive citing vaccine wastage and the risk of adverse reactions. However, the Maharashtra state government in July said that it would begin the programme and also formulated a policy for its implementation following which the drive started in Mumbai as a pilot project.Meanwhile, the court has posted the plea for further hearing on September 9. On Thursday, advocate Kapadia told the court that the Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation and the Thane Municipal Corporation have also implemented the home vaccination drive.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/encouraging-says-bombay-hc-on-no-adverse-affect-during-bmc-s-covid-19-home-vaccination-101628763654417.html
12-08-2021||Dehradun||U’khand Congress leader Harish Rawat says his Twitter account among those locked||Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat and lawmaker Qazi Nizamuddin are among the Congress leaders whose Twitter accounts have been temporarily locked over “violation of rules”.In a Facebook post, Rawat, who heads the Congress’s election campaign committee for the 2022 Uttarakhand assembly elections, said efforts were being made to silence him. He accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of suppressing freedom of expression. “I had put out a tweet in support of Rahul Gandhi with the hashtag Mai Bhi Rahul while mentioning a Dalit family, which lost their daughter to a heinous rape incident (in Delhi).” He added Twitter locked his account and asked him to delete the tweet to get it unlocked.Also Read | Cong handles locking row: Twitter says rules enforced judiciously, impartially“... our rights are being snatched. Is BJP afraid of Rahul Gandhi trending on social media?” asked Rawat.Nizamuddin said his account was locked after he tweeted in support of Gandhi on August 8. “Twitter has locked my account also because I too supported Rahul Gandhi against exploitation of Dalits and women,” he said in a Facebook post.In Delhi, the Congress on Thursday hit out at the government for “scuttling free speech” and said the party’s Twitter account and accounts of several of its leaders were temporarily locked for sharing a photograph of the family of a nine-year-old rape victim.Twitter insisted it enforces its rules judiciously and impartially and added it has taken proactive action over several hundred tweets that posted the image in violation of its rules.Twitter said the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) alerted it about the specific content on the platform that allegedly revealed the identity of an alleged sexual assault victim and her parents. It added the matter was reviewed in line with Twitter rules as well as the concerns expressed as per Indian law.Congress has been at loggerheads with Twitter since Saturday when Rahul Gandhi’s account was temporarily locked. It earlier claimed the account was suspended before clarifying the account was temporarily locked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ukhand-congress-leader-harish-rawat-says-his-twitter-account-among-those-locked-101628763634652.html
12-08-2021||Other||Security forces recover huge cache of arms in Kashmir’s Tangdhar||Security forces on Thursday claimed to have recovered huge cache of arms in north Kashmir’s Tangdhar sector, and prevented the smuggling of weapons.Police said they recovered the cache of arms and ammunition, which included 15 hand grenades, during a joint operation with the army.A police spokesman said that operation was launched after they received a specific input at Hajitra,Tadd village, along the Line of Control.“The operation led to the recovery of 15 grenades, three detonators, five pistols with ammunition and one packet of heroin marked 999. The operation prevented smuggling of war-like stores and narcotics,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-forces-recover-huge-cache-of-arms-in-kashmir-s-tangdhar-101628763334441.html
12-08-2021||Jaipur||Never cared about being on posters, says Raje on row in Rajasthan||Breaking her silence on the war of words within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Rajasthan when party posters did not carry her photos a couple of months ago, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje said, “I don’t believe in politics of posters, but want to dwell in people’s hearts and intend to carry out such work that remains in their memory.” The BJP national vice president, after her two-day tour of flood affected areas in Baran and Jhalawar, told mediapersons,“When I joined politics, Rajmataji (Vijaya Raje Scindia, her mother) told me that five fingers of the hand are never equal and when you visit villages, you need to unite people into a family, despite their being different.” When asked about the poster row, Raje recalled her first trip to Jaipur after winning the election and becoming the CM for the first time as well as the second time and said there were several large-sized posters of her all around the city but she asked for them to be removed. “I want to rule people’s hearts and do such work that it stays with them...this has been my aim for three decades,” she said. During the last assembly bypolls on three seats, Raje’s photo was missing from hoarding and posters. A BJP leader then said only CM, Leader of the Opposition, and state party chief photo can be used on posters. Raje’s short tour of the state created a buzz in the state BJP. While many in the party believed that her aerial survey to flood-affected areas has brought the Opposition BJP on centre stage, few also believe that the visit was to strengthen her personal image. “Raje is our leader and her visit certainly benefits the party,’ said a BJP MLA on the condition of anonymity. Political analyst Manish Godha said Raje’s aerial tour to flood-affected areas and her statement on poster row indicate her return to action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/never-cared-about-being-on-posters-says-raje-on-row-in-rajasthan-101628762014411.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||BKU activists lay siege to Ambala Cantt SP’s office for release of protesters||A day after the arrest of activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Gurnam Singh Charuni faction for showing black flags to Haryana home minister Anil Vij in Ambala cantonment and detention of around 60 members supporting them on Thursday morning, farmers gathered outside the superintendent of police’s (SP) office, demanding their release. Police was deployed on both sides of the lane leading to the SP’s office in the Police Lines. Barricades were put up and water cannons parked as the situation turned tense with the farmers, who first gathered at Shambhu border where BKU leader Rakesh Tikait was expected to address them. However, after a meeting with senior leaders, including spokesperson Rakesh Bains, the protesters headed for the SP’s office. Also read: Kinnaur landslide left bus wreckage spanning over 100 metres: 10 pointsGulab Singh, BKU district vice-president, claimed that most of those arrested on Wednesday night for showing black flags at Vij were not even present at the spot. “The protest was peaceful, but police roughed up the protesters,” he claimed. Vij was returning after meeting his ailing personal assistant, Ajay Kumar, at his house in Chanderpuri around 8.30pm when the farmers protested against his visit and raised slogans. The farmers started gathering at Parao police station, seeking the release of the protesters. The farmers staged a sit-in on National Highway-44 next to Vij’s house. The impasse continued till Thursday morning and the police detained 60 protesters, including BKU district president Malkit Singh, and took them to the Police Lines. Inspector Devender Singh, the station in-charge at Parao police station, said: “Those who showed black flags and pelted stones have been booked for damage to public property and related charges. One of the activists, Navdeep Singh Jalbera, has been arrested in an old case at the city police station. Others who were detained are being questioned and will be booked for blocking the highway.” The farmers have been protesting against BJP leaders and demanding revocation of the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bku-activists-lay-siege-to-ambala-cantt-sp-s-office-for-release-of-protesters-101628761594653.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court refuses anticipatory bail to Gehana Vasisth||A Mumbai sessions court on Thursday rejected the anticipatory bail application of Vandana Tiwari aka Gehana Vasisth in the second FIR registered against the actor and model. She was arrested in the first FIR in February and later released on bail.Vasisth was arrested along with three producers for allegedly making pornographic films which were purportedly released on a mobile phone application allegedly developed by businessman Raj Kundra. Kundra was arrested on July 19.Also Read | Supporting Raj Kundra prompted rape accusations against her, says Gehana VasisthIn the second FIR, a woman complainant has claimed that she was initially signed to do “bold scenes” in films but later forced by the accused to do “nude and semi-nude scenes”. The complainant has said the accused allegedly threatened that she will destroy her career if she did not do that. Vasisth told the court, through her counsel, that she was arrested in a similar case and her laptop and phone have been seized by the crime branch.Her lawyer added that her police custody was not required as she had been arrested in a similar case.Police opposed it saying that she had “a prime role” in making the films as she was the director and threatened the complainant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-refuses-anticipatory-bail-to-gehna-vasisth-101628760214084.html
12-08-2021||Patna||Bihar writes to Centre over teachers’ involvement in midday meal scheme||The viral video of a Bihar government school teacher selling gunny bags used for midday meal foodgrains, and is subsequent suspension, has again brought into focus the need to dissociate teachers from additional responsibilities like midday meals (MDM). Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said he has written to the Centre and raised the issue during his meeting with Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan recently, as it would become all the more demanding [for the teachers] under the new education policy (NEP), which also proposes nutritional breakfast to children in addition to MDM. “The additional breakfast scheme was to be implemented from April 1, 2021, but could not happen due to Covid. It is a good move, but if teachers will be engaged with breakfast and meal, the real objective will be lost,” he said, adding that Bihar has been advocating for longer involvement of parents through direct benefit transfer or public distribution system (PDS) to spare teachers non-academic work. Also Read | Bihar Cabinet greenlights Panduka bridge, to be made by 2024Maintaining that teachers remaining involved with meals and preparing vouchers would have an adverse impact on educational atmosphere and quality, he said the schools would end up being a ‘bhojshala’, not ‘pathshala’ (canteen nor school). ”Under the NEP, it is all the more necessary to disassociate teachers completely from MDM. The task should be handed over to an independent body. Everyone talks of quality in government schools, but for that, the teachers would have to be spared,” he added. The minister said that the government has signed an agreement with Akshay Patra Foundation of ISCON for MDM in Patna schools on a trial basis. “If this works out, we will try to extend it in other districts also by developing a working system group and involving Jeevika volunteers and other local agencies. Providing meals to around 74,000 schools is a huge task,” he added. Earlier, the state also tried to hand over the responsibility of supplying MDM to children in one block each of Muzaffarpur and Jehanabad districts to Jeevika self-help group (SHGs) as a pilot project. Bihar has over 1.5 million women self-help groups. However, this is not the first time the state saddled teachers with extra work. A few years ago, the government asked teachers to visit urban wards and panchayat committees of Muzaffarpur and Aurangabad to stop people from defecating in the open. That caused such a furore that the order had to be withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-writes-to-centre-over-teachers-involvement-in-midday-meal-scheme-101628759194328.html
12-08-2021||Other||Nagaland: Commission on register of indigenous inhabitants submits recommendations||Two years after the Nagaland government’s proposed enumeration of the state’s indigenous population viz. Register of Indigenous Inhabitants of Nagaland (RIIN) drew flak from various quarters, including tribal bodies and the civil society, forcing the government to immediately constitute a commission to examine the issues and submit recommendations, the commission’s report was finally tabled during the recently concluded Monsoon Session of the state assembly.The commission on RIIN, led by former chief secretary Banuo Z Jamir, held a series of consultations with tribal organisations, the civil society and NGOs, and submitted its report to the state government in 2019. However, the report was only presented in the assembly on the persistence of the Opposition Naga People’s Front members.What is RIIN?RIIN has its roots in the state government’s decision in 2019 to implement Inner Line Permit (ILP) under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation Act of 1873 throughout Dimapur district, which was erroneously or ignorantly overlooked for over 40 years. The ILP is an official travel document issued by the state government, which allows inward travel of foreigners and Indian citizens of other states into Nagaland for a limited period.The state government issued a notification on November 21, 1979 declaring the then Dimapur sub- division under Kohima district a tribal belt, making Dimapur eligible for ILP, but this fact curiously surfaced only after the state government decided on November 1979 as the cut-off month and year for identification of indigenous inhabitants for RIIN. as it recognises the state to adopt protective measures for its indigenous inhabitants (viz. Naga tribes, Kuki, Kachari, Garo and MIkirs).Also Read | Nagaland Oppn, ruling PDA to come together for united governmentRIIN was initiated in 2019 after a state government committee recommended the creation of such a registry primarily to prevent issuance of fake “indigenous inhabitant” certificates, which is one of the main reasons for influx of illegal immigrants in the state. Also, due to wrongly issued indigenous inhabitant certificates meant for recognised scheduled tribes of the state, many ineligible persons were reported to have enjoyed privileges that were meant for indigenous inhabitants, such as availing job opportunities based on 100% reservation of all non-technical and 80% reservation of all other posts in the state, availing scholarships and seats for professional and technical studies, loans etc.Claims that some illegal immigrants took citizenship by other means gradually ushered in a general feeling of xenophobia, particularly towards illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. While the government decided to find out who is indigenous and who is not; what was thought to be a simple exercise--RIIN--once it was notified on 29th June 2019 along with proposed process, instantly became a topic of public debate.Taking note of the issues raised in subsequent consultative meetings with the stakeholders, the government set up the Banuo Z Jamir commission on July 27, 2019, which was given three months time to submit its findings and recommendations.The commission asserted that while it took consideration of diverse opinions on the matter, it was its firm stand that December 1, 1963--the date Nagaland gained statehood--was to be taken as the cut-off date to decide the eligibility of a person to be an inhabitant of Nagaland, whether the person is indigenous, a tribal non-indigenous to Nagaland or a non-tribal.Who is eligible to be an indigenous inhabitant of Nagaland?Any person belonging to one of the notified 18 tribes of Nagaland – 14 Naga tribes and four non-Naga tribes (Kuki, Kachari, Garo and Mikir) residing in his/her native village or in any other village or town in Nagaland or elsewhere, provided he or she has not acquired citizenship of another country. Also, the person’s antecedent in the native village should be traced back for not less than two generations beyond December 1, 1963.With the view to ensure that authentication of the identity of an individual is carried out without influence or manipulation, the commission recommended that information furnished for each individual should be first verified at the family level in the village, followed by confirmation from clan and khel, before the village council certifies the document, which would further be submitted to the deputy commissioner.Who is eligible to be a Permanent Resident of Nagaland?The state government projected that the RIIN master list, once created, will ensure that no one will be able to manipulate the system to create fake and fraudulent indigenous inhabitant certificates. Side by side, the government, while ensuring identification of all the genuine indigenous inhabitants of the state, will also compile a list of those who have settled in Nagaland pre-statehood ( December 1, 1963) and recognise them as “permanent residents” of the state, with few other criteria.The commission recommended that a panel be made responsible for authenticating the members belonging to various other communities.LegislationThe commission recommended that the state government consider enactment of a legislation so as to bring the entire exercise and execution of RIIN and issuance of indigenous inhabitant certificate (IIC) and permanent resident certificate (PRC) to genuine persons, through a statutory law.Other recommendationsIn the process of interactions, consultations and study of issues, the commission stated to have observed several areas of concern, though they relate to matters outside the terms of reference, it nonetheless made few recommendations to be taken into consideration. These include the need for the state government to prepare a brief write up on RIIN and registry of permanent resident (RPR) for general information to enhance the transparency of the entire exercise. It also maintained that the government needed to come clean on the position of RIIN/RPR set against the Citizenship Amendment Bill and the National Register of Citizens in Assam.It also asserted that the government ought to make it clear that the objective of RIIN is an exercise to authenticate the identity of a person belonging to a village that is already established/recognised and not to authenticate or accord recognition to a community.The commission further recommended that land laws need to be tightened as the practice of transfer of land and mutation of patta in favour of non-tribals on the basis of indigenous inhabitants certificates were detected and speak of either ignorance or land laws of the state.The commission specifically noted an instance of a chairman of a village council belonging to a tribe not indigenous to Nagaland. Therefore, it recommended that the prescribed qualification to be a member of a village council under the Nagaland Village and Tribal Councils Act 1978 be suitably amended by incorporating “indigenous inhabitant” as an additional condition.For tribals not indigenous to Nagaland, the commission is of the view that it is necessary to define the status of persons belonging to any tribe other than the 18 recognised tribes of Nagaland, who are citizens of India, settled and own land in Nagaland prior to statehood (December 1963)--they may come under the category of Permanent Resident.The state government in 1974 notified around 180 families of the Gorkha community and their descendants who settled in Nagaland prior to December 31, 1940 in three districts of Kohima, Mokokchung and Wokha as Non-Naga indigenous inhabitants of Nagaland and accorded them with certain rights and privileges. While the Nagaland Gorkha Association did not insist that its members be brought under RPR with other non-Naga communities, the association requested that status quo be maintained for the families listed under the 1974 notification.While the commission asserted that it did not intend to de-recognise the special status given to the community, on examining the question of “who is indigenous”, it is of the view that it would not be justifiable to declare Gorkhas as indigenous to Nagaland. It therefore recommended that they be categorised as permanent residents, along with other non-tribal groups that settled in Nagaland before 1963. It added that the families notified by the state government in 1974 may be identified as Gorkhas and others as Nepali, but the change in nomenclature shall not deny or deprive them of benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-commission-on-register-of-indigenous-inhabitants-submits-recommendations-101628757634007.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||Ahead of Independence Day, DMRC announces Delhi Metro timings: Check details||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has announced that its services will continue to run normally on Independence Day. However, the parking at metro stations will be closed from early morning of August 14 to 2pm on August 15."Parking facilities will not be available at the Delhi Metro stations from 6:00 AM on Saturday i.e, 14th August, 2021 till 2:00 PM on Sunday i.e, 15th August, 2021 in view of the security measures adopted on the occasion of Independence Day," the DMRC said in a circular on its website.However, the Metro train services will continue to run, it added.The Delhi Police has made massive security arrangements in the national capital, especially at Red Fort, from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on the 75th Independence Day on August 15.The traffic police have also laid down a blueprint to divert the vehicles on August 15.Only those vehicles with a valid pass issued by the traffic police will be permitted to around the Red Fort area on Independence Day, according to Joint Commissioner of Traffic Police Sanjay Kumar.The police have issued two types of passes for the invitees - a triangular and a square pass. Vehicles with a triangle pass will be allowed inside the Red Fort complex while those with a square pass, will be permitted in the parking lot away from the Red Fort.A full dress rehearsal for the arrangement will be conducted on August 13 (Friday). For the convenience of public and security reasons, certain traffic restrictions will be imposed in and around the Red Fort, Kumar said.Delhi Traffic Police has closed many roads on August 15 from 4 am to 10 am.These include Netaji Subhash Marg from Delhi Gate to Chatta Rail Chowk, Lothian Road from GPO Delhi to Chatta Rail Chowk, S.P.Mukherjee Marg from H.C.Sen Marg to Yamuna Bazar Chowk, Chandni Chowk Road from Fountain Chowk to Red Fort, Nishad Raj Marg from Ring Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBT and Outer ring Road from ISBT to IP Flyover i.e. Salimgarh Bypass, the police informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ahead-of-independence-day-dmrc-announces-delhi-metro-timings-check-details-101628754312029.html
12-08-2021||Jaipur||4 Rajasthan cops suspended for involvement in loot case||Four police constables were suspended for their alleged involvement in a loot case in Alwar district of Rajasthan. The police have arrested two persons, including a constable, while the other three are on the run. Superintendent of police, Alwar, Tejaswani Gautam said that one Rahul Meo, along with three constables Anish Khan, Narendra Jatav and Gangaram, robbed one Sahil Khan on the evening of July 27, who was on his way to Govindgarh (Alwar) along with a friend. The accused, who were in a Bolero vehicle, demanded money from Sahil, who was travelling on a motorcycle. When he refused, the four accused abducted him and robbed him of ₹27,000. They also got ₹13,000 transferred from his bank account to theirs. He was later dropped at Bainsdawat crossing. Also Read | Woman gang-raped in moving car in BarmerSahil registered a case in connection with the incident on July 29.On the basis of the mobile phone number and vehicle registration number given by the victim, one of the accused was identified as Rahul Meo. Meanwhile, a constable of the Govindgarh police station, Ramjeet, threatened and forced the complainant to compromise with the accused, following which the complainant informed the police station through a letter by post that he compromised with the accused and needs no further action. “He was called to the police station and he revealed that he was under pressure and was threatened by the constable Ramjeet. After his allegation was found true, the constable was arrested. Along with him, Rahul was also arrested,” she said. The three other constables Anish, Narendra and Gangaram are posted with Shivaji park police station and NEB police station respectively. “All the four constables have been suspended and efforts to nab the other three are on,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/4-rajasthan-cops-suspended-for-involvement-in-loot-case-101628752834289.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||34,353 suburban railway passes issued to passengers in Mumbai on Wednesday||At least 34,353 monthly suburban railway passes were issued to passengers on day one on Wednesday after the state government announced that fully vaccinated people can travel on local trains from August 15, officials said on Thursday. The Central Railway issued 22,689 monthly passes while the Western Railway 11,664, they added.The highest number of passes were issued at Dombivli railway station —1,881-- followed by Borivali (1,169).Also Read | Widespread rain to continue over parts of east, northeast India till August 15The Maharashtra government has said people can travel on local trains 14 days after getting their second Covid-19 vaccine dose subject to verification of documents by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The commuters have been asked to carry verified documents and photo identity cards while travelling on local trains.“We are operating all 617 railway booking offices to facilitate passengers between 7 am and 11 pm every day,” said a railway official.The railway booking counters have been opened at 113 railway stations across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/34353-suburban-railway-passes-issued-to-passengers-in-mumbai-on-wednesday-101628751994350.html
12-08-2021||Other||Elderly couple found dead in Jharkhand’s Palamu; murder suspected||An elderly couple were found dead at their home in Medninangar in Palamu district of Jharkhand on Thursday morning.The matter came to light when one of their domestic helps arrived in the morning to work. Palamu superintendant of police Chandan Kumar Sinha, who examined the crime scene, said they are forming a special investigation team to probe the case on priority. “It seems they were killed with a sharp edged weapon. Prima facie, it appears to be a murder case...A forensic team from Ranchi is reaching soon to take samples. We are also in touch with the family and investigating all possible angles,” said Sinha. The deceased, Rajeshwar Ram Chandravanshi, a retired armyman, and his wife Pramila Devi, were in their seventies and lived alone in Kund Mohalla area of Palamu district headquarter Medininagar. Their son Arvind Kumar is posted in the chief minister’s office in Ranchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elderly-couple-found-dead-in-jharkhand-s-palamu-murder-suspected-101628751393817.html
12-08-2021||Patna||Bihar Cabinet greenlights Panduka bridge, to be made by 2024||With Bihar Cabinet’s administrative sanction on Tuesday, decks were cleared for the construction of the Centrally funded Panduka bridge over Sone river in south Bihar.The union ministry of road transport and highways has allocated ₹210.13 crore for the construction of the 2.2 kilometre bridge over Sone river, connecting Panduka in Rohtas district of south Bihar to Shrinagar in Garhawa district of Jharkhand, under Central Road and Infrastructure Fund (CRIF).Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam will construct the bridge by 2024. Its detailed project report (DPR) was already sanctioned and tender notices issued. At list 68 kilometres of road would be also constructed under the plan, additional chief secretary, Cabinet, Sanjay Kumar told the press.Also Read | Darbhanga MP meets PM Modi; demands renaming of airportFor several decades, 600,000 people from many tribes and scheduled castes residing in the Maoist-affected hilly forest region adjoining Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, have been demanding the construction of the bridge. The inapproachable area, spread over four states and four parliamentary constituencies on the Kaimur plateau, forms a major part of the Maoists’ red corridor due to lack of connectivity and development.In the 2019 elections, the BJP had won the Sasaram (SC) parliamentary constituency in Bihar, Palamu (SC) in Jharkhand, Surguja (ST) in Chhattisgarh and its ally Aapna Dal won in Robertsganj (ST) in UP, riding high on the claims that if voted to power, it would get the most sought-after bridge completed before the 2024 polls.Its construction would reduce 80 to 150 kilometres of additional distance to Varanasi, Delhi or other towns via Aurangabad for treatment, education and other necessities, Chhedi Paswan, BJP MP from Sasaram said.Paswan said that the bridge was approved and ₹500 crore was allocated for its construction in annual plan 2018-19. But the fund had been relocated to Vikramshila bridge. Later, union minister Nitin Gadakari intervened and the project was sanctioned under CRIF last year, Paswan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cabinet-greenlights-panduka-bridge-to-be-made-by-2024-101628748213695.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||2 men killed, 2 cops injured in shootout in Delhi’s Khajuri Khas||Two men were killed in a shootout in north east Delhi’s Khajuri Khas area on Wednesday night, Delhi Police said on Thursday.Police said the two men had refused to come out of their flat when they were asked to surrender and instead threatened to kill themselves and other residents of the building with their “cache of arms”.Two police constables were also injured in the shootout. The two men who died in the shootout were Aamir Khan, a resident of Loni, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajman, from Wazirabad in northwest Delhi. Khan had seven criminal cases registered against him while Rajman had five. Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) SK Sain said that on Wednesday night the SHO of Khajuri Khas received an information through the SHO of Begumpur police station about the presence of wanted criminals with heavy arms and ammunitions in the area of Shri Ram Colony, Delhi. The two police station heads then formed joint teams and went to the area.Also Read | 6-year-old girl raped in East Delhi, 1 held“Our officers reached Shri Ram Colony where two suspected persons were hiding. The owner of the house confirmed the presence of two persons in a room on the second floor of the building. As they were suspected to have heavy arms and explosives and the area is densely populated and other tenants were residing in the building, hence every possible precaution was taken,” said DCP SainThe officer said that when police knocked on the door, which was locked from inside, the persons inside the room threatened the team. “They warned the police to leave and threatened to blow up the building. They said they would kill themselves and every one else,” the DCP said, adding that police tried their best to pacify them but the men did not calm down.At the same time, a police team managed to take a look inside the room through a window. As soon as the two realised the police were near the window, they opened fire.The police team then asked families living in other flats to vacate the rooms. “Despite repeatedly asking them to surrender peacefully for over an hour-and-a-half and after exhausting all efforts, our team decided to barge into the room by breaking the door. The accused persons fired indiscriminately from inside. The police team retaliated in self defence. During cross firing, constables Sachin Khokar and Kalik Tomar received bullet injuries. Other members of the team pulled them back. The two criminals also received bullet injuries. Both accused persons and the injured police personnel were immediately shifted to JPC Hospital where the accused persons were declared brought dead,” DCP Sain said.Police recovered two automatic pistols and four magazines from the room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-men-killed-2-cops-injured-in-shootout-in-delhi-s-khajuri-khas-101628745993502.html
12-08-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC to hear Mamata Banerjee’s petition against Nandigram loss today||A single-judge bench of the Calcutta high court is scheduled to hear West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s petition challenging her defeat in the assembly election from Nandigram in Purba Medinipur.The matter is being heard by justice Shampa Sarkar after justice Kausik Chanda recused himself from hearing the petition and imposed a fine of ₹5lakh on the Trinamool Congress chief for the manner in which his recusal was sought.The matter would be heard through video conferencing at 3pm today.Even though the TMC had returned to power in the state for the third consecutive time with a sweeping victory, Banerjee lost to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari by less than 2,000 votes.On July 14, the court issued a notice to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Adhikari. Banerjee was also present online for the hearing. “The bench also ordered the poll panel to preserve all records, and devices, such as EVMs, and video recordings,” said a senior advocate.The TMC chief moved the high court alleging voting irregularities in her loss by 1,956 votes to Adhikari in what was her first electoral loss in 32 years. The TMC demanded a recount shortly after the results were announced in favour of the BJP candidate, but the request was turned down by the Election Commission.The case was initially slated to be heard by justice Chanda. However, Banerjee asked for transferring the petition to another judge citing “apprehension of bias” since justice Chanda had, before his elevation to the bench in 2019, represented the BJP and its leaders in court cases.“Such calculative, psychological, and offensive attempts to seek recusal need to be firmly repulsed and a cost of ₹5lakh is imposed upon the petitioner,” justice Chanda said in his order on July 7. The money will be used to fight Covid-19, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-to-hear-mamata-banerjee-s-petition-against-her-nandigram-loss-today-101628744493445.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||2 gangsters killed in encounter in Delhi's Khajuri Khas area; 2 cops injured||Two gangsters were killed on Thursday by the police in an encounter in Delhi's Khajuri Khas area. Two policemen have also been injured in the incident. Aamir and Ramjan, two gangsters from Loni, were killed in a joint operation by North East and Rohini districts police, according to officials.According to a report by the HT's sister website, Live Hindustan, more than a dozen cases of theft, dacoity, robbery and attempt to murder were registered against the two gangsters.The gangsters first opened fire on the police team and the police retaliated killing the two men. They were taken to the hospital where the doctor declared him brought dead.The police recovered two automatic pistols, four magazines and 15 live cartridges both of the criminals, according to an ANI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-gangsters-killed-in-encounter-delhi-s-khajuri-khas-area-2-policemen-injured-101628743877052.html
12-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida homebuyers demand registry of flats, hit the streets in protest||Scores of homebuyers, including women, hit the streets in Greater Noida on Wednesday to protest against the builder of their high-rise societies and the local authority over the pending registry of their flats.The protest was held outside the camp office of the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) near Balak Inter College by residents of Supertech Group's Ecovillage I, II, and III projects in Greater Noida (West) alias Noida Extension."We have been running from pillar to post in order to get the registries of our homes done. Neither the builder is listening to us nor is the GNIDA helping,” Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association (NEFOWA), told PTI.He said thousands of homeowners are forced to live "illegally" in their own homes due to the non-registry of their flats which is also causing loss of revenue to the state government.When contacted, the Supertech Group declined to comment on the issue, while GNIDA officials were not immediately available for response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-homebuyers-demand-registry-of-flats-hit-the-streets-in-protest-101628742114320.html
12-08-2021||Patna||Darbhanga MP meets PM Modi; demands renaming of airport||BJP MP from Darbhanga Gopal Jee Thakur met the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. The Darbhanga MP honoured the PM with a paag and a shawl done in the folk tradition of Mithila painting. He also presented the PM with a framed portrait of legendary Maithili poet Mahakavi Vidyapati.Thakur felicitated the PM for giving a plethora of projects to the region, including a civil aviation facility at Darbhanga airport, proposed AIIMS, AMAS (Aurangabad) Darbhanga expressway to connect north and south Bihar, super speciality hospital, doubling of rail section between Darbhanga and Samastipur among many other schemes. He thanked the PM for linking Ayodhya with Janakpur and building Ramayan circuit between India and Nepal besides inclusion of country’s longest bridge over Kosi river under Bharat Mala project which will link religious shrine of Uchhaith Asthan in Madhubani with Ugratara Asthan in Mahishi of Saharsa district. In a memorandum, Thakur urged the PM to name Darbhanga airport after Maha Kavi Vidyapati. The airport caters to the need of passengers of 22 districts of north Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-mp-meets-pm-modi-demands-renaming-of-airport-101628741193116.html
12-08-2021||Lucknow||UP's Saturday lockdown ends, markets to remain shut only on Sundays from Aug 14||The Uttar Pradesh government has said shops and business establishments will remain closed only on Sundays from August 14 as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state have been on the decline. Additional chief secretary Awanish Kumar Awasthi said in an order that the Covid-19 curfew will now be in place only on Sundays from August 14 and that activities will be allowed between 6am to 10pm.The Uttar Pradesh government issued guidelines in July ordering markets, shops and business establishments to function from 6am to 10pm from Monday to Friday and to shut on Saturdays and Sundays as cases of Covid-19 were on the rise.Also read | No fresh Covid case in 59 districts of Uttar Pradesh: YogiUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to consider a partial relaxation in the two-day weekly closure of shops and business establishments. Adityanath asked the home department to present detailed guidelines in this regard. The chief minister also stressed that Covid protocol should be followed everywhere and there should not be any unnecessary congregation of people anywhere, an official said according to PTI.Adityanath asked the officials to present appropriate guidelines regarding the new system as he stressed the importance of a continued police patrolling.A health bulletin on Wednesday showed that 27 new Covid-19 cases and one fatality were reported in Uttar Pradesh and its tally rose to 17,088,36 and the death toll climbed to 22,776. As many as 16,85,555 people have recovered from Covid-10 in the state, the bulletin said. The number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 555, it added.Also read | Schools in Uttar Pradesh may reopen for classes 6-8 from September 1On Tuesday, no Covid-19 case was reported in 59 of the state's 75 districts and the number of fresh infections was less than 10 in the remaining 16 districts. Data shows there is not a single Copvid-19 patient in the Aligarh, Amethi, Chitrakoot, Etah, Firozabad, Gonda, Hathras, Kasganj, Pilibhit, Pratapgarh, Shamli and Sonbhadra districts of the state.The chief minister said vaccination camps must be organised in universities, schools and colleges for students above 18 years of age as classes will begin in secondary, higher, technical and vocational educational institutions after Independence Day.Also read | Special drive on Saturdays for those waiting for second Covid vaccine doseAdityanath said classes should be started with a 50 per cent capacity in secondary, higher, technical and vocational educational institutions after August 15 based on the recommendations of a state-level advisory committee of health experts. Classes should be run in two shifts and full care should be taken to ensure adherence to the Covid protocols, he said.The process of new admissions should be started for classes 6 to 8 chief minister also said in the schools under the Basic Education Council, Adityanath said. These schools can reopen from September 1 after assessing the pandemic situation, he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-saturday-lockdown-ends-markets-to-remain-shut-only-on-sundays-from-aug-14-101628736649414.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||Fares, routes, safety features: All you need to know about Delhi Metro's e-buses||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will start plying its first-ever batch of electric feeder buses on a trial basis from Thursday to boost transport connectivity for daily commuters. The trials will be conducted along two Metro routes -- from Shastri Park Metro station to Gokulpuri Metro station and to Mother Dairy -- from Thursday.DMRC has planned to run 100 such e-feeders by the end of October in a phased manner to provide an enhanced last-mile commuting experience from 14 metro stations covering 10 routes to the public.These e-buses are specially designed and equipped with an intelligent transport system with CCTVs and GPS facilities. The buses will also have anti-skid, anti-brake locking systems. It is also equipped with various safety features like the bus will not move until all doors are closed. The doors will also not close on detection of any obstruction.For the differently-abled and elderly passengers, these buses are fitted with ramps and anchorage for a wheelchair.Here is all you need to know about these e-feeder buses:> As per the guidelines, only Delhi Metro passengers with a valid Delhi Metro smart card or Metro DTC smart card will be allowed to avail of the services of these e-buses.> In view of the coronavirus pandemic, these feeders will operate in a fully contactless, hence a conductor will not be there. Commuters can use a smart card to pay for cashless travel.> For buses starting from Metro stations, entry of the passengers will be permitted only from the stations and the bus will halt only at the designated stops. No entry of passengers will be permitted at other stoppages on the route.> For buses going to Metro stations, entry will be allowed at all stoppages, but passengers will be allowed to deboard only at metro stations> The fare structure will be ₹10 for zero to four km, ₹15 for four to eight km; ₹20 for eight to 12km, and ₹25 for journeys beyond 12km.> The buses will also have a panic button and a stop request button for any emergency.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fares-routes-safety-features-all-you-need-to-know-about-delhi-metro-s-ebuses-101628736575594.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: No rain likely until August 15, says IMD||Dry days lie ahead of the national Capital with the monsoon entering a break phase. This means no significant rainfall is likely till at least August 15, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). So far the month has mostly been dry with just little rain on a few days. The MeT has forecast mainly clear sky for Thursday and a partly cloudy sky over the next two days. There is a possibility of light rain or thunderstorm on August 16. Also Read | India already recording events IPCC warned of“There may be some light activity on August 16. However, the monsoon is likely to revive fully only from August 17 when the trough is expected to move back towards south. . At present it has shifted north to the Himalayan foothills and westerly winds have started blowing over Delhi,” said a senior IMD official. However, the official added, once the monsoon revives, good rainfall may occur over Delhi. “In the absence of rainfall, the temperatures are likely to remain high,” the official said. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature was 36.2 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season’s normal. Also, he said, that while Delhi receives its maximum monsoon rainfall during August, the second half may be able to cover for the entire month. The normal rainfall for the month is 247mm. As per the IMD, the monsoon season lasts from June 1 to September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-no-rain-likely-until-august-15-says-imd-101628736693210.html
12-08-2021||Indore||Indore becomes India's first 'Water Plus' city. Here's why it matters||Indore in Madhya Pradesh, also referred to as the "cleanest city" in India, has now also been declared the first "Water Plus" city in the country. The announcement was made by the central government on Wednesday under the Swachh Survekshan 2021. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan lauded the city of Indore for setting an example for the whole nation in its "determination and dedication towards cleanliness.""Heartiest congratulations to the citizens of Indore as it becomes the first SBM Water certified city under Swachh Survekshan 2021," Chouhan posted on Twitter. "Indore has been an example for the whole nation for its determination and dedication towards cleanliness. May it continue to bring glory to the state!" he added.Heartiest congratulations to the citizens of Indore as it becomes the first SBM Water+ certified city under #SwachhSurvekshan2021. Indore has been an example for the whole nation for its determination and dedication towards cleanliness. May it continue bring glory to the state!What is a Water Plus city?A Water Plus city certificate is provided to a city for maintaining cleanliness in rivers and drains under its administration.According to protocol and the toolkit provided by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, a city can be declared as Water Plus only after all wastewater released from households, commercial establishments, and the like is treated to a satisfactory level before releasing the treated wastewater to the environment."As Swachh Bharat Mission has progressed significantly, it is imperative that progress attained in achieving our objectives be sustained financially and in an environmentally feasible manner," the government says. "Cities are now working towards sustainability of sanitation status, by ensuring that no untreated wastewater is discharged into the open environment."Indore, India's first Water Plus cityThere are a number of criteria that need to be met before a city is declared Water Plus, said Indore municipal commissioner Pratibha Patil. Firstly, it must be ensured that the dirty water from the city does not go into any river or drain. Secondly, all public toilets in the city must be connected to sewer lines and must be cleaned. And finally, 30 per cent of the city's sewer water has to be recycled and reused.According to Patil, people living on the banks of drains in Indore connected the outfalls of their houses in the drainage line at their personal cost. The municipal corporate commissioner said that about 7000 public and domestic sewer outfalls in the city were stopped, the city's rivers were freed from the sewer lines.The 30 per cent recycled water from the sewer was re-used by people at construction sites and by citizens for gardening purposes, the municipal official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-becomes-india-s-first-water-plus-city-here-s-why-it-matters-101628734719044.html
12-08-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: Dissent brews in Bommai’s cabinet after allocation of portfolios||Karnataka is a living example of the adage that the more things change, the more they remain the same, and so, 16 days after BS Yediyurappa resigned as chief minister amidst widespread dissent among the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s legislators, the new chief minister Basavaraj Bommai finds himself hemmed in by dissenting legislators wanting more.On Wednesday, hours after Tourism Minister Anand Singh closed his office in Hospet in Vijayanagar , presumably indicating his intentions to resign from the cabinet, the chief minister said disgruntlement among some ministers over the portfolio allocation will be resolved smoothly.Singh previously the forests minister, has expressed his displeasure after he was made minister for tourism in the new cabinet. A former Congress lawmaker, he resigned, defected to the BJP in 2019, and sees himself as one of the architects of its climb to power in the state.“I was the first one to resign from the assembly. After eight days of my resignation, others began resigning. Because of our resignations, the BJP came to power in the State. Party leaders should have allocated a major portfolio to me,” Singh said on Saturday.The defection of the lawmakers brought down the Congress-Janata Dal (S) government that came to power after the 2018 assembly elections.On Wednesday, Singh visited a temple to offer special prayers, similar to the ones he offered before his resignation from the Congress two years ago.All of this seems to have had the desired effect on the new CM. On Wednesday, he told reporters that everything would be set right soon. “Anand Singh and I are friends for three decades. We are continuously in touch. Yesterday I spoke to him. Today also I will speak to him. I am aware of his views, and I too have conveyed my views. Everything will be set right after he comes and speaks to me.”Bommai denied that Singh has resigned .Anand Singh didn’t issue any statements to the media on Wednesday.But Singh isn’t the only one.Commenting on another disgruntled minister MTB Nagaraj, Bommai said he has spoken to him and there is no problem at all.After Bommai succeeded Yediyurappa as the Chief Minister, on August 4, he expanded his cabinet which now has 29 ministers. He retained most of the ministers in the Yediyurappa government, but dropped a few.People familiar with the matter said that apart from the two ministers who have expressed their displeasure, there are others who are unhappy with the cabinet allocations. Then there are the lawmakers unhappy at not finding a place in the cabinet. MLAs S A Ramadas, Abhay Patil, Ramesh Jarkiholi, Narasimha Naik alias Raju Gouda, M P Renukacharya, Arvind Bellad, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and Umesh Kumathalli are among those said to be displeased at not being named ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-dissent-brews-in-bommai-s-cabinet-after-allocation-of-portfolios-101628728944023.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||‘Not performing civic functions’: Delhi HC orders SDMC to reveal expenses since trifurcation||The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to file a status report disclosing its securities and assets as well as the details of income and expenditure since the trifurcation of the city’s three civic bodies in 2012.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, while hearing a bunch of pleas on the non-payment of salaries to the civic body employees, also directed SDMC to devise a self-sustaining financial mechanism while continuing to discharge its municipal functions.The court noted that even though the salaries constituted the maximum part of SDMC’s expenditure, hardly any money was being spent on services.“What is paining me is that you are not performing municipal functions. You are only paying salaries and pensions. Look at the state the city is in today. Salaries are beginning to be such a huge figure in the scheme of things. You are a municipality. Your primary function should be municipal,” justice Singh said.“It has to be a self-sustaining mechanism. We are (entertaining) because common man should not suffer. It does not seem correct to me,” he added.Appearing for the SDMC, its counsel, sought four weeks to place on record the roadmap to augment the municipal corporation’s resources and income.Additional solicitor general KM Nataraj, who also appeared for SDMC, urged the court to direct the Delhi government to release some amount subject to orders as was released earlier in favour of the North MCD.The court, however, said, “You file account from 2012. You have to disclose securities and assets”. It questioned as to when SDMC would pay the salaries to the categories of employees in question for the month of July since salaries till only June had been paid.SDMC council Divya Prakash Pande said that while efforts were being made, since SDMC was short on funds, he could not give them a precise date.“Our heart goes out to the employees who are not being paid,” the court said.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, contended that the SDMC ought to have given the account of its income and expenditure from the time the trifurcation took place and not 2016.“The report is incomplete. These are three years and trifurcation happened in 2012,” he argued adding that SDMC was yet to comply with the July 8 order directing the civic bodies to list out steps taken to augment their resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-orders-sdmc-to-reveal-expenses-since-trifurcation-101628721576762.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||6-year-old girl raped in East Delhi, 1 held||A six-year-old Dalit girl is undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after she was raped, allegedly by her 34-year-old neighbour, in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri on Wednesday afternoon.A case of rape under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 376AB, Section 6 of the protection of children from sexual offences (Pocso) Act and sections 3(2) (v) of the SC/ST Act was registered at the Mayur Vihar police station.The suspect was arrested later in the day, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said. The locals staged a protest outside the police station.This is the second case of sexual assault on a minor Dalit girl in the national capital in the last 11 days. On August 1, a nine-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed by four men, including a 55-year-old priest, at a crematorium near Purani Nangal village, close to Delhi Cantonment in southwest Delhi.Wednesday’s incident took place on the day when the charred remains of the nine-year-old girl, who was raped on August 1, were cremated by her family in the presence of police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/6yearold-girl-raped-in-east-delhi-1-held-101628720267031.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||SHO shunted for ‘dereliction of duty’ a week after viral video||The station house officer (SHO) of the Adarsh Nagar police station was on Tuesday suspended for “dereliction of duty”, a week after a video showed him trying to stop a man from harassing a Muslim man over an alleged disputed religious structure.Last week, several citizens took to social media demanding the suspension of inspector CP Bhardwaj. A hashtag demanding his removal was trending on the afternoon of August 4.The video showed a man asking another person about the ownership of a mazaar on the road in Adarsh Nagar. The man was asking the second person where he lived and sought an explanation as to why the mazaar was on the road, as it was blocking traffic. Inspector Bhardwaj is seen intervening between the two.In the video, Bhardwaj, can be seen reminding the first person that for any disputed structure, the government has a committee to examine its legality. To this, the first man is seen asking Bhardwaj why a temple was demolished in Chandni Chowk. The viral video ends with the inspector taking the first man into custody.Chhattisgarh cabinet minister TS Deo tweeted, “If you are law abiding, believer in constitution, secular citizen or official, you stand against everything that BJP believes in & are liable for punishment— that’s the clear message from the BJP Govt after suspension of SHO CP Bhardwaj who responsibly averted a crisis in making.”No officer authorised to speak to the media commented on the reasons behind Bhardwaj’s suspension. However, a senior police officer, who asked not to be named, said: “The controversy over the mazaar and the viral video has nothing to do with his suspension. No one was arrested in that incident. No complaint was filed in that incident. He has been suspended because there were many complaints against him for dereliction of duty. In some cases, he did not use the correct Indian Penal Code sections and diluted the case. He also did not act on some complaints.”Bhardwaj’s personal cellphone was unavailable when HT tried to call him on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sho-shunted-for-dereliction-of-duty-a-week-after-viral-video-101628718338741.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area records 10 new Covid infections, no deaths||The daily count of Covid-19 infections in the tricity dropped to 10 on Wednesday, against 18 cases on Tuesday. However, no death was reported for the eleventh consecutive day here.On Wednesday, as many as five cases were reported from Chandigarh, while Mohali had three and Panchkula two.The infections from Chandigarh were reported from Sectors 7, 11, 44, 55 and Mauli Jagran whereas of the three cases in Mohali, one each was from Mohali city, Kharar and Dhakoli. The active cases in the tricity increased to 91 with Mohali having the highest patient load at 46. Chandigarh, at present has 35 active cases, followed by 10 in Panchkula.So far, 68,505 people in Mohali have tested positive, of which 67,402 have successfully recovered while 1,057 succumbed.In Chandigarh, 61,151 out of the 61,997 patients recovered while 811 died. Of the 30,656 infections in Panchkula, 30,270 have recovered and 376 have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-records-10-new-covid-infections-no-deaths-101628716054251.html
12-08-2021||Other||Staff not fully vaccinated, management of four Mohali schools booked||The managements of four schools in Mohali have been booked for non-compliance to Covid-safety protocols after the staff was found to be not fully vaccinated, during a special inspection drive on Wednesday. The four schools -- Jitender Veer Sarvhitkari Model Senior Secondary School, Sector-71, DAV Model Senior Secondary School, Kurali, and Manav Mangal Smart World, Zirakpur, and Delhi World Public School, Zirakpur, have also been ordered to close till further instructions.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that after reports of Covid spread in schools emerged from Ludhiana, the Mohali administration decided to go full throttle to ensure 100% vaccination of the school staff. He said teams of the district administration, led by the sub-divisional magistrates of three sub-divisions, conducted surprise checks at the schools in the respective areas.“At Jitender Veer Sarvhitkari Model Senior Secondary School, Sector-71, where the team led by Mohali SDM Harbans Singh visited, it was found that the principal, Kavita Attri, had not taken a single dose of the Covid vaccine. The sweeper and babysitter too are unvaccinated while seven other teachers have got only a single dose so far. Records of the Smart Wonders’ School were found appropriate,” said the DC.In Kharar, where SDM Aakash Bansal led the inspection, 18 staff members of DAV Model Senior Secondary School, Kurali, had got only a single dose. It was also found that 80% of the students were in attendance for physical classes, even as only 50% strength is allowed in view of the social distancing requirements.The Dera Bassi SDM conducted checking at two schools -- Manav Mangal Smart School, Zirakpur, and Delhi World Public School, Zirakpur. He said 52 staff members of Manav Mangal Smart School and 27 of Delhi World Public School have received only a single dose of the Covid vaccine. Dayalan said police have been directed to take stern action against the erring schools as they have put the safety of children at stake. He added, “We will start a special campaign to check the schools staff’s vaccination status. I have even directed the district education officer to check government schools to ensure that all staff members are vaccinated. We will not allow any school to function unless its teachers and other staff are fully vaccinated.” On the directions of the DC, police registered a case against the management of four erring schools under Sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life,), 270 (malignantly does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/staff-not-fully-vaccinated-management-of-four-mohali-schools-booked-101628715571919.html
12-08-2021||Other||Guest Column: Chandigarh needs metropolitan council for governance||With complex political developments casting a shadow over the final process of reorganisation of the erstwhile state of Punjab, Chandigarh was declared a Union Territory and capital of both Punjab and Haryana, initially for five years. Years ago, a status quoist pragmatism, lent a de-facto permanence to this status. Now, this status is practically irreversible. However, the city remains deprived of an empowered democratic set-up, which is essential to truly realise former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s vision of Chandigarh as a symbol of modern, resurgent India. For the first 30 years as a Union Territory, Chandigarh only elected a member of the Lok Sabha. The municipal corporation, ever since its first elections in 1996, has only presented a modicum of local self-governance with no real say in the affairs of the UT. The member of Parliament, essentially a legislator, has no constitutional authority regarding the UT’s affairs. It is only informally that he or she can exert influence to get things done, particularly lobby with the finance minister and others, to get much-needed funds for the city. Empowered elected body only answer In essence, Chandigarh is a bureaucratically run administrative set-up. Though men of calibre, experience and attainment have run its affairs, yet civil servants cannot be a veritable substitute for democratically elected people’s representatives with necessary powers of governance and decision-making. They come for a fixed term of three years, on what are considered to be prize postings to a UT, smaller than a district in a state, but has 14 IAS and seven IPS officers; a perfect example of Parkinson’s Law at work. Few of them would have an inclination to identify themselves with the aspirations of the people to have a hands-on approach to the UT’s myriad problems. Liberty taken with the Estate Rules is an appropriate example. The elected municipal corporation completes 25 years of existence this December; the panchayats and zila parishad have ceased to exist after the merger of all villages in the municipal area, but in the absence of transfer of vital functions, funds and functionaries, as stipulated by the Constitution, it remains handicapped, rather crippled in its working, far from being a vibrant tool of democracy. There is no district planning committee in Chandigarh. An unelected UT officer has the power to direct the MC to do his bidding, including imposition of new levies. Resultantly, property tax has seen a sharp increase, water rates have been increased manifold and on the top of it is a whopping 30% sanitation cess. Yet, there is no processing of solid waste and the ever-rising dumping ground with its perennial stink has become a health hazard. Also, roads remain in a state of disrepair. All this is because the UT does not have an empowered elected body for its governance. Administrator’s advisory council a PR exercise The administrator’s advisory council, a body nominated to advise the Punjab governor in his role as the UT administrator, on matters relating to the city, has not served the purpose of being a truly people’s representative institution. The meetings, though few and far between, are more of a public relations exercise by the administration to apprise the chosen few of its work and obtain a stamp of approval. It was not always so. Prior to the practice of appointing the Punjab governor as UT administrator that started in the early ’80s, the administrator used to be a senior AGMUT-cadre IAS officer, and paradoxically, the then local advisory committee, exercised greater supervision over the functioning of the administration. Every member could send in questions for the regular meetings and the departments concerned were obliged to submit detailed replies thereto for the committee’s scrutiny. The agenda was then not prescribed by the administrator for an inane meeting. The committee had a visible say in the governance of Chandigarh. Recommendations ignored amid reservations Then, there is supposed to be the home minister’s advisory committee for Chandigarh. It last met in 2017! Twice, the parliamentary standing committee on home affairs headed, at one time or the other by Pranab Mukherjee, Sushma Swaraj and M Venkaiah Naidu, now Vice-President of India, made significant recommendations related to the governance of Chandigarh. Nothing happened. Even a directive to the adviser to the administrator and other officers to hold a monthly meeting with the local MP on development works of the city, was given a quiet burial after the first meeting, on the reservations expressed by the governor-cum-administrator about the directive’s constitutional validity. This is the status of the UT, Chandigarh. It is revenue surplus, yet it doesn’t get adequate funds from the Consolidated Fund of India to which go all its revenues. It has an MP but he is just one of the 545, unless he exerts personal influence with the Union ministers for a few more rupees for its development works. It has a glorified elected body called the municipal corporation, but in the eyes of the bureaucracy, it is only a local body and the administration is not answerable to the people. Assembly not a viable proposition for city To put in place a responsible elected institution for the governance of Chandigarh, a demand of a legislative assembly is occasionally raised in different quarters. Not undermining the spirit behind this demand, it is my considered opinion that a legislative assembly like that in Puducherry or the National Capital Territory of Delhi is not a viable proposition for Chandigarh. The next best alternative is a metropolitan council at the UT level with a chief executive councillor and executive councillors vested with executive functions and powers of different departments. Only functions such as law and order could remain with the administrator, who would continue to be the head of the administration like a governor or a lieutenant governor. Democracy is not just about holding elections every five years or so. It must establish systems of good governance through larger participation of the people in day-to-day matters concerning the people. Ward committees and resident welfare associations are those public bodies which can beneficially contribute to the development of the city as a model of urban governance. Chandigarh must allow an organic development of democratic institutions and practices from the grassroots level upwards and not summarily impose decisions from the top, howsoever well intentioned those be. The writer is a former Congress MP and a former Union minister .Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-needs-metropolitan-council-for-governance-101628715091933.html
12-08-2021||Other||Mohali mayor constitutes town vending committee||Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Wednesday constituted a town vending committee. The members include councillors Kamalpreet Singh Bani and Jaspreet Singh Gill; DSP traffic Guriqbal Singh; Punjab National Bank manager (Municipal Bhawan) Manjeet Kaur; chief sanitary inspector Sarabjit Singh; senior adviser of Sarvahitkari Kalyan Society Jaswinder Sharma; S Chaudhary from Mohali Senior Citizens Association; Balkaran Singh Bhaati of Ajit Park Neighborhood Association; Munish Singla of Mohali Grocery Merchant Association and Vijay Kumar, Manjit Singh, Satpal Singh, Parshotam Lal, Maya and Ram Kumari, who are vendors. Sidhu said the committee will coordinate between vendors and municipal corporation and initiate plans to rehabilitate vendors and has been constituted with representation from all sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mayor-constitutes-town-vending-committee-101628714852459.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s first electric bus hits the road, on trial basis||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore flagged off Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU)’s first electric bus from Raj Bhawan on Wednesday and travelled to the Sector 17 police station, and thereafter to the India International Centre, Chandigarh. As of now, the bus will run on trial basis on the PGI-Manimajra route, via Madhya Marg, and the general public will have to wait till the first week of September to avail this facility. Nineteen more electric buses will be added to the fleet by September 30 and another 20 by October. The procurement of another 40 electric buses is under process and is expected to be received by next year. The department of heavy industries, Government of India, has sanctioned 80 electric buses under Phase-II FAME India scheme. For the first lot of 40 buses, an agreement has been signed with M/s Ashok Leyland for 10 years. The model of the contract is gross cost contract and scope of operator/company includes procurement of buses, installation of adequate number of chargers, maintenance of buses, providing of driver for 10 years. The fare collection will be done by the CTU. The transport department has planned to replace all 358 diesel buses in the tricity with electric buses by 2027-2028. Solar plant at police station Badnore also inaugurated the solar power plants for 12 police establishments of UT, Chandigarh, at Sector-17 police station. These have been set up at a cost of ₹1.62 crore and each has a capacity of 325 kilowatts. These solar power plants will generate approximately 4,22,500 kwh (units) of electricity annually. Badnore said the new solar power plants and electric bus have been introduced with an aim to reduce pollution and emission. The installations of solar power plants will help bring down the electricity bills by approximately by ₹20 lakhs annually. This will also turn police stations into green police stations, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-first-electric-bus-hits-the-road-on-trial-basis-101628714732038.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||27-year-old murdered in Rajouri, mob blocks Jammu-Poonch highway for 5 hours||JAMMU After a 27-year-old youngster was stabbed to death at Chakli village in Rajouri around 1am on Wednesday, locals blocked the Jammu-Poonch national highway for over five hours , demanding that the culprits be arrested. Rajouri district police chief SSP Sheema Nabi Qasba said, “Some unidentified assailants attacked Ankush Bakshi with sharp-edged weapons inside his house at Chakli village, causing his instant death.” A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder), 458 (house-trespass) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and a special investigation team (SIT) headed by the deputy superintendent of police (headquarters), Rajouri, has been constituted to probe the murder. Officials said Bakshi was stabbed multiple times in his sleep. Come morning, angry villagers blocked the highway at Chakli and raised slogans against the civil administration and police. Deputy magistrate Rajesh Kumar Shavan reached the spot and assured them that strict action will be taken against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/27yearold-murdered-in-rajouri-mob-blocks-jammu-poonch-highway-for-5-hours-101628714492447.html
12-08-2021||Other||Mohali admn adds more sections to FIR against residential school||Following the directions of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), the Mohali administration has added more sections to the FIR against the school director and management of Career Point Gurukul, Mohali, where 42 students and three staff members were found Covid-19 positive on April 26 this year.The fully residential school, with around 200 students, had not shut despite the state government’s guidelines amid the soaring cases of the second wave of infections. Initially, the FIR was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. Now, the administration has added Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread the infection), 270 (malignantly does any act which he knows or has reason to believe will spread the infection), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 188 (2) (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), and 340 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015. Taking suo moto cognisance of news reports of Hindustan Times on the Covid-19 outbreak at the residential school, the NCPCR had sought a detailed report from the office of Mohali deputy commissioner. But despite three reminders, the administration failed to reply and later the commission had summoned the Mohali deputy commissioner (DC) to appear in-person before the commission on August 10. DC Girish Dayalan, who had appeared before the commission through video conferencing, said, “The commission also recommended Section 304-A (causing death by negligence), but no death has taken place in the school, so it is not admissible.” When contacted, the school director Umed Singh said, “More sections have been added as one of the NGOs has a personal grudge against us. They were blackmailing us, but we did not oblige to them, so they are doing all this. Our legal team from Kota will give a reply.” The commission chairperson, in a letter to the administration, stated, “Following the examination of the Action Taken Report (ATR) and representations received from several parents, the commission is of the view that that your good office may reexamine or investigate this matter and recommend registration of FIR under 304- A, 269, 270, 34, 188 (2), 342, and 340 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015. In April 2021, acting on a complaint about students of a residential school suffering from moderate to high-grade fever, that the Mohali administration had dispatched a medical team to conduct COVID 19 tests at the schools, where 42 students and three members of staff were tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-admn-adds-more-sections-to-fir-against-residential-school-101628714432015.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal records 374 fresh Covid cases, two deaths||Himachal recorded 374 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 2,08,990, while the death toll mounted to 3,523 after two more patients succumbed to the contagion. At 105, the highest cases were reported in Chamba, 66 in Mandi, 64 in Kangra 35 in Hamirpur, 33 in Kullu, 27 in Shimla, 19 in Bilaspur, 13 in Lahaul-Spiti five each in Solan and Una and two in Kinnaur. Active cases mounted to 2,556 and recoveries reached 2,02,893 after 139 patients recuperated. Kangra is on the top with 46,790 cases, followed by 28,651 in Mandi and 26,052 in Shimla. Solan has 22,459 cases, Sirmaur (15,388), Hamirpur (14,821), Una (13,498), Bilaspur (13,084), Chamba (12,805), Kullu (9,294), Kinnaur (3,337) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,811).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-records-374-fresh-covid-cases-two-deaths-101628714311945.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees 114 more Covid cases, 1 death||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded 114 fresh novel coronavirus infections and one virus-induced fatality. While Kashmir saw 80 cases, Jammu recorded 34 infections and a death. The active cases have reached 1,297. At 309, Srinagar has the highest number of active cases, followed by Jammu district with 136 cases.The overall number of people who have recovered has reached 3,17,195, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.23%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,22,885 and the death-toll 4,393.Officials said 56,475 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. With 27 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 20 in Kupwara. As many as 16 districts had no or single-digit cases.Jammu district has the highest number of fatalities at 1,140, while Srinagar has recorded 834 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-sees-114-more-covid-cases-1-death-101628714252080.html
12-08-2021||Other||Two from BJP, one from JJP tipped to be nominated councillors in Ambala MC||Amid the ongoing tussle between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and former Union minister Venod Sharma’s Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) in the Ambala municipal corporation (MC), the saffron party is set to get a fresh push with the nomination of three councillors including one from its ally Jannayak Janata Party (JJP).The three names that have come forward are advocate Sandeep Sachdeva, Suresh Sahota from BJP and Vivek Chaudhary Lanana from JJP. On Wednesday, they met city MLA Aseem Goel along with other eight party councillors to seek his wishes.“I thank chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and party’s state chief OP Dhankar for their nomination. I hope they will take the development of the city to a higher level and provide strength to the organisational structure of the party,” the MLA wrote on his Facebook profile.There is no official order, however, from the department of urban local bodies yet, but the celebrations started in both the corners on August 10 itself. The department had on August 9 written to deputy commissioner (DC) Vikram with names of the above three mentioned leaders, asking for “character verification” by 2pm on August 10.“I have written back to the department with the required details on Tuesday. As of now, there is no official announcement by them,” the DC said. Political observers believe that the nomination of the trio will give a boost to the ruling alliance that is struggling in the MC House, in which no party is in majority. In the 20-member House, BJP and HJCP have eight councilors each, and Congress and Haryana Democratic Front have two members each. Mayor Shakti Rani Sharma is from the HJCP.“They won’t have voting rights, nor would they stand for the posts of senior deputy mayor or deputy mayor. But the House meetings are expected to become stormy, as both the parties are blaming each other for failed development works as was seen in the monsoon season and during the bhoomi pooja of the main road near Vita plant,” they said.About the candidatesSandeep Sachdeva: The inner circle man of MLA Aseem Goel, he came closer to the MLA when he had fielded his wife Shailja Sachdeva’s name before the CM as party’s mayoral candidate. Dr Vandana Sharma was given the ticket, who lost. Sachdeva is also president of Punjabi Biradari Vikas Sabha and an advocate affiliated with the MC.Suresh Sahota: He is party old-timer and former district president of Schedule Caste Morcha (Wing). His wife Sushila Sahota, a working member of the party’s women wing, was the frontrunner candidate from ward 14, which later went to ally JJP’s quota. The party had, however, lost all four seats it contested.Vivek Chaudhary: Young face of the party, he is JJP state spokesperson and enjoys proximity to deputy CM Dushyant Chautala. Earlier affiliated to the INLD, he switched to JJP during its inception in January 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-from-bjp-one-from-jjp-tipped-to-be-nominated-councillors-in-ambala-mc-101628713893398.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Make all court buildings accessible for specially abled people: Himachal HC||Himachal Pradesh high court acting chief justice Ravi Malimath has directed that all court buildings in the state be made fully accessible to specially abled persons. The acting chief justice has directed the registrar (general administration department) of the high court and all district and sessions judges in the state to take immediate steps to comply with the provisions of the Disabilities Act, 2016.All district and sessions judges in the state have been asked to take immediate remedial steps for making provision of a ramp with railings and construction of disabled-friendly toilets in all judicial complexes. He has also directed them to make provision of lift, where the complex is multistoried, and to call for an urgent meeting of the district court management systems committee, to consider the availability of the aforesaid facilities in the court buildings and also the facility of auditory and visual signage and a Braille button in a lift in case of multistoried buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/make-all-court-buildings-accessible-for-specially-abled-people-himachal-hc-101628713651818.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Opposition members walk out of HP House after Speaker rejects plea||The Opposition on Wednesday walked out of the Himachal Pradesh assembly, objecting to the speaker expunging the remarks made by MLA Jagat Singh, who is affiliated with the Congress. There was a furore in the House as Congress legislators moved to the well of the house and raised slogans against the ruling party.The Opposition was displeased when the Speaker turned down the request of Leader of Opposition to let him raise the issue of expunging of Negi’s speech on the directions of the speaker Vipin Parmar. Negi, who is affiliated with the Congress, commented on the RSS and made references to Queen Victoria’s reign. Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj said that the Opposition should go to the Speaker’s chamber to discuss the matter and not disrupt the proceedings of the House.The pandemonium continued for over 20 minutes. Amid the din, the speaker announced the question hour, after which the Opposition staged a walkout. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur condemned the walk out he said that the house will be run in accordance with the rules. He said the Congress MLAs, including the leader of Opposition had threatened the ruling party’s MLAs and that the opposition was behaving like goons. He said the behaviour of Jagat Singh Negi was highly objectionable, condemnable and unacceptable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/opposition-members-walk-out-of-hp-house-after-speaker-rejects-plea-101628712632047.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adviser hears out grievances of councillors||A meeting to address grievances and demands of councillors from wards 21 to 26 was held on Wednesday under the chairmanship of UT adviser Dharam Pal.It was attended by mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, UT home secretary Arun Gupta, UT finance secretary Vijay N Zade and councillors from wards 21 to 26 - Gurpreet Singh, Davesh Moudgil, Bharat Kumar, Anil Kumar Dubey, Jagtar Singh and Vinod Aggarwal.Councillors raised demands regarding development-oriented projects in their wards. The adviser assured them that their demands will be fulfilled and directed departments concerned to work speedily and adhere to deadlines. Pal asked the departments to submit recommendation for completion of primary health centres/dispensaries, community centres, approach/link roads, traffic lights, sampark centres, bus queue shelters and bus stands among other projects. He added that the entry and exit points of the city must be well maintained.He said that road and horticulture are the main features of the city’s landscape and their proper maintenance is the need of the hour. Hence, effective mechanism for fast execution of horticulture work in a planned manner must be worked out. He also directed that area XENs/SDOs/JEs of these wings shall be accountable in case of any lapse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-adviser-hears-out-grievances-of-councillors-101628712589146.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tikait meets Nihang protester in Chandigarh||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday reached Matka Chowk in Sector 17 here to meet Labh Singh, the elderly Nihang who has been protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws for the last 5-6 months.He had come to drum up support for the ongoing farmer protest. Addressing the media here, he said that they had enough time and patience, and would keep on waiting till the government did not agree to their demands.Regarding contesting elections, he said that he had no such intentions. About farmer leader Charuni, he said that “unhone PM ki post se istifa de diya hai (he has resigned from the post of PM)”.Large number of people could be seen gathered at the Matka Chowk, including police who were deployed to maintain law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tikait-meets-nihang-protester-in-chandigarh-101628712585006.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cholera confirmed in Mohali’s Baltana: 50 fresh cases detected in Modern Housing Colony||After 340 cases of diarrhoea surfaced in Baltana over the past three days, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), on Wednesday, confirmed a cholera outbreak in the area. Cholera is an acute diarrhoeal illness caused by infection of the intestine with Vibrio Cholerae bacteria. The infection is often mild or without symptoms but can sometimes be severe and life-threatening. The cases have been reported from Ekta Vihar, Ravindra Enclave, Harmilap Nagar and Modern enclave. On Wednesday, 50 fresh cases were reported from Modern Enclave. On Monday, the authorities claimed to have found the source of contamination and even plugged it. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “We had sent the samples to the microbiology laboratory at PGIMER, Chandigarh, which has now confirmed a cholera outbreak. Medical camps are being held in all the colonies and from Thursday, we will intensify sampling. Medical teams and ambulances have been stationed in the area and free medicines are being provided to the affected people.” Zirakpur municipal council’s executive officer Girish Verma said, “Though we have plugged the leakage, we are checking other pipes as well. We will be stopping the fresh water supply in these areas for the time being.” Two persons -- a three-year-old girl and a 30-year-old man – have died of the infection in the last three days here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cholera-confirmed-in-mohali-s-baltana-50-fresh-cases-detected-in-modern-housing-colony-101628712580690.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Hockey player Monika Malik gets hero’s welcome||The India women’s hockey team might not have got a podium-finish at the Tokyo Olympics 2021, but the Rani Rampal-led side won hearts of millions by reaching the semi-finals of the mega-event for the first time. Mid-fielder Monika Malik arrived in Chandigarh on Tuesday to a hero’s welcome.In high spirits, Malik, a product of Chandigarh Hockey Academy (CHA), said hockey was the clear winner for India. “We could not win a medal, but the reception and the messages we have received have made us so proud. Even Prime Minster Narendra Modi spoke to the entire team after we lost the bronze medal match. We will be a stronger squad for Paris Olympics in 2024,” said Malik, who after spending three years at the CHA in her formative years, moved to Haryana. The India women’s team beat Australia 1-0 in the quarter-finals to enter the semi-finals. However, they lost 3-4 in a pulsating bronze-medal playoff against Great Britain. Great Britain were the gold medallists from Rio 2016, where India finished last among 12 teams.“It was heart-breaking to lose to Great Britain. I think we have a relatively young team and youngsters like Sharmila and Salima have bolstered us. The same set of players will continue as a unit for the next three-four years. Meanwhile, many players from other teams are going to retire before 2024. We should prepare from now on,” feels Malik, whose father Takdeer Singh Malik is an ASI with Chandigarh Police. The Indian Women’s hockey team was felicitated by Hockey India upon their return to the country.As many as nine players from Haryana were part of the team. It was Malik’s second Olympics and she was part of the Indian team that won silver medal in the 2018 Asian Games.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hockey-player-monika-malik-gets-hero-s-welcome-101628712572390.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farm labourers attempt to gherao Amarinder’s residence in Patiala||On the last day of their three-day-long protest, farm labourers on Wednesday held a protest march towards the residence of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in Patiala. Police, however, stopped them at a distance as all the roads leading to the CM’s residence were barricaded. Farm labourers under the banner of Sanjha Majdoor Morcha are demanding waiver of their loans and electricity bills, allotment of residential plots to the landless, increase in old age and widow pension to ₹5,000 and scrapping of three contentious farm laws. Lachaman Singh, a morcha activist, said the labour unions will hold three-day-long protests outside residences of cabinet ministers across the state from September 1 onwards. “The congress government has turned a blind eye towards the demands of the labourers. There is no one to take stock of the plight of labourers,” he said. Meanwhile, the morcha refused to cremate the body of 62-year-old Gurtej Kaur from Bhunder village in Bathinda district, who had died during the protest on Monday, seeking financial assistance to her family. Labourers demand a compensation of ₹5 lakh and government job to next of the kin and waiver of her pending financial liabilities. Farmers oppose BJP’s Teej festival in Sangrur A group farmers on Wednesday blocked the gate of Government Ranbir College, Sangrur, where BJP’s Mahila Morcha had organized a Teej festival. Protesters in good numbers reached outside the venue where BJP’s Mahila Morcha state president Mona Jaiswal and district chief Meena Khokar were expected to reach. Police stopped the farmers at the main gate of the college. However, Jaiswal skipped the event. District BJP chief Randeep Singh Deol said some miscreants in the disguise of farmers tried to disturb the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-labourers-attempt-to-gherao-amarinder-s-residence-in-patiala-101628711915457.html
12-08-2021||Other||Shooting spree in Nurmahal: Two days on, police clueless of the accused’s whereabouts||It has been nearly two days since one Jaswinder Singh, 45, went on a shooting spree injuring his wife and mother-in-law and killing a 26-year-old acquaintance in Nurmahal, the police are still groping in the dark and have failed to nab the accused.During the investigation, it came to light that Jaswinder Singh had shot at his wife in the presence of his 14-year-old daughter Jasleen Kaur, who had managed to escape and raise the alarm.The 12-year-old son, Damanjot, who was visiting his maternal grandparents, saw his father shooting his grandmother and escaping the scene. Both the children are shocked and terrified after the incident, police said.Today the police have conducted raids at the houses of Jaswinder’s relatives and friends but could not find the whereabouts of the accused.Both Jaspreet Kaur (wife of accused) and Vandana Likhi (Mother-in-law of accused), who sustained bullet injury in the neck were successfully operated upon and they are stated to be stable.Two separate teams of Ludhiana police and Jalandhar rural police are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed on the highways and questioning the people known to the accused. However, the police have made no headway in the case.The accused belongs to Labra Lohara Gate in Jalandhar and was residing here with his wife and two children in a rented accommodation at Santosh Nagar in Haibowal.A day after the incident, the sister of the accused had said that while she was yet to come to terms with the tragedy, the exorbitant medical bills incurred on medical treatment of her and her mother had left them in a deep financial crisis. She said that already ₹2.5 lakh had been spent on the treatment. “I have exhausted all my savings. It is unfortunate that the accused is on the run leaving all of us in pain and misery,” said she.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shooting-spree-in-nurmahal-two-days-on-police-clueless-of-the-accused-s-whereabouts-101628711252768.html
12-08-2021||Other||MLA directs officials to expedite development projects||To ensure completion of different development projects ahead of the upcoming assembly elections, MLA (east) Sanjay Talwar conducted a meeting with the councillors of the East constituency and directed the officials to expedite the ongoing projects on Wednesday. The MLA asked the municipal corporation (MC) and Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) officials to complete the projects within the set deadline and prioritise the road construction and sewer projects so that the public doesn’t face any harassment. The MLA also took feedback regarding major projects being taken up in the constituency including the construction of the exhibition centre, Eastend club, exhibition centre, etc. Talwar said,” Development projects worth hundreds of crores are underway in East constituency including the establishment of a college, exhibition centre, Eastend club, government schools, community centres, power sub-stations, fire stations, among others. Road and sewer development projects worth crores are also being undertaken in different parts of the constituency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mla-directs-officials-to-expedite-development-projects-101628711251672.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Infection among students major setback for Ludhiana schools||As the private schools slowly moved towards normalcy after the state government allowed offline classes for all students August 2 onwards, reports of children testing positive for Covid in two government schools came as a major setback. The management of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School in Shastri Nagar has decided to discontinue the physical classes, which had resumed only two days ago, for primary sections (UKG to Class 5). However, teaching in online mode will continue. Other schools have also been forced to reconsider the decision to continue in-person teaching. School managements stated that even as offline classes were being offered, timetable was fixed in such a manner that students visited the campus in staggered manner, that too after getting consent from their parents. Necessary precautions such as social distancing and wearing of masks were also being followed strictly, school authorities said. Kritika Seth, HR head of BCM Arya school, said, “We were taking all precautions to keep the students and teachers safe, but the decision to discontinue offline classes for primary sections has been made as a precautionary step considering the risk. The decision regarding the rest of the classes will be taken after assessing the situation. Both offline and online learning for classes 6 to 12 will continue, while just online classes will be offered to the primary section students for now.” The management of Sacred Heart Convent School in Sarabha Nagar said that they had not yet opened the school for regular classes and decided to continue with online classes only. Vice-principal of Guru Nanak Public School in Sarabha Nagar, GS Nagi, said their offline classes had resumed only for senior sections (classes 10 to 12). “We had been contemplating to start the offline classes for primary sections and have now sought suggestion from the parents, considering the situation,” said Nagi, while adding that they were also waiting for the government’s reaction after cases being reported from state-run schools. Many schools felt that immediate shutdown of educational institutions might further inculcate fear among the students, parents and the faculty, even as the teachers and school staff have been vaccinated. Schools have not made it mandatory for the students to attend offline classes. JK Sidhu, principal of DAV school in BRS Nagar, said they had reopened for offline classes on Monday (August 9) only. “For primary sections (nursery to Class 6), regular classes have been scheduled to be held from Thursday to Saturday and for others, it will be from Monday to Wednesday. The primary sections are scheduled to attend the first offline class since March on Thursday and preparations have been made. Offline classes will continue in a staggered manner this week and decision regarding the next week will be taken as per the prevailing situation,” said Sidhu. Various schools have also decided to continue with both offline and online classes amid strict compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour. Many schools also mentioned that low attendance was being witnessed. As per most of the school managements, only 10-15% attendance was being recorded for offline classes and it was assumed that it would further reduce following the latest resurgence of Covid cases. Principal of KVM school, Navita Puri, said in-person learning for students of classes 1 to 12 commenced on August 3 and they were continuing with both online and offline classes. “We opened the school for classes 1 to 9 on August 9, while the classes for senior sections were being held since July. Low footfall is being witnessed at the school. We are taking all required precautions and no decision has yet been made to stop offline classes,” said Neelam Mittal, principal of BVM school in Kitchlu Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/infection-among-students-major-setback-for-ludhiana-schools-101628711195022.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s daily caseload doubles in 24 hours||The number of daily Covid infections doubled in Ludhiana from Tuesday’s 17 to 34 on Wednesday with the active cases also recording a considerable jump. While no death was reported, as many as 99 active cases were logged on Wednesday, adding 30 more infections to the Tuesday’s figure of 69.The total number of cases in the district since the beginning of the pandemic stood at 87,401, including 2,095 deaths.The spike in cases prompted the Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma to issue an advisory emphasising the need to strictly follow guidelines issued by the government to prevent the virus spread.He said it was after a gap of two months that Ludhiana clocked cases in double-digit in the last two days, which shows a slight surge in the situation.Addressing Ludhiana residents in his weekly Facebook live session, the DC said there was a need to remain cautious as the cases have been reported from the two schools.He said after the cases surfaced, the administration started a special sampling drive in 12 mohallas of Ludhiana from where the infected students belong. “We are assessing the situation and if needed, we would try to make containment areas for breaking the transmission chain accordingly,” he added.He said the district administration was committed to tackling any kind of exigency in view of any surge in Covid cases and the health infrastructure has been ramped. Ludhiana is now in a better position to deal with the third wave, he added. The DC said the administration had been running the vaccination drive aggressively and has inoculated 16.12 lakh residents so far.Ensure aggressive sampling, early detection of cases: DCDC Sharma on Wednesday also took stock of the sampling drive in the government senior secondary school on Cemetery Road and directed the health department to augment the drive and ensure collection of 1,500 samples daily.He told the officials to instantly upload the latest data on Cova App, which would further help the rapid response teams in collecting samples.The DC said that the only way to flatten the curve and break the transmission chain was to do more and more testing, treating and isolating the patients at the earliest.Accompanied by additional deputy commissioner (ADC) (UD) Sandeep Kumar, ADC (G) Rahul Chaba, SDM Vaneet Kumar, the DC asked the health department to further increase the number of sampling teams from 250 to 300 to ensure aggressive sampling, early detecting, containing and treating the potential Covid cases.48 RRT, 275 sampling teams formedDistrict epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said as many as 48 rapid response teams and nearly 275 sampling teams have been formed to meet any exigency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-daily-caseload-doubles-in-24-hours-101628711193941.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid norms go for a toss after school hours in Ludhiana||Clear violation of Covid norms by students after school hours is turning out to be the latest trigger in fresh infection spike in Ludhiana. Scenes of students not following Covid-appropriate behaviour were witnessed outside Government Senior Secondary Model School in PAU as well as another government school near Saggu Chowk. The situation was no different outside private schools across the city. There was no check by school authorities on students, who were leaving the premises in Sarabha Nagar and Civil Lines. A government schoolteacher, who wished to remain anonymous, said while Covid protocols were strictly maintained on the campus, students tend to let their guards down once the school hours get over. Prof PS Bhogal, who teaches political science at Arya College, Civil Lines, said the students were not to be blamed. “Students are young, innocent and full of energy. Many of them are meeting their peer group after nearly a year. It is important that the authorities devise some mechanism to stop the intermingling of students during and after school hours,” said Bhogal. No sampling in private schools yet, DEOs asked to share listWhile testing has been intensified in government schools after 20 students tested positive for coronavirus, no tests are being carried out in private schools to check the status of infection. The matter was again highlighted during the visit of DC Varinder Kumar Sharma to the government school on Cemetery Road. Some of the parents demanded that sampling on similar lines should be carried out in private schools as well. “The health department is aware of the prominent private schools of the town, but no testing has been carried out in private schools,” said Davinder Sharma, one of the parents.Meanwhile, district epidemiologist Dr Rameh Bhagat said, “We have asked the district education officers (DEOs), both elementary and secondary, to share the list of private schools in the district so that the health department could start collecting samples.However, despite repeated attempts, comments of DEO (secondary) Lakhvir Singh couldn’t be elicited. Schools, colleges driver of infection: CMCH reportChristian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) in its report presented to the government earlier during the year had mentioned that schools and colleges could be drivers of the virus.In the report, it was observed that youngsters carry high viral load, but mild symptoms of infection which could result in the virus spread among the elderly.Even during the second wave, it had come to the fore that 18 teachers and 28 students were found infected at the government school in Galib Kalan. One of the teachers had even succumbed to the contagion. Soon, cases began to emerge from other government schools and within a span of a month, second wave of the pandemic had spread in the entire district.No need to panic: DC“There is no need to panic as necessary action is being taken. We have identified that the 20 infected students live in 12 colonies located in the vicinity of the school. All the students are asymptotic. Health department teams have been sent to these colonies to test the family members and people with whom the children had come in contact. Only those teachers who have been fully vaccinated are allowed to attend the schools,” the DC said. “We do not want to take any knee-jerk action. Already, children’s studies have taken a hit due to the closing of schools. I have asked the health department to conduct RTPCR tests instead of rapid-antigen ones,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-after-school-hours-in-ludhiana-101628711192785.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Group of men assault, abuse hotel staff in Ludhiana, FIR registered against 15||Kotwali police have registered a case against 15 unidentified persons for assaulting the staff and son of a hotel owner and also damaging the furniture at the property near the Ludhiana railway station.According to the hotel staff, the incident took place on Monday night when two youths, who were in inebriated state, parked their car in front of the hotel and began shouting and hurling abuses.“When one of our waiters, Manu, went outside and asked them to park their car somewhere else, the duo began to abuse him,” said Davinder Dhand, owner of Hotel City Centre.  “Thereafter, hotel manager Mukand Singh also went outside and requested the accused to go somewhere else, but they misbehaved with him as well. Then they called up around a dozen people who assaulted the waiter, hotel manager and my son Janinder Dhand with a baseball bat,” he added.The hotel owner said the accused also barged inside the premises and damaged furniture.However, before police could arrive at the site, the accused managed to flee the scene.ASI Gurmit Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the FIR has been registered under sections 451, 427, 323, 506, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code and investigation is in process. The incident was also captured on CCTV cameras installed outside the hotel, he said, adding that efforts were on to identify and trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/group-of-men-assault-abuse-hotel-staff-in-ludhiana-fir-registered-against-15-101628711191699.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Congress, BJP, SAD always used Dalits, poor as vote bank: Maan||Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Wednesday accused the Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the BJP of always using the Dalits and the poor as a vote bank. In a press statement, Mann said ₹137.56 crore of outstanding amount up to 2016 was being collected 4.37 lakh Dalit consumers who are getting 200 units of free electricity. “The Congress government is running away from paying these arrears. It should immediately reverse this anti-Dalit and anti-poor move. Also, the previous SAD-BJP government had started the 200-unit free power scheme to garner votes from the Dalits and underprivileged sections but made no provision to keep the scheme going in the long run,” he added. He also sought clarification from SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on this issue as he was now making false promises of giving free power up to 400 units. The AAP leader alleged that earlier the Badal family looted the state in the name of providing free electricity to the Dalits and the poor and now the Amarinder-led government was cheating them in the name of this scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-bjp-sad-always-used-dalits-poor-as-vote-bank-maan-101628711138684.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Moga admn to upgrade infrastructure of 8 govt schools with central funds||The district administration in Moga has decided to upgrade the infrastructure of eight government schools lacking in terms of building, land or basic amenities with funds announced as reward under a central scheme. These district education department was directed to identify these schools — seven primary and one high secondary — from funds under the Niti Aayog’s ‘Aspirational Districts’ initiative. Moga is among the 124 ‘aspirational’ districts of the Niti Aayog. The schools are Patti Rupa (primary), Moga-1 (primary), Moga-2 (primary), Muglu Patti (primary), Indra Colony (primary), Dutt Road (primary), Dashmesh Nagar (primary) and Dashmesh Nagar (high).Deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “Last year we performed really well in the ‘Aspirational Districts’ initiative and the Niti Aayog announced ₹3 crore for us as reward money. I had sought a proposal in this regard and it will be sent to the Niti Aayog. The work will start once we get the nod.”Government Primary School, Dutt Road, has been running from the roof of a gurdwara for decades while Government Primary School, Patti Roopa, runs from a community hall of a public park in the absence of their own building.A teacher of at the Dutt Road school said, “The district education department has selected two municipal sites for shifting of the school and it will be finalised by the administration.”“The primary and high schools at Dashmesh Nagar are running from a congested place measuring 550 square yards. These schools have around 550 students. But they do not have playground, vehicle parking area or space for holding morning assembly. The other schools are also functioning from congested spaces but they have their own land,” said an official. District education officer (DEO primary) Varinderpal Singh refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-admn-to-upgrade-infrastructure-of-8-govt-schools-with-central-funds-101628711137665.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||All 15 Punjab dental colleges warned of action if NAAC certificate not furnished||The Dental Council of India (DCI) has warned all the 15 dental colleges in Punjab, including two run by the government, with action if they fail to submit accreditation certificate issued by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) within six months. Since February 2012, the DCI has repeatedly asked all the dental colleges in the country to get the mandatory NAAC accreditation, as per clause 9 of the Dental Council of India (Miscellaneous) Regulations, 2007. But 15 dental colleges of Punjab, including the two run by government at Amritsar and Patiala, besides 272 across the country have been continuously ignoring the DCI’s directions as they did not get accredited from NAAC or submitted the certificate. Of a total 315 dental colleges in the country, only 28 have submitted the certificate so far. DCI assistant secretary Dr Vinay Gupta said the body’s executive committee in a recent meeting took up the matter of non-furnishing the valid NAAC accreditation certificate by the dental colleges. “But even after issuing repeated reminders, only a few colleges got accredited by NAAC and furnished the necessary certificate to the DCI. All the dental colleges that have not yet got themselves accredited are strictly advised to get done the same within six months or action will be initiated against them as per rules. A circular to this effect will be issued to the dental college concerned,” the notice read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-15-punjab-dental-colleges-warned-of-action-if-naac-certificate-not-furnished-101628711131610.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder meets PM Modi, presses for repeal of three farm laws||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately initiate steps for the repeal of the controversial three agriculture laws and amend the legislation to include farmers in the free legal aid category.The CM, who met Modi in New Delhi, called for immediate review and revocation of the three laws that have triggered widespread resentment among farmers who are protesting at the Delhi borders since November last year.Pointing to the prolonged agitation, which has claimed the lives of more than 400 farmers and farm workers, Amarinder said the stir had the potential of posing security threat to Punjab and the country as Pakistan-backed anti-India forces are looking to exploit the disgruntlement against the government.The CM said the continued agitation was not only impacting economic activities in Punjab but also had the potential to affect the social fabric. He claimed that earlier too he had urged the PM to call a meeting with an all-party delegation from Punjab.He further underlined the need to compensate the farmers for the management of paddy straw at ₹100 per quintal and allay the fears of fertiliser shortage which could aggravate their problems. The CM stressed that due to fragmentation of landholdings and persistent disputes with lessees, market operators and agents, the farmers are also facing more litigation these days.“It is, thus, the need of the hour to amend section 12 of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, to include farmers and farm workers in the category of those entitled to free legal services to pursue and defend themselves in courts to secure their livelihood,” he said.The CM urged Modi to advise the Union ministries dealing with farmer welfare and laws to carry out necessary amendments to the Legal Services Authorities Act in the larger interest of the farming community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-meets-pm-modi-presses-for-repeal-of-three-farm-laws-101628711072143.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh colleges begin reopening in phased manner||As the new academic session of 2021-22 begins, the colleges in Chandigarh have started reopening campuses for students of ongoing batches in a phased manner.A number of colleges will start in-person classes for some batches from Thursday, others are planning to start from August 16. But most of them are starting physical classes with practical subjects.This development comes after the UT higher education department had last week decided to reopen colleges with a blended mode (both offline and online) of teaching. As per instructions, only those students who have received at least one dose of vaccine, at least two weeks ago, will be allowed to attend physical classes.At Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11, classes for second-year students except BA II will start from Thursday in blended mode: those who want to attend classes physically have been asked to follow Covid-19 norms and those without vaccination will not be allowed.Offline classes for semester-three students will commence from Thursday at Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46. However, classes for semester-five will be held online till further orders.Principal of Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, Nisha Aggarwal, said, “From Thursday, we will start physical classes for second-year students pursuing practical courses. They have not been able to attend college at all due to the pandemic.”However, at the Government College of Commerce and Business Administration, Sector 50, physical classes for ongoing batches started on Wednesday.Physical classes at DAV college from August 16At DAV College, Sector 10, classes for courses with practical subjects including BSc (medical), BSc (biotechnology) and BCA and all postgraduate courses will be held in offline mode from August 16. For other courses, they will be held online.Students have been asked to provide a self-declaration that they do not have any symptoms of Covid-19 and are not under home-quarantine. One dose of vaccine is mandatory to join campus.“There are around 1,500 students with practical subjects, and they will also be provided with hostel facilities. We will review the situation and we will extend this to other classes as well if the situation improves,” said principal Pawan Kumar Sharma.At MCM DAV College for Women, Sector 36A, physical classes for second-year students of ongoing undergraduate and postgraduate batches will also start from August 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-colleges-begin-reopening-in-phased-manner-101628710892217.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||5 food supply officials booked for siphoning off 24K quintals wheat||Charges of criminal breach of trust by a public servant, and criminal conspiracy figure in the FIR registered against five food and civil supply department officials, including four inspectors, for allegedly siphoning off 24,000 quintals of wheat meant for Atta Dal scheme beneficiaries in Sultanpur Lodhi. Hindustan Times had on June 25 reported the pilferage of 24,000 quintal grain. The accused have been identified as Vivek Sharma, Bhupinder Singh, Vikas Sethi, Rameshwar Singh, all food supply inspectors, and Munish Bassi, assistant food supply inspector. The accused were posted at Sultanpur Lodhi between October 2020 and May 2021 and were suspended for not distributing the grain to the beneficiaries. On July 26, Kapurthala district food supply controller Geeta Bishambhu had written to senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh for legal action against two of the five accused, Vivek Gupta and Bhupinder Singh. Sultanpur Lodhi deputy superintendent of police Sarwan Singh Bal said the accused were booked on the basis of a departmental inquiry report and investigations will bring to the fore their exact role and modus operandi. No arrest has been made so far. Food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had suspended the four food inspectors for not disbursing wheat to the eligible beneficiaries. In June this year, Bishambhu conducted a probe after Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema and members of the Kisan Union lodged multiple complaints over non-disbursement of wheat between October 2020 and March 2021. It was found that the department’s Sultanpur Lodhi centre didn’t provide records of wheat distribution to the inspection teams despite repeated orders, holding them guilty of “grave negligence”. The accused were booked under section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code and 13(2) (criminal misconduct by public servant) of Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-food-supply-officials-booked-for-siphoning-off-24k-quintals-wheat-101628710837374.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali court orders confiscation of ₹10-cr assets in Bhola drug case||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Mohali on Wednesday ordered “confiscation” of ₹10 crore worth assets that were attached by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with Bhola drug case, the economic law enforcing agency said on Wednesday. The confiscation order pertains to a multi-crore synthetic narcotics racket, commonly known as the Bhola drug case, unearthed in 2013-14 in Punjab. The properties include immovable assets, Indian and foreign currencies and fixed deposits that were in the name jailed prime accused Jagdish Singh Bhola, and four other accused — Roy Bahadur Nirwal, Mahesh Gaba, Anoop Singh Kahlon and Varinder Singh Raja — who are absconding. The agency said in a statement that the court “while passing the confiscation order categorically observed that no objection regarding confiscation of the properties has come from any quarter in spite of publication in the newspaper to the public”. “The court held that since the properties attached by the ED have been confirmed by the adjudicating authority (of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act) and the accused persons have been declared as proclaimed offenders (by the court) for evading the process of law subsequent to prosecution complaints filed against them, the said properties are confiscated to the central government,” it said. The money laundering case was filed by the ED after the FIRs registered by the Punjab Police. Bhola was arrested by the ED in January 2014. “He has filed three bail applications on various dates, however, all were dismissed by the special court,” the ED said. The ED till now has attached assets to the tune of ₹95 crore in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-court-orders-confiscation-of-10-cr-assets-in-bhola-drug-case-101628710591584.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||3 of a family die as pick-up hits motorcycle in Sangrur||SANGRURThree members of a family, including a seven-year-old girl, were killed when the motorcycle they were riding collided with a Mahindra Pick-up between Kheri and Gagarpur villages on the Kular road on Wednesday. The driver of the pick-up fled after the accident. Police have registered a case on the basis of the vehicle’s registration number.Those dead were identified as Malwinder Singh, 27, his mother Amarjit Kaur, 47 and daughter Gagandeep Kaur, 7, of Lehal Kalan village near Lehragaga.Sub-Inspector Santokh Singh of Sadar police station, Sangrur, said the three were on their way to Lehal Kalan from Gagarpur side. “The bodies were sent for post-mortem. A hunt has been launched to nab the pick-up driver,” said the police official. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-of-a-family-die-as-pick-up-hits-motorcycle-in-sangrur-101628710531909.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Climate change, fragile ecology make Kinnaur a ticking time bomb: Experts||With another landslide claiming multiple lives at Negulsari in Kinnaur district, the fragility of the ecology of the Himalayan region, which is at increasing risk due to climate change, has come to the forefront. Kinnaur, which is one of the remotest parts of Himachal, sits on a ticking time bomb as climate change compounded with a fragile ecology has increased the incidence of landslides in the region. Experts say that the tribal district is bearing the brunt of large devastation brought by hydropower projects built in the Sutlej River valley, which has disturbed its ecology. A study conducted in Kinnaur between 2012 and 2016 found that hydropower proliferation in the name of ‘clean energy’ has brought rapid land-use changes adversely impacting local terrestrial ecosystems and the communities inhabiting them.Increase in hydroelectric projects a factorIt found that 90% of the area of ‘forest land’ diverted to non-forest activities between 1980 and 2014 was transferred for hydro-electric projects (HEP) and transmission lines (TL), leading to change in land-use, fragmentation of forests and loss of biodiversity in the Kinnaur region, while the ‘compensatory afforestation’, carried out as a ‘mitigation’ measure for loss of forests and a mandatory condition for forest clearance for the forest diversion has not able to fulfil its stated objective. Manshi Asher of Himdhara Collective, an environment group based in Himachal, said a fragile ecology, climate change and unplanned development make Kinnaur vulnerable to climate disasters. “Kinnaur, which is located in the greater Himalayas, is inheritably fragile. Due to a lot of tectonic movement the region is highly sensitive seismically and geologically,” said Asher, adding that climate change has further aggravated the problem. “Global warming has resulted in change in rainfall pattern and areas, such as Kinnaur, that used to get less rainfall have been witnessing high rainfall, increasing incidence of landslide, while the third and most vital issue is haphazard construction taking place in the mountains,” she said. Asher said, “Tunneling, excavation and blasting is being carried out for large hydropower projects that have been executed or planned in Kinnaur district, which makes the fragile landscapes feebler. Transmission lines are also coming up, for which the land use has been changed and trees have been cut.” She said Negulsari, the site of the latest disaster, is also in close proximity of one of the largest hydropower projects -Nathpa Jhakri. Professor Ambrish Kumar Mahajan of the School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Central University of Himachal Pradesh, also agrees. “Himachal falls in a high-risk seismic zone and Kinnaur is fragile due to its highly-jointed and fractured geology,” he said, adding that a lot of developmental activities are taking place on steep slopes, which “clubbed together, have made Kinnaur a hub of landslide disasters.” Mahajan says that not just Kinnaur but Himachal as a whole is prone to such disasters, which have been evidenced recently. Disturbingly, Himachal has witnessed a two-fold increase in landslide incidents this year. The state saw over 35 major landslide incidents in July alone as compared to 16 landslides during monsoon last year. Earlier this year, 10 people had died after a landslide swept away half-a-dozen houses in Rulehar village of Shahpur subdivision in Kangra district and on July 25, a mini bus ferrying tourists was hit by a massive landslide at Batseri in Kinnaur, leaving nine people dead and two injured. Scientists’ warnings ignored Though scientists have issued multiple warnings, the state government has not done much to mitigate such disasters. The environment department of the Himachal Pradesh government, in its State Climate Change Strategy and Action Plan, had warned that there may be floods, landslides, glacial lake bursts, excess rainfall, excess snowfall and unseasonal rains in 2012. It had said that the state could experience a difference of 1-5 °C in minimum temperature and 0.5-2.5 °C in maximum temperature by 2030.It claimed that monsoon in Himachal would increase by 5-10 days by 2030. As per the document, high-altitude areas of Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba and Kullu, which usually receive heavy snowfall are now witnessing more rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/climate-change-fragile-ecology-make-kinnaur-a-ticking-time-bomb-experts-101628710412850.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kandowalia murder: One of 4 assailants arrested in Amritsar||One of the four assailants who gunned down gangster Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia, in a private hospital in Amritsar last week was arrested on Wednesday, said police. Gurminderjit Singh, alias Happy Shah, of Chahal Kalan village in Batala was arrested by the Amritsar commissionerate police following a tip-off. Police have also recovered a pistol and five cartridges from his possession. During interrogation, Happy Shah told the police that they planned to eliminate Kandowalia around a month ago at the instance of gangster Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who is lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail. Kandowalia, who was facing nearly a dozen criminal cases, including those of murder and attempt to murder, was shot dead by four armed men when he was enquiring about his cousin sister’s health in a private hospital situated on the Circular Road on August 4. Soon after the incident, a Facebook post from an account named after Jaggu Bhagwanpuria was also surfaced claiming the responsibility of killing Kandowalia. Police had booked Bhagwanpuria and four assailants, identified as Money Rayya, Mandeep Singh, alias Toofan, Happy Shah, and a Haryana-based man, for murder. Later, six more persons were nominated in the case for sheltering the accused. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP-investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said: “According to Happy’s confessional statement, Bhagwanpuria had instructed him and three other assailants to eliminate Kandowalia. Earlier, they had planned to kill Kandowalia near a gym in Ranjit Avenue in Amritsar on July 31, but due heavy police presence, they could not execute the plan.”Giving the possible reasons for Kandowalia’s killing, Bhullar said: “A few months ago, Kandowalia and his associates shared a picture of cake for Bhagwanpuria on Facebook and ridiculed him. The two groups entered into a war of words on the social networking site. Things worsened when name of slain gangster Patti Lama, who was gunned down in a gang war in Patti a few years ago, cropped up. Patti Lama was Bhagwanpuria’s aide and he suspected that Kandowalia was behind his killing.”The DCP said their process to bring Bhagwanpuria on a production warrant from Tihar jail was on. Police have also arrested one more person, Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, of Gagarbhana village in Amritsar for allegedly providing shelter to the four assailants. A pistol and seven live rounds have also been recovered from Gopi. Earlier, police had arrested one Nanit Sharma of Batala for harbouring the assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kandowalia-murder-one-of-4-assailants-arrested-in-amritsar-101628710351528.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to plan events across state through public participation for 75th I-Day||Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday discussed the preparation and planning for the celebration of the nation’s 75th Independence Day and decided to organise various events across the state through public participation. The ministry of culture has already outlined plans under Amrut Mahotsav. India will complete 74 years of independence on Sunday and will enter its 75th year on Sunday.The state cabinet also discussed the composition of a Rajya Geet or state song for the 75th independence celebration, as per the guidelines of the Union ministry. On this occasion, events would be organised in the departments of education, culture, tourism, urban development, public works, co-operation, agriculture, and women and child welfare. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte directed officials of all the departments to organise the programmes with the participation of students, citizens and various organisations.As per the statement from the chief minister’s office, various programmes are to be implemented under “India@75” which will be based around freedom struggle, its conceptualisation, achievement and movements. “Street plays, seminars, performances and folk art will be organised. Besides that, events paying homage to the unsung heroes of freedom struggle, visits to their residences, historic places in the freedom struggle in the respective districts, preserving the history of personalities associated with the freedom movement will be done,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-plan-events-across-state-through-public-participation-for-75th-iday-101628710051527.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to contribute 25% in Centre’s working women’s hostel scheme||The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to share 25% of the cost for constructing and running working women’s hostel under the Centrally-sponsored scheme in the state. Earlier, the scheme, cleared by the Centre in November 2017, was run under a cost-sharing basis between the Centre and non-governmental organisations (NGO) at 75:25 ratio. As per the revised scheme, the cost sharing ratio between the Centre, state and NGOs will now be 60:25:15. A revised scheme for construction of hostel for working women or grant of hostel building on rent-basis will be implemented.A note from the chief minister’s office (CMO) stated that any organisation or NGOs wishing to implement such a hostel scheme will be provided an annual fund for utilisation of the building as rent. The terms and conditions regarding hostel admission and facilities provided to the boarders will remain the same as it was previously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-contribute-25-in-centre-s-working-women-s-hostel-scheme-101628709991874.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Shops, eateries can be open till 10pm from Aug 15; rethink on schools likely||After announcing that it will allow fully vaccinated people to travel in local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) from Independence Day, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday rolled out a few more relaxations from Covid-19 lockdown rules. Shops, malls, restaurants can now operate till 10pm from August 15, while private offices can operate 24X7 with staggered shift hours. Employees in shops, establishments and offices, however, will have to be fully vaccinated. With the likelihood of a third wave hitting the state, the government also made it clear that the entire state will be put under immediate lockdown if the demand for oxygen reaches 700 metric tonnes (MT) daily. Religious places and theatres, multiplexes and auditoriums will remain shut till further orders, the state has said. Public health minister Rajesh Tope announced more relaxations after the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday. The new set of relaxations will be applicable even to 11 districts that have higher number of daily Covid cases and high test positivity rate. These districts had been exempted from the eased lockdown norms last month. The positivity and growth rate in these districts have now come down, as per the presentation made to the state cabinet on Wednesday.Shopping malls have now been allowed to open for businesses and can operate till 10 pm. However, the mall management will have to ensure that all their employees are fully vaccinated and the same rule is followed while allowing customers to step inside their premises. The onus of checking the certificate for full vaccination will be on the management. The hotels and restaurants, which, too, can operate till 10pm, from the current timing of 4pm, will have to ensure that their employees are fully vaccinated and they are masked at all times. Restaurants, gymnasiums and spas are allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity.The number of people allowed to attend wedding ceremonies has been increased to 200 if it’s taking place at open place like lawns, while the number of attendees is restricted to 100 or 50% of the sitting capacity if the venue is enclosed one. Indoor games have been allowed till 10pm provided that everyone including players on the premises are fully vaccinated.Private offices, too, have been allowed to operate at their full capacity and for 24X7, provided the office timings are staggered and the employees are fully vaccinated. “The offices can operate at 25% of their capacity per shift and the employees are fully vaccinated. The private offices are for the first time allowed to operate day and night, but they should follow the Covid-19 protocol,” Tope said.The health minister said that the relaxations come with a rider in the wake of the potential third wave of the virus. The state cabinet has put the threshold of requirement of the oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients. “If the daily requirement of the Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) reaches 700 MT, strict lockdown will be imposed immediately. Maharashtra’s LMO generation per day is 1,300MT, which is expected to go up to 2,000 MT in next few days because of the augmentation measures taken by us. As per the Central government’s direction the state government should augment the oxygen capacity to 1.5 times the requirement at the peak of the second wave. As per that parameter, the requirement would be 3,800MT, against our generation of 2,000MT. Since the possibility of supply of the LMO from other states is less if the third wave strikes, we have decided to strictly impose the lockdown again if the requirement goes up,” Tope said.The state government had started imposing strict lockdown from April 5 after the second wave of Covid-19 struck the state. The unlocking of the curbs started from first week of June by allowing non-essential shops and establishments to operate for limited period. The state, earlier this month, extended the period of operation of shops and establishment, excluding 11 districts with high covid-19 cases. On Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced opening up of the local trains for fully vaccinated citizens from August 15. State has now announced to roll out few more relaxations for across the state.“The relaxations will be applicable across the state, including the 11 districts which have high number of cases. There will restrictions imposed by the district administrations restricted to the tehsils that are worst affected of Covid. A few tehsils in Satara and Solapur are going through such restrictions and curfews. The containment at the local level will be effectively implemented in these districts,” the minister said.The number of the active cases in state has dropped to 68,375, of which 31, 263 have been admitted to hospitals. 11,147 of them are critical, and 4,248 of them are in the ICU. 1,673 patients are on ventilator support.The 11 districts, which had been continuously reporting high growth rate, test positivity rate for last few months have shown improvement. Against state’s growth rate of 0.10%, 11 districts have reported more growth ranging between 0.11 and 0.39%. State’s weekly positivity rate stands at 3.05%, against which seven districts have reported high positivity rate ranging between 3.40 and 6.64%.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 5,560 new Covid-19 cases and 163 fresh deaths on Wednesday, taking the tally to 6,369,002 cases and toll to 13,464. Mumbai logged 285 new cases and reported nine deaths, while Pune district logged 1,146 new cases.“We have apprehension of the rise in the cases post festive season and also because of the relaxations rolled out like witnessed after the first wave last year. This time it hopefully would not be that severe because of the vaccination coverage. The people should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, while the local authorities should ensure that tracking of the close contacts of infected people and testing was done properly,” said Dr Avinash Supe, who heads the state-appointed Covid-19 deaths audit committee.Meanwhile, people travelling to Maharashtra from other states, will require RT-PCR done 72 hours before their arrival or mandatory isolation for 14 days if they are not fully vaccinated.Political, social, religious, cultural programmes, election rallies, protests, birthday celebrations at public places remain to be prohibited. Takeaway services at hotels and restaurants can now operate 24 hours. Last order of the dinner in hotels should be placed at 9pm so that the hotel is closed by 10pm.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has, however, said that citizens should not lower their guard in the wake of the drop in Covid-19 cases. “We have to take due care in the wake of the newer variations of the virus posing challenges before all of us. The state government does not like to impose curbs, but the Delta variant is posing a serious threat in countries like US, UK again. We will have to take utmost care at public places,” he said. Thackeray further added, “The second wave had posed a challenge to oxygen supply not only in Maharashtra, but in other states as well. We have set the threshold of demand of oxygen to treat patients for the lockdown curbs. The lockdown will be reimposed soon after the demand reaches 700MT, required for 30,000 patients (currently, 2,575 patients are on oxygen supply and 1,673 on ventilators).”Govt rethink on resuming classesMumbai A day after it issued a government resolution (GR) allowing schools and junior colleges to reopen from August 17, the state is likely to defer its decision amid the fear of infection among students, which is an unvaccinated class. After strong opposition from the state-appointed Covid-19 task force and the paediatric task- force to reopen schools and junior colleges, the state cabinet has decided to revisit the decision.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with officials from the health department, school education department and members of both the task forces to discus the opening of schools and junior colleges.“Both the task forces, unanimously, opposed the move in the backdrop of the rise in the cases elsewhere in the country where the schools were opened. Secondly, the students are not vaccinated, leaving the high risk of them getting infected. This has necessitated to revisit the decision of reopening of schools and colleges,” said health minister Rajesh Tope. The school education department, through the GR issued on Tuesday, has allowed to reopen the schools for classes 5 to 7 in rural areas and classes 8 to 12 in urban areas from August 17.Tope said that the decision over the opening of the senior colleges will be taken after the reports from district level education societies and the universities are submitted to the government in next few days. When asked if the likely deferment of the decision of reopening of the schools is the result of lack of coordination within government, Tope said, “Different departments have right to have different opinions. The school education department, however, does not appear to have taken the opinion of the task forces into account while issuing the GR.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-shops-eateries-can-be-open-till-10pm-from-aug-15-101628709815907.html
12-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 20 more cases of Covid Delta plus variant; total cases reaches 65||The Maharashtra health department on Wednesday said they have found another 20 cases of Covid-19’s Delta Plus variant in the state. It was confirmed in the genome-sequencing report conducted by NIV (Pune), National Centre for Cell Science, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB). The total number of Delta Plus cases in Maharashtra has reached 65.Of the 20 cases, the maximum (seven) are in Mumbai and three in Pune. Besides, two cases each were found in Palghar, Raigad, Nanded and Gondia and one case each was found in Chandrapur and Akola. The first 21 Delta Plus cases were found in the state in June.Genome sequencing is an exercise to study changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant. It helps in ascertaining the types of variants infecting the citizens in the state. It is being done on the samples taken from the Covid-positive patients.To speed up the genome-sequencing process, the state government in April signed an MoU with CSIR-IGIB to sequence 100 Covid-positive samples each from 36 districts every month. Besides, 10 sentinel centres that include five laboratories and five hospitals, send samples to National Institute of Virology (NIV) and National Centre for Cell Science (NCCC) for sequencing in every 15 days. Each of them sent 15 samples for sequencing, the officials said.“Since April, the state has sent around 8,000 samples for genome sequencing and 80% of them are found to be Delta (B.1.617.2) variants, said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.“We are investigating each and every case of Delta Plus. We are trying to get epidemiological information of all the cases to ascertain its transmission and virulence, its response to the vaccine etc., which will help to contain the outbreak and transmission, if any,” Dr Awate said.Barring one death, all the other 65 patients found to be symptomatic or having mild symptoms, he added.The state government has started contact tracing of high-risk and low-risk contacts of index cases in the affected districts. Their genome sequencing will also be done if found Covid positive. It has further started surveillance for Influenza Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). This is being done to ascertain the differentiating factor between Delta and Delta Plus variants and understand their virulence and transmissibility, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-20-more-cases-of-covid-delta-plus-variant-total-cases-reaches-65-101628709813208.html
12-08-2021||Lucknow||Proposal mooted to give automobile dealers in Uttar Pradesh right to register new vehicles||Automobile dealers in Uttar Pradesh may get all the legal rights to register new vehicles in their showrooms if the state government accepts a proposal to this effect, people closely dealing with the issue have revealed.The regional transport offices (RTOs) would delegate their registering authority to the dealers once the state government acts upon the transport department’s latest proposal in this regard, they said. The proposal sent by transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu to the state government last week has sought an amendment to the State Motor Vehicle Rules to designate automobile dealers as “special registering authority” in the state to register new vehicles (with fully built body) that they sell to their customers. Sahu, in the proposal, has also said that the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 empowers a state government to delegate its registering authority to any other individual/agency and some states, including Rajasthan and Delhi, have already delegated this authority to dealers.“The department has sent a proposal to the government proposing designation of automobile dealers as special registering authority to register new vehicle, generate registration number for them, issue the high security registration plate and deposit tax, all under one roof, with people having no need to apply for the same to the RTO,” said a senior transport official requesting anonymity. The move, he claimed, would cut delays and eliminate much of the alleged irregularities in RTOs.Under the current system, dealers act merely as an agent between the customer and the RTO with the latter generating and allotting the registration number to a vehicle after the owner applies for the same and pays the tax. While the tax is paid online from the showroom itself on the purchase of a vehicle, one has to wait for a few days to get the registration number from the regional transport office. “Once the dealers are appointed special registering authority, people will be able to get the registration number for their vehicle instantly after they purchase it from any showroom,” the official said. A senior official in the government, however, said that the transport commissioner’s proposal needed to be vetted legally before the same was accepted and acted upon.The amended Motor Vehicles Act, according to him, did not permit the government to delegate any of its functions, including registering authority, to any private individual or agency.“Under Section 215 (B) of the MV (Amendment Act), both the Centre or the state government can delegate any power or functions that has been conferred upon it by the Act to any public servant or public authority to discharge any of its powers, functions and duties under the Act,” he pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/proposal-mooted-to-give-automobile-dealers-in-uttar-pradesh-right-to-register-new-vehicles-101628709811607.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Rawat to come to Chandigarh to mediate Between Capt and Sidhu||All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat will come to Chandigarh next week to mediate between chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu for unity in the party. The state affairs in-charge was asked by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to ensure unity in the Punjab unit after Amarinder took up with her the criticism of his government by newly appointed state chief, said sources. The chief minister, who met Sonia for the first time on Tuesday since Sidhu’s elevation, is learnt to have told her that continued and repeated targeting of the state government would be detrimental to the party in the run-up to the assembly polls early next year. Sources said the CM also showed Sidhu’s tweets and statements and urged the Congress president to rein him in for smooth functioning. After the meeting, Rawat had said that she advised the state government and the party organisation to work together. “The Congress president also asked me to ensure that both (Amarinder and Sidhu) work within their respective limits, but cooperate with each other,” he told reporters. Before his appointment, Sidhu had publicly targeted Amarinder and the state government for allegedly “colluding” with Badals and non-fulfilment of key poll promises. Though he is not taking direct digs at the chief minister by name now, his attacks on the state government have not stopped. The Congress central leadership, which had held a series of meetings with 150-odd state leaders before naming the new state unit team, had expected the truce to work, especially after it managed to ensure the chief minister’s presence at Sidhu’s installation ceremony to put up a united face. However, it has proved to be fragile as Sidhu and other detractors are questioning the government on the 18-point agenda set by the high command for implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rawat-to-come-to-chandigarh-to-mediate-between-capt-and-sidhu-101628709511528.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu appoints 4 advisers, picks MP, ex-IPS officer||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday appointed four advisers, including Lok Sabha member Dr Amar Singh and former IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa, to seek their “wise counsel” on party affairs in the state. The four advisers, who also include Dr Pyare Lal Garg and Malwinder Singh Mali, have been appointed with immediate effect. “I personally hold each of them in high regard, for their vision and work to envisage a better future for every Punjabi,” he wrote in the appointment order. Sidhu was appointed the Punjab Congress president by the party leadership last month despite strong opposition from chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The party also appointed four working presidents with him. Amar Singh, a retired 1981-batch IAS officer of Madhya Pradesh cadre, is currently MP from Fatehgarh Sahib. He had worked with Sidhu as his adviser when the latter was the local government minister in the present government. The former bureaucrat quit the position in February 2018 and then got elected as MP in 2019. “I am a party worker. I will perform whatever role the party gives to ensure that it comes in power in 2022,” the MP said, thanking the Sidhu. Most other Congress Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members from Punjab are backing chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Mustafa’s wife Razia Sultana is a cabinet minister and has sided with Sidhu. A retired IPS officer of the 1985-batch, Mustafa was among those superseded by 1987-batch officer Dinkar Gupta when he was appointed the state police chief by the Amarinder Singh government in February 2019. He challenged the appointment in the court. Garg is a social activist and former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences.Mali retired from government service where he worked with the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) as a script writer and now regularly comments on political affairs on social media and television channels. He has been severely criticising Amarinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-appoints-4-advisers-picks-up-mp-ex-ips-officer-101628708671507.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Corruption case: HC reserves judgment on Saini’s plea seeking bail||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday reserved its judgment on a plea of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini seeking anticipatory bail in a corruption case. The former Punjab DGP’s plea was taken up by the bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan on Wednesday and after arguments from the state as well as his lawyers, was reserved for the verdict to be pronounced on Thursday. His bail plea was dismissed by a Mohali trial court on August 6. On August 2, the Punjab vigilance bureau had registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and criminal conspiracy against the former DGP along with six others, including PWD executive engineer Nimratdeep Singh and his father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal, who owned the Sector 20 house in Chandigarh. The agency alleged Saini acquired the house in a fraudulent deal with fake documents and questionable financial transactions. The trial court had termed allegations against him “gravest” in nature warranting his custodial interrogation. Saini all along has denied the allegation and claimed that he was being targeted as he was instrumental in some probes against the incumbent chief minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, and some persons close to him during the previous SAD-BJP regime. He has also argued that he bought the property for ₹10.25 crore and was not aware of the manner house was acquired by the owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corruption-case-hc-reserves-judgment-on-saini-s-plea-seeking-bail-101628708132262.html
12-08-2021||Other||Restaurant owner, friend kill drunk man, run car over friend||PUNE: A local court on Wednesday remanded two men to four days’ custody of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for hacking an inebriated customer to death and running over his friend with a car along Nashik road in Khed at around 11pm on Monday. The customer was drunk and allegedly got into a fight with the cook, manager and owner of the restaurant called Hotel Sagar in Khed and used vulgar language to threaten them with their lives. The deceased was identified as Hemant Santosh Sutar, 20, a resident of Khed, while the injured man was identified as Suraj Vitthal Walunj, 28, a resident of Pimpri. The arrested duo were identified as Hrutik Atul Vahile, 22, owner of the restaurant, and his friend Mayur Balasahev Yevale, 20, a vegetable vendor - both residents of Waki Khurd in Khed.Police inspector (crime) Anil Devade of the Chakan police station said, “Sutar had come to the restaurant with some of his friends. They drank, ate, paid the bill and were leaving when Sutar returned to use the facilities. The cook was washing up there and the two got into an argument. The cook called for the manager and a drunk Sutar verbally abused and got into a fight with both of them as well as the owner. He threatened them with their lives and said that they would all be taken care of in the next eight days. This enraged the restaurant owner and staff.”After Sutar left with his friend Walunj on a bike, the owner Vahile and his friend Yevale followed them in a Maruti Suzuki Brezza car. They ran the car over Walunj’s leg and then killed Sutar using swords and bamboos. The men left an injured Walunj and fled out of Pune. “We have learned that they managed to leave but came back and were hiding near Alandi fata where we found them,” said PI Devade.A case under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempted murder), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/restaurant-owner-friend-kill-drunk-man-run-car-over-friend-101628708130883.html
12-08-2021||Other||BJP takes up cudgels against civic commissioner over “inaction”||PUNE The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Tuesday, is angry with the manner in which municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has been operating.The issue at hand is the standing committee clearing a proposal to have the PMC pay the advocate’s charges for a PIL filed against the state government in the High Court. This decision has been criticised by the opposition.Ganesh Bidkar, BJP’s leader of the house in the PMC said, “Ideally the PMC should provide the advocate, but the commissioner did not act, so we were forced to pass this resolution. There is nothing wrong with it. We will not withdraw the resolution.”The BJP is taking the state government to court over the development plan for recently 23 merged villages. As a protest the Shiv Sena on Wednesday handed over a piggy bank to the BJP.Bidkar said, “The commissioner’s first priority should be to protect the civic body’s interests, but he is working under pressure from the NCP and Shiv Sena and not listening to the ruling party.”The municipal commissioner declined a comment on the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-takes-up-cudgels-against-civic-commissioner-over-inaction-101628708072566.html
12-08-2021||Other||Woman trying to put flat on rent duped of ₹4.7 lakh by two men posing as Indian Army officials||PUNE A woman trying to put her flat on rent through a web portal was duped of ₹4.7 lakh by two men posing as Indian Army officials.In response to the listing, one of the two men called her and showed interest in renting the property. They made her believe that they were ready to pay the rent and deposit in one go through UPI, according to the complainant.While one of them identified himself has Randeep Singh, the other man identified himself as Zora Singh, according to police.The men sent the complainant a QR code which, upon scanning, led to transfer of money from the woman’s account instead of transferring of the amount to her account. The men then told her that there was some issue in the system and gave her other numbers on which they asked her to transfer money under the false pretext that they would then transfer the money back to her.However, when the money did not return to her account, she was convinced that she was cheated. A complaint was registered at the cybercrime cell after which a case was registered at Chinchwad police station.The transactions happened on July 2 between 10:30am and 10pm, according to the police.A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 419, 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chinchwad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-trying-to-put-flat-on-rent-duped-of-rs-4-7-lakh-by-two-men-posing-as-indian-army-officials-101628708071394.html
12-08-2021||Other||Asst manager hacked to death over alleged affair with employee’s wife||PUNE: An assistant manager at a company in Chakan was hacked to death on Tuesday afternoon by a man who suspected his wife to be in an extra-marital affair with the now-deceased man. The assailant was nabbed within four hours of the attack, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner, Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The deceased man was identified as Amol Gajanan Rane (38), a resident of Alandi Devachi in Khed, while the man’s wife, who has sustained grievous injuries, was identified as Sunit Pawar (30).The arrested man was identified as Rameshwar Vaman Pawar (35) a resident of the same area.“The husband and wife worked on contract basis in the company for the past 4-5 years. The manager was permanent there. He had seen them talking and other people had heard rumours about an affair between his wife and the manager. The three had had verbal spats in the past. However, this time when he saw them, he attacked them with an intention of killing them and fled the spot,” said assistant inspector Vikram Gaikwad of Chakan police station, who is investigating the case. The man attacked the two around 2:40pm on Tuesday on a factory floor of Bhavan Industries in Nanekarwadi, Chakan. He hit Rane in the head with a metal rod and then charged towards his wife and hit her in the head with a metal stool on her head, face, back, arms, and legs, according to the complaint in the matter.“He was found in Kharabwadi and arrested. He is in police custody now. The woman is doing better now,” said API Gaikwad.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ganesh Madanlal Golecha (33) a resident of Sriram nagar in Chakan, Khed and an employee of the company.A case under Section 302 (murder) and 307 (attempted murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/asst-manager-hacked-to-death-over-alleged-affair-with-employee-s-wife-101628708071966.html
12-08-2021||Pune||27 trees pruned or cut into between Pune’s Pimple Saudagar and Hinjewadi: residents||PUNE Twenty-seven trees between Pimple Saudagar and Hinjewadi have either been trimmed, had branches cut-down or have seen major pruning activity, as per residents and environmentalists living in the vicinity.Several complaints to the Garden department and Sky Sign and License department have gone unheard, claims the residents and environmentalists.“Most of the trees which are trimmed, or cut seem to be obstructing the views of billboards in the area. Action needs to be taken. I have been registering complaints and also writing to the garden department, still no action was taken by the civic authority,” claimed Tanay Apte, tree activist.Subhash Ingale, deputy commissioner, PCMC garden department did not respond to calls or messages.A junior officer from the garden department, requesting anonymity said, “The department has already taken action against a few billboard owners who cut trees, while in the coming week we will serve notices to others.”On Wednesday, the Sky Sign and Licence department of the PCMC issued a public notice stating: “PCMC civic body is taking a step in the direction of making it a smart city. We have noticed many illegal hoardings have come up and urge owners to remove all illegal hoarding in seven days, otherwise PCMC will remove it”.The expense of removing a hoarding will be recovered from owners and under the Maharashtra Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1995, a fine will be imposed. Madhav Patil a member of NGO “Angholichigoli” said, “We are reminding PCMC about this issue on a regular basis and they have been very slow to take action. Civic body has not been able to control tree cutting incidents for the last one year.”Location of trees trimmed, pruned or cut into on the Pimple Saudagar to Hinjewadi route1 Kokane chowk, Pimple Saudagar, near Thorat misal house - 3 trees 2 Behind Savitribai garden BRT bus stop. - 2 trees 3. Near Kaspate chowk, BRT bus stop - 2 trees 4. Kaspate chowk signal, near crematorium, opposite Ideal furniture - 2 trees 5. Mankar chowk signal, near Tirupati furniture, Wakad - 5 trees6. Near Sai modular kitchen, next to Mahindra Sahyadri showroom - 8 trees 7. Near Hinjewadi Dmart - 3 trees 8. Near Hinjewadi Dmart, next to Bata showroom - 1 tree 9 Panchatantra Chowk, Hinjewadi, - 1 tree||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/27-trees-pruned-or-cut-into-between-pimple-saudagar-and-hinjewadi-residents-101628708070857.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Union health minister orders 25% increase in Punjab vaccine supplies||On the request of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for more vaccine supplies in view of the forthcoming festival season and 26 lakh people overdue for second Covishield shot, Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday ordered immediate increase in Punjab’s allocation by 25%. The CM had sought supply of 55 lakh doses of Covid vaccine on priority for the state. Mandaviya assured the CM of all help and said supplies would ease from next month and he will fulfil the state’s requirement by October 31. He ordered the department to immediately increase Punjab’s allocation to meet its urgent requirement. The CM said with sufficient supplies, the state government could arrange to vaccinate 5-7 lakh people daily. He pointed out that allocation of vaccine for Punjab for August stood at only 20,47,060 doses of Covishield, while around 26 lakh doses of this were required just for those whose second dose was overdue. Citing the data, the CM said Punjab has relatively less allocation of vaccines (and hence very low per capita vaccination) as compared to the other states, and it needs to be increases to cover more population and catch up with the others. As of August 7, Haryana’s per capita vaccination stands at 35.2, Delhi’s 39.4, J&K’s 43.7, Himachal’s 62 and Rajasthan’s 35.1, as against 27.1 in Punjab. The CM said that Punjab has till August 7 received only 1,00,73,821 doses, as against Haryana (1,27,94,804), Delhi (1,06,79,728), J&K (66,90,063), Himachal Pradesh (55,51,177) and Rajasthan (34,954,868). Amarinder also sought access for the state to the CoWIN portal for analytical purposes. CM pushes for bulk drug park Amarinder also urged Mandaviya to consider Punjab’s request for setting up a bulk drug park at Bathinda in response to the department of pharmaceuticals, ministry of chemical and fertilizers. The state government had applied in October 2020 to set up the park over 1,320 acres in Bathinda, with the council of ministers approving attractive incentives for the same, he said, adding that all conditions of the Union ministry had been met. During the meeting with the Union minister, who holds additional portfolio of chemicals and fertilizers, the CM also reiterated Punjab government’s demand for enhanced allocation of DAP stocks to Punjab, as per the revised demand by the state. Suppliers should be directed to ensure that adequate supplies are given as per schedule, he told the minister, reiterating the points he had raised on Tuesday in this regard during his meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/union-health-minister-orders-25-increase-in-punjab-vaccine-supplies-101628708011837.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt orders 10,000 Covid tests in schools daily||The Punjab government on Wednesday ordered to conduct at least 10,000 RT-PCR tests in state schools daily, after 26 students tested positive for coronavirus in the past two days.Chairing a coronavirus review meeting, chief secretary Vini Mahajan directed the departments concerned to conduct at least 10,000 Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests and the DCs to ensure that only fully vaccinated teaching and non-teaching staff was allowed to attend the schools. She directed that a target of 40,000 samples per day must be achieved and testing shall be further increased if the Covid cases rise. The CS also expressed concern over the movement of people to Punjab from neighbouring states, where the virus cases were once again on the rise, and asked the officials concerned to keep a close watch on the positivity rate ahead of the festival season when extra vigil was required to prevent the surge of virus. Instructing all the districts to continue aggressive testing and contact tracing and testing to check the spread of the pandemic, she said epidemiologists have been appointed in all the districts and all-out efforts should be made to thwart the possible third Covid wave. Quoting the forecast from University of Cambridge, Mahajan said going with the forecast, new cases can be expected to double in about 64 days (under the assumption that the growth rate remains constant). She expressed satisfaction over the fact that 2,45,823 samples have been taken in the past week from August 3 to 9, and only 352 had tested positive, which accounted for a positivity rate of 0.1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-orders-10-000-covid-tests-in-schools-daily-101628707771411.html
12-08-2021||Other||Minor sisters’ gangrape, murder: Accused sent to five-day police remand||The Sonepat police on Wednesday produced the four accused of alleged gangrape and poisoning of two minor sisters before a local court, which sent all accused to five-day police remand.Kundli police station SHO Ravi Kumar said a team of forensic science laboratory (FSL) visited the crime spot and recovered a bottle of pesticide.“We will send the bottle to a laboratory to confirm whether the accused had used it to poison the victims or not. During the five-day remand, we will interrogate the accused regarding the motive behind the heinous crime. We have also created a re-scene of the events at the crime spot,” the SHO added.The incident had come to light on Tuesday when the Rai police had received postmortem reports of both the minor girls from a Delhi hospital which confirmed that they were gangraped and some pesticide was used to poison them.On Monday, the victims’ mother had told police that her daughters, who were undergoing treatment at a Delhi hospital, had died.She had told police that a snake had attacked them when they were asleep at their rented home in Sonepat’s Kundli area on August 5.But after police received the postmortem reports, she confessed that the girls were gangraped and poisoned by the accused, who had threatened to kill her minor sons if she revealed it to anyone.Police had arrested all four accused under Sections 302 (murder), 376-D (gang rape), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 4, 6 and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-sisters-gangrape-murder-accused-sent-to-five-day-police-remand-101628707653106.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab registers jump in Covid cases, 107 test +ve||Punjab on Wednesday registered a jump in Covid-19 infections with 107 fresh cases surfacing in a day, taking the tally to 5,99,678.With no Covid-related fatality, the death toll stood at 16,325, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government.This is for the second consecutive day that the state has registered rise in cases. On Tuesday, Punjab reported 76 new infections. The state registered 118 cases on July 17 and since then, it has been witnessing less than 100 infections daily. The positivity rate also rose to 0.24% as compared to 0.23% on Tuesday, according to the bulletin. State’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said though there is some increase in the daily count, it is too early to say if the cases have started increasing again. “We have witnessed a trend in which cases increase for two days and come down on the third day,” he said. With the rise in the number of infections, the active cases rose to 517 from 460 Tuesday. Ludhiana reported a maximum of 32 cases, followed by nine in Amritsar, eight each in Bathinda and Fazilka and seven in Hosharpur.With 45 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,82,836, the bulletin said. A total of 1,25,20,735 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state whereas 44,562 samples were tested on Wednesday. A total of 1,45,144 doses of the Covid vaccine were administered on Wednesday, the bulletin said. 6 govt school students test positive in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Six students of a government school tested positive for Covid, said an official on Wednesday.District education officer (secondary) Gursharn Singh said Government High School, Jaja, will remain shut till August 15, adding that the closure could be further extended on the directions of the deputy commissioner. Among those tested positive for coronavirus, three are from Class 7, two from Class 10 and one from Class 9, said the official.The health department took samples of all students and 13 teachers of the school. Sanitisation of the entire school complex is being done, the official added. Meanwhile, an 11-year-old student of government school in Nabha also tested positive for Covid. Nodal officer Dr Sumeet Singh said: “All the students in her contact have been quarantined and teams have been sent to carry out sampling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-registers-jump-in-covid-cases-107-test-ve-101628707651579.html
12-08-2021||Other||No intention to form party, contest Punjab polls: Charuni||Farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said he has no intentions to form a political party or contest in the upcoming Punjab assembly elections.“I never said that I have formed a political party or will contest polls. This is a false propaganda being spread in the media. I was called to Punjab to support the Mission Punjab. I did not know whether they have formed a political party,” said Charuni.Charuni was in Karnal to hold a closed-door meeting with his supporters at Dera Car Seva at a local gurdwara.The meeting was called for preparations of a Tiranga Yatra to be carried out by the farmers on August 15, he said, adding that there is no political agenda behind it.“I stand with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and will continue my support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. We will bring a huge convoy of farmers from Anandpur Sahib in Punjab on August 20,” he said on being questioned about SKM members’ displeasure towards his political ambitions.He said media reports about him joining a political front formed by the industrialists of Punjab are baseless.On why he doesn’t go to the stage of SKM anymore, he said, “I did not go on the stage frequently earlier as well. Only key speakers go there for an address.”He said the farm agitation will continue till their demands are met and a mega Tiranga Yatra will be taken out from Pipli in Kurukshetra to Singhu border on Independence Day, on tractors and motorcycles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-intention-to-form-party-contest-punjab-polls-charuni-101628707472422.html
12-08-2021||Other||Ganga, Yamuna levels stabilise, Prayagraj officials hopeful of rivers receding||PRAYAGRAJ After showing a dangerously rising trend, the water level of the Ganga and the Yamuna stabilised few hours on Wednesday, providing much relief to the locals as well as the Prayagraj administration. As the water levels of the two rivers stabilised between 12 noon and 4pm, the administration is hopeful that the water would now start receding from Thursday onwards. “We have reasons to believe that the flood water would start receding from Thursday as the upstream of river Yamuna and its tributary has not received heavy rains. Once the water level in Yamuna would recede, the same would have a positive impact in water level in Ganga as well,” said executive engineer of the irrigation department, Brijesh Kumar Verma. At present, both the rivers are flowing one meter above their danger mark. However, as per the readings at 6pm, both the rivers had again started rising though at a slow pace. Water level in both the river Ganga and the Yamuna, as recorded at 8am by the irrigation department on Wednesday, was above the danger mark and the water levels showed a rising trend. Water level of Ganga at Phaphamau was 86.05 m (rising at a speed of 1.5cm per hour) while at Chhatnag, the water level was recorded at 85.19 meters (rising at a speed of 1cm per hour). Likewise, the water level in river Yamuna was recorded at Naini 85.73 m (rising at a speed of .5cm per hour). The rising trend of water level in Ganga was seen till 12noon after which the water started receding, although at a slow pace. The trend continued till around 4pm after which the water became stable. At the same time, water level in river Yamuna, which was showing an increasing trend for the past one week, became stable on early Wednesday evening. The water level (as recorded at 4pm) of Ganga at Phaphamau was 86.03m and at Chhatnag, it was 85.27m. Water level of Yamuna too was stable and was recorded as 85.77m. However, the reading at 6pm showed that Ganga at Phaphamau was flowing at 86.04 meters while at Chhatnag at was flowing at 85.29 meters and rising. Likewise, Yamuna at was recorded at 85.78 meters at 6pm and was found rising. Meanwhile, the district administration and the NDRF team continued to provide help to the locals trapped in the flood affected localities and to those who have been shifted to flood relief camps established at various places in the city. Along with providing food and all the essential items, the administration is also conducting corona tests in the camps so that people residing in the camps are safe. Special attention is being paid for maintaining hygiene but in few camps, people were see complaining about the same. Likewise, in the flood affected areas including Chota and Bada Bagada, Salori, Ganga Nagar, parts of Gaus Nagar etc, district administration, NDRF teams and even local voluntary organisations and leaders of political parties including those belonging to Samajwadi Party distributed food packets and other essential items through boats and by walking in knee-deep waters. In most of these localities, locals have either moved to first and second floors of their houses or have locked their houses and moved to flood relief camps. People also experienced some relief as city did not received rains after around 3pm. Since past two days, the city had been receiving heavy rains which had added to the suffering of the flood affected people of Sangam city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ganga-yamuna-levels-stabilise-prayagraj-officials-hopeful-of-rivers-receding-101628707352876.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana revenue dept notifies policy for creating land bank||With the twin objectives of preventing landowners from resorting to distress sale of land and making it available to different departments for setting up essential public services, the Haryana revenue department on Wednesday notified a policy for creating land bank.According to the policy, the revenue department will consolidate such chunks of surplus land as had been acquired by the departments under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, but does not need now, and provide it to the departments that need them.This will help the state overcome difficulties in making land available to departments, said financial commissioner (revenue) and additional chief secretary (ACS) Sanjeev Kaushal.He said it has been observed that landowners, especially those living abroad, make distress sale of land due to plethora of reasons such as slump in market, pandemic or pressure of the middlemen in the market. He said the land bank will offer a win-win situation for departments, landowners/farmers and the state government.While the former will be able to sell land at a competitive price, the latter will not have to look the other way when any department knocks at their doors for land to set up public utilities, Kaushal said.He said the bank will provide land to departments for setting up essential services including water works, power sub-stations, colleges and other specialised institutions of higher learning such as universities, medical colleges, hospitals and polytechnics, etc.The land bank will be set up under the policy for purchase of land voluntarily offered to government for development projects, creating land bank for government department, including boards and corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-revenue-dept-notifies-policy-for-creating-land-bank-101628707351456.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||AG audit of municipalities to curb corruption: Vij||Haryana urban local bodies minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday that the cabinet in its recent meeting has given nod for auditing accounts and records of the municipal corporations, municipal councils and municipalities by the accountant general (AG).Vij, who is also the health and home minister of Haryana, said the AG audit will help in eradicating corruption in municipal bodies across state.He said officials should complete pending file work immediately and “do justice to people”. Vij said when the present government came to power, the budget of the National Health Mission (NHM) was ₹500 crore and now it has been increased to ₹1,350 crore.He said the budget has been increased keeping in view the good performance in all types of health services. He urged people to save the state from the third wave of Covid-19 by strictly adhering to safety protocol such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.The state government is laying emphasis on vaccination and so far 1.30 crore people received the shots, he said.He said the government aims to vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries soon as it is the only shield against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ag-audit-of-municipalities-to-curb-corruption-vij-101628706815082.html
12-08-2021||Other||Prayagraj Civil Lines Bus depot set for a revamp||PRAYAGRAJ The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has decided to develop Prayagraj Civil Lines bus depot on public-private partnership (PPP) model. The work is all set to start to revamp the facilities at the depot.The UPSRTC has decided to develop this depot on public-private partnership (PPP) model on priority. To initiate the process for developing the bus terminal-cum-commercial complex on the basis of DBFOT (Design, Build, Finance, Operate and Transfer), UPSRTC has floated a tender. “UPSRTC has floated the tender to develop the Civil Lines bus depot following which the passengers would be offered a range of facilities like better waiting facilities, information about the timing of buses and routes etc besides shops and cafeterias”, said regional manager UPSRTC, TKS Bisen.The Civil Lines Bus depot area spread across 18,000 sq meters would be developed at a cost of ₹114 crore to become not just a hub of inter-state and intra-state bus services but also a commercially booming centre for UPSRTC, said officials. After the process for allotment of work for developing the Civil Lines depot on the lines of Alambagh bus depot in Lucknow, this bus stand of Sangam city would also be included in the list of premium bus station cum commercial complexes of the state, they added. Officials said that the final execution of work, which would be allotted to an agency selected via the tendering process, would pave for a new station building which would have AC waiting halls, food courts, business centres, showrooms of branded and non-branded products, shopping mall, canteens, AC and non-AC rooms for passengers to stay besides many other world class facilities based on pay and use model. A luggage checking scanner, as is operated at railway stations and airports, will also be installed at the bus stand for better security. Besides, there would be separate platforms for the buses going towards a given direction and systematic information about the same would be displayed at the electronic boards which would be installed at several places over the entire complex. The haphazard parking of the buses, both operated by UPSRTC and those attached with it, would also become a thing of the past. Presently, these buses are major cause of traffic jams in front of the bus stand as most of the private bus operators, who are attached to UPSRTC, park their buses on the road while inviting passengers for given destinations. Likewise, the buses, operated by UPSRTC are parked within the premises of the bus stand, but finding the bus for a given destination is a tedious task. Following the revamp of facilities, passengers can look forward to having better seating areas, cleaner toilets, ease of travelling and better satisfaction, officials claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-civil-lines-bus-depot-set-for-a-revamp-101628706812148.html
12-08-2021||Other||Inspector suspended a week after viral video||The station house officer(SHO) of Adarsh Nagar police station was on Tuesday suspended for ‘dereliction of duty’, a week after a video showed him trying to stop a man from harassing another person over an alleged disputed religious structure.Last week, many citizens took to social media demanding the suspension of inspector CP Bhardwaj. A hashtag demanding his removal was trending on the afternoon of August 4. The video showed a man asking another person about the ownership of a mazaar on the road in Adarsh Nagar. The man was asking the second person where he lived and sought an explanation as to why the mazaar was on the road, as it was blocking traffic. Inspector Bhardwaj is seen intervening between the two men and reminding the first person that he should not bully the other person.In the video, Bhardwaj, who identifies himself as the SHO of Adarsh Nagar police station, can be seen reminding the first person that for any disputed structure, the government has a committee to examine its legality. To this, the first man is seen asking Bhardwaj why a temple was demolished in Chandni Chowk. The viral video ends with the inspector taking the first man into custody.As reports of Bhardwaj’s suspension went public on Wednesday, many people on Twitter said he was suspended for taking action against a right-wing protester. Others opined police did the right thing because the inspector was hand in glove with the land mafia, who encroach on public roads.No senior police officer, authorised to speak to the media, commented on the reasons behind Bhardwaj’s suspension. However, a senior police officer, who asked not to be named, said, “The controversy over the mazaar and the viral video has nothing to do with his suspension. No one was arrested in that incident. No complaint was filed in that incident. He has been suspended because there were many complaints against him for dereliction of duty. In some cases, he did not use the correct Indian Penal Code sections and diluted the case. He also did not act on some complaints.” Bhardwaj’s personal cellphone was unavailable when HT tried to call on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/inspector-suspended-a-week-after-viral-video-101628706695300.html
12-08-2021||Other||Sugarcane crop in Haryana under pest attack||The sugarcane growers in Haryana are having a bitter experience as the crop is under a pest attack, largely known as top-borer.Farmers in major cane-growing districts - Yamunanagar, Karnal and Kurukshetra - are badly affected and are spending a lot on pesticides to protect their crop.As per agriculture experts, two major diseases, top-borer and pokka boeing, have been reported in sugarcane and the Co 0238, (which is around 40% of the total sugarcane acreage in state), is badly affected. It could cause 20-30% yield loss.Farmers said there is no major impact on the Co 118 and CoH 160 varieties ofthe crop.“I have spent ₹52,000 on pesticides so far to protect my sugarcane crop on 14 acres. As of now, there is no visible impact on the pest attack which is spreading with each passing day,” said farmer Desh Raj, of Karnal’s Yunispur village.Another farmer Ajay Kumar, of Indri in Karnal who has 20 acres under sugarcane crop, said, “The pest affects growth of the crop by damaging the leaves. Last year it had affected the yield to around 100-200 quintal per acre. It may cause huge losses this year as well.”Experts said top-borer is harmful for the sugarcane crop as it completes five generations or broods in a year. It remains active from February to October and damages growth of the cane crop.The first two broods of the pest attack the young plants; and the third and fourth generations cause maximum damage in August and September.The affected plants are killed from the top and there is a possibility of loss to the crop as the pest migrates to another shoot after killing the first one.Rajinder Kaushik, deputy general manager, Saraswati Sugar Mill in Yamunanagar, said, “This is the third brood of the top-borer pest. It has affected the Co 0238 variety the most and is going to have a major impact on the yield. Farmers should protect the crop from the fourth brood, which is generally reported in September.”He said the long dry spell in June and early July was also a major reason behind the multiplication of the pest. He advised farmers to use Carbofuran-3g to lessen the impact of the pest and break the multiplication cycle.Sugarcane expert and member secretary of Haryana Kisan Ayog Dr Mehar Chand said, “The cane crop is under a severe attack of top-borer. It is a difficult stage for farmers to protect the crop as the crop has already attained growth of over six feet. We recommend Carbofuran to control the pest attack but at this stage it is difficult to use the pesticide.”He advised farmers to use pesticides in May and June to control the pest as at later stages it is difficult to control the pest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sugarcane-crop-in-haryana-under-pest-attack-101628706694866.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||Probe leaks: Delhi HC says serious issue, pulls up police||Hearing a plea by Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha seeking action against the police officials for allegedly leaking his disclosure statement to the media, the Delhi high court on Wednesday remarked that leak of documents and probe details was a “serious issue” and that the investigating agency must ensure that it is not done selectively.“It is a case where there is an order of this court that press briefing will not be done, so to circumvent that what you do is… you don’t do a press briefing but somehow… I am not imputing to any particular officer… but somehow in the form of leakage everything comes out... that is not permissible,” said the court of justice Mukta Gupta, adding that an investigation report is a valuable property.“Why has this happened? There has to be a definite answer; secondly, it should not happen in future. Of course, you can take remedial action, but advisories don’t have any effect. Every time some cover-up is made,” it added.Last week, the police had informed the court that it had failed to identify the officers/office from where “details of investigation” were “shared with the media”, adding that journalists have refused to divulge their source.Appearing for the police, additional solicitor general (ASG) Aman Lekhi on Wednesday told the court that an enquiry has already been made and further probe into the source of the leaks would foment trouble.He said that police was in the process of issuing a circular to preempt and prevent a repeat of such incidents.The court, however, said that the advisories don’t work and sought to know how the statements came in the media much earlier.Lekhi pointed out that since it was a UAPA case, which involves several administrative processes, the file goes to different places where several copies must have been made.The court asked the police to file written submissions and posted the matter for September 8.Tanha, who is accused in the larger conspiracy of hatching the riots in February last year, had moved the high court last year, alleging misconduct by police officials in leaking his alleged disclosure statement in the main charge sheet, recorded by the probe agency during the investigation, to the media. He is currently out on bail.Tanha, who was arrested in May 2020, was recently released from jail after the high court granted him bail in the riots case on a larger conspiracy.The police had said that Tanha, a resident of Abul Fazal Enclave in Shaheen Bagh, was a member of the Students Islamic Organization and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee which spearheaded protests against the new citizenship law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/probe-leaks-delhi-hc-says-serious-issue-pulls-up-police-101628706630785.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||RTO at your door: 90+% transport services in Delhi go ‘faceless’ in online push||Delhi residents can avail of 33 transport documents online without visiting a regional transport office after the Delhi government on Wednesday launched the “faceless transport services” programme, which pushes online 95% of all travel-related paperwork, and has allowed the state to shut four of its busiest transport offices in Sarai Kale Khan, IP Depot, Vasant Vihar, and Janakpuri.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launched the service from the IP Depot RTO on Wednesday, after which he and state transport minister Kailash Gahlot locked the gate of the office, a symbolic gesture to announce the closure of the centre.“The Delhi government has taken a revolutionary step. Only an honest government could make this possible. Earlier, we used to hear that the fee that agents in the RTOs took went all the way to the top government officers. But now, it does not go anywhere — neither in the pockets of the agents nor of the top brass. This online faceless system has eradicated the need for agents and the chance of corruption,” Kejriwal said on Wednesday.The project, a first in India, allows an applicant to appear for a learners’ driving license test from home.On passing the test, the applicant is issued an e-learners’ license valid for six months.To avoid any proxy test attempt — since it is no longer undertaken at an RTO under a licensing officer’s supervision — the software extracts the applicant’s data and picture from their Aadhaar card, and draws out their facial map using a live recognition system to match it with the image on the card. The test also includes a colour-blind test to match the road safety prescribed standards. All documents are digitally signed by the authorities and applicants, and delivered either through post or electronically.The online learners’ licence test, which has 10 objective-type questions, takes 10 minutes to complete. An applicant gets the licence if they score six out of 10 marks in the computerised test.Delhi has 13 RTOs, of which these four have been shut for public dealing. To be sure, all the 10 driving test tracks in the city will continue to be operational as a learners’ license is valid for only six months and the motorist has to apply for a permanent DL within this time. To get a permanent DL, a person will still have to visit an RTO to appear for a driving test on the government’s automated tracks.Other online services include renewal and duplicate driving licence (DL) or vehicle registration certificate (RC), permit or RC transfer and so on.“All [transport] services can now be accessed online. Only two services require you to come to the RTO now — to give a driving test for a permanent DL, for which all processes till the actual test, including the appointment and fees, have already been made online; and to get the fitness of your vehicle checked... All departments are under the process of going faceless and online,” Kejriwal said.The state transport department began a trial of this project with 12 faceless services in February this year. Over the course of the five-month trial, the department carried out 342,000 transactions. Reports of the trial showed that the department achieved a transaction success rate of 80% in this period, and a rejection rate of 1%. The remaining 19% of the applications are on hold for want of documents.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said no applicant will be required to go to an RTO or transport department zonal office.“Whether you are at home, office or a cyber cafe, you can get all the documents that you used to get till now by visiting an RTO. In the 75th year of India’s independence, this is a great gift from the Delhi government to the residents of Delhi. Now they have total freedom from long queues, brokers or middlemen,” said Gahlot.An applicant can also call the Delhi government’s doorstep service delivery helpline number (1076), if they need assistance, said officials.“Apart from this, three deputy commissioners in Surajmal Vihar, Dwarka and Sarai Kale Khan will also address grievances,” Gahlot said.Ashish Kundra, Delhi’s transport commissioner said the department has also set up a WhatsApp chatbot to assist commuters, and details are on the department’s website (transport.delhi.gov.in).Several motorists lauded the service.Cheshta Mehta, a resident of Palam Village in southwest Delhi, was the first to get an e-learner’s license under the new system. “At first, I assumed that faceless services meant only the application process was online. But, I took the test at my home and on my laptop. if you upload the correct documents, the entire process is a breeze. I am sure many states will replicate this online system now. It saved me a day’s salary because otherwise I would have to take an off from office to visit the RTO for the test,” she said.Yatharth Gera (43), a resident of Paschim Vihar, said the service helped him transfer the ownership of his vehicle. “I had to transfer my car to a relative’s name, and the faceless service made it completely stress-free. I hope they do not compromise with the quality of service after a few months or years,” he said.For those do not have internet connections or are unable to use the online services, however, the department is setting up facilitation centres at all its 13 RTOs, including the four that were shut on Wednesday. Also, the same service can be availed by dialling 1076 and using the government’s already existing doorstep delivery of service scheme.The 33 services have been merged with the doorstep delivery setup as well. “A nominal fee of ₹50 will be charged to complete the online process at the facilitation centres at RTOs and through the doorstep delivery system,” a senior transport official said.The official added that nearly 100% Delhi’s population of vehicle owners are Aadhaar seeded, which makes the online system simpleer for the applicants. But those who still do not have Aadhaar cards will have to visit the RTO after applying online. “They will, however, have the option to file online applications,” the official said, adding that the facilitators at all RTOs will help in this regard too.Officials also clarified that no transport office employee was relieved of their duty after the RTOs were shut. “All officials and workers were overburdened under the existing system as annually Delhi clocks around 3 million transactions from the 13 RTOs. So, under the new system, it has helped us optimise our resources. Some of the MLOs have now been put on road safety and enforcement duty,” a senior transport official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rto-at-your-door-90-transport-services-in-delhi-go-faceless-in-online-push-101628706572785.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||2 held for murder in gang war in North Delhi||Eleven days after bike-borne assailants shot dead a 24-year-old man in broad daylight at Anandpur Dham near Kanjhawala in outer Delhi, police on Wednesday said they arrested two of the five suspects.Police said the murder was the result of an ongoing rivalry between gangs led by two jailed gangsters -- Jitender alias Gogi and Sunil Tajpuria alias Tillu.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal identified the two arrested men as Akshay and Suraj alias Gullu, both members of the Tillu gang.The victim, identified as 24-year-old Nitesh, was the brother of Gogi’s associate, Pravesh, who is presently in jail over the murder of a member of the Tillu gang.“Nitesh was killed to avenge the murder of a Tillu gang member that took place in Kanjhawal last year. Nitesh was supporting and helping his brother Pravesh in the case,” said DCP Tayal, adding that at least three other suspects involved in Nitesh’s murder are still absconding.On July 31, Nitesh was riding his bike when five assailants on two bikes waylaid his vehicle and opened fire at him. According to police, at least eight of the 12 bullets fired hit Nitesh, following which he died on the spot.A case of murder and firing was registered at the Kanjhawala police station on the complaint of Nitesh’s sister-in-law Priti, police said.During the investigation, DCP Tayal said, the suspects were identified with the help of CCTV footage and human intelligence network. “We first arrested Akshay on August 4. His interrogation led to the arrest of Suraj on August 10. One pistol with two cartridges, a mobile phone and a motorcycle that was used in the crime were recovered from them,” added DCP Tayal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi2-held-for-murder-in-gang-war-in-north-delhi-101628706570696.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Bail to BJP leader Upadhyay; slogans not at his behest, says court||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to lawyer and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay in connection to the alleged inflammatory sloganeering at Jantar Mantar on August 8, saying there is nothing to show that the hate speech was made in his presence or at his behest.Metropolitan magistrate Udbhav Kumar Jain said there is nothing against Upadhyay in the video where allegedly hate sloganeering was done.“It is not the case where there are chances that applicant/accused will abscond. Conspiracy is no doubt hatched behind closed doors and that the investigation in the present matter is at nascent stage that however, does not imply that liberty of a citizen be curtailed on mere assertions and apprehension,” the magistrate said in his order.The police arrested Upadhyay on Tuesday over allegations that he organised the event, and went ahead despite the rejection of permission to conduct it by the cops. The police booked him for promoting enmity between religious groups, disobedience of the orders of a public servant and unlawful assembly.The court on Tuesday sent him to judicial custody for two days after the police did not seek his custodial interrogation. The duty magistrate also directed that the bail application, moved by Upadhyay’s counsel Ashwani Dubey, be heard on Wednesday in the morning.Allowing Upadhyay’s release from Tihar jail on a bond of ₹50,000, the court said all the sections under which the accused has been charged are bailable except 153A (promoting enmity between two religious groups).The court rejected prosecution’s contention related to the violation of Covid-19 curbs on social gatherings, saying that it is a difficult time indeed for everyone and serious view should be taken against those who violate the guidelines. Yet, the offences, as far as the breach of these guidelines is concerned, are bailable in nature and can be dealt by the trial court on merits, the magistrate said.The court ordered that Upadhyay will continue to cooperate with the ongoing investigations, and not leave the country without its permission.Appearing for Upadhyay, senior advocate Vikas Singh told the court that the arrest is a “blatant abuse of power by the police”. He said the police cannot apprehend anyone indiscriminately, adding that it was an admitted fact that the accused was present at the spot but not at the time when the hate speech incident took place there.Senior advocates Sidharth Luthra and Gopal Shankarnarayan, representing Upadhyay, also said that the accused was not present at the spot when the sloganeering was made and he was also not seen in the videos. They said that the FIR was registered belatedly and their client was being illegally incarcerated and, therefore, bail should be granted to the accused forthwith.The public prosecutor Sikhar (OR SHIKHAR, PLS CHECK) Mahajan, opposed the bail plea contending that the release of the accused will be prejudicial in maintaining public tranquillity, and will create further serious law and order situation. He said there are chances that the accused will create communal disharmony.The prosecutor argued that the protest was done at a time when large gatherings are not allowed to prevent the spread of Covid-19, and that the gathering was held without official permission.“The gathering organised by the accused was an unlawful assembly in which he actively participated knowing the common object of the gathering,” he argued.The court granted the bail to Upadhyay and directed him to join the probe as and when summoned by the investigating officer.A video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar was widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case in connection on Monday. Hundreds of people attended the protest organised by ‘Bharat Jodo Aandolan’ at Jantar Mantar on Sunday.Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, said the protest was held to demand 222 British-era laws be abolished. “We have seen the video but have no idea who they are. The police should take strict action against the persons who raised the slogans,” she said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hate-slogans-bjp-leader-gets-bail-101628706451384.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt inks pact with IB Board for new state board’s curriculum||The Delhi government on Wednesday signed an agreement between the International Baccalaureate (IB) board to adopt its global curriculum framework for the upcoming Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) and also develop a new assessment model.“IB curriculum is a pedagogy of the highest international standards... It is a massive opportunity for students. The kind of education which kids of the richest of the families dream of will be made accessible to the underprivileged students of Delhi,” said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who was joined by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, and other education department officials, at the signing in ceremony.According to the state government’s plan, the curriculum framework will be provided by IB while the Directorate of Education (DoE) will prepare the content as per the framework.“We are starting out with 30 government schools, whose teachers will be trained by international experts and models for assessment of students will be developed by them. Under their guidance and assistance, the schools will be inspected, verified, and certified, to assess the shortcomings and how it can be improved. Gradually, more schools will be added to the programme, even private schools can get affiliated to DBSE,” Kejriwal said.An IB official said the partnership will ensure “rich learning experiences” for educators. “This partnership entails that IB development workshops provide opportunities to engage in rich learning experiences for the school leaders and educators and serve as a tool to help schools meet professional requirements of the highest quality,” said Stefanie Leong, Head of Development and Recognition, Asia-Pacific, IB.Last month, the Delhi government announced that out of the 30 schools identified for the new programme, 20 will be Schools of Specialised Excellence (SoSE) offering specialised education in four domains -- Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM); Humanities; Performing and Visual Arts; and “high- end 21st century skills” -- and the remaining 10 will be Sarvodaya schools.On March 22, the Delhi cabinet approved setting up 100 schools of specialised excellence across the city for students of classes 9 to 12. The existing resource-rich government schools – including Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya and Schools of Excellence – have been converted into SoSE.Role of IB BoardThe IB board will work as a knowledge partner with DBSE which is also being provided technical and managerial support by Australian Council for Educational Research (ACER) and Boston Consulting Group (BCG).Government officials said that the IB will provide the curriculum framework for the state board schools in addition to training its teachers, sharing best assessment practices, conducting seminars and workshops on global teaching-learning process, and conducting continuous reviews and inspections.“More than 400 teachers in Sarvodaya schools and 250 teachers in SoSEs will be part of the professional development workshops by IB which will help in capacity building and upskilling. About 15,000 students studying in these schools will benefit from the collaboration with IB,” said a senior education department official.IB has four dedicated programmes -- primary years programme (PYP), middle years programme (MYP), diploma programme (DP), and career-related programme (CP) -- for students aged 3-19 that can be adopted by any school upon gaining authorisation from the board. Sarvodaya schools will adopt PYP from nursery to Class 5 and MYP for classes 6 to 8, officials said, adding that the specialised schools (SoSEs) will run MYP for classes 9 and 10, and DP as well as CP for classes 11 and 12.Admissions to SoSEOn Wednesday, DoE also released a circular stating that admissions to these schools will be on the basis of aptitude tests that will be conducted from August 23-29. Applications for the same can be downloaded from the education department’s website from August 12-19.“Admissions shall be offered in Class 9 in all four types of SoSEs. For STEM SoSE, besides Class 9, admission will also be offered in Class 11. Students in any government or recognised schools of Delhi are eligible to apply for admission (along with valid residence proof),” DoE circular stated.This means that students from private schools will be eligible to apply to these institutes, as against the earlier system which allowed only government school students to apply to the resource-rich government schools. However, the government has reserved 50% seats in each SoSE for students from government schools. “Reservation and age-related eligibility criteria for admission is as per norms of the Directorate,” the circular added.According to the norms, students need to have a minimum aggregate of 60% in Class 8 to apply to these schools though applicants to schools of performing and visual arts can get a relaxation if they have received an award in any art form in a zonal level competition or above.A minimum aggregate of 75% in Class 10 is required for admission in Class 11 of STEM schools where the best of five score should include science and maths.These schools will have 30 students per section and each school is likely to have three-four sections in the first year, taking the class strength up to 90-120 students.ReactionsSeveral government school principals HT spoke to welcomed the globalised teaching-learning process.Ajay Choubey, head of school at RPVV Hari Nagar which will be a SoSE for STEM, said, “IB will help us with teacher training for a year to ensure that staff are able to teach the new curriculum. We are hoping to start teaching-learning from September first week. The present batch of classes 9 and 11 will also be given an option to either appear from the CBSE board or switch to DBSE. The students will easily transition to the new curricular framework as well as content if they wish to switch to the new board.”However, the switch to IB has found a few detractors in the teaching community.Ajay Veer Yadav, general secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association (GSTA), said, “Instead of opening new schools, the government is busy renaming old schools. In 2016 too, the government had announced that 51 government schools would become model schools at par with private schools. Now they have come up with something else again. Dividing schools as per stream will be a failure because this will limit the number of schools for children.”Meanwhile, officials of schools currently following the IB curriculum in Delhi said it will offer more opportunities to students.“Public schools in countries like USA, South Korea, Spain, and Germany have entered into partnerships with IB as it is one of the most renowned international board. While boards like CBSE conduct exams in classes 10 and 12, IB board provides curriculum that works on the basis of constructivist theory which means that students construct their own knowledge through an inquiry-based process. Many of the principles stated in the new National Education Policy reflect with the curriculum provided by IB,” said a senior official from Apeejay School International in Sheikh Sarai, one of the well-known IB schools in Delhi, requesting not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-inks-pact-with-ib-board-for-new-state-board-s-curriculum-101628706211376.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi child rights body sends DDA suggestions on Capital’s 2041 Master Plan||The state body of child rights has suggested a slew of measures, such as creating more spaces for children in the Capital and changing land norms for educational institutions, to the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) after a review of the draft Master Plan of Delhi 2041.The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) wrote a letter to the land-owning agency on Wednesday broadly covering five concerns. DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu said, “Based on the review, DCPCR has submitted its suggestions to DDA that range from earmarking more spaces for children and more creche facilities to reconsider land norms for educational institutes and diaper changing stations in public toilets.”In the letter, the child rights body said that currently, 30% of Delhi’s population is below the age of 18, and the overall population of Delhi is expected to grow to about 39 million. Assuming, 30% of the overall population is still comprised of children, there will be around 11.7 million children in Delhi by 2041.In its letter to the DDA, the commission pointed out, “These many children would require the state to ensure availability of... schools, colleges, anganwadi centres, child health centres, childcare institutions, paediatric wards, playground/parks etc.”The commission also endorsed creating more crèche facilities to enable more women to join the workforce. “Availability of sanitary pads and robust disposal systems at public utility places is a key area of focus that the Commission recommends for the Authority,” said the DCPCR letter issued by the chairperson.Kundu also explained the need to modify land norms for educational institutes in the Capital and link it to number of children it caters to instead of having a blanket minimum size.“As per the draft Master Plan, development control norms for the educational institutions such as learning centre/creche states that minimum plot area for such institutions shall be 500 sq. meters with 10% variation in the size. However, past experience suggests, this approach of blanket cover of imposing a particular size limit serves little purpose as a lot of institutions do not fulfil these conditions and are thus rendered unregulated,” he wrote in the letter.The commission has also asked DDA to make the infrastructure in the city more parent-friendly. “It is hard to carry a child for hours [in public places]. Parenting is hard and our infrastructure must make it easier. This requires re-envisaging our footpaths, roads, buses, and every other component of infrastructure,” said the letter. Apart from this, the commission also advocated for diaper changing facilities in public toilets for both men and women.A message from HT to a DDA official requesting comment on the matter received no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-child-rights-body-sends-dda-suggestions-on-capital-s-2041-master-plan-101628706153950.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||Dalit girl’s rape-murder: Family cremates charred remains amid tight security||The charred remains of a nine-year-old Dalit girl, who was allegedly raped and killed by four men at a crematorium in Purani Nangal near Delhi Cantonment on August 1, were cremated on Wednesday by her parents amid tight security and a protest carried by a group demanding the death penalty for the suspects.Deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said the last rites were performed with “full willingness” of the girl’s parents, who were at the crematorium with 15-20 close acquaintances. After the rituals, police personnel accompanied the parents to their house as, officials said, they were apprehensive of action by a group of protesters opposed to the cremation. The DCP said there was no untoward incident.Hours before the cremation on Wednesday, the four arrested men, including the 55-year-old priest of the crematorium, were taken to the spot by the crime branch team to recreate the sequence of events leading to the minor girl’s death.The suspects — the priest and three other crematorium staff — were arrested and sent to jail on August 2.The crime branch team secured their custody for three days on Monday to reinterrogate them and ascertain the facts pertaining to the girl’s death.The suspects told police that the girl was electrocuted while fetching water from a water cooler installed at the crematorium. However, the hurried manner in which her body was cremated — purportedly without her parents’ consent or informing the police — raised suspicions about the circumstances of her death.A board of three doctors conducted an autopsy on the charred remains of the girl on Tuesday, after which the remains were preserved at the mortuary of Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital. Though the family initially refused to collect the remains and perform the last rites, they agreed on Wednesday after persuasion by the police, said a senior officer who did not want to be identified.“The family received the remaining human tissue and feet of the minor girl from the hospital and came to the Purani Nangal crematorium, where they performed the cremation in presence of 15-20 of their known acquaintances,” DCP Singh said.The DCP said 25-30 people, “who were part of a group holding protest in a nearby tent”, tried to intervene but the parents did not concede to their demand of stopping the cremation.A local resident, Aarti, who has been protesting since day one, said: “We had no objection to the cremation. All we want is justice for the girl. That can be provided when the arrested men are given the death penalty.”The girl, from a Dalit family, in Purani Nangal, was found dead by her parents in a local crematorium on August 1 night. The family alleges that the accused — the priest Radhey Shyam, and three other men working at the crematorium – Mohammad Salim (55), Laxmi Narayan (49), and Kuldeep (63) — raped her.The incident took a political turn after a host of leaders, including the Congress’s Rahul Gandhi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the protest site and met the girl’s parents and assured them of speedy justice. The BJP, however, accused the Opposition of politicking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dalit-girl-s-rape-murder-family-cremates-charred-remains-amid-tight-security-101628706150757.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Traffic diversions around Red Fort ahead of I-Day celebrations||Delhi traffic police on Wednesday released a detailed plan for diversions and road closures around the Red Fort area for Independence Day on August 15 and its rehearsals on August 13.In a statement released on Wednesday, the Delhi traffic police said, “Prime Minister of India will address the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort. Thousands of invitees will attend the function. A full-dress rehearsal for the arrangement will be conducted on August 13. As such, for the convenience of public and security reasons, certain traffic restrictions shall be imposed around the Red Fort on August 13.”The traffic police said that the portion of Netaji Subhash Marg from Delhi Gate to Chatta Rail Chowk; Lothian Road from GPO Delhi to Chatta Rail Chowk; Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Marg from HC Sen Marg to Yamuna Bazar Chowk; Chandni Chowk road from Fountain Chowk to Red Fort; Nishad Raj Marg from Ring Road to Netaji Subhash Marg; Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg; Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBT; and Outer Ring Road from ISBT to IP flyover, also known as the Salimgarh Bypass, will be closed for general traffic from 4am to 10am on August 13.“Only those vehicles that have labels on it will be allowed on these routes between 4am and 10am,” said the statement.The traffic police department also advised commuters to avoid stretches including C-Hexagon India Gate, Copernicus Marg, Mandi House, Sikandra Road, W-Point and A-point Tilak Marg, Mathura Road, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, Subhash Marg, Jawaharlal Nehru Marg, Ring Road between Nizamuddin bridge and ISBT bridge, and outer ring road from IP Flyover through Salimgarh Bypass to ISBT.Detailing alternative routes, the traffic police said that commuters can use Sri Aurobindo Marg via Safdarjung Road, Mother Teresa Crescent, Park Street, Mandir Marg, Panchkuian Road, Rani Jhansi Road to reach destinations in north Delhi.To reach Connaught Place, commuters have been advised to take Minto Road, Bhavbhuti Marg, Ajmeri Gate, Shradhanand Marg, Lahori Gate Chowk, Naya Bazar, Peeli Kothi and then use SP Mukherjee Marg.To reach the Ring Road, commuters can use the Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway, National Highway-24, Vikas Marg, Shahdara Bridge and Wazirabad Bridge.Vikas Marg, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg, Bhavbhuti Marg, DBG Road, Boulevard Road, Barf Khana, Rani Jhansi flyover and Panchkuian Road will also remain open.“Commuters are advised to keep these traffic restrictions in mind before they plan their journeys to avoid any confusion and chaos,” the traffic police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhitraffic-diversions-around-red-fort-ahead-of-i-day-celebrations-101628705852074.html
12-08-2021||Delhi||25 trees on Bhairon Marg damaged during construction, says Delhi government||A healthy mulberry tree that now stands tilted with its roots protruding out of the ground can be spotted easily while crossing Bhairon Marg, near Pragati Maidan. Another full-grown neem and a tall peepal, also on the same stretch, are almost losing balance, being partially uprooted from the ground.These are among at least 25 trees whose bases were damaged during construction work by the public works department (PWD), according to an inspection report of the site prepared by the Delhi forest department.The PWD is constructing stormwater drains on both sides of the road. Due to the trenching and digging work within a one-metre radius of the tree trunks, the tree line on both sides of the road has been damaged.Some of the trees can already be seen leaning over the road as their roots have been tampered with. And heavy rain or a storm could knock them down.Forest officials said they had on Friday issued a restraining order to the road-owning agency, asking them to stop work on the stretch immediately.“A restraining order has been issued to the agency. Also, we have registered a case against the PWD under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act (DPTA), 1994, for damaging roots of at least 25 trees because of which some have even tilted. Most of the trees are native varieties and range from 15 to 25 feet in height,” said Navneet Srivastava, deputy conservator of forest (DCF), west division, adding that PWD’s version will be heard too after which they will be asked to take remedial measures.“We will be constantly monitoring the status of the trees,” Srivastava said.A senior PWD official said work on the stretch has been stopped. “The contractors taking up the work are aware that trees on the way need to be protected during construction work. We will take up restorative measures if the trees have been damaged,” said the official, who did not wish to be named.The matter came to light when environmental activist Verhaen Khanna filed a complaint with the forest department and the PWD, seeking a restraining order on the PWD and corrective measures to save the trees.“The tree roots were cut during trenching work, which is being done by the PWD workers on both sides of the road. The construction is being done within a one-metre radius of the tree bases. Many trees could be spotted tilting and losing their balance because of their roots being uprooted from one end. This can eventually result in the tree falling or dying, in particular during the monsoon,” said Khanna.He added that fresh soil must be laid over the exposed roots and the cement that has been put too close to the tree base must be removed. “If restored now, the trees can be saved,” he said.Most of the trees on the stretch are native species like semal, ashok, neem, mulberry (shehtoot) and peepal, among others.Any kind of construction activity including, digging, trenching or filling concrete within a one-metre radius of a tree base is prohibited as per the 2013 order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) as well as under the DPTA. The offenders are liable to pay compensation depending on the extent of the damage caused to trees.A 2014 NGT order had also stated that agencies must ensure root protection while constructing stormwater drains and cover exposed portions with soil immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25-trees-on-bhairon-marg-damaged-during-construction-says-delhi-government-101628705731874.html
12-08-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi HC allows black money Act accused Bhavya Bishnoi to travel to US||A division bench of the Delhi high court (HC) has allowed Bhavya Bishnoi, the son of Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi, to travel to the United States to study masters in public administration at Harvard Kennedy School for two years, subject to certain conditions, including the surrender of passports by father and son.Bhavya, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Hisar on a Congress ticket, and his father are accused under the black money Act.The bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, while upholding the August 4 order of single judge justice Rekha Palli to permit Bhavya to travel to the US for studies on August 9, said he is being permitted to travel subject to compliance of the conditions imposed by the single judge and abiding by the undertaking given to the court.The income tax authorities had challenged the order of the single judge before the division bench. The single judge had also ordered that Kuldeep Bishnoi will file an undertaking before the high court registrar general that he will not leave the country as long as his son is abroad.“The registrar general will keep passports of Kuldeep Bishnoi in safe custody in a sealed cover. As and when he requires the passports for genuine and valid reasons, he may apply to this court for permission,” said the division bench.The bench also accepted Bhavya’s undertaking that he will surrender his passport with the authorities concerned at the Indian Embassy in the US within a week of reaching Harvard. In case he requires it for a genuine cause, he can apply before the court.‘Sanction to prosecute Bishnoi’s granted’The counsel for the Union government had submitted before the single judge that the sanction for the prosecution of the father and son under Section 50 of the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015 (Black Money Act), a cognisable and non-bailable offence, has already been granted.“In fact, a complaint in this regard stands filed before additional chief metropolitan magistrate, special Acts, Tis Hazari, in accordance with law. The complaint is likely to be taken up for consideration in the next few days and so, in case the petitioner is permitted to go abroad, the proceedings already initiated under the Black Money Act against him may be rendered infructuous,” the counsel had told the single judge.Look out circular stands expired?Bhavya’s counsel had contended before the single judge that a look out circular (LOC) against him was issued in 2019 at the behest of the income tax authorities, a fact which came to his knowledge only in November 2019, when he was stopped from boarding a flight to Dubai at the Delhi airport.The single judge, in her order, said the question of whether the LOC issued in 2019 can now stand in the way of the petitioner travelling abroad is yet to be determined.The judge said though the income tax department claims to have already filed a complaint against Bhavya for an offence under the Black Money Act, no cognisance has been taken of the complaint.Bhavya’s counsel also submitted before the division bench that the competent authority, during the search and seizure proceedings, had seized assets of his and his family members valued at ₹30.38 crore. This is over and above the condition imposed by the single judge directing him to deposit ₹1 crore with the high court registrar general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-hc-allows-black-money-act-accused-bhavya-bishnoi-us-travel-101628705611190.html
12-08-2021||Pune||Only 0.1% of vax beneficiaries in Pune have contracted Covid||PUNE Barely 0.1% of those who have received at least one shot of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine have contracted the virus in Pune district, data from the district health office has revealed, indicating that breakthrough infections recorded in the Maharashtra district are minimal. Out of the 6.3 million beneficiaries who have taken the vaccine until August 6, only 7,636 tested positive for Covid-19. Only 2,170 tested positive for the infection out of the 1.64 million who have got both doses of the vaccine. “The aim of the vaccine is to ensure that the severity of the symptoms is reduced and even if that is done the spread of the transmission and the death rate could be controlled,” said state advisor on Covid-19 Dr Subhash Salunkhe. The data comes at a time when the state has relaxed lockdown restrictions in at least 25 districts, including Pune, which has been one of the worst affected in both waves of the pandemic. It also seems to corroborate studies that have found a low incidence of breakthrough infections among vaccinated people. Double vaccinated people were three times less likely than unvaccinated people to test positive for the coronavirus, an ongoing REal-time Assessment of Community Transmission (REACT-1) programme led by Imperial’s School of Public Health, has found. In the latest round of the study, which will be submitted for peer-review, 98,233 people swabbed themselves at home and their samples were analysed by PCR testing. People who were unvaccinated had a three-fold higher prevalence than those who had received both doses of a vaccine, at 1.21% compared to 0.40%, the Imperial College London, reported. A total of 4.68 million beneficiaires have got the first vaccine dose in Pune (both Covaxin and Covishield) out of which only 5,466 reported being reinfected, the Pune district data revealed. “Such data will also reduce vaccine hesitancy among a number of people who still question the efficacy of the vaccines,” Salunkhe said.Out of the total positives 7636, who got infected even after vaccination, 3413 are from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction, 88 are from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and 4135 are from Pune rural “This data is not surprising because all across the world we have found that while people who have taken both shots of the vaccine may get infected, the need for hospitalization, intensive care or ventilators reduces drastically. This means the case fatality due to the infection also falls,” Arnub Ghose, Associate Professor at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/01-of-beneficiaries-have-contracted-covid-19-after-vax-district-health-office-101628699310294.html
12-08-2021||Pune||Four districts in Maha report single digit new Covid cases||PUNE In the past week, multiple districts in the state have reported zero, or just single- digit new Covid-19 cases. These districts include, Bhandara, Gondia, Nandurbar and Wardha. The combined positivity rate in these districts has also stayed less than 1%. In addition to these districts, the districts of Amravati, Akola, Chandrapur, Dhule, Gondia, Hingoli, Jalgaon, Jalna, Nagpur, Nanded, Parbhani, Washim and Yavatmal have reported less than 1% combined positivity rate. The overall positivity rate in the state is at 3.1% for between August 2 and August 8.The districts of Bhandara, Gondia, Nandurbar and Wardha have reported four, two, four and eight new Covid-19 cases, respectively, between August 2 and August 8. The RTPCR positivity is 0.1% for three of the districts. Wardha reported a 0.5% RTPCR positivity for the same week.Prerna Deshbhratar, district magistrate and collector, Wardha, said, “In April we saw a peak when the fresh case count went up to 1,200 a day. During the peak we appointed a nodal officer for ambulance and oxygen management. We also trained our doctors to ensure that there is a judicious use of Remdesivir. We also insisted on admissions through reference, because we found that many people occupied oxygen beds even though they did not actually need it. So we had a helpline number for the district, wherein people could describe their symptoms and then get a bed. After the peak in May, we imposed a strict lockdown. Even essentials were kept restricted so that the movement of people is under control. Now Wardha has only 11 active cases as of Tuesday.”Back in March and April, Amravati was one of the first districts to report a spike in Covid-19 cases, hinting at the start of the deadly second Covid-19 wave. However, Amravati currently is in a much better situation with less than 54 new Covid-19 cases between August 2 and August 8, which took its combined positivity rate to 0.4%. Dr Dilip Ramnale, district health officer at Amravati said, “During the peak we focused on contact tracing at least 15-20 contacts of every new Covid-19 patient. During the first wave, if someone you know tested positive people would get themselves tested immediately. However, in the second wave, people did not cooperate for contact tracing. They limited it to only their family members and so we tested their neighbours also to ensure every possible contact is traced.”“As of now our focus is on vaccination and we are working to dispel the fear among the tribal population. Initially, there was no cooperation, especially in Melghat. So we vaccinated the sarpanch first and conducted a drive like a festival and vaccinated as many people as possible. We have a target to vaccinate at least 2.2 million beneficiaries and have vaccinated 0.9 million, both first and second dose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4-districts-in-maha-report-single-digit-new-covid-10-cases-101628698650333.html
12-08-2021||Pune||Pune airport runway re-carpeting work: No flights after 8 pm may prolong beyond October||Pune: The Pune International Airport at Lohegaon has no flights between 8 pm and 8 am due to the runway repair work scheduled to be completed by October this year. However, the work is expected to extend beyond the October deadline. The airport authorities are carrying out runway re-carpeting work. According to the airport officials, the Indian Air Force (IAF), which controls the runway, has appointed a contractor for re-carpeting of the runway. As the work is carried out only at nights, no flights are scheduled during this time. The authorities stated that the work is expected to continue beyond the deadline due to various reasons, including the Covid situation. “Only the IAF can tell the status of the project. Our effort is to complete it in a time-bound banner, but situations do arise because of the Covid pandemic. I feel that the work will be completed before the scheduled time,” said Pune airport director Santosh Doke. A complete closure of the runway is expected for 15 days in October-November. Earlier, it was planned for April-May, but was postponed for transporting Covishield vaccine consignments, officials said. At least 4,431 passengers arrived and 4,274 passengers departed from Pune airport on 40 flights operated on August 9. The Pune airport is chiefly a defence air base belonging to the IAF and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) utilised it as a civil airport. Before the runway re-carpeting work had started, the airport used to have continuous scheduled flights, except between 6am and 8:30am on weekdays to allow for Sukhoi fighter aircraft to carry out sorties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-airport-runway-re-carpeting-work-no-flights-after-8-pm-may-prolong-beyond-october-101628691389833.html
12-08-2021||Other||Kerala HC stays judicial inquiry against ED in gold smuggling case||The Kerala high court on Wednesday stayed the judicial inquiry ordered by the state government against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) over its alleged attempt to implicate chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the July 2020 gold smuggling case.The state government in May named former high court judge VK Mohanan to conduct the probe under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952. It also filed a case against ED officials earlier, which was quashed by the high court in April.Justice PB Suresh Kumar issued the stay order and notices to Vijayan, the state, and central governments.Additional Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the ED, told the court the state government’s decision to order the inquiry against a central agency was against the federal norms and Section 3 of the Commission of Inquiry Act. He added the section says an inquiry can be constituted only for the purpose of a matter of public importance. Mehta said the inquiry was constituted to impede the ongoing investigation into the smuggling case.Kerala’s advocate general, Gopalakrishna Kurup, argued the state has the right to protect its interest and the issue was of public interest. The court later stayed the inquiry and said it will hear the issue in detail later.The smuggling case surfaced in July 2020 when Customs officials at the Thiruvananthapuram airport seized a diplomatic bag addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate after a tip-off that it was being used to smuggle gold. The bag arrived on a chartered flight from the UAE and contained 30 kg of gold.Vijayan’s former principal secretary, M Sivasankar, was among those arrested in the case. Alleged dollar smuggling also came to light during the probe into the case, which separate central agencies are probing. Vijayan has accused the Centre of intimidation by using central agencies.Two accused in the smuggling case, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, purportedly complained in an audio clip, which was leaked to the media, that they were under pressure to name Vijayan and other government officials.A video clip of Suresh, who is lodged in Thiruvananthapuram’s women’s jail, in which she purportedly said she was under pressure to name ministers and Vijayan was also leaked. Later, two women officers, who escorted Suresh, also claimed that they saw ED officials forcing her to name important personalities, including Vijayan.The ED has denied these claims. The Customs department filed an affidavit in the high court in March quoting Suresh’s statement alleging Vijayan, three of his ministers and the speaker of the Kerala assembly were aware of smuggling activities.The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) rejected the affidavit and accused the central agencies of trying to discredit the state government. The party announced protest rallies outside Customs offices in several cities in response.CPI(M)’s acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan said the high court’s stay order is not a final verdict. “It is only an interim stay. We will discuss it with legal experts and take necessary action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-high-court-stays-judicial-inquiry-against-ed-101628679990500.html
