13-08-2021||Lucknow||Lucknowites to pay less for e-buses’ rides from Aug 15||The Lucknow City Transport Services Limited, which runs the electric buses in the state capital, has announced the revised bus fares, to be effective from August 15. According to a press statement issued by Lucknow City Transport Services Limited, fare of electricity-powered buses has been revised at par with CNG buses in Lucknow. Till now, electric buses had higher fares, but to promote its usage the charges for these buses have been reduced for one year. To encourage people to use electric buses more, state minister Ashutosh Tandon had on July 20 announced to reduce the bus fares. Now, for upto first 3km a passenger will have to pay ₹5 instead of the earlier ₹10, and ₹11 for upto 6km instead of ₹15. For upto 25 km, the fare will be ₹32 instead of ₹35 earlier. The maximum fare will be ₹37 for over 25km instead of ₹47, the statement said. There are 40 electric buses running on different routes and more buses will be on road in the coming weeks, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknowites-to-pay-less-for-e-buses-rides-from-aug-15-101628879396988.html
13-08-2021||Other||Ayodhya rly station to be developed by March ’22||LUCKNOW: The ongoing development work at Ayodhya station would be completed by March 2022, said senior officials of Northern Railways (NR), the zone that is giving a facelift to the station. They said the development of this station was top on priority and once completed, it would be among the state’s most ultra modern stations. “The development of Ayodhya station has been among the topmost priorities. The entire work is going at a fast pace and would be completed by March 2022,” said SK Sapra, divisional railway manager (DRM) NR, Lucknow Division, who recently inspected the construction work at the station. “The work of redevelopment of Ayodhya railway station and its circulating area was initially sanctioned in 2017-18, at a total cost of around ₹80 crore. The aim behind the ambitious redevelopment project was to enhance the passenger facilities, anticipating high footfall,” a senior NR official said. He said that the redevelopment was planned in such a way that the station’s facade reflected the local architecture and religious ethos of the city. Under the redevelopment work, the entire work was divided into three phases. Phase I, the main phase, comprised development and beautification of the station building, The same phase also included the development of modern facilities in around 1,00,000 square feet of area, improvement of platforms and aprons, development of circulation areas and other things. This phase was expected to get completed by March 2022. However, phase II of the project that is expected to take off by next year, includes modified entry and exits, construction of second entry of the building and the development of additional holding area of around 18,000 square metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ayodhya-rly-station-to-be-developed-by-march-22-101628879395819.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi school board gets nod from apex certification council to affiliate schools, conduct exams, grant certificates||New Delhi: The Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) has secured an approval from the apex body for school board certification, paving the way for the newly-formed state board to affiliate schools, conduct examinations and grant certificates that are equivalent to other recognised boards in India, the Delhi government said on Friday.According to government officials, the approval was issued on August 6 and received by the education department on Friday.According to a press release from deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s office, a letter issued by Council Of Boards of School Education (COBSE) in India stated, “...On the grant of COBSE membership to Delhi Board of School Education, secondary and higher secondary examinations conducted and certificates issued by it would have equivalence to the corresponding certificates of other member-boards of COBSE...”COBSE, an autonomous body, primarily verifies the genuineness of school education boards in India and facilitates its recognition.The governing council of the Association of Indian Universities (AIU), an inter-university organisation which acts as a representative of universities in India, also approved the new state board proposal and resolved to “give equivalence to Delhi Board of School Education with CBSE and other recognised boards of India”, the government said.“With this, DBSE is all set to affiliate schools, conduct examinations and grant certificates which shall be treated as equivalent to the corresponding certificates issued by other recognised boards in India. This will enable the students from DBSE affiliated schools to take admission in other boards and its certificate will be valid for admission in higher educational institutions,” the statement added.The development comes shortly after the DBSE signed an agreement of collaboration with the International Baccalaureate, which has agreed to be a knowledge partner and provide curriculum framework for the content to be taught at DBSE schools.“Collaboration with International Baccalaureate opens world-class opportunities for our children. With COBSE and AIU approvals, the DBSE is all set to transform learning assessment,” said Sisodia.In March, the Delhi government had announced that it would have its own state board, and move away from the pattern of one-time year-end exams and opt for continuous assessment to do away with rote learning.In the first phase, 30 government schools will be affiliated to DBSE out of which 10 are Sarvodaya schools for classes nursery to 8, and the remaining are Schools of Specialised Excellence for classes 9 to 12, focusing on domain-specific education of students. Admissions to the 20 SoSEs began on Thursday and so far the education department has received over 7,500 applications.“In next few years, all the government schools of Delhi will be affiliated to the DBSE which has started functioning in partnership with International Baccalaureate (IB). Besides, the recognised private schools in the city too will have the option of affiliating themselves with the DBSE,” said the statement issued on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-school-board-gets-nod-from-apex-certification-council-to-affiliate-schools-conduct-exams-grant-certificates-101628879155177.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: FYJC registrations to begin today, 1st merit list on Aug 27||Confusion and ambiguity surrounding the online registrations and admissions to first year junior college (FYJC-Class 11) seats ended on Friday with the release of the final admissions schedule. After the Bombay high court (HC) recently clarified that FYJC admissions will be conducted based on students’ Class 10 marks and not any entrance test, the office of the latest schedule released by the Secondary and Higher Secondary office states that online registrations will begin from August 14, Saturday.While the provisional general merit list will be released on August 23, the first general merit list will be released on August 27 at 10am. “In the year 2021-22, Common Entrance Test (CET) was introduced for Class 11 admission. This CET, however, has been cancelled as per a government resolution dated August 11. AS per directions of the Bombay HC also instructions have been given by the education department to start the process of FYJC admission in the state,” said a circular released by the department of secondary and higher secondary education on Friday.This year, Class 10 board exams across several school education boards had to be scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. Results for the Class 10 batch was instead based on students’ performance in Class 9 and 10 combined. This decision helped boost marks of students across school education boards. While the overall success rate of Secondary School Certificate (SSC) students was 99.5% this year, ICSE student in Maharashtra and CBSE students from the Pune region (which includes Mumbai) boasted of a 100% success rate.Considering no exam was held for class 10, the state government decided to conduct a CET exam, based only on the state board syllabus, in order to bring students from all boards on the same platform for FYJC admissions. While the exam was left optional, state minister for school education had clarified that priority in the first common merit list will be given to those students who appear for the CET. Nearly 11 lakh students had already registered for the exam which was scheduled to be conducted in physical mode on August 21. A petition filed by an ICSE student questioned the logic behind conducting an entrance exam based on the state board syllabus for all FYJC aspirants, and the need for a physical exam. The HC then directed for the CET to be scrapped and admissions to be conducted based on Class 10 marks only. “It was unfair for the state government to force all students to appear for an exam based on a syllabus alien to non-state board students. While the initial hurdle is over, we are now worried about high cut-offs once admission begin,” said Sharanya K, an ICSE student from Andheri.This year, the almost 100% success rate for SSC, ICSE as well as CBSE Class 10 students also meant a large number of students scoring 90% and above. More and more ICSE and CBSE schools witnessed 50% or more of their batches scoring 90% and above in their results this time round. Similarly, figures made public by the Maharashtra state board revealed that SSC 1,04,633 students received more than 90% marks and 957 (including 32 in Mumbai division alone) students got 100% this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrafyjc-registrations-to-begin-today-1st-merit-list-on-aug-27-101628878795730.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Stop acting like leader of oppn party: AAP to Sidhu||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday asked newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu to stop acting like a leader of an opposition party, telling him to try and ensure that promises made by his party in the 2017 assembly elections are fulfilled in the remaining six months. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha said that Sidhu is the undisputed leader of the ruling party in Punjab with patronage from the Congress high command and unequivocal support of all party MLAs in the state. “Sidhu cannot act like an opposition leader. It is now incumbent upon him to deliver what he and his party had promised to people in 2017,” Chadha said at a press conference here. The AAP leader’s full-blown attack on Sidhu came at a time when the latter has been hitting out at the state government, including chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, for more than two months over unfulfilled poll promises. Chadha also released a letter that he sent to Sidhu along with a copy of the Congress’ 2017 election manifesto, imploring him to get over with the playtime and finally deliver on the 129-page poll promises. “Otherwise, it will become crystal clear that your infighting and struggle within the Congress was a fight for power and not the progress of Punjab,” he said. Chadha said it had come to his notice that the Congress had craftily removed the manifesto from their official website. “Not to worry, I am appending a copy so that Sidhu can get it handily and be willing to implement the promises,” he said, cautioning the Congress leader not to mislead the people by telling them that promises would be fulfilled in the party’s next government. The AAP leader also reminded Sidhu that he was the star campaigner of the Congress in 2017 and became a cabinet minister after the formation of the Congress government which did not fulfil even a single election promise. “His (Sidhu’s) government still has six months. If he does not fulfil the election promises, people of Punjab will understand it that his fight with Amarinder was just a battle for the chair,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stop-acting-like-leader-of-oppn-party-aap-to-sidhu-101628878679463.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||‘Corrupt cops’ facilitated terrorists’ entry into Pathankot airbase: Book||New Delhi“Corrupt local police officers” were suspected to have scouted the Pathankot airbase before the terror attack at the IAF facility in 2016 and one of them identified a no-surveillance spot which was used by the raiders to heave ammunition, grenades, mortars, and AK-47s, a new book has claimed.This claim has been made by journalists Adrian Levy and Cathy Scott-Clark in their book “Spy Stories: Inside the Secret World of the RAW and the ISI.” On January 2, 2016, a team of gunmen wearing Indian army fatigues waded through a branch of the Ravi river on the India-Pakistan border. Arriving on the Indian side, the men hijacked vehicles and drove towards the sprawling Pathankot air force base.Scaling a perimeter wall, they recovered in the long grass and then ran towards a residential compound where the first gunfight crackled. Four attackers were killed as also three members of the Indian security forces.Four more Indian soldiers died the following day in an IED blast. It took three days for the security forces to be certain they were back in control. India responded by heaping pressure on battle-weary Pakistan, threatening war, the authors say.“But internal reporting by combined intelligence was coruscating and painfully honest. It acknowledged that several key pieces of protection were missing ‘despite constant warnings’. More than 91km of the Punjab border was not fenced,” they write. “At least four reports had suggested that rivers (and dry creaks) were vulnerable spots, but no nets were pegged across them. There were no extra patrols, despite six written requests. Surveillance technology and movement trackers had not been deployed,” they say.They also quote a BSF officer telling them that the border guarding force was “thin on the ground because it concentrated its activities in Kashmir, and its requests for more men had been ignored repeatedly”.On the Pathankot strike, Levy and Scott-Clark say that terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed had paid for the 350 kilos of explosives but they had been procured in India and the haul was waiting for the raiding party on the Indian side. “Indian allies, including corrupt local police officers, were suspected of scouting the airbase. “One of these cops had found an area where there were multiple vulnerabilities: the floodlights were down, and the CCTV cameras had no coverage. There was no surveillance equipment of any kind and a large tree grew beside the perimeter wall that one written report identified as a security hazard,” the book, published by Juggernaut, says. An Intelligence Bureau (IB) officer who investigated the case told the authors that the “police officer or one of his collaborators had climbed up and attached a rope. The raiders had used it ‘to heave over 50 kilos of ammunition, and 30 kilos of grenades, mortars, and AK-47s’ used in the strike”. The heavily armed JeM militants sneaked into the airbase, killing six soldiers and an officer. Four militants were gunned down by the Indian security forces.The authors write that after the 2019 Pulwama attack, “spy games were at play by seasoned officers on both sides of the border who knew that once the past was edited the future remained clouded”. The book also mentions how ISI considered Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former Indian Navy officer on death row in Pakistan over espionage charges, a “small fry” and “intended to turn him into an enormous trophy”. They quote an unnamed officer connected with the ISI who says, “The ISI waited patiently, hoping to grow Jadhav into something special and then when he was big enough, as a target, the ISI would pull him in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corrupt-cops-facilitated-terrorists-entry-into-pathankot-airbase-book-101628878497286.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 6,686 new Covid cases, 158 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 6,686 Covid-19 new cases and 158 deaths. Thane recorded one Delta Plus variant case. According to the state government officials, the said patient is a 50-year female who was infected with mild symptoms on July 22 and has recovered from Covid-19. The total number of Delta Plus variant patients count has reached 66 with five deaths. Jalgaon leads the state with 13 cases, followed by Ratnagiri with 12 and Mumbai with 11 Delta Plus cases.There were 218,740 tests done on Friday, while the number of recoveries clocked 5,861.There are currently 63,004 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 14,522 patients followed by Satara with 7,068 active patients and Sangli with 6,669.It was later confirmed in the genome-sequencing report conducted by the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, National Centre for Cell Science, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB).Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, said it signifies the arrival of the third wave. “The mutation is always worse than the original virus. This Delta variant has caused havoc in other countries,” said Dr Shaikh. “We need to be prepared for such eventuality by beefing up our medical infrastructure and by cracking down on people who are defying Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Dr Shaikh added.Mumbai on Friday recorded 284 new cases with four deaths with its death toll reaching 15,979. The Covid caseload in the state has now reached 63,82,076, while the death toll is 134,730.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-6-686-new-covid-cases-158-deaths-101628878495279.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Congress’ urban MLAs seek cut in power tariff at meeting with Sidhu||ChandigarhPunjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday held a meeting with party ministers and MLAs from urban areas during which several of them pressed for reduction in power rates and restoration of electricity connections disconnected due to non-payment of bills before next year’s assembly polls. The three-hour meeting held by the newly appointed state unit chief at Punjab Congress Bhawan here for first-hand feedback from party leaders also saw the party legislators take up the regularisation of buildings and plots in illegal colonies, need to avoid confrontation and ensure round-the-clock power supply and easing the process of NOC for registration of property in urban areas among others. Cabinet ministers Sunder Sham Arora and Bharat Bhushan Ashu and MLAs Pargat Singh, Amit Vij, Rajinder Beri, Surinder Dawar and former MLA Ashwani Sekhri were among more than a dozen-odd party leaders who attended the meeting, besides working presidents Kuljit Singh Nagra and Pawan Goyal. Cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was also present, but he left early as the PPCC chief could not arrive on time and the meeting started late, said sources. Several senior ministers and MLAs, who also represent urban areas, did not come for the meeting. A party leader said they probably had prior engagements or did not get intimation in time. The appointment of a non-Congressman, who has been criticising chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, as an adviser was discussed by some members who stressed the need to work for unity in the party and avoid confrontation, said a party leader who did not want to be identified. Of the four persons named by Sidhu as his advisers, activist Malwinder Singh Mali’s attacks on the CM have riled a section of the party. Another suggestion by a Congress leader was the need to constitute a state-level committee to mediate and settle the differences between party leaders, including MLAs, mayors and councillors, for smooth functioning. A Congress statement said the meeting concluded with consensus that party and government must act towards a priority agenda to give relief to people of urban areas. The foremost demands were 300 units of free power to all domestic consumers, including general category, power at ₹3 per unit for domestic consumer and ₹5 per unit for commercial and industrial consumers, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-urban-mlas-seek-cut-in-power-tariff-at-meeting-with-sidhu-101628878376432.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC gets 170,000 doses, vaccination to resume on Saturday after 2-day break||Vaccination will resume in the city on Saturday from 9am to 5pm, after a two days break, as Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received 170,000 vaccine doses on Thursday night. These were distributed to vaccination centres on Friday.The vaccination drive was suspended in the city on Thursday and Friday, due to a shortage in vaccine doses. BMC last received 45,000 vaccine doses on August 7, and 100,005 vaccine doses on August 3, which were distributed to vaccine centres on August 4. Hence, the drive was suspended on August 4, which is last Wednesday as well.Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of BMC’s public health department said, “We have received 170,000 doses on Thursday night. Vaccination can resume in the city on Saturday.”On August 5, when vaccination centres opened after a one day break due to a shortage of vaccines, 100,669 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the city, of which 35,691 received their second dose. However, on August 6, as some vaccination centres were closed due to a shortage of doses, the total number of beneficiaries vaccinated came down to 43,231, of which 14,392 received their second dose.On August 7, this number further came down to 35,484 beneficiaries of which 10,472 received their second dose. Of these, only 4005 were vaccinated at BMC centres, and 2,125 were vaccinated at state-operated centres. A larger number - 29,354 beneficiaries were vaccinated at private centres.On August 9, as vaccination resumed after BMC had received a supply of 45,000 doses, 97,967 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the city, of which 32,226 received their second dose. Of these 46,969 were vaccinated in BMC centres, and 3,980 in state-operated centres. On August 10, fewer public centres were open, and a total of 43,003 beneficiaries were vaccinated, and similarly, on August 11, only 39,538 beneficiaries were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-gets-170-000-doses-vaccination-to-resume-on-saturday-after-2-day-break-101628878315288.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 89 fresh Covid cases||ChandigarhPunjab on Friday reported 89 new cases of the coronavirus, taking the infection count to 5,99,846, according to a medical bulletin.With no Covid-related death reported on Friday, the toll stood at 16,334.The number of active cases rose to 568 as against 533 on Thursday.Amritsar reported 19 new cases, followed by 12 in Kapurthala and 10 in Mohali.With 53 recoveries from the infection, the recovery count reached 5,82,944, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-89-fresh-covid-cases-101628878255261.html
13-08-2021||Other||Greater Noida: ₹5.8 lakh penalty against 14 housing societies for violating waste rules||The Greater Noida authority has imposed a total of ₹5. 8 lakh penalty against 14 housing societies for violating the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. On Thursday, a team led by Vaibhav Nagar, assistant manager of the Greater Noida authority, conducted inspections in the 14 housing complexes in different sectors and found that the waste is not being treated as per the rules.“The bulk waste generators should collect, segregate and treat the waste on their premises. But these societies are violating waste management rules. We have imposed penalties and action will continue against other such violators,” said Nagar.The authority has fined four societies in Knowledge Park 3, three in Sector Zeta 1, two each in sectors Mu 1, Pi 1 and Pi 2, and one in Omega 2, the officials said.“We have imposed penalties in the range of ₹11,000 to ₹81,000 depending upon the nature of violation by the societies. All stakeholders need to follow rules,” said Nagar.According to the rules, if a society produces more than 100kg waste daily or is built on 5,000 square metres or above area, then it needs to segregate and treat its waste at source. Such a society will be considered bulk waste producer, say the rules.The authority wants to encourage bulk waste generators to make compost out of green waste. “We want to reduce the quantity of waste that goes to landfill. If all bulk waste generators and other stakeholders start following rules, we will be able to handle the waste in a better manner,” said Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-noida-5-8-lakh-penalty-against-14-housing-societies-for-violating-waste-rules-101628878137740.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||3 coop dept inspectors booked for abetment to suicide in SBS Nagar||JALANDHARShaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police on Friday booked three inspectors of the department of cooperation for abetment after a department secretary allegedly committed suicide. The accused were allegedly forcing the victim, Sukhdev Singh, to pay ₹ 6 lakh or they will implicate him. The accused have been identified as Kapil Kumar, Baldeep Singh and Asis Pal. According to the FIR, Sukhdev’s wife Manjit Kaur said her husband was posted as a secretary in multipurpose co-operative society, Garhi Kanogoo, where there were some discrepancies in accounts. “The three inspectors used to harass my husband and asked him to deposit the pending amount in the society finances or pay them ₹ 2 lakh each. They also threatened to implicate him,” alleged Kaur. The police recovered his body on August 11 near the Beas in Jalandhar. A case was registered against the accused under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 of Indian Penal Code at the Sadar police station in SBS Nagar. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-coop-dept-inspectors-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-in-sbs-nagar-101628878077594.html
13-08-2021||Noida||Diversions for I-Day parade, vehicle checking cause traffic snarls at Noida borders||Traffic diversions put in place for the Independence Day parade and vehicle checking at borders points brought vehicles to a grinding halt on Friday, much to the inconvenience of daily commuters. The Noida traffic police issued an advisory for heavy vehicles, prohibiting them from entering Delhi, which was in effect from 10pm on Thursday to 12 noon on Friday. Any such vehicles coming to the Delhi border via Chilla, Delhi-Noida-direct flyway or Kalindi Kunj were advised to take a u-turn towards the Noida-Greater Noida expressway and then go to Delhi via the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. However, the diversions led the traffic to crawl across all border points in the morning. “The normal 40-minute journey took more than 70-80 minutes. The congestion started in the morning itself. Heavy vehicles were parked on the side of the roads blocking several lanes. Near Rajnigandha crossing itself, we could see some cars turning around but it was actually the vehicles parked on the lanes that were aggravating the traffic scenario. The police barricades further compounded traffic. The traffic situation was the same till most of the afternoon,” said Brajesh Sharma, a Noida resident, who travels to Khel Gaon, Delhi for work daily. Officials from the traffic department said despite the advisory, many heavy vehicles tried to take the prohibited routes, which was the root of all the problems. “Some of them were being turned around gradually. The traffic started slowing down around 7am and was the same across DND and Kalindi Kunj till around noon. Vehicles from Noida to Delhi were also being checked, which further aggravated the problem. Delhi police was also conducting checks. We kept sharing updates with the public on social media through our helpline,” said deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ganesh Saha. Officials also said the slow traffic movement on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway was due to an increase in the local traffic because of the diversions and the re-surfacing work going on there. The same diversions will be in place for the Independence day parade from 10pm on Saturday to 1pm on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/diversions-for-i-day-parade-vehicle-checking-cause-traffic-snarls-at-noida-borders-101628878076014.html
13-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad plans mega vaccination drive||The district health department has planned to take up another mega Covid-19 vaccination drive on Monday, for which they have placed a request for about 70,000 doses, said officials aware of the development. According to the CoWIN portal, till 7.30pm on Thursday, the district has so far administered 1,677,366 vaccine doses and stood third in the state after Lucknow (2,246,535 doses) and Gautam Budh Nagar (1,776,904 doses). During the last vaccination drive held on August 3, the district topped the list of shots administered in a day in the state, with 79,822 beneficiaries receiving the jab--the highest single-day tally in the district so far. “After the drive on August 3, we have planned to administer about 60,000 doses and have asked for about 70,000 doses from state officials for the purpose. Such mega vaccination drives will help us increase our coverage and benefit beneficiaries, who find it difficult to book slots. We will open more jab centres on Monday to meet our vaccination target,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer. According to officials, the district--after the mega vaccination drive on August 3--has administered about 86,293 doses till August 12 at an average of about 10,786 doses per day. “The daily doses administered is around 10,000 per day and this is because there are few vaccine stocks. This forces us to keep a limited number of vaccination centres open and hence, beneficiaries face delays in getting the jab,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named. According to the figures of the district health department, till August 11, the district achieved 41.75% first dose coverage for beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group. Likewise, the first dose coverage for 45+ age group category is 55.35% for first dose and 25.55% for the second dose. To increase the second dose coverage, the UP government recently declared Saturday as a ‘second dose day’, when only second vaccines dose will be administered to beneficiaries. Experts said that extensive drives should be carried out every week so that more beneficiaries can get vaccinated. “Due to short supply of vaccine, there are days when very few beneficiaries get the jab. Mega drives increase community outreach. People will go to the vaccination centres if such facilities are opened in colonies and local residential areas. Hence, such drives are ideal to cater to a large population and get more beneficiaries vaccinated ,” said Dr V B Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-plans-mega-vaccination-drive-101628878014510.html
13-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida authority kicks off ‘smart village’ project||After being delayed by four months on account of the second wave of Covid-19, the Greater Noida authority on Thursday kick-started its ‘smart village’ project. In the first phase, the civic infrastructure in 14 villages will be revamped, starting from Maincha village where a foundation stone laying ceremony was organised on Thursday.According to officials, a total of ₹150 crore will be spent on 14 villages that include Maincha, Chapraula, Sadullapur, Tilpata-Karanwas, Gharbra, Cheerasi, Ladpura, Aminabad (Niyana), Sirsa, Ghanghola, Astauli, Jalpura, Chipiyana Khurd-Tigdi and Yusufpur Chak Shahberi. The officials said the project was supposed to take off in April this year but the work had been stalled due to the pandemic. The first phase will be completed in one year, they said.“We have been working on this project for over a year now. Wapcos Limited, a central government’s consultancy firm, visited each village under the project and prepared a detailed project report that will now be implemented in two phases. The company had given a presentation in February this year,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.Initially, ₹150 crore has been allocated for 14 villages and more funds will be released as per requirements for the second phase, the officials said, adding that free Wi-Fi services will be provided in these villages. “We aim to develop these villages with proper amenities and infrastructure that are available in urban areas. The first phase of the project involves improvement in civic infrastructure like sewer system, drainage, roads, water supply, and streetlights, among others,” said Bhooshan. The second stage of the project entails improvement of public infrastructure like schools, hospitals/health centres and community centres, besides beautification of ponds and creation of children’s parks, the officials said.According to the survey of the consultancy firm, various issues have been found in Maincha that need revamping. “For example, while the village has sewer lines, they are not connected to the sewage treatment plant. Similarly, it has water supply pipes but they are not connected to the source (water tanks). Such errors will be rectified under the project,” said Bhooshan. Going forward, almost 120 villages of Greater Noida will be converted into ‘smart’ ones in the next three to four years, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-authority-kicks-off-smart-village-project-101628878015205.html
13-08-2021||Noida||Vaccines’ paucity results in higher turnout at private centres in Gautam Budh Nagar||The scarcity of Covid-19 vaccines at government health care facilities in Gautam Budh Nagar has resulted in higher turnout at inoculation booths in private hospitals of the district. The private vaccination centres, which had less than 25% share in vaccination between July 29 and August 4, increased their share to nearly 54% between August 5 and August 12, according to the data of the district health department. Also, the number of government vaccination centres in GB Nagar has been reduced to 16, which was over 40 till August 4. According to the data , a total of 121,032 people were vaccinated in the district between July 29 and August 4, of which 91,684 beneficiaries (75.75%) took their jabs at the government vaccination centres. But after that, the speed of vaccination at government centres slowed down, mainly due to acute crisis of vaccines in the state. Of 77,213 jabs administered between August 5 and 12, only 35,229 (45.71%) were given in the government facilities while the rest (about 54%) at private centres, shows the data. Attributing the lower turnout at government centres to the crisis of vaccines, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that with the present amount of supply, it will be impossible to run the vaccination drive at full swing. “This is a statewide crisis. At the same time, one shouldn’t forget that GB Nagar has been ranked first in vaccination drive by the state government as nearly 1.7 million people, out of estimated eligible population of about two million, have been vaccinated. We are committed to provide at least one dose of vaccine to the entire eligible population of GB Nagar by the end of November this year,” he said. Echoing similar views, Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, said that the district health department is left with around 10,000 doses of vaccines. “With this stock, we can run the drive for two more days, and that too not full-fledged. However, we’ve sent our requisition for vaccines to the state government and hope to get adequate supply very soon,” he said. When asked about the rising number of vaccinations in the private facilities, Tyagi said that it is obvious in the present scenario. “People have suffered a lot during the two waves of Covid-19. And, when there is a possibility of the third wave, they will not wait for free vaccines for a long time. To me, choosing some other options for vaccination is not a bad phenomenon. We can increase the vaccination figures only after getting the ample stock of vaccines,” he said. Private hospitals said that the turnout at private facilities has increased as people now don’t want to wait for getting vaccinated.“Witnessing the loss of lives during the pandemic, even the people from lower income groups have realised that it is better to be safe than sorry. They are not ready to risk their lives for ₹700-800. Not only that, the facilities and the logistics available at the private centres are better than the government centres,” said Ajit Kumar, director (public relations) of Sharda hospital. It may be noted that during the single-day mega vaccination drive on August 3, there were 200 government vaccination centres in the district. On August 4, it came down to 42 and after that it has been reduced to only 16. Since August 7, the shots are being given at these centres to only those who booked their slots online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccines-paucity-results-in-higher-turnout-at-private-centres-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101628877954568.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BNHS starts SGNP biodiversity survey along twin-tunnel route||Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) has commenced a biodiversity monitoring survey at Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) along the route of a proposed subterranean tunnel, which will connect Borivli to Thane and reduce travel time between Mumbai’s eastern and western suburbs from one hour to around 15 minutes. The twin tunnels will traverse the boundary of the SGNP protected area for 4.7kms, connecting Film City in Goregaon to Amar Nagar in Mulund.BNHS’s first quarterly report, as part of its three-year-long exercise, is due within a couple of months, officials privy to the development said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is footing ₹4 crore for this, which officials likened to a similar monitoring and mitigation study for avian biodiversity being carried out in Thane Creek by BNHS as a result of the trans-harbour link project.BNHS had been engaged as a consultant for the SGNP twin-tunnel project at the behest of the National Board for Wildlife at the time of granting wildlife clearance for the project in 2019. The ongoing biodiversity study, according to a forest department official, will first make a thorough inventory of all flora and fauna found within the study area prior to the beginning of construction in March 2022.“The tunnel line itself is around 50 metres wide and the study area extends to 500 metres on each side of the tunnel line. From plants to insects, spiders, reptiles, and larger mammals like leopards and deer, all will be accounted for. The study has been underway for two months and the study area has been divided into different grids. BNHS has formed a dedicated team which spends 10 days of every month in the field, surveying these grids,” said the official.Once inventory is completed, researchers will attempt to identify those species which may face a higher risk as a result of the tunnelling work. A preliminary ecological sensitivity report submitted to the forest department by Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) suggests that leopard, sambar deer, Indian python, Indian cobra and Russell’s vipers “are the major wildlife found in some of the study areas around the proposed alignment”.The preliminary report had also identified a few species of “conservation importance”, including three species of plants — saraca ashoka (Sita ashok), garcinia indica (Kokam), White Orchids; three mammals — leopard, rusty spotted cat and sambar deer; two birds — brown fish owl, mottled wood owl; as well as the Atlas moth and blue mormon butterfly which are the largest known butterfly and moth species.In all, the forest patches and protected areas around SGNP provide a habitat for over 1,000 plant species; around 251 species of migratory, land and water birds; 50,000 species of insects; 43 species of mammals; 38 species of reptiles; nine species of amphibians; 150 species of butterflies; and a large variety of fish.“The main impact is expected from vibrations caused due to tunnelling during construction phase. BNHS’s contract with BMC states that they will continue to monitor the area for a period of two years from the date of construction. So, if there is any cause for worry, it will be reported to us and appropriate steps for conservation will be taken,” said the forest department official.A technical pre-feasibility report for the proposed tunnel by MSRDC in November 2017 had noted that “project activities such as drilling would temporarily produce activity and manual entrance that would disturb wildlife and cause them to disperse. This local displacement would create a short-term impact to large and small mammals. Displacement would affect a small number of overwintering breeding birds. Overall, effects on wildlife would be short-term and minor.”The proposed tunnel has recently become a topic of discussion again among city’s green campaigners who questioned the lack of a dedicated environment impact assessment (EIA) for the project, and its exemption from environmental clearance (EC) despite being located within the boundary of a protected area.Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti, said the tunnel could potentially destroy the underlying aquifers feeding Tulsi and Vihar lakes, which provide Mumbai with a modicum of water. He also stressed that the cumulative impact of all projects encroaching upon the national park — such as the dedicated freight corridor which includes 10.8 hectares of forestland diversion in SGNP — be considered as opposed to assessments of individual infra works.Veteran environmentalist Sunjoy Monga, however, said that the benefits of the project, in terms of reducing traffic congestion and air pollution in the city, outweigh any ecological risk. “The sheer density of cars per square kilometre of road in Mumbai is among the highest in the world. Tunnelling technologies are fairly sophisticated at this stage and have been used for similar projects by more developed nations. Exemption from EIA is another matter, but speaking specifically of this project, it is an important one that will have environmental benefits,” he said. G Mallikarjuna, chief conservator of forests, SGNP, could not be reached despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bnhs-starts-sgnp-biodiversity-survey-along-twin-tunnel-route-101628877896698.html
13-08-2021||Noida||Minor among three held for robbery at farmer’s house in Greater Noida||A 15-year-old boy was among three people apprehended on Thursday night following an encounter for allegedly being involved in a robbery at a farmer’s house on August 8, police said. According to police, during the regular vehicle checking, three people on a motorcycle were stopped by a police team near the Ajnara roundabout in Dankaur. “They tried to flee and fired at the police team chasing them. In the retaliatory firing, one suspect was injured. One of them is a minor. All three were involved in the robbery,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3. On the night of August 8, four men had broken into a house in Muchhkheda village under Dankaur police jurisdiction. They held the family members at weapon point and then robbed the house of jewellery and cash worth ₹1.19 lakh. One of the suspects, Sonu, who was visiting a relative in the same village, was caught by the locals, while others had managed to escape, police said.The injured suspect was identified as Rahul, a Mathura native while the other was identified as Chanchal, Sonu’s cousin from the same village. Police officials said that there are at least two more people who were involved in the case. “Rahul has over a dozen loot and robbery cases against him. We recovered some gold jewellery, ₹60,000 in cash, a knife, two countrymade pistols and a motorcycle from the suspects. The rest of the money will also be recovered soon,” said Pandey. The two suspects were produced before a magistrate who sent them to judicial custody, police said, adding that the minor boy was sent to the juvenile home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/minor-among-three-held-for-robbery-at-farmer-s-house-in-greater-noida-101628877897311.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sometimes, it feels like a dream: Princepal Singh on his NBA journey||New DelhiOnly the second Indian to debut in the NBA Summer League, young basketball player Princepal Singh says his journey has been nothing short of a “dream” and he is working on his fitness and skills to achieve his next goal of playing in the NBA.Singh, who hails from Gurdaspur, followed his Ludhiana basketball academy teammate Satnam Singh in making his debut at the Summer League when he turned up for Sacramento Kings against Washington Wizards at Las Vegas on Tuesday night.“It’s amazing to play in the Summer League. I am very happy with my progress as a player. I played G league first and now playing in Summer League, and I am working towards the NBA. I didn’t think I will reach this far. It sometimes feels like a dream,” Singh said during a virtual press conference.“My next goal is playing at the NBA, Satnam Singh was the first Indian to play and I want to play for long time in NBA, so my focus is on taking care of my body and keeping myself fit.” Satnam had played in the Summer League in 2016 after being first drafted in the NBA by Dallas Mavericks in 2015.The 20-year-old Singh, whose first professional stint was with the NBA Academy’s Ignite team in the G-League, made a brief appearance of just a minute and 22 seconds during the match, which they won 89-75.“It is a great experience to play against the top players in Summer League. They are all NBA players, who have been drafted. Lot of learning and my game is improving,” said Singh, the first-ever NBA Academy India graduate to feature in a Summer League game.“My coach (Bobby Jackson) asked me to play hard, said I should focus on my game and I will get more time. He asked me to focus on strong rebounding and defence and look to score.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sometimes-it-feels-like-a-dream-princepal-singh-on-his-nba-journey-101628877895246.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt refuses to share Rashmi Shukla’s report, related material with CBI||The Maharashtra government has refused to share with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) any documents or other material about phone tapping done by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla when she was the commissioner of state intelligence department and her report about corruption in transfer and postings of senior police officers.The government on Friday filed an affidavit through advocate Ajay Misar stating that the report and related documents were seized as evidence in the case registered by cyber police in connection with the purported illegal phone tapping and leaking of Shukla’s report, and presently all those documents are submitted to the forensic science laboratory (FSL) at Kalina for analysis.The affidavit is filed in reply to a plea filed by CBI, seeking direction to the state to part with the report and documents for the central agency’s probe in the corruption case registered on April 21 against former home minister Anil Deshmukh.CBI has registered the offence after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on March 20 wrote a letter alleging that Deshmukh had, as home minister, on number of occasions summoned some Mumbai Police officers at his official bungalow and told them to accumulate ₹100 crore from bars and other establishments in Mumbai.The agency has included the topic of Shukla’s report and reinstatement of controversial dismissed cop Sachin Vaze in the purview of its probe in the case against Deshmukh and had sought the documents for the investigation.Shukla had carried out telephone tapping between July 17, 2020 and July 29, 2020, after a number of complaints were received at various levels in the police department and in Mantralaya that some persons were acting as conduits for senior police officers to secure transfers at desired places and good postings by paying the then home minister and one “dada”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-refuses-to-share-rashmi-shukla-s-report-related-material-with-cbi-101628877775343.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Smooth-coated otters spotted in Kharghar creek in Navi Mumbai||Birdwatchers spotted a pair of endangered smooth-coated otters in Navi Mumbai’s Kharghar creek while on a birding trip on Friday afternoon. The species, whose presence around Konkan coast has been previously documented, are listed as “vulnerable” as per the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) red list of threatened species globally. They are also protected under Schedule 2 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.The otters were spotted and photographed by birders S Ramprasad and Sanjeev Balsara near Sector-16 in Kharghar, which is a popular birding area. “We were excited and took some pictures before the creatures disappeared. They were very fast-moving,” said Ramprasad, whose pictures were later corroborated by researchers at Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS).The presence of these otters, one of six species found in Asia, has been documented in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts earlier. In 2017, the first-ever census of smooth-coated otters along Maharashtra coast pegged their population at around 500. The census had found between 437 and 591 otters across 12 creeks in Sindhudurg. With small eyes and ears, a flat tail and webbed paws, smooth-coated otters hunt in groups for safety, found the census conducted by the state mangrove cell and Pune-based NGO Ela Foundation. The study had also identified threats to the otter’s habitat such as sand dredging, water pollution from pesticides, and industries leading to high turbidity in some creeks where they hunt for fish.In 2019, a pair of otters was seen in Roha, Raigad district. “Friday’s sighting is possibly the first time in several years that these otters have been seen so far north. It indicates that the area may have a healthy fish population. Further vigilance and study are required to know whether these otters were in Kharghar creek in search of food or if they are living there,” said Rahul Khot, assistant director, Natural History Collection Department, BNHS.Navi Mumbai-based environmentalist BN Kumar, who runs NatConnect Foundation and has been campaigning for the creation of a biodiversity protection plan, said, “This sighting is all the more reason for authorities to take stock of and find measures to protect such wildlife. We have created a list of 20 areas across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) including Kharghar creek, that require a higher level of protection. We will present our findings to BNHS for their consideration this week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/smoothcoated-otters-spotted-in-kharghar-creek-in-navi-mumbai-101628877596475.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Teachers oppose Mumbai University’s plan to set up 73 new colleges||Teachers of the University of Mumbai (MU) have raised their voice against the varsity’s plan to add 73 new colleges to its roster. Members of the academic council, representing the Bombay University and College Teachers Union (BUCTU), registered their dissent against the university’s proposal to add new colleges according to the perspective plan in the academic council meeting held on Thursday. Even as the perspective plan was passed with majority votes in the academic council, teachers’ representatives at the council were unhappy with the move. Perspective plan is a detailed five-year plan prepared by the varsity to chart the future course of action. “The 73 proposed colleges in the plan are put forward without fundamental study, without considering the precarious conditions, geographical locations. The statistical data received from the university clearly shows the drastically falling enrolment of students from 2019 onwards. At present the colleges in Konkan have not been able to complete even 50% of the usual enrolment. Existing colleges will be adversely affected and the entire landscape will be wiped out,” read the dissent note. Council members and BUCTU members Madhavi Nikam, Tanuja Sarode, Sudhir Nikam and Dhakne Rajendra, who made the dissent note, declined to comment. MU pro vice-chancellor Ravindra Kulkarni was not available for a comment.However, an office-bearer of BUCTU said, “The stand taken by the four council members is representative of the teachers’ stand. New colleges have been proposed without due diligence and not taking into account why some colleges are seeing poor enrolment.”Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, enrolment numbers for the university dipped in 2020-21 to 1.9 lakh from 2.2 lakh the year before, according to data released in a senate meeting earlier this year. However, BUCTU has been opposing new colleges since 2018. In a letter to the chancellor that year, BUCTU members had said the varsity completely missed three inputs while preparing the perspective plan — district maps with location of colleges, population figures and year-wise enrolment data. It had also pointed out procedural irregularity in the process. In 2019, BUCTU again wrote to the chancellor complaining that the varsity had not placed the perspective plan for 2020-21 before the senate, academic and management councils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/teachers-oppose-mumbai-university-s-plan-to-set-up-73-new-colleges-101628877595296.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||45% kids living in children homes in Delhi unable to identify 2 digit nos: Study||identify two digit numbers, while 25 per cent of those surveyed could not even recognise numbers, according to a survey by the DCPCR.The Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) conducted a baseline assessment of children in childcare institutions in July.The survey was conducted in 30 children homes of south and southeast districts and 400 children in the age group of 6 to 18 were covered. A majority of those surveyed were in the 12-15 age group.There are nearly 100 childcare institutions in the national capital and one-third of them are located in south and southeast Delhi.The survey found that 37.5 per cent of the children could not read Hindi stories, while 18 per cent were unable to identify even Hindi letters.It also stated that 25 per cent were not even able to identify numbers, while 45 per cent could not recognise two-digit numbers.DCPCR chairman Anurag Kundu said this is a pilot project initiated by the panel and in order to work towards enhancing foundational and numeracy skills, it has already initiated a reading campaign in the institutions.Also Read | DCPCR hands over list of 2,029 children orphaned due to Covid in DelhiThe campaign aims to ensure that 100 per cent children are able to read Hindi fluently with comprehension and perform arithmetic operations such as addition, subtraction, multiplication and division.Child Care Institutions house children who are victims of trafficking, sexual violence, parental incarceration, parental death, child labour, amongst others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/45-kids-living-in-children-homes-in-delhi-unable-to-identify-2-digit-nos-study-101628874622652.html
13-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt will honour Tokyo Olympic medallists on August 19: Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said the Uttar Pradesh government would felicitate Tokyo Olympic medallists with cash prizes in a ceremony at the Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium in Lucknow on August 19.He announced that the state government will give cash prizes of ₹2 crore to the gold medal winners in the Olympics, ₹1.50 crore to the silver medallists and ₹1 crore to the bronze medallists. Coaches will be also honoured at the felicitation event, the chief minister said.The chief minister was speaking at a programme organised by the Gorakhnath Temple Trust and Purvanchal Sports Promotion Manch at Mahant Digvijaynath Smriti Hall on the Gorakhnath temple premises in Gorakhpur on Friday.The members of the Indian hockey men’s team that won the bronze medal in Tokyo will get ₹1 crore each. The Indian women hockey team members will get ₹50 lakh each for the best-ever performance in the Olympics, he said.The chief minister said his government had announced a policy in 2017 according to which the residents of Uttar Pradesh winning Olympic medals are eligible for ₹6 crore on bagging a gold medal, ₹4 crore for silver and ₹2 crore for bronze. Similarly, the UP government had given cash prizes to medallists at the Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games, he added.Among the Tokyo Olympic medallists, hockey star Lalit Kumar Upadhyay is the only one from Uttar Pradesh.India registered its best-ever performance at the Tokyo Games, winning seven medals, including a gold.India’s medal winners at the Tokyo Olympics are: Neeraj Chopra (gold), Mirabai Chanu (silver), Ravi Dahiya (silver), Bajrang Punia (bronze), Lovlina Borogohain (bronze), PV Sindhu (bronze) and the Indian men’s hockey team (bronze).Besides, the state government has invited 75 players each from 75 districts of the state for the same function in Lucknow.The state government will provide the required resources to help them make a mark at national and international sports events, the chief minister said.Felicitating 75 sportspersons of Gorakhpur division, he said there was no dearth of sports talent in Uttar Pradesh and added that players needed facilities, guidance, motivation and resources to excel. Three women hockey players from Gorakhpur — Prem Maya, Ranjana Srivastava and Preeti Dubey — have represented the country in the Olympics, he said.He said the coaching of players would commence soon and coaches would be reinstated on good remuneration.Lauding the Khelo India national programme launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the promotion of sports, Yogi said India sent its largest contingent of athletes to the Tokyo Olympics. Despite an adverse situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian sportspersons gave their best performance in the Olympics by bagging seven medals, he said.The chief minister also said the Gorakhnath temple organised a sports event every year on the occasion of Nag Panchami but due to Covid-19, the event had been curtailed this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-will-honour-tokyo-olympic-medallists-on-august-19-yogi-adityanath-101628875374983.html
13-08-2021||Other||4 test positive for cholera in Lucknow’s Balu Adda||LUCKNOW Four residents on Friday tested positive for cholera at Balu Adda, where two children died and 138 people had taken ill so far after an outbreak of diarrhoea since Monday. Locals had alleged contaminated water supply in their area despite complaints to the civic authorities in this regard.“Samples of seven patients from Balu Adda were sent to the KGMU lab, and four tested positive for vibrio cholerae,” said chief medical officer of Lucknow Dr Manoj Agrawal in a press statement. He urged people to drink boiled water and maintain adequate hygiene in their homes. After the outbreak of diarrhoea in Balu Adda on Monday, the health department had set up a dispensary and also reserved beds in the Civil Hospital. Three ambulances were also deployed in the area to shift patients, and till now, 43 had been admitted to hospital, according to the press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-test-positive-for-cholera-in-lucknow-s-balu-adda-101628873938437.html
13-08-2021||Other||Pune firm booked for cheating US company of ₹3 crore||PUNE The Sinhgad police have booked three partners of a Pune firm for failing to fulfil an order for gloves and bags placed by a US firm, New York Packaging LLC. The company management stands accused of fraud worth ₹3 crore. A woman complainant lodged an FIR and senior inspector Devidas Gheware said that the US company had given the buying rights a legal advisor After taking the purchase order, the accused supplied handbags and prepared an invoice to the effect. The company later accepted an advance of ₹3 crore from the legal advisor for gloves. However, they allegedly did not supply the gloves. Post inquiry, the police decided to file an FIR. The accused have moved court seeking anticipatory bail, Gheware added. The accused have been booked under IPC 420, 468, 471 and 34 by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-firm-booked-for-cheating-us-company-of-3-crore-101628873814210.html
13-08-2021||Other||PM Modi sends centurion Babasaheb Purandare a video greeting||PUNE Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Friday, wished Babasaheb Purandare on his 100th birthday, praying for a healthy life ahead.Modi, in his online video message, said, “Babasaheb’s work is inspirational. I visited Pune to see Babasaheb’s lay ‘Janata Raja’, based on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Even when Babasaheb used to visit Ahmedabad I used to attend his programmes.”Mayor Murlidhar Mohol felicitated Purandare on the occasion Former Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis all wished the centurion via video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-modi-sends-centurion-babasaheb-purandare-a-video-greeting-101628873754301.html
13-08-2021||Other||Minor sisters’ gangrape, poisoning: Accused confess planning to kill victims’ mother||Four accused arrested in connection with the gangrape and murder of two minor sisters in Sonepat district of Haryana have confessed during police remand that they were planning to kill the victims’ mother as well.The Rai police station SHO said the accused confessed that they had given pesticides to both the minor sisters after raping them at their house.“The pesticide was in less quantity and the accused had given water to both the girls so that the poison can spread in the body,” police said.“They also confessed to planning to eliminate the mother as well but it could not go ahead as the neighbours came there,” the SHO said.Police are also investigating old records of all accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-sisters-gangrape-poisoning-accused-confess-planning-to-kill-victims-mother-101628873574699.html
13-08-2021||Other||Haryana CM Khattar’s brother dies at 57||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s brother Gulshan Khattar, 57, passed away at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on Friday.He is survived by his wife Varsha Khattar, two sons Keshav and Neeraj, and a daughter Sonam.His last rites were performed at Rambagh crematorium ground in Rohtak.As per information, he was suffering from pneumonia and was hospitalised at Medanta Hospital, Gurugram. Earlier, he was admitted at Rohtak’s PGIMS.Khattar mourned his brother’s death by tweeting, “This is an irreparable loss for me.”Haryana home minister Anil Vij, cooperatives minister Banwari Lal, BJP state chief OP Dhankar, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda, former finance minister Captain Abhimanyu, leader Manish Grover, JJP’s Digvijay Singh Chautala and Pradeep Deshwal among others took part in Gulshan Khattar’s last rites and paid condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-cm-khattar-s-brother-dies-at-57-101628873454827.html
13-08-2021||Patna||Ganga hits record level at Mokama, high alert along banks||Bihar’s water resources department (WRD) has heightened surveillance along the course of Ganga in the state after the river set a new highest flood level (HFL) of 43.21 metres, nearly two metres above the danger level (DL), at Hathidah of Mokama and maintained the rising trend at Patna and elsewhere on Friday, department officials said.The gushing currents of a swollen Ganga have flooded riverine areas of Patna, Chapra and Vaishali districts, and those in Bhagalpur, Buxar and Bhojpur in the past 24 hours, as the river’s water level rose by 9-27 cm compared to Thursday.The Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued an “extreme” flood alert for the Ganga stretch from Barh in Patna to Barahiya in Begusarai, where the river kept on rising after jumping the HFL. Officials said more than 22 lakh population in various districts of north and central Bihar have been impacted due to the current spell of floods from Ganga and its tributaries like Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamla, Khiroi, Gandak, Sone, Kosi and Punpun, which continued to flow about the DL at different locations.WRD secretary Sanjeev Hans, however, ruled out any immediate threat of flooding in Patna, saying that the river was still flowing below the HFL of 2016. Likewise, situation with Sone and Punpun is also under control, he said. “WRD officials have been asked to stay prepared to meet any eventuality in Buxar, Bhojpur, Patna, Chapra, Vaishali, Katihar and Bhagalpur districts, though,” Hans said.Chief minister Nitish Kumar, meanwhile, visited flooded areas of Patna, Saran and Bhojpur along with officials of WRD and its minister Sanjay Kumar Jha. Senior officials of disaster management and road construction departments also accompanied him. He also inspected a few flood relief camps and enquired about the facilities provided to the persons sheltered there. The officials manning the camps have also been told to ensure strict adherence to the Covid safety protocols.In Patna, timely intervention of WRD engineers averted a possible flooding in western part of the city from Patna canal, which originates from Sone in Aurangabad and terminates in Ganga near Digha. Panic prevailed in Danapur and Digha localities after western embankment of the canal developed seepages due to excessive water load.According to WRD date, Ganga was flowing 83 cm above the DL at Buxar, 1.16 m Digha, 1.63 m at Gandhi Ghat, 1.45 m at Hathidah (all in Patna district), 42 cm at Munger, 73 cm at Bhagalpur and 1.09 m at Kahalgaon. Sone was flowing 1.2 m above the DL at Maner, Gandak nearly 5 m at Dumariaghat in Gopalganj, and Kosi was flowing nearly 1m above the DL at Baltara in Khagaria. Ganga above danger level (Aug 13) PatnaDigha: 116 cmGandhi Ghat: 163 cmHathidah: 145 cm Rest of BiharBuxar: 83 cmMunger: 42 cmBhagalpur: 73 cmKahalgaon: 109 cmSource: Water resources dept||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ganga-hits-record-level-at-mokama-high-alert-along-banks-101628873334980.html
13-08-2021||Other||Gaya boy’s body arrives from China after two weeks||PATNAThe body of 20-year-old Aman Nagsen, who was allegedly killed on July 29 at Tianjin City of China, reached Gaya via Patna on Friday, 14 days after his death, due to administrative formalities in China. Nagsen’s uncle Ram Kishore Paswan, a BJP activist, said cremation would be held on Saturday at his native village at Paraiya. Nagsen was a student of Business Administration in the Tianjin Foreign Studies University. Currently, there are no direct flights between India and China and the university made the arrangements through a third country, Nagsen’s family members said.Aman’s family received the news of his death on the midnight of July 29-30 and since then, they were making efforts to get his body flown back to India. Uday Paswan, father of the deceased, told HT that his son left India on September 26, 2019, on his own after doing his class 10 from Central School, Gaya and intermediate from International School, Delhi. He was the lone Indian there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gaya-boy-s-body-arrives-from-china-after-two-weeks-101628873275675.html
13-08-2021||Patna||Bihar engineer in vigilance net||The vigilance investigation bureau (VIB) on Friday conducted searches on the house of an executive engineer (EE) who had allegedly amassed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income and seized over ₹1.43 crore in cash, besides gold, silver and documents related to various immovable properties, VIB officials said.The engineer, Ravindra Kumar Yadav, has a three-strorey house in Punaichak locality of Patna and was posted in Vaishali till about two months back. Searches on Friday were carried following warrants issued by the special judge (vigilance) in Patna and were led by deputy superintendent of police (VIB) Sarvesh Kumar Singh, according to a statement by VIB. VIB officials said Yadav had bought land in the name of his wife Rajni Kumari Sinha and two children at Danapur and Bihta, worth around ₹1.23 crore. Yadav joined service on August 4, 2004, and was earlier posted in road construction department at Hajipur. On June 22, 2021, he shifted to Bihar State Road Development Corporation in Patna, VIB officials said, adding that during his tenure at Hajipur, the state government had received corruption complaints against him.“The value of the assets has been estimated on the basis of the registered deeds and not at the existing marketing rates,” DSP Sarvesh Kumar Singh said, adding that the engineer was present in his Patna house at the time of the search.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-engineer-in-vigilance-net-101628873275068.html
13-08-2021||Patna||I-Day: Parade rehearsals end, tight security in state capital||Security has been beefed up in the capital city, especially near Gandhi Maidan, where the Independence Day function will be held amid Covid-19 restrictions even as the final parade rehearsals ended on Friday, said officials of Patna district administration. Divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal along with district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh and other senior police officers took stock of the preparations at Gandhi Maidan.“Final parade rehearsal consisting 12 contingents concluded Friday. Eight departments will display tableaux on various themes on the occasion. Seating arrangements, decoration, electricity and drinking water and toilet facilities are satisfactory. The civic body will sanitise Gandhi Maidan premises Saturday after finalising last-minute preparations,” Agarwal said.Magistrates and police force have been asked to keep vigil on those spreading rumours or disturbing peace during I-Day celebrations and take strict action against such persons, he said. “Deployed magistrates will also ensure no gathering at entrance gates. A limited number of guests will attend the event amid Covid-19 safety protocols. We have arranged for live webcast of the programme through Information Public Relations Department’s social media platform,” the divisional commissioner said.The traffic department has also made special arrangements for vehicular movement to avoid congestion in vicinity of Gandhi Maidan.“Several roads leading to Gandhi Maidan will witness restricted vehicular movement from 7am till the main function is over on Sunday. Vehicular movement near Fraser Road and SP Verma Road and Dak Bungalow roundabout will be diverted to alternative routes,” said an official of transport department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/iday-parade-rehearsals-end-tight-security-in-state-capital-101628873154967.html
13-08-2021||Ranchi||Prepare own format for caste, religion census in J’khand: MLA to Hemant govt||Mandar legislator and former minister Bandhu Tirkey on Friday demanded the Hemant Soren government to consider conducting caste and religious census on the lines of the proposals being mooted by various political parties, including the JD(U) and RJD in neighbouring Bihar. Tirkey, who joined Congress after a split in JVM (P) after 2019 assembly polls, was speaking to media persons during a press conference at his residence in Ranchi. He argued that the state government should come up with its own format for holding caste and religious census. “The state has now got the powers after the Lok Sabha passed the 127th constitutional amendment to identify OBC groups. But, what will it amount to if we don’t know the exact numbers of caste sub-groups? There are several sub-castes even in tribals and Muslims. We need to ascertain their numbers,” said Tirkey. Batting for religious census, Tirkey said that there have been demands of a separate religion census as well like Sarna. “By including religion in the new format, we will also be able to know how many among tribals are followers of Sarna, Christianity or any other faith,” he said.Granting a separate Sarna tribal religious code in Census 2021 census has been a long pending demand in the state. A unanimous resolution to this effect was passed by the Jharkhand assembly last year, demanding the Centre to include Sarna Tribal religious code in the religion column in Census 2021, arguing that majority of tribals, who have not converted to Christianity, are otherwise forced to select ‘Others’ column in the census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/prepare-own-format-for-caste-religion-census-in-j-khand-mla-to-hemant-govt-101628873034929.html
13-08-2021||Other||PCB asks Lashkar police to act on violation of “status quo” at Fashion Street||PUNE The CEO of the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has asked the Lashkar police station, in writing, to take action against the alleged ongoing construction at Fashion Street. In July, the PCB issued a public notice asking the vendors to main “status quo” at the market and refrain from carrying out any further constructions. On March 26, as many as 600 shops were completely gutted after a major fire broke on Fashion Street.CEO Amit Kumar in his written communication to the police, stated: “Kind attention is invited to this office letter under reference wherein this office has time and again requested your good self to deploy adequate police force on urgent basis in order to maintain status quo till the final decision of the board and to avoid any untoward situation and disruption of law and order.” He further said that despite steps taken by the board to prevent hawkers from undertaking any construction, it has been reported that a further raising of illegal structures is in progress.A copy of the letter has also been marked to the Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta, PCB president and the MG road hawkers’ association.Recently, the board received complaints about structures being built without mandatory permission. The board wants to construct a commercial complex equipped with all the fire safety norms. Fashion Street, adjacent to MG road, houses small outlets selling garments, shoes, and other accessories. There are 448 registered shops and 200 unauthorised outlets located in the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcb-asks-lashkar-police-to-act-on-violation-of-status-quo-at-fashion-street-101628872614203.html
13-08-2021||Other||14 members of Kasbe gang booked under MCOCA||The Yerwada police, on Friday, booked 14 members of Kasbe gang under the stringent provisions of MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999) The gang members are currently lodged in Yerwada central prison. The main accused, identified as Prafulla alias Gaddya Ganesh Kasbe, and 13 of his gang members, are accused of engaging in violence in the Laxminagar area of Yerawada. Besides MCOCA, cases under IPC sections 307, 394, 452, 504, and 506 have been lodged against the accused. Police inspector Yunus Shaikh said that during investigation it was found that Kasbe was the key person and ran the entire gang. “The gang is involved in many illicit activities and offences ranging from attempted murder, to possession of illegal firearms,” he said. Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta has given strict orders for invocation of MCOCA against criminals in the city. A week ago, the Bund Garden police invoked MCOCA against Altaf, alias Bachkya Pathan, and nine of his gang members engaging in criminal activity in the railway station area. Two arrested for theft The Yerwada Police have arrested two persons, both employees, for stealing cash of ₹1.12 lakh from a shop located in Samrat Housing Society in Yerwada, where they worked. The workers have been identified as Sunny, alias Bala Ravi Mohite (19), a resident of Yerwada gaothan and Cyril, alias Shannya Jaral Joseph (24), a resident of Parnakuti chowk. Ruchika Sushil Jain, a resident of Laxminagar in Baner and owner of the shop named, “Heads up for Tales” had lodged a complaint with the police. Jain in her FIR stated that the theft took place at around 6 pm on August 7. Inspector Yunus Shaikh said, “The duo have confessed to their involvement in the crime and are currently undergoing custodial interrogation. We have arrested them under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14-members-of-kasbe-gang-booked-under-mcoca-101628872494130.html
13-08-2021||Other||Light rain forecast for Pune till Aug 17||PUNE As cloudy weather makes a comeback in the city, Pune on Friday reported 0.5 millimetres (mm) of rainfall, with Lohegaon reporting 0.2 mm. After more than a week-long dry spell, very light rainfall is likely to continue in Pune.On Friday, Pune city reported a maximum temperature of 29.6 degrees Celsius which was 2.3 degrees warmer than the normal temperature. The minimum temperature was 19.5 degrees Celsius.With the second dry spell, Pune city has reported 362.4 mm rainfall between June 1 and August 13, 19 mm less than normal.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, said that light to very light rainfall is likely to continue in the city till August 17.“Partly cloudy skies becoming cloudy and very light rainfall is likely in the afternoon hours till August 17. Day temperature will be around 30 degrees Celsius and night temperature will be around 20 degrees Celsius during this time,” said Kashyapi.For Maharashtra, Kashyapi added that from August 16, Madhya (central) Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada may witness thunder with lightning and rainfall.“Rainfall in Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada is likely. Many places in Konkan and Goa may receive rainfall at the same time,” said Kashyapi.“Under the influence of likely formation of cyclonic circulation over west central and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal around August 15 and subsequent formation of a low pressure area during next 48 hours, fairly widespread rainfall activity is likely over Odisha, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Vidarbha, and Chhattisgarh. Subdued rainfall is very likely over rest parts of the country,” said IMD officials||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/light-rain-forecast-for-pune-till-aug-17-101628872434155.html
13-08-2021||Other||Narendra Dabholkar death anniv: Family still waits for closure on case||PUNE August 20, 2021, marks the eighth anniversary of the murder of Narendra Dabholkar. His son Hamid Dabholkar, and members of the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmulan Samiti, Milind Deshmukh, Nandini Jadhav and Shripal Lalwani, held a press conference on Friday, raising questions about the investigation into Dabholkar’s murder.Hamid Dabholkar said, “The CBI should find out who is behind the murder of Narendra Dabholkar, otherwise the threat to expression of rational thinkers, activists and journalists in the country would not end.”Hamid Dabholkar added that the CBI has arrested Dr Virendra Tawde in 2016, Sharad Kalaskar and Sachin Andure in August 2018 and Sanjeev Punalekar and Vikram Bhave in May 2019, as suspects in the case. “The CBI has not filed a chargesheet against Amol Kale. No chargesheet has been filed against Amit Digvekar and Rajesh Bangera. The investigation into the murder has come to a halt with the names of Dr Virendra Tawde and Amol Kale,” Hamid Dabholkar said.The Dabholkar and Pansare families have filed a petition with the Mumbai High Court asking the court to oversee the probe into the murder of Dabholkar. On August 20, activists of Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmulan Samiti will come together to protest against the murder of Dabholkar. On August 20 the Narendra Dabholkar Memorial Lecture will be held in Pune. This year, P Sainath, a senior journalist and former editor of The Hindu, will be the keynote speaker, speaking on challenges facing Indian democracy. This lecture will be held online. Narendra Dabholkar Vichar Jagar SaptahAugust 14-20; 6pm• Saturday, August 14: Public interview with Nandini Jadhav; chief guest: Mukta Barve • Sunday, August 15: Public interview with Anshul Chhatrapati. Anshul’s father was murdered journalist Ramchandra Chhatrapati. Ram Rahim was convicted in this murder case.• Monday, August 16: Public lecture by Sanjay Awate• Tuesday, August 17: Release of books on children’s literature; chief guest: Sushil Shukla Wednesday, August 18: National seminar chaired by Dr Vivek Monteiro, Thursday, August 19 (10 am to 4 pm): Thought ConferenceFriday, August 20: Narendra Dabholkar Memorial Lecture: P Sainath, a senior journalist and former editor of The Hindu* All programmes online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/narendra-dabholkar-death-anniv-family-still-waits-for-closure-on-case-101628872374199.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: IIT-B, Kasturba researchers develop quick test to predict high-risk severe Covid patients||Researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) and Kasturba Hospital, Mumbai, who were part of a global industry-academia collaboration, have developed an algorithmic model that can predict if a patient is more at risk of becoming severely ill from Covid-19. The team, which included doctors and scientists from QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute in Australia and Agilent Technologies in the United States, have designed a novel method of using infra-red technology to rapidly test which patients are most at risk of becoming severely unwell from Covid-19. Their work was published in the peer-reviewed journal Analytical Chemistry on July 19.The team was led by Sanjeeva Srivastava, professor in the department of biosciences and bioengineering and head of the Proteomics facility at IIT-B, who has been studying protein patterns in Covid-affected patients since last year. His team has been working with Kasturba Hospital for conducting a comprehensive proteomics-based investigation of nasal swab and plasma samples from Covid-19 patients to identify host prognosis markers by employing simple extraction strategies. Earlier the team had used high-resolution mass spectrometry to establish a panel of host proteins. Building on this work, Srivastava endeavoured to create a simple test to detect any spike in proteins in the patient. “While mass spectrometry gave us accurate results, the process was cumbersome and required heavy equipment. So we needed to build a more handy test,” said Srivastava. Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy was used to measure the levels of different chemical groups in a sample. “From our FTIR study as well as previously performed mass spectrometry-based proteomics study, we can say that there is a correlation between blood chemical signature and becoming severely unwell with Covid-19. However, we can’t conclude that slight differences in these chemical groups cause patients to become more unwell. We can only conclude that there is an association,” Srivastava said. From their previous works, the team had a large database of protein spikes in patients’ plasma samples. “We recorded the spectra of around 130 patients with mild and severe symptoms using FTIR spectroscopy. There were mild changes in the spectra of samples collected from patients with severe symptoms,” said Srivastava. These changes in spectra were sent for analysis to QIMR Berghofer. The head of QIMR Berghofer’s Precision and Systems Biomedicine Research Group and associate professor, Michelle Hill, said “We found there were measurable differences in the infra-red spectra in the patients who became severely unwell. In particular, there were differences in two infra-red regions that correspond to sugar and phosphate chemical groups, as well as primary amines, which occur in specific types of proteins,” Hill said. The head of QIMR Berghofer’s Statistics Unit, Dr Gunter Hartel, then used artificial intelligence to develop an algorithm to work out which chemical groups, or ‘signatures’, were correlated with patients who became severely unwell. The test – which performed with 85 per cent accuracy in a small pilot study of Covid-19 patients – could in future be used to triage patients in areas with large outbreaks of Covid-19. “It’s easy to use and much more convenient than RT-PCR. It’s simpler than the tests that doctors are currently doing to study protein spikes such as keratin,” said Srivastava. Dr Jayanthi Shastri, head of the microbiology department from Kasturba Hospital, said this kind of blood-based test will be beneficial for the clinicians in determining the severity of Covid-19 patients in India. The study was primarily funded by India’s Science and Engineering Research Board, the Government of India, and a grant from IIT.Arghya Banerjee, lead author of the study and a doctoral candidate in IIT-B said, “We now need to test the method in additional patient groups to confirm whether the findings of this study can be applied to other populations. We also found that having diabetes was a predictor of becoming severely unwell in this group of patients, so we fed this information into the algorithm. We then tested the algorithm on blood samples from a separate group of 30 patients from Mumbai and found it was 85 per cent accurate in predicting which patients would become severely ill. However, it did result in more ‘false positives’ than predictions that were based solely on the clinical risk factors of age, sex, hypertension and diabetes. We hope that with more testing we can reduce these false positives”. Scientists feel if the infra-red test proved successful in further trials, the teams hoped it could be used in hospitals facing high volumes of Covid-19 patients.“While many countries worldwide are quickly vaccinating their populations, we know that it will take longer to vaccinate other nations, particularly in the developing world,” Hill said. “This simple infra-red test only takes a few minutes. We hope it could be a quick and cost-effective way of triaging patients who present at hospitals, particularly where capacity is limited. Patients with a high likelihood of severe Covid-19 complications could be admitted early in their illness, while other patients could potentially be sent home to monitor their symptoms,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-iit-b-kasturba-researchers-develop-quick-test-to-predict-high-risk-severe-covid-patients-101628872195866.html
13-08-2021||Other||SPPU issues “unsigned” circular withdrawing merger of Ranade institute||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), on Friday, issued a circular withdrawing the merger of the Ranade Institute, the university’s Department of Communication and Journalism on Fergusson College road, and the Department of Media and Communication, based inside the university campus. Several alumni and existing students had met SPPU vice- chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar sharing their opposition to the merger.On Saturday, Uday Samant, state technical and higher education minister will visit Ranade Institute. The SPPU circular announcing the merger, released last week, stated that department would be renamed as the Department of Communication, Journalism and Media Studies, under the faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies. This circular was not published on the official SPPU website, so when students came to know about it, they immediately formed a “Ranade Bachao Kruti Samiti”, to oppose this decision.On Friday, SPPU issued a fresh circular, which read, “The decision on the merger of the department was based on the NAC committee guidelines to have a school system in the university and for the students benefit. Also we had consulted senior faculties and experts from the field to take this decision, but as there was opposition to it the merger has been cancelled”.Kuldeep Ambekar an alumni student and president of Students Helping Hand organisation said, “The notification issued has several points missing. There is no signature of any authority like the vice-chancellor or registrar. It is issued in a hurry just to show the minister who is coming that some action has been taken. We will continue our protests till the official orders are issued and there is no threat to our institute.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-issues-unsigned-circular-withdrawing-merger-of-ranade-institute-101628871834116.html
13-08-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal extends Covid-19 restrictions till August 31, night curfew to remain between 11pm-5am||The West Bengal government extended the ongoing Covid-19 related restrictions in the state till August 31 with some new relaxations to contain the spread of the infection. The new order from the government came as the existing curfew is scheduled to end on August 15.Outdoor government programmes following proper maintenance of physical distancing and health and hygiene protocols have been allowed in the state, according to the new rules. “Opening of Theatre Halls, Sadans, Manchas, Auditoriums and open air theatres for cultural activities, with not more than 50% of seating capacity,” has also been allowed, the order showed. Further, the government has also allowed stadiums and swimming pools to remain open with half their capacities at a time.All shops and establishments including restaurants and bars which were previously allowed to remain open till 8pm, can now remain operational until 10.30pm, the order further said. However, the government also said that outdoor activities barring emergencies would not be allowed between 11pm and 5am.“All outdoor activities including movement of people and vehicles shall be strictly prohibited between 11pm to 5am except for health services, law and order, essential commodities including agricultural produce and other emergency services,” the order showed.Local train services in the state continue to remain suspended as no relaxations were offered. Earlier on Thursday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said that the train services have not been resumed due to the fear of the third wave of infections. “The Covid situation in Bengal is quite good but the danger of the third wave is still lurking. This is one of the reasons we have not allowed local trains,” news agency PTI quoted Banerjee as saying. “If we get vaccines, we can at least ensure one dose of vaccine for the rural population and then we can allow local trains,” she added. “We have decided a few relaxations -- such as full lockdown during the night will now be from 11 pm to 5 am, instead of 9 pm to 5 am,” she further said.On Friday, 739 more people tested positive for the disease in WB, taking the total confirmed cases in the state to 1,537,185, a bulletin from the state government showed. Also, with eight more fatalities, the death toll climbed to 18,276. As many as 10,109 active cases of the disease are present in the state as of date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-august-31-night-curfew-to-remain-between-11pm5am-101628871485405.html
13-08-2021||Other||FYJC admissions: Provisional merit list out on Aug 23||PUNE The detailed schedule of admissions to Class 11 (FYJC) for Pune region was declared on Friday by the the Director of Education (Secondary and Higher Secondary), Pune. After Bombay High Court cancelled the Common Entrance Test (CET) which was going to be conducted on August 21 for Class 11 admissions, the education department has geared up preparation for the admission process. The first general provisional merit list for admissions to first year junior college (FYJC) through the online mode will be declared at 10 am on August 23, state director of education (secondary and higher secondary) D G Jagtap said on Friday. The education department finalised the admission schedule after the state SSC results were declared online on July 16 this year. “The entire admission process will be online this year and on August 23 we will declare the first general merit list of round 1 for eligible candidates. Students can take objection or a correction request can be made till August 24. Then on August 27 junior college allocation list will be displayed for round 1. Starting from August 27, students can proceed to the respective colleges where they have got admission as per the process. On August 30, the junior colleges will upload the status of admitted students on their website and further admission rounds will be continued,” said Jagtap. The process of filling forms online has started from August 9. When the SSC state board results were declared on July 16, part 2 form of the admission process was opened up. This year due to the Covid-19 pandemic there was a delay in the SSC results. Now the admission will be done on the basis of Class 10 marks. “For students who have confirmed their admission in any of the junior colleges through the centralised admission round or through any quota admission process, the process will be considered completed. Junior colleges will be permitted to surrender the vacant minority and in-house quota seats after round 3. Schedule for further admission rounds will be declared thereafter.” added Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fyjc-admissions-provisional-merit-list-out-on-aug-23-101628871714200.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Only 1.5mn MMR citizens will be able to take trains after it opens from Aug 15||Though the state government has allowed fully vaccinated people to travel by local trains, the percentage of the working population in the fully vaccinated people is around 40% of 3.48 million citizens in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) who have taken both their doses. This means merely 1.4 to 1.5 million citizens could be benefited from the relaxation at least for the next few weeks.The train travel which was restricted only for the people from emergency and few essential sectors from April 15 after the second wave of Covid-19 struck Mumbai, will be opened for the commuters fully vaccinated from August 15. In MMR, to which the three lines of suburban train services cater, the fully vaccinated population is 3,482,426 as of August 12. Of them, 2.56 million are in the age group of 45-plus years, while merely 314,000 are in the age group of 18-45 years.As per the estimates of the state’s relief and rehabilitation department, among the fully vaccinated people over 45-plus, more than 60% are senior citizens who generally do not travel by train for office work. Around 20% of the working class people prefer to travel by road, according to officials from the state government. The remaining 6,11,945 are healthcare and frontline workers who anyway were allowed to travel in the trains. This means, including the fully vaccinated people in the age group of 18-45 years, around 1.4 million citizens can take benefit from the relaxations being rolled out from Sunday.The percentage of fully vaccinated people in 18-45yrs it too low as only 314,000 have been fully vaccinated though the first dose administration in the age group has been done for whopping 18.84 million citizens. This is mainly because of the tweaking in the central government policy over the gap between two doses of the vaccine. Immediately after the vaccination was opened for the 18-45 years group on May 1, the mandatory interval between two doses was increased to 12 to 16 weeks. This has forced many from the working class to wait longer and they will be due for their second doses this month.“It is true that a limited percentage of the fully vaccinated people will be able to travel in train at least for few more days. That is the reason there is no much of rush at the centres opened for the registration at the railway stations. But the main idea behind unlocking is the gradual relaxation to avoid any crowding at public places. Until the working people in 18-45 are due for their second dose and they complete 14 days after it, we will have the manageable crowd in the trains at least for one more month. If only a million people are added to the current footfall of 1.9 million, it will be much less than 8 million travellers in pre-Covid times,” said an official from the chief minister’s office.Railway authorities have also stated that the number of passes issued to passengers in the first two days has been less than anticipated. “The number of passes issued have been nearly constant on both days. We were anticipating an increase which did not happen. However, there could be a rise after the verification process has been made online.” said a senior railway official.Aseem Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, relief and rehabilitation department said, “We are expecting 1.5 to 2 million people to register for the universal travel pass in the first phase. The number may go up gradually once the second dose backlog is done with, in the near future and a few more relaxations are given. We are expecting the people who do not regularly travel by train, too, to register for the pass for convenience. The online portal is working very smoothly and we have brought down the turnaround time for the e-pass to four hours. Until 6pm on Friday, we have received 43,000 requests for the universal e-pass in 24 hours.”Passenger associations have stated that they would ask the Maharashtra government to consider reducing the gap between vaccines that would enable more commuters to travel.“Of the 8 million people that travelled by the local train services before coronavirus 30% people are currently working from home. We want more commuters to be able to travel by trains and will approach the state government asking them to consider reducing the gap between vaccines. The task force members will be able to advise and reduce the gap days that will allow more fully vaccinated passengers to commute.” said Lata Argade, secretary, Suburban Railway Passenger Association.Of the fully vaccinated 3.48 million citizens in MMR, 2.02 million are from Mumbai, 1.03 from Thane and 207,130 and 227,102 from Palghar and Raigad respectively. MMR has nine municipal corporations and nine municipal councils.In all, the state has administered 48,206,726 doses, of which 12,466,250 are towards second doses. Of the total doses administered, 18.8 million are in18-45 years age group, 16.5 million in 45-60 years, while above 60 years have been administered with 12.85 million doses.On Thursday, 32,534 monthly passes were issued to the suburban railway passengers on both the Central and Western Railway networks. Of the 32,534 passes, 22,104 were issued on the Central Railway and 10,430 were issued on the Western Railway. In two days, 66,887 railway passes were issued. 34,353 passes were issued on Wednesday. On Friday, 17,553 monthly season passes were issued by the Central Railway and 5773 passes were issued by the Western Railway up till 9pm .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaionly-1-5mn-mmr-citizens-will-be-able-to-take-trains-after-it-opens-from-aug-15-101628871654877.html
13-08-2021||Other||UP govt to crack down on establishments employing children||LUCKNOW A large number of children and teenagers continue to work as labourers, with many of them engaged in hazardous work, even as the state government launches another campaign to identify child labour and act effectively against their employers from August 16 to 30. About 10,000 children and teenagers, including about 2,000 engaged in hazardous work, have been identified in the past five years. Action has been taken in the form of prosecution being launched against over 1,000 employers, but there appears no check on children being engaged as labourers in Uttar Pradesh. “From August 16 to 30, the state government proposes to launch another campaign to identify child labourers and act against establishments employing them,” said Suresh Chandra, additional chief secretary, labour. There are apprehensions that many of those, who may be identified in the drive, may begin working as child labour again in the next few weeks. “Efforts are made to send such children to school or action is taken for their rehabilitation. Yet, many of such children return to the same or other work establishment within a few weeks,” said a functionary of the state’s labour department. Besides launching special campaigns from time to time, the labour department has also implemented Naya Savera Yojana in collaboration with the Unicef in select villages of 20 districts of UP to make these areas child labour free. Apart from Lucknow, the districts covered under Naya Savera Yojana are Kanpur, Agra, Bareilly, Badaun, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Barabanki, Gonda, Bahraich, Shravasti, Balrampur, Mirzapur, Sonebhadra, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Varanasi, Ballia, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur. “Under this scheme, 39,856 children in 6 to 14 years age group have been identified and 26,933 of them have been rehabilitated in the past four years. In the 15 to 18 year age group too, 16,383 have been identified and 5,290 have been rehabilitated. About 6,679 families have been registered with Uttar Pradesh Bhawan evam Sannirman Karmkar Kalyan Board (welfare agency for construction and other workers),” said another functionary. As a number of children and teenagers are also seen begging and selling small items at various crossings in the state capital and in other major towns, there are apprehensions about possibility of certain criminal gangs leading them into such activities. “A large number of children and teenagers are working as child labourers though the exact number is not available. In many cases, the children identified and rescued return to work as child labour in the absence of any major scheme for rehabilitation,” said Sangeet Sharma, former member, Child Welfare Committee.“There may be some cases of child trafficking but hardly any criminal case is registered. Anti Human Trafficking Units (AHTUs) and Special Juvenile Police Units (SJPUs) have been set up in every district, but authorities are not able to take action as parents of such children often deny involvement of any gang. Under such circumstances, efforts made to identify those working behind such children may prove futile,” added Sharma. ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar said effective action would be taken in any criminal case. “We will work in coordination with government agencies to ensure effective action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-to-crack-down-on-establishments-employing-children-101628871595046.html
13-08-2021||Other||Dhankar leads ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Karnal’s Gharaunda||Haryana BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar on Friday led BJP’s ‘Tiranga Yatra’ at Gharaunda assembly constituency in Karnal.Speaking on the occasion, Dhankar said the Yatra is being carried out by the BJP to mark respect to soldiers who laid their lives for the country.BJP leaders and workers carrying the Tricolour started a foot-march from the new grain market and covered markets and residential areas of Gharaunda.“Tiranga Yatra got an overwhelming response in state. People are participating in the Yatra in large numbers to pay tribute to the martyrs,” said Dhankar.Dhankar said the motive of this Yatra is to raise awareness among the youth about the sacrifices of Indian soldiers and to inculcate the spirit of patriotism among them.He said preparations are being made for Independence Day celebrations.BJP’s Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia and Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan also participate in the Yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhankar-leads-tiranga-yatra-in-karnal-s-gharaunda-101628871235177.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Alleged ISIS recruit of Parbhani module gets bail||Iqbal Ahmed Kabir Ahmed, an alleged recruit of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) from Parbhani, who was arrested along with two others in 2016 for having links with the terrorist group was granted bail by the Bombay high court. The HC, while permitting the release of Ahmed on furnishing personal a bond of ₹1 lakh and sureties, has imposed stringent conditions and asked him to stay within the jurisdiction of the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Mumbai.Ahmed has also been directed to report to NIA Mumbai branch on a regular basis till the conclusion of trial and will have to surrender his passport and has been restrained from tampering with the evidence and asked to cooperate with the investigators and attend court as and when required.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, after hearing the bail application of Ahmed at length, had been informed by senior advocate Mihir Desai that as he had been arrested and was in jail since 2016 and the trial was not expected to begin any time soon Ahmed deserved to be released on bail. The bench had reserved its order on July 14 and pronounced the same on Friday, August 13.In August 2016, the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) had arrested two persons namely Nasir Chaus and Shaheed Khan for hatching a conspiracy to target the Aurangabad ATS unit. The duo had disclosed the name of Ahmed who was subsequently arrested in the same month. Ahmed and the others were booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for allegedly joining the ISIS.According to the prosecution, Ahmed was part of the Parbhani module of ISIS and was a co-conspirator in the plan to attack Aurangabad ATS and target a senior police officer who had killed an alleged SIMI operative in 2012. The case was later transferred to the NIA.During arguments Desai had pointed to the fact that the charge sheet did not show Ahmed’s involvement in making explosive devices and stated that the NIA could not establish that his client had propagated the IS ideology. He referred to statements of witnesses which said that they had heard the accused discussing ISIS only in context of world politics.Desai sought bail for Ahmed on the lines of the Areeb Majeed case and said that his client would cooperate with the probe and attend the trial once it commenced.Special public prosecutor Aruna Pai for NIA had, however, opposed the application and stated that there was sufficient incriminating material against Ahmed to show that he was working against national interests. She had also submitted that due to the pandemic the special NIA court was finding it difficult to hear cases on a day-to-day basis. Pai had added that while the prosecution had been doing its duty in a time bound manner, the delay was being caused as Ahmed and the co-accused had been filing multiple petitions before the court.After hearing the submissions and while reserving its order, the court had observed that many accused were languishing in jail as trials failed to commence for a long time and the pandemic had further contributed towards paralysing the system. The order containing details and grounds for grant of bail will be uploaded in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-alleged-isis-recruit-of-parbhani-module-gets-bail-101628871175066.html
13-08-2021||Other||Haryana felicitates Tokyo Olympics medal-winners, participants with cash awards||Known for its brilliant sports policy, the Haryana government felicitated state’s medal-winning players and participants of the Tokyo Olympics with cash awards in Panchkula on Friday.Total 32 players from state were honoured at the event.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar missed the event as his brother passed away in Gurugram on Friday.In Khattar’s absence, Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya distributed cheques amounting over ₹23 crore to the players along with job offer letters as per the state’s sports policy.“Despite having just 2% of the country’s population, around 25% participation in the Olympics 2020 was from Haryana. This is a matter of pride. Also, of the seven medal winners in country, Haryana accounts for four (three individual medals and two in hockey),” said Dattatreya.He gave cheques of ₹6 crore, ₹4 crore and ₹2.5 crore to javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra (gold medallist), wrestlers Ravi Dahiya (silver medallist) and Bajrang Punia (bronze medallist), respectively.Two players from Indian men’s hockey team, Sumit Kumar and Surender Kumar, received cheques of ₹2.5 crore each.The players were also given job offer letters along with an offer to get HSVP plots on concessional rates.Players who received ₹15 lakh and job offer letters include wrestlers Seema Bisla, Sonam Malik, Anshu Malik, Vinesh Phogat; shooters Yashaswini Singh Deswal, Sanjeev Rajput, Manu Bhaker, Abhishek Verma; tennis player Sumit Nagal; golfers Diksha Dagar, Manish Kaushik; boxers Amit Panghal, Vikas Krishan; discus thrower Seema Punia; and athletes Sandeep Kumar and Rahul Rohila.Players who received cheques of ₹50 lakh for standing fourth in the tournament include wrestler Deepak Punia; hockey players Udita, Sharmila Devi, Savita Punia, Rani Rampal, Nisha, Neha Goyal, Navneet Kaur, Navjot Kaur, Monika Malik; and boxer Pooja Rani.Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta, cabinet and state ministers, MLAs and MPs also attended the event.Some players, who could not attend the function due to certain reasons, joined the programme through video conferencing, including Neeraj Chopra. Family members of some players also attended the function on their behalf.Minister of state for sports and youth affairs Sandeep Singh announced setting up of four rehab centres in Haryana, with the first being in Panchkula.Dushyant said efforts are being made to make Haryana a sports hub. “Five sports centres of excellence (for boxing, hockey, shooting, wrestling and athletics) will be opened in state where free coaching will be provided to talented players,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-felicitates-tokyo-olympics-medal-winners-participants-with-cash-awards-101628871055798.html
13-08-2021||Pune||Pune reports 1,172 new Covid cases, 27 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 1,172 new Covid cases and 27 deaths in 24 hours on Friday. This took the progressive count to 1.102 million of which 1.068 million have recovered, 19,046 deaths and 14,522 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 91,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 673 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 335,726 and, with 18 deaths reported, the death toll went up to 6,369. Pune city reported 274 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 506,932 and reported three more deaths on the day, and the toll stood at 8,917. PCMC reported 225 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 259,545 and with six more deaths reported, the toll stood at 3,438. Pune also saw 91,223 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Friday and totally 6,768,832 vaccines have been administered in total, including 5,029,201 first dose and 1,739,631 are second dose. A total of 668 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 452 are government and 216 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-1-172-new-covid-cases-27-deaths-101628870214027.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police crack ₹6.5 crore cigarette container robbery||With the arrest of a Madhya Pradesh resident, the Haryana Police on Friday have cracked a case in which a gang had robbed a container truck carrying a consignment of cigarettes worth ₹6.5 crore in Nuh district.Police have also recovered the truck carrying cigarettes of a prominent brand which was looted by the gang at gunpoint on August 8.A police spokesperson said the truck was dispatched from Saharanpur to Ahmedabad. When it was passing through Taoru area, around two dozen persons came in two trucks and two cars.They stopped the truck, dragged the driver out and looted the consignment at gunpoint.Following a complaint, a case was registered and special teams were formed.A police team nabbed accused Kundan Vishwakarma, a resident of Dewas district in Madhya Pradesh, and recovered the entire consignment from him.The arrested accused has been taken on police remand for further interrogation and efforts are on to nab other absconding gang members, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-crack-rs-6-5-crore-cigarette-container-robbery-101628867454358.html
13-08-2021||Ranchi||Probe ordered into Covid norm violation in Urmila Matondkar's event in Ranchi||The Palamu district authorities of Jharkhand ordered investigations into allegations that coronavirus disease (Covid-19) norms were not followed during the inauguration of a hotel attended by Bollywood actor Urmila Matondkar on Friday, an official said. Local people complained to the administration about the alleged violation of Covid-19 restrictions during the programme in the hotel at Medininagar, the district headquarters, Palamu deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan said. The matter would be investigated by a senior official of the district administration, the deputy commissioner added. The hotel management, however, denied that Covid-19 norms were flouted during the inauguration. The Bollywood actor, who was the chief guest of the event, informed the hotel management that due to Covid-19, she would attend it for an hour, and not two hours as scheduled earlier, an official of the hotel said. Matondkar addressed the gathering online from a closed room, the official claimed. She then left for Ranchi from where she would take a flight for Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/probe-ordered-into-covid-norm-violation-in-urmila-matondkar-s-event-in-ranch-101628864960113.html
13-08-2021||Other||KGMU to home deliver degrees not collected by students||Gaurav.Saigal@htlive.com LUCKNOW The King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has decided to home deliver degrees to its students who apparently forgot to collect them while leaving the campus. The decision was taken in a recently held executive council meeting after the university found that over 1,300 students had not taken their degrees despite reminders. “The actual number of such degrees with the university was 1,474 and when reminder was sent to the students, 167 of them took their degrees till June 30,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. As many as 1,307 degrees of different batches are left with the university. The university charges ₹2,000 for each degree. But now, these degrees will be sent to the students and affiliated colleges without any fee. “We have started sending degrees by post to students whom we are able to contact over telephone and confirm their address,” said Dr Singh, who is looking after the process to send the degrees. Starting from 2005 and 2006 (27 degrees), the maximum pending degrees (642) are of the 2020 batch students, including MBBS and nursing. The university has also decided that the fee for the degree will be included in the final exam fee. Of the total degrees pending, six are of 2007 batch, 83 of 2008 and 2009 batches, 22 of 2010 batch, 23 of 2011 batch, 16 of 2012 batch, 23 of 2013 batch, 35 of 2014 batch, 30 of 2015 batch, 68 of 2016 batch, 36 of 2017 batch, 75 of 2018 batch, 221 of 2019 batch and 642 of the 2020 batch. “It has also been decided that fee for degrees will be charged with the fee for the final year exam. There will also be provision to dispatch degrees if the student is unable to take it physically due to some reason,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kgmu-to-home-deliver-degrees-forgotten-by-students-101628864694507.html
13-08-2021||Lucknow||'Medal of Excellence' for UP cop who got infant's rapist convicted in 34 days||Police inspector Neeta Rani, who probed the sensational rape case of a one-and-half-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras and the accused convicted in just 34 days, has been awarded the Union Home Minister's 'Medal for Excellence in Investigation' in 2021, officials said on Friday.Rani, posted as the in-charge of the Chandpa police station in Hathras in western UP, is one of the 10 police officials from the state and only 152 from across the country who have been named for Centre's honour this year, they said.She also happens to be the first woman to be appointed as in-charge of any police station in Hathras, according to local officials.Rani was appointed the Station House Officer (SHO) of Chandpa in Janaury this year, after the infamous episode of a 19-year-old Dalit girl's gang-rape in the region and eventual death due to injuries in September 2020.The episode had led to severe criticism of law and order situation in UP and rolling of heads, including then SP of Hathras, Vikrant Vir."A rape case was reported to the Chandpa police station on January 2 this year. The victim was a one-and-half-year-old girl. The accused belonged to the same village as the girl," a Hathras police spokesperson said.Considering the sensitivity of the case, an FIR was immediately lodged under IPC section 376 (rape) and under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the spokesperson said."Inspector Rani took up the investigation and the scientific evidence in the case was collected carefully with the help of forensic department. The charge sheet was filed with the local court in just 11 days," the official said.In light of the effective arguments and solid evidence against the accused, the court ordered imprisonment for life for the convict and also slapped a ₹1-lakh fine on him, the official said, adding all legal proceedings were concluded in just 34 days.Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal said the Union Home Ministry's honour to the inspector will definitely work as a morale booster for the entire force."I had appointed her the SHO of Chandpa in January only. In handling this particular case, she showed extreme sensitivity and as a result the case reached its logical conclusion in a short time," Jaiswal told PTI."She has been very good at work and 'Union Home Minister's Medal for Excellence in Investigation' just proves that. Only 150 police officials, many of whom at senior ranks in central agencies, have got this. So it is a matter of pride for us," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/medal-of-excellence-for-up-cop-who-got-infant-s-rapist-convicted-in-34-days-101628863859951.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Not a few of our favourite things||Now that Mumbai’s local train services are on the verge of cranking up their operations again, albeit only to vaccine-certified commuters, it would not be wrong to say that the lifeblood of the city will begin to flow once more. Mumbai’s trains, after all, are more than just a means of transport for over seven million or so of the city’s daily commuters. They are also a metaphor of the determination and resolve of the city, an epitome of the famous “do-or-die, come-what-may” spirit that it has long been associated with, connecting far-flung dreams and aspirations, as they make their heaving, gritty, overcrowded run up and down 150 stations and 390kms across the city’s corners. So, it would not be wrong to say that Mumbai runs when its trains run. But even as the city begins to slowly resume its routines and its rituals and there appears to be a great urge to return to “the good old days and ways”, it would not be wrong to pause for a moment and reflect on some of the more disagreeable and unattractive factors of the way things once were in Mumbai — things and ways we hope we never go back to again: in short, a compilation of what’s NOT a few of our favourite things: * Mumbai’s congested, unsafe, unventilated and outdated local trains. The citizens of Mumbai deserve better — much better; and hopefully, with a new Metro on the anvil and the promise of modern, better-designed, plusher, air-conditioned trains, the sight of commuters being squashed like sweaty shrimps at Sassoon Dock, or hanging on for dear life by the skin of their teeth on rusty railings, or riding on rooftops becomes a thing of the past. * The sight of garbage piled high on Mumbai’s streets and the ignominy of litter-strewn and paan-stained public spaces that we have come to accept as part of our city for so long. This is something we hope we will not return to. BMC are you listening? * Those endlessly long traffic jams that blight the city’s every waking hour, accompanied by the unceasing, relentless drone of honking cars and the fetid, lethal, brown smoke they emit. Now that we are on the verge of getting back to pre-pandemic normalcy, we are certainly not looking forward to these symbols of “normalcy”. * The outrage of ambulances not being given right of way as they attempt to rush the sick and dying to hospitals and help. * The daily parade of those inexhaustible VIP cavalcade accompanying politicians, which interminably hold up traffic and free flow of life and business for the average citizen. * The transgressions of authoritarianism: Policemen lathi-charging peaceful protestors; building watchmen bullying hapless taxi drivers; doormen of five-star hotels rudely ejecting people who don’t appear “well-heeled enough” are some of the things we are certainly not looking forward to returning to. * Public displays of discourteousness and boorishness: People rushing out of cinemas while the credits still run; self-styled VIPs breaking queues because they assume they are entitled to; the unholy rush for the front row of fashion and awards shows; the babel of people barking instructions to their drivers on their cell phones as soon as a plane lands are some of the extreme signs of entitlement and rudeness that we could do without. * Rich people expending enormous amounts of time and energy bargaining with poor street side vendors of fruits and vegetables, as though their lives depended on it, just to score a point when they’ve just blown up several thousand at established and overpriced stores, without batting an eyelid. * Flashy “art openings” where no one is interested in the art, or even the artist, but are too busy posing for pictures and networking. * Society parties where people air kiss and say “we must catch up” when no one has any intention of doing so. * Those infernal photo walls that have become a staple at any and every city event, where one is required to queue up to pose for a photo, so that even if no one recalls your presence at the party, least of all your host, there is an official record of the tedium. * The sight of rows of sleep-deprived, cold and often starving drivers, waiting in their cars way past midnight, outside on empty dark streets, while their employers party cozily till the cows come home, upstairs and indoors. * The cringe-inducing adulation for Bollywood and even its tiniest “celebrities” by hosts and hostesses, while ignoring the truly talented and worthy such as doctors, scientists and humanitarians, who get pushed aside in the clamour. * Public displays of virtue signalling: Socialites who use philanthropy as a photo-op; politicians who plant trees on one day of the year, while cheerfully sanctioning the destruction of wooded acres for the rest of the year; businessmen who use CSR as a means of burnishing their halos — you know the drift, we’re certainly not looking forward to returning to all that. * The Hallmark-isation of every single calendar date and the giddy social media greetings that they foster is one of the things we hope the new normal will not bring back. * The merry-go-round of recycled gifts that accompany all festivals, where one box of stale cashew nuts or mithai can be sent on an endless journey between five to six homes, before it’s returned to its original sender. * Those meaningless, OTT and stress-inducing dress codes for social events: “Glitter and Gold”; “Scintillating Sparkle” and “Black and White and Red All Over”, which ensure that guests have to jump through hoops to be acceptably attired. * The eyesore of families feasting on gargantuan meals at restaurants, while their nannies sit minding the kids, with barely a morsel on their plates * The astronomical budgets spent on flower arrangements at weddings and social events which could be put to better use to help people in need of basic amenities. * That feeling of apathy, irresponsibility and disconnectedness that prevents Mumbaiites from reaching out beyond themselves and their immediate situations, to embrace the city that has afforded them their lives and livelihoods. So, there you have it gentle reader, 20 of the things that we certainly are not looking forward to returning to, now that things are getting back to the way they once were. What’s on your list? We’d love to know…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-not-a-few-of-our-favourite-things-101628862714793.html
13-08-2021||Pune||Water level of Peshwe lake in Katraj lowered to avoid flooding of Ambil Odha||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to keep Nanasaheb Peshwe lake, popularly known as Katraj lake, at half its capacity during the monsoon season to thwart any flood-like situation in the area. The move is to avoid flooding in Ambil Odha, caused due to overflowing of Katraj lake, which flows from the city’s southern parts. Heavy rains in the past has led to overflowing of Katraj lake and Ambil Odha and caused a loss of life and property in Katraj, Bibwewadi, Satara road, Katraj-Kondhwa road, Sahakarnagar and Sinhgad road. The lake, known for its popularity as a tourist destination, was filled to capacity on August 13 last year. “We are keeping the water level down by three metres and efforts are taken during the monsoon to avoid flooding of nearby areas,” said PMC junior engineer Shashikanth Nivdekar. A 2019 study by Renu Arora and Prof Milind Gidde, department of environmental education and research, Bharati Vidyapeeth (deemed university), had stated that the lake needs proper management and a treatment process. “Removal of weeds by a natural process is important. The diversion of the drainage line is important. There is a need to place aerators in the lake that may help to control the fish death rates, because they are at an extinct level. If some precautions are taken, the aquatic life of the lake will survive,” the study stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/water-level-of-peshwe-lake-in-katraj-lowered-to-avoid-flooding-of-ambil-odha-101628862234726.html
13-08-2021||Lucknow||Restaurateurs pin hope on weekend business||Struggling on the business front, due to partial corona curfew, the restaurateurs have given thumbs up to the state government’s decision to open markets on Saturday. In absence of weekend business, restaurants were most affected and with the decision they are expecting a faster recovery from losses and also praying for Sunday dine-in to restart soon. During the Saturday-Sunday closure restaurants were only allowed online delivery. However, many of them were felicitating takeaways but not entertaining dining. “Fridays had become the new Sundays during the weekend closures but since it’s a full working day it was not that impactful. We turned down multiple requests for bookings on weekend. Now, since we will be open on all Saturdays, we expect families to pour in, of course amid Covid-norms,” says Manoj Bachhani of Richi Rich restaurant. Kamli Bristo, which opened just before the second wave, is now pinning hope on the weekend business. “We opened our doors but had to close within few days. After we restarted, we were missing on the weekend sales. We hope the 10 pm night curfew is now relaxed and on Sundays too dine-in is allowed as we have suffered a lot due to closure,” says its owner Ankita Srivastava. Telecom professional Manish Srivastava is happy that after five-days of hectic office routine he will have a day where he can take his family for an outing. “We can now visit mall and dine-out which was closed for months due to the corona curfew.” No curfew on Saturdays came as a blessing for Sky Glass Brewing Co that was recently opened at a city mall. “It’s an additional day for people who want to spend quality time with family after five days of work. Due to the corona curfew people had no option but stay back at home. Now, they will get to enjoy at places that have good ambience, amazing food and ample space where social distancing norms could be followed as safety is the key for all of us,” says its CEO Neeraj Kataria. Omair Saeed, owner of two-week old Mughlai food joints The Latif’s, hopes that the decision will give boost to his newly opened venture. “As it is Mondays and Tuesdays are very low. Weekends are when people look forward to eating out. Now they have an option to relish our tasty delicacies on Saturdays as well. Presently we are closed on Sunday as dine-in is not allowed but once that starts, we will be fully on track,” says the youngster. Everyone wants the businesses to resume same as pre-pandemic days||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/restaurateurs-pin-hope-on-weekend-business-101628862174339.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Pregnant women to get Covid jabs at their check-up facilities in Delhi||Pregnant and lactating women will now be able to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the clinics where they go for their ante-natal and post-natal check-ups, an official order issued by the Delhi government stated.This means that lactating women will be able to get themselves vaccinated at the sites where they go for routine immunisation of their children."In order to enhance coverage of vulnerable cohort of pregnant and lactating women, it is directed that their Covid-19 vaccination may be done at the health facility site where they report for their regular ANC/PNC check-up, on the designated days of the week," the order said.Also Read | First nasal vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech gets nod for Phase 2/3 trialThe medical officer and the vaccinator are already present in the health facility along with the vaccines, as these centres also serve as cold chain points, it said."Vaccination shall be done through CoWin portal in walk-in mode. Training of vaccinator for conduct of these sessions on CoWin must be ensured. All efforts must be made to keep the vaccine wastage to the minimum," the order said.Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) chairman Anurag Kundu said lactating women would have to face issues since they would have to step out for the vaccination of their children and then again step out for their own vaccination and also face the hassle of registering on Co-WIN portal."Based on @DCPCR's recommendations, the Delhi Govt's Health Department has issued orders allowing lactating mothers to get themselves vaccinated for Covid-19 at the centres (and the same day) meant for children's routine immunisation. They no longer need to make separate visits now," he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pregnant-women-to-get-covid-jabs-at-their-check-up-facilities-in-delhi-101628861073998.html
13-08-2021||Lucknow||I want to be noticed in Bollywood for my independent songs: Hira||Shahjahanpur-lad Hira Thind, who started as actor and eventually found his calling in music, wants to make it big in the regional music industry. Currently, busy doing Punjabi projects, he has plans to excel there before jumping on the Bollywood bandwagon. “My forefathers are from Punjab and then my grandfather shifted to Powayan in UP. So, Punjabi lingo and folk came naturally to me. Main yahin (Chandigarh) main reh kar itni shiddat se kaam karna chahta hoon ki Bollywood se khud call aa jaye,” says the 22-year-old singer. Last year, he released his debut single Mere Jinna Pyaar and his second independent song Speciality that crossed 1 million views in two weeks. The singer, originally named Virender Singh, initially wanted to become an actor. “Since a kid, I wanted to become an actor. When I was 12, I went alone to Delhi to train under Asmita Theatre Group founder Arvind Gaur. He asked me to get an initial training in my hometown which is a hub of theatre and gave me example of Rajpal Yadav who has made our city proud,” he recalls. He returned and joined theatre group Abhivyakti Natya Manch under Shamim Azad. “Since a kid, my mother always calls me Hira, so I made it my screen name. I worked backstage and then acted in plays like Virasat, Dara-Sikoh and Sparatcus. Slowly, I got interested in music. I also composed music for plays like Ek Prayas, Katha Ek Kans Ki and others,” he shares. In 2018, he moved to Punjab for formal training in music. “I learned music from Ustad Baldeep Singh Balli and Ustad Harvinder Bittu. Then I have worked on folk music of UP and Punjab as it’s very rich in folk. There may be a difference in language but emotions in folk are same everywhere which I try to add in my singing.” The singer is elated that actor Rajpal Yadav, film maker Vikash Verma (director of No Means No) and others have tweeted praising his song. “Vikashji has even expressed desire to work with me someday. Seeing the response, labels are also approaching me. Now, I just want to focus more on my singles and utilize my theatre training to be in front of the camera for my videos,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/i-want-to-be-noticed-in-bollywood-for-my-independent-songs-hira-101628860734115.html
13-08-2021||Other||Probe to find out if cos availed illegal exemption on pulse oximeter imports||LUCKNOW The commercial tax department has begun a probe to find out if any entities/organisations in UP illegally availed customs duty and health cess exemptions on the import of fingertip pulse oximeters by misrepresenting facts. The move comes after the chief commissioner, central GST, Lucknow zone last month wrote a letter in this regard to the commercial tax department urging it to get the issue examined and provide feedback at the earliest. With the communiqué, he also attached a letter received from the Central Economic Intelligence Bureau (CEIB). In a circular to all zonal additional commercial tax commissioners on August 11, additional commissioner (administration) Sudha Verma asked officials to give their feedback, with regard to their zone, to the headquarters as desired by the office of commissioner, CGST. “We have issued instructions to zonal commissioners, asking them to ensure necessary action in the matter,” she said confirming and added that the GST wing was dealing with the issue. In order to augment their production and availability and to meet the rising demand, the central government, on April 23, decided to grant full exemption from basic customs duty (BCD) and health cess on import of the items related to oxygen and oxygen related equipment for a period of three months with immediate effect. The CEIB, in its letter that the commissioner (CGST) annexed with his communication to the commercial tax department, said the intelligence available in the bureau indicated that some unscrupulous entities engaged in import of fingertip pulse oximeter were claiming ineligible BCD exemption. The centre’s notification, according the letter, provided for exemption from whole of customs duty levied at the currently applicable rate of 7.5% ad valorem and whole of the cess levied thereon artificial respiration or other therapeutic respiration apparatus (ventilators). The fingertip pulse oximeter, the bureau pointed out, did not qualify the exemption criteria fixed in the notification. Pointing out that the illegal availing of BCD exemption had resulted in short payment of customs duty, the bureau said it was gathered that the same modus operandi was being adopted by importers in respect of fingertip pulse oximeter by wrong declaration of the same in order to get inadmissible exemption at various cargo complexes. “Fingertip pulse oximeter is not an artificial respiration apparatus or ventilator and is used as an instrument to measure the amount of oxygen present in a person’s blood stream and hence does not get covered under the notification No 20/2020-customs, dated 09.04.2020, which is applicable to artificial respiration or other therapeutic respiration apparatus (ventilators),” said the bureau in its letter of May 25, adding “Therefore, the exemption of BCD availed on fingertip pulse oximeter is irregular.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/probe-to-find-out-if-cos-availed-illegal-exemption-on-pulse-oximeter-imports-101628860614121.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Ensuring mental well-being amid Covid-19||The pandemic has affected almost every aspect of our lives, especially our mental health. Previously considered the lowest-risk age group with regards to medical issues, youngsters have emerged more vulnerable now. And many clinicians are calling attention to a youth mental health crisis. “We have seen a 40% spike in the number of patients complaining of symptoms related to mental health. About 2500 prescriptions every month, as opposed to 1750 prescriptions per month in the pre-pandemic era, are being given to manage symptoms like anxiety, depression, panic attacks, insomnia, and other related symptoms,” says Dr Kushal Banerjee, a senior homeopath from Dr. Kalyan Banerjee’s Clinic. Elaborating on the reason behind this, he says, “People have been indoors for the past 18 months and activities such as watching movies, outdoor games, vacation, that helped to relieve stress are hindered. There is a drastic change in the lifestyle and everyday routine which causes mental health issues. People are not following a disciplinary routine, they wake up till late at night, work till late hours, which leads to an unhealthy routine. Everything has gone digital, from education to entertainment. There used to be a time when people logged in to their work at a certain time, but it is not the case anymore. The professional and personal line has got blurred. The quality time that people used to spend with their family has been affected and more than ever, people should regulate their work-life balance.” Experts feel people need to open up about the challenges they face with their seniors at work for better mental health. “In our always-on world, balance is critical between professional and personal space as we are well aware that the imbalance can toss our lifestyle for the worse,” says psychologist Anuja Kapur who shares some tips to get that balance.1. You can start by maintaining and sticking to a schedule for every day of the week so that you are well aware of the time set for family and work. 2. Be aware that you can unplug every once in a while as this downtime is necessary to rejuvenate the mind and the body due to the stress and tight schedules of the week. 3. Make sure to set time boundaries. Please specify that during working hours you are not to be disturbed until and unless it is genuinely crucial. The same goes for the professional commitments as well try to keep them away from your family time as much as possible. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ensuring-mental-well-being-amid-covid19-101628859959016.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||State must compensate communities for loss of livelihood by infra projects: Bombay HC||The state is duty bound to compensate the community if its customary right to occupation for earning livelihood is affected by infrastructure projects, the Bombay high court (HC) held on Thursday and directed the Maharashtra government to consider framing a general policy for the payment of compensation to affected communities in such cases. The division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Milind Jadhav held that once a customary right to carry out an occupation for livelihood is affected, the principles enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution of India will come into play. “This forms the basis of the state’s duty to compensate in such cases,” HC observed. With regards to the requirement of the policy, the bench said looking at a clear trend across all the modes of compensating affected persons and expansion of infrastructure and its impact on local communities, the state must consider framing a comprehensive policy for award of compensation to persons whose customary rights of occupation and livelihood are affected by infrastructure projects. “We believe that such a state-wide compensation policy is required not only for fishermen, but for compensating any community whose customary rights to carry out an activity for their livelihood is impacted by government infrastructure projects,” the bench observed. HC also directed the state government to appoint a six-member committee to determine compensation payable to fishermen whose livelihood is affected by construction of Thane Creek Bridge (TCB)-3, a proposed six-lane bridge on Sion-Panvel highway near Vashi. The court was hearing a petition filed by Mariaayi Machhimaar Sahakari Sanstha Maryadit, on behalf of the fishing community from Vashi, Juhu, Koparkhairane, Ghansoli and Diva. The petitioner claimed compensation for the fishermen, contending that they were inhabitants of the Thane creek area and their customary right to fish in the creek was adversely affected by the construction of the third bridge on the creek that connects Mumbai with mainland at Navi Mumbai. Their counsel, advocate Zaman Ali, pointed out how their customary right of fishing was likely to be adversely affected by the third bridge. He submitted that Thane Creek consisted of extensive mudflats along its banks, characterised by the growth of mangroves. Due to the large-scale availability of inter-tidal lands such as mudflats and mangroves, Thane Creek provided an excellent catch of commercial fish and crustaceans. He added, due to the rich ecosystem and biodiversity, the Thane Creek area was declared as flamingo sanctuary in 2015. Ali further pointed out that the proposed bridge will affect 1.4 hectares (ha) of mangrove forest and 6.76ha of CRZ-1 and CRZ-4 areas, comprising fishing areas and mudflats. The construction, Ali said, will involve heavy concretisation and reclamation of land that will block access to fishing routes and navigational channels for fishing activities. Amicus curiae, senior advocate Sharan Jagtiani, supported him by submitting that the bridge will adversely affect the livelihood of the fishing community, causing direct and indirect losses. HC accepted the contentions and observed that the livelihood of the fishing community is dependent on a healthy environment and balanced ecology. The bench said that the destruction of mangroves for TCB-3 will disturb the ecological balance in Thane creek. “The vital role that mangroves play in maintaining ecological balance and sustaining bio-diversity is well-documented. The Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary Management Plan and the Preliminary Report on Bio-diversity of Thane Creek also bear out that the destruction of mangroves often results, inter alia, in loss of biodiversity and reduced fish catch, which in turn would impact livelihood of the fishermen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-must-compensate-communities-for-loss-of-livelihood-by-infra-projects-bombay-hc-101628859954807.html
13-08-2021||Pune||RPF Pune division’s Savitribai Phule squad rescues 186 minors in last 10 months||Pune: The Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Pune division has rescued 186 minor children from Pune railway station and reunited them with their families since the past 10 months. These juveniles from across the country turned up at the station, without their parents or relatives, seeking work. RPF has formed a squad called “Savitribai Phule Team” to identify, track and rescue these children. According to RPF, the highest number of children rescued, 50, is from Bihar, and the total rescued include 147 boys and 39 girls. “When the train operations resumed last year, we found many children roaming alone at platforms or outside the Pune railway station premises. Many claimed to have run away from home in search of work or after a fight with family. Our special squad, “Savitribai Phule Team”, formed in November last year include six RPF police staff comprising women personnel also,” said RPF Pune divisional security commissioner Uday Singh Pawar. The rescued children hail from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Orissa, Goa, Karnataka, Telangana, Rajasthan and even Nepal. The number of such children coming to Pune in search of work has increased following last year’s countrywide lockdown, according to a RPF official. “Many rescued children cite financial issues at home to be one of the reasons to run away. We are glad to trace them and send them back to their family,” Pawar said. The “Savitribai Phule Team” conducts random rounds of six platforms at Pune station and neighbouring areas. They also travel on various trains that pass through the Pune division to look for unaccompanied minors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rpf-pune-division-s-savitribai-phule-squad-rescues-186-minors-in-last-10-months-101628859953410.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||The pandemic has made us aware of micro cuisines: Vicky Ratnani||We are what we eat, believes celebrity chef Vicky Ratnani. Known for cooking up some of the most indulgent cheat meals, as well as strictly healthy dishes for Bollywood stars, he shares, “People in Bollywood follow strict diets while working. I trained a chef during the filming of Bhaag Milkha Bhaag (2013) to cook for actor Farhan Akhtar for five to six months. I have even cooked for Zoya Akhtar. They are both very conscious of what they eat. When Hrithik Roshan was training for Krrish, I helped him source different kinds of food that the trainers recommended.” The chef has always loved food, even before he made a living out of it. “I love food. I didn’t know that I would be taking it up as a profession till I entered college. I was very clear by my second year there that I wanted to be a chef,” he says.Like most authorities on the subject, Ratnani too emphasises that travelling adds a lot of value in the life of someone who likes to cook. “At every 200 kms in our country, food is different. To become a good chef and be able to cook well, one must experience and taste new food. While travelling, you learn not just about food but spices, vegetables and the culture. Each place has its own style and uniqueness of cooking,” he says.The chef believes that the Covid-19 pandemic has affected eating habits, but not everything is bad about this change. He explains, “A lot of people who couldn’t cook were forced to make an attempt, owing to the pandemic. They learned about the importance of minimising food wastage. Being at home, they have had enough time to think about the importance of sustainability.”Another positive change brought about by the health crisis, he feels, is the resurgence in popularity of micro cuisines. “The regional cuisines or micro cuisines such as Sindhi food, Parsi food, Bihari food, North-east food and many others have found the spotlight. Home chefs have been showcasing the variety of dishes through different social media platforms and people love them. Earlier, in the eyes of the layman Bengali food was confused with Bangladeshi food for some strange reason, but now what is happening is the explosion of culture. People know the difference,” opines Ratnani who collaborated with Airbnb India for their Bollywood Insiders Campaign where the chef will host a session called, ‘Cook Bollywood’s Favourite Cheat Meal’.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-pandemic-has-made-us-aware-of-micro-cuisines-vicky-ratnani-101628859774435.html
13-08-2021||Other||NCC cadets pay tribute to brave hearts||LUCKNOW Celebrating the 75th anniversary of Independence Day – ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, NCC cadets paid homage to the bravehearts who laid down their lives for the country, at the Shaheed Smarak here, on Friday. The event, organised by the NCC Directorate, was inaugurated by defence minister Rajnath Singh virtually. Brig Ravi Kapoor, group commander, Lucknow Group and Sanyukta Bhatia, mayor of Lucknow and cadets of 63 Bn NCC, laid a wreath at the statue of Kargil war hero Capt Manoj Kumar Pandey (Param Vir Chakra). Recitation of patriotic poems and speeches to highlight the valour and contribution of freedom fighters marked the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncc-cadets-pay-tribute-to-brave-hearts-101628858394384.html
13-08-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka bans processions on Muharram, Ganesh Chaturthi||Karnataka has become the latest state to issue an advisory for the upcoming festive season, as it seeks to control a fresh spurt in daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In an order on August 12, the state government said that processions are being banned till August 20 for both Muharram and Ganesh Chaturthi.Also Read | Karnataka CM Bommai says extra precautionary measures needed in border districts to control Covid-19For Muharram, the order stated that alam/panja and tajiya can be seen from a distance without being touched. “Wearing masks inside prayer halls is mandatory. Prayers inside mosques are to be held in strict compliance with the Covid-19 norms. Mass prayer gatherings are allowed only in mosques and nowhere else, including community halls, open grounds etc. Further, no programs can be conducted in graveyards, while children below the age of 10 and senior citizens above 60 should offer prayers only at home,” it stated.Also Read | Maharashtra: No processions on Muharram amid Covid pandemicMeanwhile, for Ganesh Chaturthi, the notification barred setting up of pandals. “The festival has to be celebrated in a simple manner. Procession/entertainment program should not be organised while bringing and submerging Ganesha idol. The idols should only be submerged at designated spots. Proper sanitisation should be done every day at temples which are observing Ganesh Chaturthi. Devotees can enter temples only after using sanitisers. Additionally, the temple administration should arrange for thermal checking,” the document mandated.Also Read | Muharram banned in UP, clerics object to word 'festival' in police chief letterOn August 4, the Union government wrote to all states and Union territories, urging them to actively consider imposing restrictions for upcoming festivals such as Muharram, Ganesh Chaturthi, Onam, Janmashtami and Durga Puja. Muharram will be observed on August 19, while Janmashtami will be celebrated on August 30. Ganesh Chaturthi is on September 10, while dates for Durga Puja are between October 5 and 15.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-bans-processions-on-muharram-ganesh-chaturthi-101628854560743.html
13-08-2021||Jaipur||Four-year-old raped and murdered in Jaipur||A four-year-old girl, who went missing on Wednesday, was allegedly raped and murdered in Jaipur, police said and added her body was found near a pond on Thursday. Her family has refused to conduct her last rites until the accused are arrested.Umesh Kumar, a police officer, said the girl’s body was recovered around 5-7 km from her house. “Police teams have been formed for the identification and arrest of the accused.”A second police officer said the girl’s post-mortem report is awaited and prima facie it appears to be an unnatural death and rape cannot be ruled out.Also Read | When companies exercise controlThe body was shifted to a mortuary of a local hospital as the girl’s family members have refused to accept it and are demanded the arrest of the accused, he said. The second officer said the police are close to identifying the accused and soon he will be arrested.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party leader Ram Lal Sharma said rapes in Jaipur and Barmer indicate the government of Rajasthan has failed to protect girls. “Either the chief minister (Ashok Gehlot) should resign on moral grounds or ensure strict action against the people who commit such crimes,” he said.A girl in the Barmer district was tied and raped multiple times on Wednesday, police said and added the accused was arrested of Friday.Deputy police superintendent Seema Chopra said the girl was grazing her goats when the accused abducted her and took her to an isolated place, where she was raped multiple times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/fouryearold-raped-and-murdered-in-jaipur-101628856233959.html
13-08-2021||Pune||Global village idiot: Why my alma mater must merge to evolve into a media school with impact||Last week I read about protests against the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s move to merge the department of Communication and Journalism at the Ranade Institute on Fergusson College road with the Department of Media and Communication Studies on the main university campus. My first reaction was: yes! A bigger campus and better resources for students. My second reaction was a tinge of sadness at the loss of the sense of history associated with the Ranade Institute.Over the course of the week, I spoke to former classmates, faculty, and industry peers and the conversations made me think. What is the purpose of education? What is the responsibility of an educational institution with respect to its environment and society?Protests from a few quarters probably have merit in the context of their particular perspective - access to journalism education for rural students which is related to fees, given the nature of grant and non-grant courses. These are matters that should be addressed by the university since inclusive education is part of its mandate. There are views about the location being central (argumentative since the SPPU campus is 5km from Ranade). There are questions about inadequate communication or lack of process. A random search on the internet seems to suggest that the university had announced last year its intention to merge not just the department of journalism, but many others. Even at a cursory glance, the exercise seems aimed at organisational efficiency and with intent to providing students the benefit of shared resources, not to mention opportunities that come to larger institutions. The administration could probably adopt a more transparent approach to achieve wider consensus.The university has a mandate beyond the interest of particular groups, and it definitely has a responsibility much larger than protecting a way of academic life or protecting sections within society: it has to contribute an educational infrastructure that prepares society to address at least the foreseeable changes that will affect our world.I was at Ranade Institute as a student of the Bachelor’s programme in 1996-97. In the subsequent 25 years, I have visited the department to meet faculty and friends, and also as a guest lecturer. And the department is pretty much as it was when I was a student, which doesn’t augur well for aspiring students, since the facilities and technology resources are from 25 years ago. Pune has a fantastic history in leading the way in the development of journalism and in establishing educational standards in the field of media and related communication. Most of that fantastic track record is more than half-a-century old. The merger of a journalism department with the department of communication and media studies is pretty much a question from the previous century. The world’s leading universities have consolidated related subjects under the Communication and Media studies head. And while there are many Top 10 and Top 50 lists depending on criteria, when one looks for a graduate or master’s programme in journalism or media studies nowadays, what is not in dispute is the diversity of academic resources, including curriculum, industry connect and technology infrastructure at the college/university. The University of Amsterdam, Stanford, London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE), University of California at Berkeley, NYU, Nanyang Technological University Singapore, are consistently in Top 10 lists for journalism and media studies. And these are all constantly redefining themselves because they are acutely aware of the rapidly evolving educational landscape.Technology and new-age platforms have blurred the very strong erstwhile lines between native and mainstream language journalisms, as also altered the very nature of what is cosmopolitan and what is not. Today, I can blog, podcast and videocast reports and opinions in English, Marathi, Bengali and Hindi for different audiences if I so desire, and my ability to do so seamlessly provides me with a much wider audience than a niche language segment. And all I need is a decent smartphone. What does not change is the ethical and legal parameters of what constitutes good journalism or common good, as opposed to a singular opinion for the sake of a singular opinion. While a lot has been written and said about technology and curriculum, in the early 1990s it was the University of Florida’s journalism school that launched what was believed to be the world’s first journalism website. Media organisation (as in industry), followed a little later (by the early 2000s Telegraph, BBC Online, Guardian Unlimited had built significant online presences). The Associated Press was among the first movers into multimedia content (including audio and video), beginning the blurring of the line between print and broadcast. Around 2004, audible.com came onto the scene focusing on the spoken-word versions of news and editorial opinion. The list goes on and in the last five years, with the proliferation of social media the lines itself have merged between print and broadcast and audio and online journalism, not to mention the very real redesign of what is news, what is media and what is communication for the public good?Today, the questions in front of journalists are different, and in the very near future their preoccupations will be different and most of it will be related to identifying their niche audiences and addressing only those (as opposed to addressing all audiences, which social media is much better at with its AI-driven processes). Equipping media students and professionals with the required competencies to function in the current (and future) communication landscape requires educational departments to be aware of and functioning in those environments, and being able to leverage the larger scale of organisational resources available within an umbrella. The merger is a welcome initiative as a first step for the university to catch up with the digital age, so that students from different parts of Maharashtra can access a better quality of journalism education so that they are equipped to understand and report on the rapidly changing world that we live in.Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-why-my-alma-mater-must-merge-to-evolve-into-a-media-school-with-impact-101628855995106.html
13-08-2021||Patna||CBI’s special court issues arrest warrant against 8 in Srijan scam in Bihar||A special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in Patna issued an arrest warrant against eight persons in connection with the multi-crore Srijan fund transfer scam on Thursday evening. The accused were identified as Rajni Priya Kumar, Seema Devi, (two daughters-in-law of Srijan Mahila Sahyog Samiti founder Manorama Devi), Ruby Kumari, wife of noted businessman and BJP leader Bipin Sharma, Satish Kumar Jha, then auditor of the cooperative society Rajrani Verma, Aparna Verma, Purnendu Kumar and Jesma Khatoon. Following the issuance of the arrest warrant, the CBI swung into action and arrested Purnendu Kumar, assistant to the chartered accountant at Srijan Mahila Sahyog Samiti. Also Read | Sex racket busted in Bihar; 6 arrestedThe NGO is accused of working in cahoots with bankers and treasury officials to illegally divert government funds into its own accounts. The scam, estimated at over ₹2,400 crore, first came to light when a government cheque presented to a Bhagalpur bank bounced due to insufficient funds on August 3, 2017. According to CBI officials, the agency had lodged an FIR against 10 persons on charges of embezzlement of ₹1.69 crore and filed a charge sheet on December 31, 2020 against them. The special court of CBI issued summons against them on February 11, 2021, but all the accused failed to appear before the court. The Bihar Police has already issued a lookout notice on August 26, 2017 against Rajni Priya and her husband Amit Kumar to ensure they do not leave the country. CBI sources said that Purnendu Kumar, a close aide of Pranav Kumar Ghosh, a prominent businessman and chief advisor and auditor of Srijan. Ghosh is currently in five days remand of Enforcement Directorate (ED). The ED said Ghosh was a close aide of Manorama Devi, and conspired with various government officials, bank officials, private persons and others to transfer government money to Srijan’s accounts. Ghosh played the role of key advisor between the government auditor and administrative circles in plotting the scam. He was the auditor at Srijan between 2003 and 2004, and amassed ill-gotten properties including shopping complex at Bhagalpur and flats in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cbis-special-court-issues-arrest-warrant-against-8-in-srijan-scam-in-bihar-101628855753691.html
13-08-2021||Other||Rajouri residents protest against attack at BJP functionary’s house, clash with cops||Rajouri on Friday observed a complete shutdown as its residents protests against the attack on the residence of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary that left a three-and-a-half year child dead and six others injured. The situation in Rajouri turned tense on Friday morning after a clash broke out between the police and people demanding action against those behind the attack. An angry mob burned tyres and shouted slogans against the police and civil administration. “Both the communities observed a complete shutdown in protest against the cowardly attack on the house of the BJP leader,” said a resident, requesting anonymity. He said that there was no untoward incident during the shutdown. BJP functionary Jasbir Singh (36)’s three-and-a-half-year old nephew was killed, while he, his parents and three other relatives sustained injuries after a grenade was allegedly thrown at his residence in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K)’s Rajouri district late on Thursday, police said. Also Read | J&K BJP functionary injured, nephew killed in grenade attack in RajouriSingh was airlifted to Government Medical College in Jammu on Friday in view of his condition. Lieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha, condemned the killing of the minor boy at Khandli bridge in Rajouri. “Strongly condemn the cowardly attack in the house of a political leader in Rajouri in which a 2-year old child was killed & others were injured. My deepest condolences to family & prayers for early recovery of injured. Perpetrators of this heinous act will be brought to justice soon,” Sinha said in a Twitter post. Cutting across party lines, leaders of different political parties have strongly condemned the attack.BJP’s J&K unit chief Ravinder Raina, who met the injured at a Rajouri hospital, has appealed to the police to immediately arrest those responsible. “We strongly condemn the attack and appeal to Jammu and Kashmir Police to immediately arrest the terrorists responsible for the heinous and cowardly attack. They have claimed the life of an innocent child and injured six others. They will have to pay the price,” he said. BJP national president JP Nadda also “strongly” condemned the attack and appealed to the local administration to take immediate action. “Grenade attack on BJP Leader Jasbir Singh’s house in Khandli area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri. I strongly condemn the terrorist attack and urge local administration to take immediate action on it. The entire BJP Stands with Jasbir Singh and other injured people,” Nadda said in a Twitter post.The J&K unit of the Congress has demanded enhanced security measures. “We demand the security be further beefed up in the entire district in view of the reports of fresh attempts of infiltration from across the border,” said J&K Congress’ chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma .Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti extended her sympathies to the victims. “Condemn the grenade attack in Rajouri in which a four year old child was killed & several others injured. My sympathies with their loved ones,” Mufti said in a Twitter post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajouri-residents-protest-against-attack-at-bjp-functionary-s-house-clash-with-cops-101628855154218.html
13-08-2021||Pune||Pune’s weekend fix: What’s happening and where... August 13 to August 18||Study abroad: webinarAre you planning to study abroad? If yes secure the best results for your education in Canada. Explore several undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. There will be a ‘live’ interaction after the webinar To register go to http://bit.ly/Study_CanWhen: August 13; 11am to 12pmWhere: OnlineWriting circleTake your writing to the next level. This late night writing circle is brought to you by Tall Tales. Learn how to cut through the noise and capture your fleeting thoughts on paper. You’ll meet like-minded people hoping to improve their writing. All you need to get is a pen and paper.To register email akshay@talltales.in or call 9920077055Fee: ₹600 per person. Only fully registered participants allowedWhen: August 13; 11pm to 12:30am ISTWhere: OnlineLearn to make shower gel Learn to make sulfate- and paraben-free shower gel. Learn ingredients and the sterilisation process.Registration fees: Rs2,250 per personTo register call +91 8306363530 / 9428110033When: August 14; 10am-11amWhere: OnlineGet philosophical: destiny vs free willAre we ultimately bound by destiny? Or are we entirely free? Join us as we investigate these laws of life and extract their relevance to daily living.To register go to www.acropolis.org.inWhen: August 14, 6pm to 7.15pmWhere: OnlineYoga workshopCelebrate this Independence Day with Crejo.Fun with an amazing online workshop on Yoga. This Independence Day, send your children to learn the secrets of the ancient art form of Mandala.Eligible age: 6-9-year oldsTo register go to Crejo.funWhen: August 14; 11amWhere: Online Mohandas to Mahatma Gandhi: Online storytelling Over an hour of online storytelling, we will look at the journeys and know about the lives of the lesser-known people who Mahatma Gandhi encountered that shaped him from Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi to Mahatma Gandhi.To register call +918971492903When: August 15; 8pm to 9pm9 Am - stand-up comedy 9 Am is a stand-up comedy show by two main acts, Ashish Bhatt and Rohan Bhatt. They talk about life experiences in a funny manner. To register contact 8951386974When: August 15; 9pm to 10pmWhere: Online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-weekend-fix-what-s-happening-and-where-august-13-to-august-18-101628854853712.html
13-08-2021||Noida||Noida to get 350-acre medical device park, provide employment to 20,000 people: UP govt||Noida is set to have a sprawling medical device park that will bring in an investment of ₹5,250 crores and provide employment to more than 20,000 people, the Uttar Pradesh government announced months before assembly elections. The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) has earmarked 350 acres of land for the first medical device park in Uttar Pradesh and the largest in North India.In order to expedite the production of medical equipment, the state government will allot ready sheds to the industries. The park will be built in two phases. In the first phase, sheds will be built on 125 acres of land while in the second phase, sheds will be built on the rest of 225 acres.With the help of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, an incubation centre will also be constructed over five acres of land at the medical device park. Touted as the special feature of the medical device park in Noida, the incubation centre will provide startups with facilities such as business and technical facilities, mentorship, early development funds, networks and relationships, cooperative spaces, laboratory facilities, mentoring and advisory support.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath pitched Lucknow and Noida as two centres for establishing the parks after the Central government announced its decision to set up four medical device parks across the country. The chief minister argued that exports from Noida, one of the most developed industrial areas of the country, will get easier in future with the opening of the Jewar Airport.The Adityanath-led UP government has also sought allotment of two bulk pharmaceutical, or medical device parks to UP for the favourable environment created for investors due to the new industrial and pharma policy of the Central Government. Once approved, the medical device park will get a grant of about ₹100 crores from the Central government.India’s dependence on China for raw materials of medicines and its shortage following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak prompted the ministry of health and family welfare and concerned departments to promote the Make in India programme in the medical field by setting up pharma and medical devices parks, according to the UP government.A few months back, YEIDA officials visited a similar medical device park in Visakhapatnam to get the minute details about the infrastructure. They have also prepared a detailed project report on the medical device park at Kalam Institute, Hyderabad, which will form the basis for the setting up of the park in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-get-350-acre-medical-device-park-provide-employment-to-20-000-people-101628854137684.html
13-08-2021||Bhopal||Devotees not allowed; but Vijayvargiya, BJP leaders attend ritual at MP temple||Kailash Vijayvargiya and three other BJP leaders prayed at Madhya Pradesh’s Mahakaleshwar Temple in Ujjain on Friday morning during Bhasm Aarti even as no person was supposed to be allowed inside the shrine’s sanctum sanctorum during the ritual, priests said. Ajay Pandit and Sanjay Pujari, the main priests of the temple, said the ritual was delayed by half an hour because of the visit of the BJP leaders. The two said they were stopped from entering the temple when the BJP leaders prayed.Another priest of the temple said the BJP leaders arrived around 3am and worshipped at sanctum sanctorum by offering milk and water to the deity on the occasion Naagpanchami. The temple administration locked gates and turned off the CCTV cameras as there was a ban on entry of any person into the sanctum sanctorum during Bhasm Aarti.Also Read | Most pollution control boards across India lack transparency, finds study Pandit said he stood outside the gate as he was also not allowed to go inside the temple for 45 minutes. “The VIP darshan broke the protocol of the temple. Bhasm Aarti was scheduled to be held between 4 am and 5 am. It started around 4.30 am as BJP leaders worshipped and delayed the arrangement for the aarti. The administration was so secretive about the VIP darshan that they locked all the gates.”Pandit said he will raise the matter with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to resolve this issue of “VIP darshan”. Pujari, who performed the aarti, said the system of VIP darshan is not a good idea.Dinesh Jaiswal, the officer in charge of the temple who ordered the locking of temple gates, said he received an order and just followed it. “I will not say anything else on it.”Vijayvargiya refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/devotees-not-allowed-but-vijayvargiya-bjp-leaders-attend-ritual-at-mp-temple-101628852513445.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Congress MLAs boycott assembly, demand Speaker’s removal||The opposition Congress boycotted the proceedings on the last day of the Himachal Pradesh assembly’s monsoon session on Friday and staged a walkout, seeking the removal of Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar for showing allegiance to the RSS ideology. Also read: Kinnaur landslide toll reaches 16 with recovery of two more bodiesThe Congress members walked out after leaving a copy of the resolution with the Vidhan Sabha secretary soon after the House assembled for the day. Row over RSS ideology The controversy began on Tuesday when Congress MLA Jagat Singh Negi made a remark against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, triggering pandemonium in the House. The following day when the opposition members wanted to raise the issue, Parmar said the statement against the ideology was unwarranted. He said: “The President, Prime Minister, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and he himself were associated with this ideology. Should I leave this ideology for the opposition?” He said he was in the chair to deliver justice and will do so. On Friday, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said all 19 members of the Congress legislature party had given the notice of resolution under Article 179(c) of the Constitution and Rule 274 (1) of the rule of procedure and conduct of business which provides for the removal of the Speaker. “Parmar has failed to uphold the dignity of the House and his office by refusing discussion on notices given by the opposition on important issues pertaining to the masses. His conduct casts a doubt on his integrity and neutrality and goes against the spirit of the Constitution,” he said. He alleged that the Speaker was not being impartial in dealing with the notices of the opposition members. “We, the opposition members have, therefore, no faith in the office of the present Speaker,” he said, demanding his removal. Notice deserves to be rejected: Minister State parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj condemned the Congress resolution and said that such a notice could only be given under rule 274 of the Vidhan Sabha. “The notice deserves to be rejected as there is no provision in the rules. Such a resolution was brought to gain political mileage, it is against the tradition of the House,” Bhardwaj said. CPM legislator Rakesh Singha said the House should adopt the middle path. “I have all respect for your chair but what happened in the House was not in good taste,” said Singha but he did not support the resolution brought by Bhardwaj. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the Congress ddid not have adequate numbers to support the resolution. According to the rules, such a resolution can only be brought 14 days after the notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-congress-mlas-boycott-assembly-demand-speaker-s-removal-101628849633267.html
13-08-2021||Dehradun||Rare two-headed cobra rescued in Uttarakhand’s Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest officials have rescued a rare two-headed cobra from Kalsi forest division of Dehradun district. Adil Mirza, who has been rescuing snakes for the last 15 years and now works with the forest department, said the forest department got a rescue call about a small cobra in an industrial unit premises in Vikas Nagar area of the district on Thursday. “DFO Kalsi instructed me to go and rescue the cobra. When I went there, I was surprised as it was a two-headed spectacled cobra. In my 15 years as a snake catcher, I have never come across such a specimen. It is a very rare snake,” he said. Also Read | Earthquake measuring 3.8 on Richter scale hits Uttarakhand’s capital DehradunMirza said the length of the cobra is around one-and-a-half feet and it seemed less than two weeks old. BB Martolia, DFO Kalsi, said the rare cobra has been sent to a rescue centre at the Dehradun zoo, where veterinary doctors will check it. “After doctors check it, it will be decided whether to release the snake or keep it for a study. Such snakes rarely survive in wild,” he said. Vipul Maurya, wildlife expert from Wildlife Institute of India (WII), who has been part of the state forest department’s herpetological surveys in the state, said it is a very rare specimen. “Till now, I have not come across any such specimen in the state. This is also called bicephally and is caused by some genetic mutation. Very little is known about such snakes, whether they survive in the wild for long or not,” he said. Due to the ongoing monsoon season, snakes are being spotted in and around residential areas in the state. Earlier this year, a team of researchers from Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun, led by scientists Abhishek Das and Amit Kumar from WII had confirmed the existence of a rare black-bellied coral snake, the smallest of the cobra family, which was spotted in the forests of Nainital and Mussoorie. Last year, a rare red coral kukri snake was spotted thrice in Uttarakhand’s US Nagar and Nainital districts and rescued by forest officials. According to forest officials, the rare snake was first spotted in Lakhimpur Kheri area of Uttar Pradesh in 1936 from where it got its scientific name ‘Oligodon kheriensis’. In August last year, forest officials in Dehradun rescued a 15.4-foot-long king cobra snake from Jamunwala area, claiming it was the largest king cobra they had ever rescued in the district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/rare-two-headed-cobra-rescued-in-uttarakhand-s-dehradun-101628849213115.html
13-08-2021||Patna||People offer Naag Panchami prayers in thigh-deep water in Bihar||Amid the current spell of incessant rainfall in the eastern and northeastern regions of India, visuals shared by news agency ANI showed people in Bihar offering prayers at temples, which are partially submerged owing to an overflowing Ganga.The scenes were shot at the Kali Ghat in Bihar’s capital Patna with people seen before temples in thigh-deep flooded water. The prayers were being offered on the occasion of Naag Panchami that is being observed on Friday.
13-08-2021||Other||Three JSPL officials booked for negligence over worker’s death||The Chhattisgarh Police have registered a case against three officials of Jindal Steel & Power Limited (JSPL) over alleged negligence related to the death of a 51-year-old contractual worker at a plant of the firm in the state’s Raigarh district two months back, a police officer on Friday.On May 3, Tapan Ghosh, the worker, died during treatment at a Raipur hospital after suffering injuries when an angle iron fell at the JSPL plant in Patrapali, said Raigarh police superintendent Abhishek Meena. Meena added they registered the case on Thursday after a primary investigation into the matter.“Ghosh worked for an engineering company which has a contract for the repairing work at the plant. Police found the plant management and the engineering company ignored safety measures, which caused the accident in which Ghosh died.” In all, five people have been booked for negligence.Also Read | Chhattisgarh funding tribal places of worship to prevent conversions: Minister“We have started the further investigation into the matter and action will be taken accordingly,” said Meena.A JSPL spokesperson said, “ We will comply with the guidelines laid down by the government and abide by the orders of the court of law in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-jspl-officials-booked-for-negligence-over-worker-s-death-101628848012999.html
13-08-2021||Patna||Tejashwi writes to PM Modi, seeks meeting on caste-wise census in state||Bihar Opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and requested for an appointment for the elected leaders from the state to discuss the contentious issue of caste-wise census in the state.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader has sought time as chief minister Nitish Kumar’s request on the same failed to elicit a response from the PM. On the Opposition leaders’ request, Kumar had, on August 4, written to the PM, asking for the time to meet the state’s leaders on caste-wise census.Also Read | Patna HC orders removal of encroachment as it reviews state’s NH projects Talking to mediapersons at the RJD office, Yadav said,“We will be left with no option but to sit on dharna at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi.” He also wondered why the PM was ignoring the issue, even as the state assembly had unanimously passed a resolution asking for caste-wise census twice in the past. “The BJP leaders in the state assembly have also supported the caste-based enumeration of people in the state legislature,” he added.The RJD leader said that passage of OBC bill by Parliament, which empowers the states to re-do the caste list for reservation, would not suffice if the quota cap for the community in government jobs was not raised from 27%. “The Centre should also take urgent steps to fill up nearly 50% vacancies on government jobs meant for the SC/ST people,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-meeting-on-caste-wise-census-in-state-101628841952734.html
13-08-2021||Patna||Sex racket busted in Bihar; 6 arrested||Kaimur police claim to have busted a sex racket and arrested six persons, including five women, during raids on two adjacent houses in Bhabua, Bihar, late on Thursday. Two sisters, who allegedly ran the racket for the past ten years, were among those arrested.Police superintendent Rakesh Kumar said the sisters’ clientele included some local leaders.Heavy police force including women constables led by station house officer Ramanand Mandal raided the houses. Several men reportedly escaped but four women, a boy, and a girl were arrested. A case under section 3 and 4 of Immoral traffic prevention act, 1956, had been registered with the Town police station and the arrested would be sent to jail on Friday, Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sex-racket-busted-in-bihar-6-arrested-101628832291550.html
13-08-2021||Other||Lahaul-Spiti landslide blocks river flow in Himachal Pradesh||A landslide blocked the flow of the Chandrabhaga River on Friday and led to the formation of a lake that poses a threat to the human habitations and agricultural fields near Jasrath village in Himachal Pradesh’s Lahaul-Spiti, an official said.Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar said a portion of a hill caved in at around 9.30am and completely blocked the river flow in the area with a population of around 2,000. He added they have sought a team of experts to take stock of the situation and suggest a strategy to deal with it. “Also, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been requested to carry out an aerial survey and devise the plan to clear the blockage,” said Kumar.Also Read | Kinnaur landslide toll reaches 16 with recovery of two more bodiesLandslides and cloudbursts triggered flooding in the region and left seven people dead and three missing on July 27. Two Border Roads Organisation officials also died while rescuing hundreds of tourists stuck in the region.At least 16 people were killed days later when a landslide buried at least five vehicles, including two buses, on a road in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lahaulspiti-landslide-blocks-river-flow-in-himachal-pradesh-101628832051267.html
13-08-2021||Other||Woman booked for fraud for forging document to marry younger man in Uttarakhand||A 38-year-old woman has been booked for alleged fraud along with her father and sister in Dehradun for marrying a 28-year-old man after forging documents to show herself younger, said police.The three, who are from Lucknow, were booked on the complainant of the woman’s husband.Investigating officer Satendra Bhandari said the man met the woman through a matrimonial website on which she declared her age was 28. He added the woman’s father presented some documents that showed her year of birth as 1991. Bhandari said after about 20 days of the wedding, the man came to know that the documents were forged, and her actual year of birth is 1983. He added the man confronted his father-in-law and sister-in-law, who allegedly threatened to kill him if he filed a police complaint.The man, who works in Dehradun, lodged a complaint against the three on Wednesday after which they were booked under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 420 (cheating), 120 B (criminal conspiracy), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt).“No arrests have been made so far as police will have to go to Lucknow to question the accused,” said Bhandari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-booked-for-fraud-for-forging-document-to-marry-younger-man-in-uttarakhand-101628831390908.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Tricoloured dishes and special discounts for Independence Day!||Restauranteurs and chefs are delighting city residents by offering festive discounts and tricoloured dishes in their eateries, this Independence day! From presenting tri-coloured momos to ice-creams under ₹75, these restaurant owners will be spreading festive cheer to all their customers. “All my restaurants will be doing tri colour themed deserts which will be individual and unique to each eatery. Every chef will be doing creative stuff with these dishes. So all of our restaurants will have special deserts as part of our Independence Day celebration to delight the guests and celebrate the festivities,” says Zorawar Kalra, owner Massive Restaurants Pvt Ltd.If you love momos, then get ready to eat them with a beautiful twist this #i-day! “While celebrating the spirit of our country and to give our customers a chance to rejoice, we will be serving tri-color tandoori momos for ₹99 on Independence Day at QDs, since we know how much Delhiites love to have their momos from us,” says Akhil Malik, Director, QDs.All those who savy discounted desserts to celebrate this day are in for some good news as restaurants have special Independence Day offers. “We believe in saluting the spirit of all real heroes who made us an Independent India. We have introduced special Tricolor cheesecake cake at ₹295 only for the special Independence day weekend at all its outlets,” says Vikrant Batra, owner of Cafe Delhi Heights.For students on a tight budget, looking to celebrate this Independence Day with their squads restaurants are offering sundaes at rates that are pocket friendly. “At Cafeteria and Co, all ice-creams and sundaes will be served at ₹75 as we commemorate our 75th Independence day this year,” says Saurabh Wahie, Director, Cafeteria and Co.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tricoloured-dishes-and-special-discounts-for-independence-day-101628830432841.html
13-08-2021||Patna||7 Bihar cops awarded Union home minister’s medal this year||Seven policemen, including five IPS officers of Bihar Police, have been awarded with Union home minister’s medal this year for excellence in investigation. The seven recipients from Bihar are Bhagalpur SSP Nitasha Guriya, Darbhanga SSP Babu Ram, Nalanda SP Hariprasath S, Madhepura SP Yogendra Kumar, STF SP Nilesh Kumar, inspectors Ugranath Jha and Neyaz Ahmad. This medal was constituted in 2018, with the objective to promote high professional standards of investigation of crime and to recognise excellence in investigation. Guriya cracked a blind murder case on October 31, 2020, when she was posted at Bettiah and averted communal tension ahead of Bihar assembly election.Nalanda SP Hariprasath cracked a murder and dacoity case withing 24 hours in Nawada district. Hariprasath said that CCTV footage captured the images of the miscreants, but their faces were covered. The recovered clothes corroborated their involvement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/7-bihar-cops-awarded-union-home-minister-s-medal-this-year-101628830311334.html
13-08-2021||Other||Mob ransacks construction site in Odisha amid protests against water project||A mob ransacked temporary camps and vehicles at a construction site in Odisha’s Kendrapara district during protests against a drinking water project that involves the withdrawal of water from a river for the supply of piped water to a neighbouring district.Umakanta Nayak, a local police officer, said the mob carrying bamboo sticks gathered at the site on Thursday and shouted slogans against the government and the project before going berserk. He added the mob also attacked security personnel.Locals have been up in arms against the ₹892 crore project for water supply from the Kharasrota river to the Bhadrak district. The project is expected to solve the drinking water crisis in parts of the region that faces depilation in groundwater.Also Read | Most pollution control boards across India lack transparency, finds study The protesters say the diversion of water will deprive their farmlands of irrigation and lead to a drinking water crisis.“We are determined to intensify our protest if the state government does not scrap the project. Under no circumstances would we allow waters of Kharasrota to be diverted towards any other place,” said Bidhan Das, a resident.Ruling Biju Janata Dal lawmaker Pratap Deb said the protest is totally politically motivated. “The project will cater to the interest of more than 65,00,00 people and provide clean drinking water to every household.”Kendrapara district collector Amrit Ruturaj said work on the project will continue as per plan. “A team led by the sub-collector held discussions with the people on Wednesday. The superintendent of police and I camped in the area. We are ready to talk to the local people and clear their apprehensions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mob-ransacks-construction-site-in-odisha-amid-protests-against-water-project-101628829111384.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police chief makes uniform must for personnel on duty||Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Thursday issued an order asking all the personnel of 100 police stations and traffic divisions in the city to ensure they wear uniforms while on duty to prevent cheating by fraudsters posing as police personnel in plain clothes to dupe people.Also Read | PNB fraud accused allowed to attend kin’s roka ceremony in MumbaiCheating by fraudsters posing as police personnel remains one of the most common crimes in Mumbai.“It is observed that many police officers and constables while taking action on lawbreakers do not wear the uniform, which is mandatory as per the rules,” said Nagrale in the order. “Criminals take advantage of this attitude and target women and senior citizens by posing as (fake) cops and rob away their valuables in plain clothes. This sends a very wrong message about the police force in the society.”He warned police personnel that strict action will be taken if anyone is found not following this order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-chief-makes-uniform-must-for-personnel-on-duty-101628827550689.html
13-08-2021||Patna||Patna HC orders removal of encroachment as it reviews state’s NH projects||The Patna high court has ordered removal of encroachment from Ramashish Chowk in Hajipur within a day and handover of the vacant land to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) so that road construction can start at the earliest. The bench of chief justice Sanjay Karol and justice Sanjay Kumar passed the order after it was informed during a review of matters related to national highways that neither the bus stand nor the tempo stand on the Chowk had been removed.Also Read | BJP to take out Jan Aashirwad Yatra in Bihar from August 19In March, the high court took over monitoring of all ongoing and upcoming national highway projects and directed the registry to file 35 separate writ petitions for each of them after it came to light that most of the projects were pending for years due to delay in land acquisition.While hearing the matter related to Hajipur-Muzaffarpur road, the bench learnt that its orders for removal of encroachment from Ramashish Chowk had not been complied with. The court also directed Muzaffarpur district magistrate that the payment to land owners be made at the earliest and the land be handed over to the NHAI so that the Muzaffarpur bypass could be completed soon. Regarding the Patna-Bakhtiarpur NH, senior advocate SD Sanjay told the bench that the NHAI has to build drainage alongside the road and service lane and underpass, for which the statement government has to make payment.The bench told additional advocate general Anjani Kumar Singh to seek information from the state government and apprise the court about it during the next hearing. “We have to review the progress of the national highways and set timelines as a last resort. We don’t have any desire to review it, but we just want that land acquisition is completed within a stipulated time and handed over to the NHAI. The Centre has to bear all the cost, but the inordinate delay in land acquisition creates hurdles and escalates cost. The state government should open a separate cell to monitor it for removing the bottlenecks so that the time of the court could be saved,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-hc-orders-removal-of-encroachment-as-it-reviews-state-s-nh-projects-101628827250683.html
13-08-2021||Other||Kinnaur landslide toll reaches 16 with recovery of two more bodies||The toll from the landslide at Negulsari in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur went up to 16 after two more bodies were found from the rubble 70 metres downhill on Friday morning. The bodies were recovered close to the wreckage of a bus with 22 people on board that was hit by boulders and buried under their debris.The landslide buried at least five vehicles on a road on Wednesday afternoon.Also Read | Kinnaur landslide: Rat inspired survivor to dig himself out of debrisPolice superintendent (Kinnaur) Sarju Ram Rana said the administration has deployed two excavators to reach the wreckage of the bus. “Manual search will continue besides two fork line machines have been deployed to remove the rubble to search for people feared trapped underneath,” said Rana.State Disaster Management Authority director Sudesh Mokta said they have been unable to trace a car that went missing after the landslide and they also do not know how many passengers were in it.Rescuers earlier recovered two other cars from the rubble.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who visited the landslide scene on Wednesday, announced the search operation will continue till the last body is traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kinnaur-landslide-toll-reaches-16-with-recovery-of-two-more-bodies-101628826530886.html
13-08-2021||Lucknow||UP to open schools for Classes 9-12, parents reluctant to send wards||Days before schools from class nine to 12 are to be re-opened across the state on August 16, as per state government orders, many parents have not given their consent for physical classes, in view of a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.In many of the institutions in Lucknow, hardly up to 50% parents have given their consent to send their children to school for physical classes.In a survey conducted by the schools, parents of La Martiniere Girls College and St Agnes Loreto declined to send their children to school in view of the pandemic. “More than 75% parents of our class 9 to 12 students expressed reluctance in sending their daughters to school because of the pandemic,” said La Martiniere Girls’ College principal Aashrita Dass.St Agnes Loreto Day School principal Debra Bunny said, “We sent a Google survey to parents whose wards are in class 9 to 12. There are 300 of them. Most parents said they don’t wish to send their daughters to school from August 16.”As a result, both the schools have decided to continue with only online classes in days to come.Looking at the poor response, both the schools have decided to continue with online classes. At La Martiniere College, out of 1,250 parents of class 9 to 12 students, only 150 have given their consent to send their children for physical classes, said principal Carlyle McFarland. Though the school will open, its boarding facility will remain shut as of now.Also Read | Previous govt didn’t try to create jobs in Uttar Pradesh, says Yogi AdityanathLucknow Public Collegiate has decided to delay the opening by a week. Jawaid Alam Khan, CBSE coordinator and director of the school said, “Both our branches will re-open a week later because we are making arrangements to ensure safety of the students who will appear for physical classes. Even then, we will be using the hybrid model for classes.”Sarvesh Goyal, chairman, GD Goenka Public School where around 500 students are enrolled in classes 9-12, said, “We have received consent from around half of the parents for physical classes. We will start the school with 50 % strength. The online classes will also run parallelly.” HN Upadhyay, Principal MD Shukla Inter Colleges an aided school of UP board said that they will also begin classes despite low number of consent from parents, “We only received consent from parents of 50 students out of 125. But we will begin physical and online classes from August 16.”HN Upadhyay, principal of MD Shukla Inter College, an aided school of UP Board, said that they will also begin classes despite the low number of parents giving consent.The state government has advised that the schools be run in two shifts with 50% strength to ensure Covid-19 measures. Meenakshi Bahadur, principal, Study Hall School said, “We are calling only 50% of strength so we don’t need two shifts. Online classes will continue for the students who are not attending school physically.”Dr Urvashi Sahni, founder president & CEO, Study Hall Educational Foundation, said,” We are getting written consent from parents. 53% have consented and the numbers are growing. The rest are hesitant because of fear.” Mala Mehra, principal of Hoerner College, and secretary, UP Private Schools Association (UPSA) said, “Around 40% of schools staff of UPSA members have been fully vaccinated while 70 % staff have received one shot of the vaccine.” Claiming that over 60% parents have given their consent, Mehra said Hoerner College will reopen from August 16.Parents maintain they would prefer online classes. Pawan Kumar Acharya, astrologer and author who is father of a class 11 student said, “I have decided to not give consent for my son to go to school till he is vaccinated.”Shikha Sharma, mother of another class 11 girl, said, “I think it will be a risk sending students to schools when we are hearing about the third wave...I have not given my consent for my child to go to school. I will wait for a few more months before thinking about it as per the Covid-19 conditions then.”Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma has expressed confidence over the decision of reopening of schools. “We have held meeting with the district inspector of schools and school managements...The education department will remain in touch with the health department regarding the third wave of the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-open-schools-for-classes-9-12-parents-reluctant-to-send-wards-101628825870874.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi to see partly cloudy sky today, mercury to remain high: IMD||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). No significant rainfall is likely till at least August 15, said IMD officials. In the absence of rain, temperatures are expected to remain high.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 27 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 36°C. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 26.4°C and the maximum was 36.2°C, two degrees above normal.Also Read | Wait time for Covid-19 tests at Delhi airport halvedDelhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 118. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 114, in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “ With continued dryness and inflow of dust from the western part of India have put the overall air quality is in the moderate category. Under little or no-rain conditions, dust from unpaved roads will increase and the contribution of coarser particles will increase significantly in PM10. With moderate ventilation, AQI will remain in moderate category for the next three days and the lead pollutant will remain as PM10 having coarser particle contribution of about 70% or more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-see-partly-cloudy-sky-today-mercury-to-remain-highimd-101628822570156.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A new anthology of pakodas||Icons are in a shift. Delhi’s Central Vista is changing, and Delhi’s Khandani Pakodawala is changing too. This legendary place has been making a dozen different kinds of pakodas since 1962.But, this evening, as cook Bhupinder Sahu tucks out the various pakodas from his oil-filled cauldron, his giant ladle has something new. It’s a spring roll.“We introduced it six months ago,” says the cook, his face covered in a pink mask.Nobody instinctively relates spring rolls to batter-coated pakodas — they are more commonly found in East Asian restaurants. But here, these crispy rolls are harmoniously intermingling with the traditional pakodas. After all, spring rolls too are deep-fried and packed with stuffing, just as any self-respecting pakoda.And yet it will be unfair to recommend this place just for spring rolls. You ought to experience it along at least one specimen of all the fries on offer — paneer pakoda, soya stick, veg chop, aloo tikki, palak-methi-pyaz pakoda, bread pakoda, baingan pakoda, pyaaz pakoda, aloo-mattar seekh, gobhi pakoda, sweet corn pakoda, mix veg pakoda, and hari mirch pakoda. Sadly, this evening the deep-fried ram laddu is already over.Served with green chutney, the bread pakoda is rectangular, the pyaaz pakoda is round, and the cauliflower pakoda is lumpy. The so-called seekh kebab is a fried roll of channa dal, green peas and potato. Despite being treated with piquant spices such as ajwain, methi and jeera, the gobhi pakoda retains the vegetable’s delicious raw flavour. The pyaaz pakoda is like a secret; beneath the golden brown crust sits the whole pyaaz, translucent, soft and strangely sweet.In these days of pandemic, impatient customers are exercising heroic restraint in front of the counter, and try not to push each other while making their choices. Nevertheless, the chaos of the pre-pandemic era is still tangible.Inside, the kitchen is quiet. The aforementioned Mr Sahu is alone, frying the pakodas in a huge cauldron. A Bihar native from Madhubani, he has been in the shop for 40 years. On the wall beside him are portraits of Late Shri Kanhya Lal and Late Shri Om Prakash, the pioneering elders of the family that owns the landmark.As its name suggests, the long-time establishment has passed down the generations and continues to thrive. Who knows by next year if it will have fried momos too in its pakoda anthology. Situated in Nauroji Nagar market, the shop is tucked between Sethi Juice Corner and Rajdhani ke Special Swadisht Dahi Bhalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-new-anthology-of-pakodas-101628802898375.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Medal for Delhi cops who probed Batla House encounter, riots||Seven Delhi Police personnel, including an inspector who investigated the 2008 Batla House encounter, and three officers who were part of the 2020 Delhi riots investigation, have been awarded the Union home minister’s medal for excellence in investigation, Delhi police said on Thursday.Police said ACP Sandeep Lamba and inspector Gurmeet Singh, both among the medal recipients, were injured when a mob assaulted them at main Wazirabad Road in north-east Delhi on February 24, 2020. Delhi police said that this was the first case of “unprovoked mass” violence in which many police personnel were injured and head constable Rattan Lal was murdered. Police said 22 people were arrested in the case by using video stabilisation technology.“Both the officers have been rewarded for their efforts and perseverance to make a watertight case against accused persons,” Delhi police said in a statement.Inspector Amaleshwar Kumar Rai, who probed the murder of intelligence bureau officer Ankit Sharma during the Delhi riots has also been awarded the medal.To be sure, the cases of the Delhi riots are still in the trial stage at the city courts. Delhi police have been criticised for their riots investigation and arresting students and activists who were part of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. Police have maintained that the riots were orchestrated by many prominent faces of the CAA protests, a charge that has been denied vehemently by the arrested students and activists.Inspector Satish Sharma who investigated the Batla House encounter was awarded the medal posthumously.Another officer chosen for the medal is DCP KPS Malhotra for investigations during his stint at the Narcotics Control Bureau. Malhotra probed Bollywood actors for their alleged role in drug cases that came to light after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Malhotra is attached to police commissioner Rakesh Asthana’s office.Others who won the medal were inspector Domica Purty, for solving a 2020 rape case, inspector Virender Singh for probing the DDA land pooling fraud and DCP Harsh Vardhan for solving recruitment scam in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/medal-for-delhi-cops-who-probed-batla-house-encounter-riots-101628802708671.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Wait times for Covid-19 tests at Delhi airport halved||The number of Covid-19 test centres at the Capital’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport has been increased, a move that officials said will cut wait times for test results in half, from between one and four hours to 30 minutes to 2.5 hours.Officials said the drop in turnaround times will also limit a passenger’s potential exposure to the infection inside the airport’s waiting area at Terminal 3.Passengers flying to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) will be given special preference to get tested at the facility, run by Genestrings Diagnostics Labs, officials confirmed. According to a senior official, the decision has been taken after the guidelines issued by UAE’s National Emergency and Crisis Management Authority (NCEMA) which allowed conditional entry to the travellers from India. Every year, around 400,000 passengers fly to the UAE from Delhi airport.The facility will have 50 rapid PCR (polymerase chain reaction) testing machines, and the firm is looking at doubling the number of units depending on demand. A test will cost ₹5,000 at the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wait-times-for-covid-19-tests-at-delhi-airport-halved-101628802646034.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Chandigarh should revert to chief commissioner model||A Chinese proverb says “May you live in interesting times”. My stint in the Chandigarh administration of almost nine years—first as deputy commissioner-cum-estate officer and subsequently as home secretary—was indeed an interesting, rewarding and satisfying experience. During these nine years of serving the people of the city, I worked in close coordination with five governors and five advisers.Ever since its inception, Chandigarh has remained the joint capital of two states of Punjab and Haryana. The UT administration was a mix of Indian Administrative Services officers drawn from the AGMU, Punjab and Haryana cadres—headed by a serving officer designated as the chief commissioner, who was assisted by the home secretary and the finance secretary.During the insurgency in Punjab, the Centre had decided that for ensuring better coordination with the Punjab government, the charge of UT administrator should be given to the governor of Punjab and the post of chief commissioner was relegated to the adviser.However, this system created many problems. One, the decision-making became slow since an additional tier was created. Even though some of the functions of the administrator were delegated to the adviser, the major policy decisions and statutory approvals were required to be taken at the higher level. Further, the Raj Bhawan being almost out of bounds for the common man, made it increasingly difficult for the masses to meet the administrator for grievance redressal.Sometimes even the Chandigarh Member of Parliament would find it difficult to get an appointment with the administrator at a short notice, which was not at all difficult when chief commissioners were heading city governance.Now that there is normalcy in Punjab, there is an ongoing debate going on for a long time as to whether we should revert to the chief commissioner model. The last few years have seen a manifold increase in the population of Chandigarh, the demographics are changing and so are the aspirations of people. They want quick and better governance on all fronts.Being the capital city of two states, Chandigarh is not a normal UT. It needs to safeguard the interests of both the states. And it becomes even more complicated when there is an ongoing tussle between both the states over their share in controlling the UT.Governing a UT is akin to governing a state. Only those Punjab governors who were former chief ministers or a Union minister or had the experience of leading the country’s armed forces have been effective in administering Chandigarh well. Some of these governors were quite proactive and they started sitting in the room in the Secretariat earmarked for the administrator, which provided a window to hear the grievances of the residents. Very few past governors have visited the Secretariat as a normal routine.Running UT a full-time jobRunning a union territory is a full-time job: if the governor of Punjab is entrusted with the responsibility of the administrator, governance is bound to suffer.The additional charge of administrator given to the Punjab governor has also remained a bone of contention between both the state governments. One of the former chief ministers of Haryana used to advocate that the post of administrator should be rotated between the governors of both the states.So in my considered opinion and past experience, and in the interest of better governance, the responsibility of the UT administrator should revert to the chief commissioner, who should be a serving IAS officer having seniority equivalent to that of the secretary to Government of India or equivalent.Further in the interest of stability, he should have a fixed tenure of 2-3 years. That will not only meet the demands of the people of Chandigarh but will also help in achieving the aims of good governance while meeting the objective of ‘minimum government, maximum governance’.(The writer is a retired IAS officer who has served as home secretary and deputy commissioner-cum-estate officer of the UT administration)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-chandigarh-should-revert-to-chief-commissioner-model-101628801988990.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||State varsity to conduct 1st skills competition||The Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) will conduct its first state-level skill competition this month to help identify and select contenders for the WorldSkills International Competitions in Shanghai in October next year.The WorldSkills International Competitions are a global championship of vocational skills held every two years.The online screening will be held on Friday and the on-ground qualifying rounds will be held from August 16 - 30.Participants will undergo a two-tier selection process.“The first level of testing will be an online proctored exam containing multiple choice questions (MCQs) to test basic skill knowledge of the candidate. Based on the merit of the first round, top six candidates will be called for the second level of testing which will check their hands-on competency through test projects. Finally, two candidates will be selected in each skill and will represent the state of Delhi in the regional rounds,” the office of deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said in a press release.Upon clearing regional rounds, competitors will be trained to participate in the WorldSkills International Competitions 2022 in Shanghai. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/state-varsity-to-conduct-1st-skills-competition-101628800740164.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Empower residents for better decision-making in Chandigarh||Chandigarh was made a Union Territory in 1966 at the time of partition of Punjab. Earlier, Chandigarh was a part of Kharar tehsil and the Shah Commission, on whose recommendation the division of areas was done, had recommended the entire Kharar tehsil to be given to Haryana. However, the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi gave Kharar tehsil to Punjab but Chandigarh along with 23 villages was made a Union Territory, directly under the administration of the central government. Till 1984, the UT of Chandigarh had the chief commissioner at the top of the administrative structure. In 1984 the then Congress government abolished the post of chief commissioner and appointed the governor of Punjab as an ex officio administrator of Chandigarh, and the system is continuing till date. The post of chief commissioner was redesignated as adviser to the administrator. In 55 years, Chandigarh has seen two patterns of administration, one led by the chief commissioner for about 18 years, and one led by the administrator for about 34 years. No continuity or accountability Both the systems have their own positive and negative aspects. To my mind, the question is not who is to rule Chandigarh; but how Chandigarh should be ruled. Unfortunately, under both the set-ups, power is vested with officers to take decisions regarding Chandigarh. The officers keep on shifting and hence there is neither any continuity nor any accountability at the top. This was the position under both the systems. The urgent need of the hour is to ensure public participation, both political and non-political as well as elected and non-elected representatives in the decision-making process. On issues concerning Chandigarh the final say in decision-making should be that of public representatives and not officers alone, like in other states. The Municipal Corporation Chandigarh which was constituted for the first time in 1996 has completed 25 years of existence. There is a need to review the working of the MC and move further towards either mayor in council or metropolitan council with more powers to public representatives. Chandigarh has a large number of people both, retired and working, who have vast experience in public life and civic management. Their services should also be used in decision-making. Effective coordination in tricity The tricity of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula has grown to such an extent that you don’t even come to know to when you have entered Punjab or Haryana. But if there is even an innocuous move of changing any administrative structure of these three units, there will be a hue and cry by politicians. Problems such as transport, population and residence, concerning the three can be solved by effective coordination among the authorities. There is an urgent need for making the Interstate Development Council, consisting of representatives from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, more effective for the overall development of the tricity. The only difference between the two systems is that earlier it was the chief commissioner (now redesignated as adviser to the administrator) who was at the top of the bureaucratic structure. In the new system, it is the Punjab governor who is at the helm. The other structure remains the same. Therefore, in my view instead of debating on which of the two systems is best for Chandigarh, all concerned should join hands and rising above narrow political consideration strive to evolve a system for the city in which the major say in the decision-making is that of the people instead of bureaucrats, who keep on moving to and from Chandigarh. The territorial dispute between Punjab and Haryana has already caused immense harm to the interest of the region. Let this issue not become a bone of contention between these two states. The time has come when any decision about the administrative set-up in Chandigarh is taken by consensus by involving representatives of Punjab and Haryana also so that in an attempt to solve one problem, we may not create more.(The writer is additional solicitor general at Punjab and Haryana high court and former BJP MP from Chandigarh. Views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-empower-residents-for-better-decision-making-in-chandigarh-101628801930203.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: No new Covid deaths in city for two days in a row||The city added 49 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, showed data from the state government’s daily health bulletin, even as it added no deaths of the disease for the second day in a row — the first time this has happened in the city since the early days of the pandemic in May last year.So far, 25,068 people have succumbed to the illness in the city, shows state government data.The city’s fresh case-count on Sunday came on the back of 71,348 new tests, 0.07% of which returned positive. This statistic has been below 1% in Delhi for 74 days, and lower than 5% for 84, shows data from the state government.Currently, 502 people in the Capital are battling the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-no-new-covid-deaths-in-city-for-two-days-in-a-row-101628800714768.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||They fought off Covid, but their mental health has taken a toll||A 37-year-old man from Panchkula wakes up every night, fearing someone is inserting a tube in his nose. He had contracted Covid-19 in early April and remained under treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, for around 15 days. It’s been over three months since he recovered from the deadly infection, but he has still not been able to have a sound night’s sleep. He says he wakes up every night with “flashes of OT light” and at times, even hears voices.A doctor from Chandigarh, who had contracted the infection a few months ago, spends about two to three hours a day washing hands, fearing she may get infected again if she doesn’t do so. She also feels a compelling need to ensure that her shoes are placed outside in a proper manner.Both of them are among several others who successfully fought off the deadly viral infection but are now left battling neuro-psychiatric issues post recovery. While the 37-year-old has been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder, the doctor is found to be suffering from obsessive compulsive disorder. PGIMER’s psychiatry department head Dr D Basu said a good proportion (10% to 40%) of Covid-19 patients continue to have symptoms after four weeks. These symptoms could be physical and neuro-psychiatric.He said in 50% of the cases, patients report fatigue, while in 40% cases, they complain of headaches. “One in four (25%) patients shows symptoms of anxiety, depression and brain fog (cognitive slippage). In 1-2% cases, people will have post-traumatic stress disorder, further in rare cases, people will have psychotic disorders such as hearing voices,” he said.Dr MP Sharma, in-charge, district mental health programme, said, “For those who had depression and anxiety before they contracted Covid, the severity of their condition has increased. But for many, it is for the first time that mental health issues have come to fore.”Dr Sharma said there has been a massive increase in mental health cases during the second wave. The psychiatry OPD of the General Hospital, Sector 6, has seen a 10 to 20% increase in mental health cases, and most patients are found to be having a history of Covid infection.Dr Manoj Kumar, in-charge, psychiatry department, said: “Every day 100-200 patients visit the psychiatry OPD, of which up to 10% are those who have post Covid issues.” He said majority of the patients have anxiety, whereas others are found suffering from depression. “Their sleep pattern has been distributed. They complain of irritability, palpitations, breathlessness and other anxiety-related symptoms,” said the doctor. About reasons, he said: “Covid times are tough. People are seeing a lot of lifestyle change. Those who get infected with the virus, suffer more. At times, your surroundings and social life also determines the impact such a deadly virus may leave on you.”Dr Kumar suggested that people should consult a doctor when their change in behaviour starts impacting their personal or professional life.Dr Basu said people with pre-existing mental health conditions such as depression are at higher risk of mortality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/they-fought-off-covid-but-their-mental-health-has-taken-a-toll-101628800728463.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||98.2% of targeted population in Chandigarh vaccinated with first dose||The UT health department will soon achieve their target of vaccinating 100% of the eligible population in Chandigarh as 8.2% of them have got their first dose as of Thursday.According to the latest electoral list, around 7,29,822 residents are eligible for vaccination. As of Thursday, 7,16,836 (98.22%), including migrants, had taken their first shot while 2,33,576 (32%) people were fully vaccinated.Also on Thursday, 5,073 people were inoculated with the first dose and 3,278 were administered the second dose. Of the 5,073 beneficiaries, 4,230 were categorised in the 18 to 44 age group. Also, of the 27,426 healthcare workers, 97.67% have already been vaccinated with the initial dose. Besides, 48,319 frontline workers have also got the first jab.In the last one week, around 8,724 people in Chandigarh were inoculated daily. However, in the targeted population count, the migrants working in the city are not added. Even then, the UT health department is keeping their focus on vaccinating the migrant and vulnerable people living and working in Chandigarh.UT keen on inoculating migrants as well“Hundreds of migrants, who are residents of various Indian states, are presently working and living in Chandigarh. The UT health department is keen on vaccinating every person living in the city, to control the transmissibility of Covid-19. Special camps are being set up in UT’s colonies and rural areas, even during the evening hours, to ensure that each and every migrant is vaccinated. Besides, mobile vans are being sent and door-to-door vaccination drives are being carried out,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services Chandigarh.Dr Kang added, “Not only migrants, but vulnerable people, including beggars are also being vaccinated even if they don’t have their Aadhaar cards.”The UT health department, however, does not have any specific figure on how many migrants or people from other states were vaccinated in the city. “Any citizen of India can get vaccinated anywhere in the country, irrespective of their birth state. Many residents of Chandigarh have also got inoculated in other states and vice-a-versa. Our aim is to vaccinate every person living in Chandigarh, no matter where they belong to,” added Dr Kang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/982-of-targeted-population-in-chandigarh-vaccinated-with-first-dose-101628800608147.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh govt school teacher accused of sexual harassment||A government school teacher has been accused of behaving inappropriately with his students and sexually harassing them.A group of girls studying in Class 10 at a government high school in the city have handed in a complaint regarding this to the Chandigarh Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR).The girls have alleged that after schools reopened from July 19 onwards, one of their teachers had been behaving inappropriately with them and that they were now afraid of going to his classes again.Speaking about this, CCPCR chairperson Harjinder Kaur said, “We have an established protocol in these matters and have advised the girls to go to the police. We will seek a follow-up report from them.”Meanwhile, the police are looking into the matter and haven’t registered a case as of now. Officials of the senior education department also said that they were looking into the matter. “A school-level inquiry has already been conducted and it was found that the teacher was being too strict with them and the students wanted the teacher to be changed, which is why these allegations were made,” an official said.The official added that another high-level probe will be conducted by the UT district education officer (DEO) to look into the allegations and strict action will be taken if these are found to be true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-govt-school-teacher-accused-of-sexual-harassment-101628800548155.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases hit one-month high in Chandigarh||With 13 fresh infections, tricity’s daily Covid-19 count remained in double digits for the third day in a row, even as Chandigarh reported its highest single-day tally in a month.The UT had seven fresh cases, highest since July 12, when the count was nine. Though Panchkula’s tally came down from two to zero in the past 24 hours, in Mohali it jumped from three to six, taking tricity’s total to 13, higher than Wednesday’s 10. On Tuesday, 18 people had tested positive across the three jurisdictions. With this, tricity’s active cases rose from 91 to 97, hitting a three-week high. At 50, Mohali has the most infected patients, followed by 37 in Chandigarh and 10 in Mohali.In some respite, no death was recorded in the tricity for the 12th straight day.The latest cases in Chandigarh were from Sectors 12, 15, 44, 45 and 49, Manimajra and Mauli Jagran, and those in Mohali from Mohali city, Kharar and Dera Bassi.The recovery rate stayed stable at 98% across the board and daily positivity rate was also below 0.4%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-hit-one-month-high-in-chandigarh-101628800488159.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Akali Dal demands independent probe into gangster’s treatment at Batala hospital||The Shiromani Akali Dali (SAD) on Thursday demanded an independent probe by a sitting judge of the high court or a CBI inquiry into the medical treatment given to a gangster at a private hospital in Batala.Happy Shah, a close associate of notorious gangster Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, was treated at the hospital after he had sustained a bullet injury in a retaliatory fire when he along with his three aides had gunned down history sheeter Rana Kandowalia in Amritsar. Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, party leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia produced CCTV footage showing how the gangster was treated at the hospital. “Some Congress leaders close to certain cabinet ministers managed to get the gangster treated at the hospital,” he claimed. The SAD leader said due action should be taken against the hospital management besides arresting the absconding accused. He also produced video footage claiming the gangster was escorted out of the hospital from the back gate after his treatment.The SAD had been highlighting the gangster- police-jail administration nexus for the last four-and-a-half years, he said. “The Congress government had facilitated the shifting of Bhagwanpuria to the Tihar jail in Delhi. Even as Bhagwanpuria has 59 cases registered against him in Punjab, he was allowed to be shifted to Delhi. Even the judge who heard the plea calling for shifting of Bhagwanpuria had said the gangster was running a crime syndicate in the Bathinda jail and was involved in heinous crimes in league with inter -state criminals. Now, he is running a crime syndicate from the Tihar and we are seeing the consequences here in Punjab,” the Akali leader added.Deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, who is leading the investigation into the case, said, “We are verifying the facts about the hospital’s involvement. If anyone is found to be guilty, action will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-demands-independent-probe-into-gangster-s-treatment-at-batala-hospital-101628800128000.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu hints at contesting assembly polls from Amritsar East segment||Newly appointed Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday hinted at contesting the upcoming assembly elections from the Amritsar East constituency. This comes amid speculations about his intention to contest from Patiala, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s hometown. Sidhu, who visited his constituency for the inauguration of development works to the tune of ₹42 crore, said he would never leave the holy city that made his family win six times. “People of Amritsar embraced me wholeheartedly. I am ready to sacrifice everything for this land. I owe a lot to this city. We won’t be able to repay this debt even if 21 generations of our family try to do so,” said Sidhu while addressing a gathering at Verka where his team and the district administration filled forms for providing pucca houses.” It was Sidhu’s maiden visit to his segment after he was appointed the state Congress chief.“People say an election is fought by spending ₹8 to ₹15 crore. I have fought five elections from Amritsar by spending only ₹47 lakh. I consider the people of Amritsar my lord,” Sidhu said.About development in the constituency, the cricketer-turned-politician said one can compare works during the 10-year tenure of his and his wife with the previous regimes. “We have spent huge funds to develop our constituency,” he added. “In the upcoming assembly session, all the power purchase agreements (PPAs) with private players will be annulled. People who have been paying ₹12 to 17 for per unit of electricity will get the same at ₹3 to 5,” he added. “There will be no compromise with those involved in drug smuggling. A resolution will be brought in the session to make public the police’s report on drugs,” he added. The Congress government in Punjab will also enact the state’s own laws to counter the Centre’s anti-farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-hints-at-contesting-assembly-polls-from-amritsar-east-segment-101628800011133.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi varsity billing scam: Police issue lookout notices against 7 absconding accused||Police have issued lookout notices against seven absconding accused, including two varsity employees, in the case of fake billing scam at Punjabi University, Patiala. The accused are Nishu Chaudhary and Jatinder Singh, both varsity employees, and Akashdeep Singh, Sonu Kumar, Harpreet Singh, Vinay and Nisha Sharma, who were shown as beneficiaries of fake bills. Urban Estate police station in-charge Ronnie Singh said the lookout notices have been issued to ensure that the accused don’t fly out of the country and arrest them at the earliest. “Multiple teams at work to trace the suspects. Police across the state have been briefed about the suspects,” the station house officer (SHO) said.A case was lodged against the seven on August 1 on a complaint filed by the varsity management but the accused have been evading arrest even as the police carried multiple raids at their possible hideouts. The case was registered under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 465 (for making forged documents), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged), 201 (tempering of evidences) and 381 (theft) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. In May, the university’s internal audit department and the finance wing had red-flagged five bills amounting to ₹6 lakh. The department head’s stamp and signatures were found to be fake and the names of research scholars and assistants against whom the bills were raised also turned out to be bogus. A committee comprising registrar Varinder Kaushik, dean (research) Ashok Tiwari and finance officer Rakesh Khurana probed the bank accounts of Nishu Chaudhary, the senior assistant, and the others involved. The help of the university’s forensic department was taken to investigate the fake signatures and stamps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-varsity-billing-scam-police-issue-lookout-notices-against-7-absconding-accused-101628799829480.html
13-08-2021||Other||With 76 travellers testing positive in Reasi, J&K sees a spike in Covid cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded 176 Covid-19 infections, the highest in two weeks. The jump is owing to the 73 fresh cases in Jammu division’s Reasi district – all of whom have been found to be travellers. Two persons also succumbed to the disease in Jammu, taking overall the deaths to 4,395. While Kashmir valley recorded 80 cases in the last 24 hours, Jammu division saw 96 cases.This is the highest number of cases recorded in the UT this month. The last time that the UT had seen the single-day count crossing the 150-mark was on July 29 when there 181 cases. In good news, however, as many as 164 patients also recovered from the virus. The active case count in the UT now stands at 1,307. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 300 followed by Jammu district with 128 active cases.Jammu and Kashmir has recorded 3,23,061 infections since the pandemic outbreak last year and 3,17,359 people have recovered from the virus so far. Officials said 55,668 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-76-travellers-testing-positive-in-reasi-j-k-sees-a-spike-in-covid-cases-101628799828437.html
13-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Accused changes name to distract police, booked||An FIR was launched against a man, wanted in different cases, for forging documents and changing his name to distract the police.The accused, identified as Joginder Singh of Sursingh village in Ferozepur, is currently lodged in Modern Jail, Faridkot, in a theft case.After forging the documents, he had changed his name to Surinder Singh, alias Chhinda.Sub-inspector Jagpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR against the accused was lodged on April 4, 2018, for snatching and installing fake number plates on vehicles.The police came to know that after availing bail in the case, the accused had again indulged in criminal activities. He was arrested again on December 4, 2020, in a kidnapping case. To distract the police, he had identified himself as Surinder Singh, alias Chhinda.“We came to know that the accused was also wanted by Phagwara police in a case of theft lodged against him on November 20, 2017. In this case, the accused had told a different name to the police,” said the SI.A case under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code was registered. The police said they will bring him on a production warrant from jail for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-accused-changes-name-to-distract-police-booked-101628799709251.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Soon, pick from pre-designed floor plans to rebuild your CHB independent house||Allottees of Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) independent houses, planning to reconstruct their dwelling units, will soon be able to pick from a set of pre-designed blueprints, ending the need for building plan approvals.More than 600 allottees stand to benefit from the option that CHB is in advanced stage of rolling out.For years, allottees have been seeking permission to demolish and construct their houses anew in view of their dilapidated state or modern requirements, but the current procedure for getting approvals is tedious with multiple stages involved. “For facilitating speedy constructions without bureaucratic delays, the board will offer a set of building plans for every category of independent houses. All these plans will be uploaded on the CHB site and the allottees can choose from one of these,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB.In case the allottee wants to go for a distinct floor plan, they will need to follow the regular procedure of prior building plan approval. In both cases, the allottee will need to obtain the completion certificate from the board.To be ready in a monthThe standardised building plans are in final stage of preparation and are expected to be available in a month. “The architectural branch is working on finalising the plans as soon as possible. These will be uploaded on the CHB website after approval of the board chairman,” said Garg.Notably, the board had passed the proposal for standardised plans in December last year. These were then taken up with the UT urban planning department, but saw no progress for nearly eight months.“But in the meeting held last month, it was made clear that the board has incorporated need-based changes and can issue these drawings itself. After the nod from the urban planning department, CHB started work to issue the drawings,” said Garg.The administration had allowed the need-based changes for CHB dwelling units last year after relaxing the Chandigarh Building Rules. The said relaxations were recommended by a committee consisting of officers of CHB, UT administration and a representative of the CHB Flats Welfare Federation. Finally, these were issued on February 15, 2019.Recent-allottee friendly initiativesThis latest initiative is part of a series of steps taken by CHB to streamline its working and improve allottee services.Recently, it implemented e-office system at all its branches to minimise movement of physical files, especially in ongoing complex issues.Apart from this, the board has started online facility for payment of all dues and also made appointments available online.The allottees can now also apply for need-based changes online. “We are working on bringing more services online, such as transfer of property and NOC. It may take around three months,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soon-pick-from-pre-designed-floor-plans-to-rebuild-your-chb-independent-house-101628799708150.html
13-08-2021||Other||60% cases under anti-drug STF lodged from Ludhiana||The anti-drug special task force (STF) has arrested more peddlers from Ludhiana city as compared to other cities of Ludhiana and Ferozepur Range in the past four and a half years. Around 60.5% of the cases lodged by the STF were from Ludhiana city.The STF, which was formed in March 2017, has lodged 405 cases of drug peddling till August 10, 2021, and arrested 695 accused from Ludhiana, Khanna, Jagraon, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Ferozepur, Tarntaran, Moga, Faridkot, Fazilka, and Abohar. Out of the total 405 cases, 245 were lodged in Ludhiana city.Inspector Harbans Singh, in charge, STF Ludhiana Range, said in the past four and a half years, the STF has recovered a total of 280 kg of heroin.Apart from it, the STF has recovered 1,334 kg of poppy husk, including 445 kg that was recovered from an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and his accomplices on August 6.The STF has also recovered 57kg of opium, 13 kg of narcotic powder, 1.362 kg of cannabis, 550 gm of smack, 223 kg of hashish, 34.10 lakh intoxicant pills, capsules, injections, and syrups, ₹3.07 crore drug money, and 5,000 US dollars.The inspector added that the STF has also arrested 15 proclaimed offenders and recovered 12 AK-74 rifles, 12 pistols, 2 revolvers, and 423 bullets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/60-cases-under-anti-drug-stf-lodged-from-ludhiana-101628799648035.html
13-08-2021||Other||354 fresh cases, 3 deaths in Himachal||Himachal recorded 354 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 2,09,344 while the death toll mounted to 3,526 after three more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 71 each were reported in Chamba, Kangra and Mandi, 40 from Shimla, 35 from Hamirpur, 24 from Bilaspur, 14 from Kullu, 10 from Lahaul-Spiti, eight from Sirmaur, five from Kinnaur, three from Una and two from Solan. The active cases mounted to 2,668 and recoveries reached 2,03,132 after 239 patients recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/354-fresh-cases-3-deaths-in-himachal-101628799590773.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana worker steals ₹4.55 lakh from factory, held||A factory worker has been arrested for stealing ₹4.55 lakh from his employer’s office. The accused, Suraj, lives near Khajoor Chowk. In her complaint, Reena Sharma, the human resources manager of the factory, stated that she had kept the cash in the almirah of the owner’s office on August 7. When she went back for it on August 9, the cash was missing.She accused Suraj of stealing the money as he had the keys of the office. The accused was booked under Section 381 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arrested by the Salem Tabri police on Thursday.In a similar case, a hotel employee has been booked for stealing ₹3.5 lakh from a drawer.The accused, Suraj Singh of Fauji Mohalla, Jamalpur, was captured in a CCTV camera while stealing the cash. Hotel manager Hansdeep Singh said Suraj was employed just 10 days ago. Sub-inspector Balbir Singh, who is investigating the case at Moti Nagar police station, said a case under Section 381 of the IPC had been registered against the accused, who will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-worker-steals-4-55-lakh-from-factory-held-101628799529181.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir meets Shah, opposes move to appoint full-fledged administrator for Chandigarh||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has requested Union home minister Amit Shah to review the central government’s decision to appoint a full-fledged administrator for the union territory of Chandigarh by divesting the Punjab governor of this charge. A meeting with Shah on Wednesday evening, the SAD chief termed this as another attempt to dilute Punjab’s claim on its capital city, saying Chandigarh was an inseparable part of Punjab and should be transferred to the parent state as soon as possible. He said there was no reason to appoint a full-fledged administrator for the UT from outside the state. “If at all an administrator has to be appointed till such time the UT is not transferred to Punjab, the officer should be from the parent state. Earlier also, the chief commissioner of Chandigarh used to be from Punjab,” he said in a statement. Sukhbir informed the home minister that all decisions taken at the time of reorganisation of Punjab were being violated. He also claimed that the Centre was not following the 60:40 ratio for posting of officers in the UT. “Separate cadres have been created to reduce the strength of Punjab service officers in the UT and now even AGMUT officers are being posted on key posts in utter violation of the 60:40 formula,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-meets-shah-opposes-move-to-appoint-full-fledged-administrator-for-chandigarh-101628799527983.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-assembly deputy speaker Bir Devinder moves Punjab Lokpal over Mohali land deal||Former Vidhan Sabha deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh on Thursday moved the Punjab Lokpal seeking directions to investigate the controversial sale of 31-acre land of now liquidated JCT Electronics in Mohali. The land deal has caused a loss of ₹400 crore to the state exchequer, he claimed. The Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) leader said besides setting aside the sale, the investigation in the matter be handed over to the CBI to look into the role of state industries minister Sunder Sham Arora and department officials in the episode. A copy of the complaint was also sent to the state departments of home, police, finance and industries besides the Enforcement Directorate (ED) seeking an early action. In his complaint to the Lokpal, Bir Devinder demanded that the entire records of the sale/auction of the land be seized by the Punjab Small Industries and Exports Corporation (PSIEC) and orders e issued for registration of an FIR before handing over the matter to the CBI. Reacting to the complaint, industries minister Arora said, “We have already cancelled the deal on August 5. There is nothing to complain about now. It’s all political.” Bir Devinder, however, said that nothing had changed except cancellation of a tripartite agreement between the state government, bidders who took the land (GRG Developers) and the company assets reconstruction India limited (ARICL) who was transferred the land by the liquidator. “The industries minister is directly involved and an action be initiated against him,” he reiterated. The former deputy speaker said even as the GRG Developers had deposited ₹45 crore, half of the total deal amount, it started selling the land at ₹30,000 per square yard. “When I raised the issue for the first time in December 2020, the company stopped operations and also pulled down its website,” he said. In his complaint, the SAD (Sanyukt) leader has made the managing director and all members of the board of directors of PSIEC, corporation chief general manager SP Singh and the Punjab Infotech managing director respondents. The complaint reads: “The respondent number 7 (industries minister), who himself is a developer, took personal interest in the matter and supervised the proceedings of the meeting by staying in the department office in Chandigarh to ensure that the agenda be cleared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exassembly-deputy-speaker-bir-devinder-moves-punjab-lokpal-over-mohali-land-deal-101628799467895.html
13-08-2021||Other||Only fully-vaccinated teachers to be allowed on Ludhiana campuses, says DEO||Two days after 20 students from two tested positive for Covid-19, district education officer secondary Lakhvir Singh on Thursday directed all school teachers to get themselves fully inoculated as soon as possible.In a letter to the school heads, the DEO stated that no student above 18 years of age will be allowed to attend school unless he/she is fully vaccinated.The DEO also directed all principals and headmasters to share the detailed list of students and teachers who are not vaccinated yet. The letter further states that the teachers who are not fully vaccinated yet will not be allowed to visit the school. If they are found on campus, the principal will be held responsible.The directions were issued following reports that many teachers were either not vaccinated or had only got one jab.The education department doesn’t have any record of the teachers and students who are yet to be vaccinated.Assistant civil surgeon Dr Vivek Kataria said only 100% vaccinated staff will be allowed to visit the school. The guidelines in this context have been issued to DEO primary and secondary, he added.523 students studying in govt school with five roomsAs many as 20 students from Government Senior Secondary School in Subhash Nagar and Government High School at Kailash Nagar in Basti Jodhewal, has tested positive. It has come to light that 523 students were studying at the government school in Kailash Nagar that has only five rooms. Principal Balwinder Kaur admits the risk but, she maintains that the school followed all Covid protocols. She also said that the authorities were informed about the situation.“Majority of the students who study in our school, are those whose parents cannot afford tuition fee of private schools. We cannot decline admissions. However, we had ensured proper segregation, but still, the students were found positive,” she said.She further said that 12 students from Classes 9 and 10 had tested positive.On the other hand, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said that the RTPCR reports of the infected students, and those who came in contact with them, have not arrived yet.25k doses arriveIn the meantime, 25,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine have arrived in the district. According to district immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja, these doses will be administered at 111 inoculation sites across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-only-fully-vaccinated-teachers-to-be-allowed-on-campus-says-deo-101628799349018.html
13-08-2021||Other||National dialysis programme gives new lease of life to patients in J&K||Under Prime Minister’s National Dialysis Programme (PMNDP) of the National Health Mission, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has made dialysis centres available across all 20 districts of UT in which hundreds of sessions are held every day.These centres are giving a new lease of life to poor patients who don’t have resources to travel to far off places or get admission in private hospitals.Officials say the scheme to establish dialysis centres in every district began four years and now these centres are operational in each district of the UT.The project is part of Prime Minister’s National Dialysis Programme which was initiated in 2016, however, in J&K, it started two years later.Additional chief secretary, health and medical education, Atal Dullo said, “Under NHM, free of cost dialysis sessions are conducted for patients from below poverty line (BPL) economic group and for non-BPL patients, the benefit is available at a subsidised rate of ₹950 per session.”NHM director Yasin Choudhary said under this programme, 5 to 8 dialysis machines as per workload have been installed in each of the dialysis centres and a total of 125 machines stand installed till date in the UT of J&K, of which 62 dialysis machines were provided by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, GoI, 40 by World Bank and 22 procured under National Health Mission in the UT.Till date, more than 35,000 dialysis sessions have been conducted in these centres, and over 952 chronic patients suffering with renal diseases have been registered.Bashir Ahmad, a resident of old town said, “I had to travel to Srinagar for treatment prior to the establishment of dialysis centres in Baramulla. Now I get dialysis done at the medical hospital.” Ahmad, however, said the government should increase the number of machines at every centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/national-dialysis-programme-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-patients-in-jk-101628799347950.html
13-08-2021||Other||PAU, NABARD initiate direct seeded rice project in 12 districts of state||The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) have initiated a collaborative project to promote ‘Tar-wattar’ direct-seeded rice (Tar-wattar DSR) in 12 districts of the state.The two-year NABARD sponsored project focuses on encouraging farmers to opt for DSR techniques through training and demonstrating tar-wattar (semi- irrigated field with good soil moisture).MS Bhullar, head of the department of agronomy, said under the project, six training webinars on tar-wattar DSR were conducted, and more than 300 farmers participated in them.Farmers’ field demonstrations on ‘tar wattar DSR’ were laid on more than 200 acres in six districts including Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Pathankot, Ferozpur, and Faridkot during the current season, he informed.A shift from puddle transplanting to DSR saves 15-20% of irrigation water, offers 10-15% of higher groundwater recharge, saves labour, and provides 250 kg/ha higher wheat grain yield, he said.Dr Bhullar further explained: “Tar-wattar DSR is a novel technique developed and recommended by PAU in 2020 to reduce water footprints in rice cultivation. In this technique, pre-sowing irrigation is applied, and primed seed is sown in a tar-wattar field preferably, using Lucky Seed Drill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-nabard-initiate-direct-seeded-rice-project-in-12-districts-of-state-101628799288060.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Robbers open fire in air, snatch Shimla man’s car in Dera Bassi||Four men robbed a Shimla resident of his car after opening fire in the air near the Dera Bassi flyover on Wednesday night.The victim, Abhishek Sharma, told the police that he was in Zirakpur on Wednesday for some work.Around 9.45pm, he stopped his Hyundai Creta near the Dera Bassi flyover to relieve himself. As he got down from the vehicle, a car stopped near him and three men stepped out.They demanded his car keys and when he resisted, they opened fire in the air and fled with his car.“We have registered a robbery case. CCTV footage from cameras in the nearby areas and nearest toll plaza is being checked. The robbers will be arrested soon,” said Manoj Gorsi, DSP, Dera Bassi.A month ago, on July 6, four men had snatched a teacher’s car on the Kharar-Landran road after hitting him with a sharp-edged instrument. On July 4, the car of Harshit Kumar, a resident of Motia City, Zirakpur, was taken away after he left the car running to buy liquor from a roadside vend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robbers-open-fire-in-air-snatch-shimla-man-s-car-in-dera-bassi-101628799229930.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||2 Ludhiana residents held for hacking signboard to display insults against Capt||Two men were arrested for hacking a variable message sign board on the national highway near Libra village so that it displayed messages abusing Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and supporting the Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday. The accused, Kunal Singla, a resident of New Model Town and Yogesh Puri of Maharana Pratap Nagar, assemble and install LED boards for a living. They claim that they hacked the electronic sign board for fun, but the police are probing their political affiliation and combing through their bank accounts to determine whether they had been paid to hack the board. “On July 31, the accused went to Kasauli to install the LED board of an eatery, while returning they stopped for food at Libra village and hacked the variable message sign board using a mobile application and programmed the board to display abuses aimed at the CM, along with the slogan ‘Chahunda e Punjab, Kejriwal di Sarkar’ (Punjab wants Kejriwal to come into power),” said superintendent of police (SP, investigation) Manpreet Singh. Commuters flagged the abusive messages being flashed on the board on August 1, following which National Highway Authority of India, Ambala, control room in-charge Dharminder Sharma lodged a complaint and a special investigation team comprising deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rajan Parminder Singh, station house officer Sarabjit Singh, and cyber cell in charge Sandeep Kumar was formed to trace the accused. The accused, who run their LED board business from Jammu Colony, were booked under Section 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Information and Technology Act at the Khanna police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-ludhiana-residents-held-for-hacking-signboard-to-display-insults-against-capt-101628799228457.html
13-08-2021||Other||Kulgam: 2 security personnel, 2 civilians hurt in gunfight with militants||Two security personnel and two civilians were injured during a gunfight between terrorists and security forces in South Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Thursday. The encounter was on at the time of filing of the report. As per information, the terrorists had attacked a convoy of the Border Security Force (BSF) travelling on the national highway at Malpora Kulgam. No injuries were reported in this attack, however, security forces retaliated in equal measure, forcing the terrorists to take shelter in a nearby three-storey building.Kashmir inspector general of police, Vijay Kumar, said, “Two trapped terrorists of LeT still alive. Exchange of fire on. Two security forces personnel and two civilians injured from terrorists fire. Taking all precautions for lesser collateral damage as target building is huge one.”CRPF spokesman Junaid Khan said one of the injured is a constable of the CRPF.“He has a minor bullet injury in his foot and is stable,” Khan said.  There has been a spurt in militant attacks in Kashmir in the run up to Independence Day celebrations on August 15.On Tuesday, 10 civilians were injured in a grenade attack by suspected militants inSrinagar. On Monday, BJP’s Kisan Morcha president of Kulgam, Gulam Rasool Dar, and his wife died after militants fired bullets at the couple in the Lal Chowk area of Anantnag in south Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kulgam-2-security-personnel-2-civilians-hurt-in-gunfight-with-militants-101628799109477.html
13-08-2021||Other||Parra being punished for his commitment towards Kashmir: Mehbooba||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday tweeted in support of the party’s youth wing president Waheed ur Rehman Parra, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in November last year.The NIA had arrested him for his alleged links with militants. The PDP has termed all charges against him baseless. Though he was granted bail by the NIA court in January this year, he was again arrested by the CID wing of Jammu and Kashmir Police.“On this International Youth Day, I terribly miss our Youth president @parawahidwho played a stellar part in engaging with youngsters in J&K. He is being punished for his commitment towards the Kashmir cause. I salute his integrity, courage & grace,” tweeted the former J&K chief minister.Last Sunday, Mufti had chaired a meeting of youth workers of her party in Srinagar where the release of political detainees, including Parra, was sought. Parra is now the only PDP leader who is in detention. Parra, who had contested the district development council elections while in jail, wasn’t even allowed to take oath after he won from Pulwama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parra-being-punished-for-his-commitment-towards-kashmir-mehbooba-101628798808272.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Truck driver bludgeoned to death in Ludhiana road-rage incident||A truck driver was bludgeoned to death with an iron road and his helper injured, following a road-rage incident at the National Highway near Libra village in Khanna on Wednesday night. The unidentified assailants tossed the body of the victim, Rachpal Singh of Jammu, on the highway and fled. On Thursday morning, the police who were alerted by commuters, found Rachpal dead, and his helper, Pradyuman, lying in the bed of the truck with a head injury. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP,Khanna) Rajan Parminder Singh said that after regaining consciousness at the hospital Pradyuman said that they were heading towards Ambala after loading material from Ludhiana. However, their truck collided with another vehicle near Khanna. Rachpal got off the truck to inspect the damage. After sometime some people barged into the truck and assaulted him.” The side mirrors of another truck were found on the spot. A case has been registered against unidentified persons and CCTV footage is being combed through to trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/truck-driver-bludgeoned-to-death-in-ludhiana-road-rage-incident-101628798748202.html
13-08-2021||Other||Cop kills colleague at police lines in Kathua, arrested||A policeman allegedly shot dead his colleague with his service weapon inside the district police lines in Kathua, reportedly after an argument.The deceased has been identified as Mohammad Yunis, a head constable and a native of Bharakh in Pouni tehsil of Reasi district. The accused, identified as selection grade constable Iqbal Singh of Shabe Chak village of Kathua district, has been arrested.“Both had a verbal duel over some issue and Iqbal Singh, in a fit of rage, opened five to six rounds of fire from his AK-47 rifle and killed Mohammad Yunis on the spot,” said a police officer. The incident took place around 10.50pm on Wednesday.The body of the deceased was shifted to Government Medical College Kathua where post-mortem was conducted on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cop-kills-colleague-at-police-lines-in-kathua-arrested-101628798447875.html
13-08-2021||Other||In disaster prone HP, setting up of SDRF caught in red tape||Even as the Kinnaur landslide tragedy has turned back focus on the delicate ecology of the region, the Himachal Pradesh government seems to have learnt no lessons as the plan to set up a state disaster response force (SDRF) is still caught in a red-tape after over a decade. Notwithstanding the state’s vulnerability to natural disasters, which continue to claim life and cause widespread destruction of property, the proposal still shuttles from one office to another. Every time a disaster strikes, the state government has to either look up to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), army or paramilitary forces for help. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) had asked all states to constitute their own response force to tackle disasters after which the then Prem Kumar Dhumal-led government had mooted a proposal but the matter was put on a backburner. It was after the 2013 rains that triggered a devastating flood in Kinnaur that the state government asked the department concerned to speed up the process to set up the force. State police then drew up a plan to raise three companies of SDRF -- one each it is stationed at Pandoh in Mandi, Dharamshala, and the state capital Shimla. It proposed that police personnel in the SDRF companies will serve a minimum of five years before being replaced by younger cops. State had to bear the cost of raising SDRF. The state government also discussed the proposal with the NDMA which agreed to provide equipment but said no to train the police personnel. The NDMA said the option was unviable as cops have to perform other important duties like maintaining law and order. The state government re-examined the proposal of setting up SDRF after the heavy monsoon rains caused widespread devastation in 2018. It pushed a proposal envisaging setting up a team of 350 personnel. Government proposed to draw 50 police personnel each from the six Indian reserve battalions in the state. However, the state police turned down the scheme citing shortage of personnel after which the government proposed to form the SDRF by recruiting personnel from home guards and fire department. This year, 249 people had been killed in natural calamities in the monsoon season till August 12 while the state has suffered cumulative losses upto ₹783.crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-disaster-prone-hp-setting-up-of-sdrf-caught-in-red-tape-101628798328456.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vendors on roadsides leading to traffic bottlenecks in Chandigarh’s southern sectors||Ever since Covid restrictions in the city have been lifted, many vendors have started setting up their stalls on roadside in many southern sectors. This leads to traffic congestion, especially in the evenings, as people park their cars in the middle of the road to make purchases.The dividing road between Sectors 46 and 47 has been fully occupied by these vendors, who park their transport autos and rehris on the roadside to sell fruits and vegetables. HS Maken, member of the Sector 47-C Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA), said, “This is a recurring problem on this road. Before the pandemic started, they had stopped setting up stalls here, but now, they have started again.”Maken added that the authorities routinely organise drives to remove them, but they return after a few days. President of the Sector 48 RWA, JJ Singh, said, “The vending zone in Sector 48 is overrun by weeds and abandoned. Why can’t these vendors be shifted here?” He added that Sector 48 has its own problem with vendors near Blossom Cooperative Society in Sector 48-A.In Sector 45 tool, vendors have taken over most of the roads inside the sector, as per social activist Kusum Ghai. “Stalls have been set up on both sides of the road near the Burail mandi, making it difficult for vehicles to move. The vendors hardly ever wear masks and authorities do nothing about it despite repeated complaints,” she said.Kuljinder Sra, general secretary of the Sector 33-B RWA , said he has written to the police about this, but to no avail. “Due to the lackadaisical attitude of beat cops here, an increasing number of vendors are setting up here. They are present at the entrances of the sector, even as authorities have been ignoring my complaints,” he added.Setting up of stalls is not allowed park vehicles to make purchases is not allowed on V3 and V4 roads. Violators can be challaned and traffic police officers said they will look into the matter.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma further added, “I have briefed the enforcement superintendent to make sure that vendors are at least 50 metres away from roads near V4 roads and 100 metres away from V3 roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vendors-on-roadsides-leading-to-traffic-bottlenecks-in-chandigarh-s-southern-sectors-101628798207950.html
13-08-2021||Other||Ready for stir against farm laws till 2024, say SKM leaders||BARNALA Senior leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) claimed on Thursday that farmers are ready to fight against the Centre’s three farm laws on agriculture till 2024. If required, the farmer unions will continue their stir, till the laws are repealed. Farmers and other social activists has gathered here to mark the 24th death anniversary of Kiranjeet Kaur, the daughter of a retired teacher, from Mehal Kalan in the district. She was kidnapped, gang-raped and killed. SKM leader Ruldu Singh Mansa said, “Only when Prime Minister Narendra Modi agrees to our demands, the matter will be resolved. It is a fight between capitalism and the labour class. Farmers are ready to fight till 2024.”Buta Singh Burjgill, chief of BKU (Dakaunda), said the death anniversary of Kiranjit was also observed by the farmers at Mehal Kalan. “Under farmers’ pressure, MPs of opposition parties raised their voice against the three black laws in Parliament in this session,” added Burjgill.The death anniversary also witnessed massive participation of women. Farm leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala and Manjit Singh Dhaner addressed the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ready-for-stir-against-farm-laws-till-2024-say-skm-leaders-101628798150322.html
13-08-2021||Other||Kinnaur landslide: Rat inspired survivor to dig himself out of debris||Charanjit Singh, whose Bolero camper had slid down the national highway minutes after he got off it, said he was left covered in the debris up to the waist level but he did not give up hope. “I called out for help several times but no one heard me. Then I thought about how rats dig holes in the earth, and started removing the debris around my legs with my own hands,” said Charanjit, who is a driver with the Shorang hydel project and was enroute from Bhawanagar to Rampur when disaster struck.Police had also reached the spot to rescue him, but had to turn back twice as the boulders continued to fall at frequent intervals. He was finally rescued in the third attempt.Charanjit also saw the HRTC bus falling off the cliff. The bodies of four passengers of the bus were recovered today while at least 20 are still feared to be trapped under the debris.Mahender Pal, the driver of the ill-fated bus, who was among the first batch of survivors, is still in shock. “When I saw the rocks falling down, I stopped the bus and alighted from the vehicle to assess the situation. But just as I turned back to return to the bus, I saw it rolling down the side of the hill. It seemed like the entire hill was crumbling. I, along with conductor and another person, just stood on one side, praying for our life. We were lucky that we survived. But I pray that the other passengers survive,” said the bus driver who is currently undergoing treatment at the community health centre in Bhawanagar. According to him, there were 24 passengers in the bus when it rolled down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kinnaur-landslide-rat-inspired-survivor-to-dig-himself-out-of-debris-101628798087975.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||First payment of Mohali ESIC Covid relief scheme released||The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), Mohali, has released the first payment of its Covid relief scheme. In the event of death of a worker due to the contagion, 90% of his/her average wage will be distributed among the eligible dependent family members and credited to their bank accounts every month. The spouse of a deceased worker is also eligible for medical care on the yearly contribution of ₹120. The scheme also covers virus-related deaths occurring within 30 days after recovery from Covid. In the event of unfortunate death of a worker, ₹15,000 is paid to whoever performs the last rites of the insured person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-payment-of-mohali-esic-covid-relief-scheme-released-101628798028517.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||MACT awards ₹13.9 lakh to kin of Panchkula man killed in accident||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal has awarded to a Raipur Rani woman and her son compensation of ₹13.95 lakh after she lost her husband in a road accident in 2018. It was stated in a petition filed by Dropa Devi that on November 15, 2018, her husband, Vishal, had died on the spot after his bike was hit by a tractor trailer on Mouli Jatwar Road. His family said he worked working as a labourer and earned about ₹12,000. In the same case, relief of ₹10,000 was granted to one Rinku Devi, who, along with her husband, had taken lift on Vishal’s bike before the accident. Rinku Devi had sustained multiple injuries in the mishap. In her petition, she also mentioned that she had spent ₹80,000 on her treatment and she “has become permanently disabled and been deprived of her income”. Out of the Dropa Devi’s compensation, ₹13.5 lakh will be payable to her whereas ₹40,000 would go to her son Devendra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mact-awards-13-9-lakh-to-kin-of-panchkula-man-killed-in-accident-101628797969133.html
13-08-2021||Other||No private hospital in southern Punjab overcharged for Covid treatment: Health dept||Bathinda State health department has claimed that its investigation and field visits have found that no private hospital in southern Punjab overcharged any patient for Covid-19 treatment. In seven districts of the south Malwa belt, only Bathinda reported 10 complaints against medical institutes. Bathinda civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon said of these, four complaints were under investigation, whereas six cases have been disposed of.In the rest of the six districts, no patient lodged a complaint with the authorities about overcharging by the hospitals or diagnostic laboratories.“To date, the maximum punishment in Covid-19 related cases from the region has been meted out to Global Healthcare, a city-based super-specialty private hospital, where it was barred from admitting new coronavirus cases till July-end from June 1,” Dr Dhillon added. An inspection by the health team in May found the hospital had admitted four times its authorised strength of patients with level-3 complication (critically-ill patients). “To date, there is not even a single case where a complainant furnished documentary evidence to support an allegation of charging more than rates fixed by the state government. A bunch of complaints were registered against four private laboratories in Bathinda for charging more than the state government’s price list. None of these cases, however, were referred by any doctor or tagged as Covid-19 patients or suspected cases of the infection. The administration let these off with a strict warning,” Dr Dhillon added.Departmental probes have said that in one case it was found the deceased was not a Covid-19 patient, while in two instances, the complainants were withdrawn. In another case, the claim of overruled as the hospital bill was covered under medical insurance. “The state government’s policy was framed for a patient paying from his own pocket,” the doctor added.“Some unscrupulous elements were found making frivolous charges of medical negligence and overcharging by a leading medical facility on social media. There was not a single representation against it with us,” says a health department official requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-private-hospital-in-southern-punjab-overcharged-for-covid-treatment-health-dept-101628797967921.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||132 unsafe buildings in Ludhiana city, many over 100 years old: Survey||Not just RT Woolen Mills on RK Road, but there are 132 unsafe buildings in the city that pose a risk to the public, a survey carried out by the civic body had revealed. However, the buildings have neither been razed nor was any action taken against the owners. Many buildings that were constructed over 100 years ago are still occupied. “The civic body has been writing to the police department to get these buildings vacated stating that the MC does not have the powers to get the buildings vacated under Municipal Corporation Act, 1976.” MC officials claim that the owners and tenants in most of buildings are at loggerheads over possession and the cases are sub-judice, due to which the MC cannot take any action. Notices have been issued to the occupants saying they must vacate the vulnerable buildings. Of the 132 buildings, 64 buildings are in Zone A, 21 in Zone B, 14 in Zone C and 33 in Zone D. The buildings are situated in the Chaura Bazar area, Daresi Road, Rarri Mohalla, Lakkar Bazar, Field Ganj, Iqbal Ganj chowk, Moti Nagar, Amarpura, Dashmesh Nagar near Gill Chowk, Jawaddi and Barewal among other areas. The building collapse on Thursday was not an isolated incident. 70-year-old Gurcharan Singh had died in 2015 died after a part of an unsafe building collapsed, while the owner of an 80-year-old unsafe building on Deepak Cinema Road, Ashok Kumar Behal, 65, had a narrow escape after a portion of the building collapsed on July 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/132-unsafe-buildings-in-ludhiana-city-many-over-100-years-old-survey-101628797907905.html
13-08-2021||Other||HP govt makes efforts to declare monkeys vermin again||Replying to a question by Jogindernagar MLA Prakash Rana in the assembly on Thursday, forest minister Rakesh Pathania said the forest department has been carrying out sterilisation of monkeys to deal with the monkey menace in the state.He said a total of 2,726 monkeys have been sterilised in the Jogindernagar assembly segment while the department is also planting fruit-bearing trees in forest areas so that monkeys do not venture into villages.He said the state government had also taken up the issue of monkey menace with the Centre after which the Union ministry of forests, environment and climate change declared monkeys vermin in parts of the state, including 10 tehsils and sub-tehsils of Mandi districts vide notification issued on April 23, 2020.He said the notification expired on April 22, 2021, and efforts were on to get it extended for one more year. Apart from it, nine animal and bird species including wild boar, blue bull, parrot, cheetal, samabar dear etc, have been declared a threat to the crops.The divisional forest officers concerned can issue permits to kill these animals by recording the reason, he said. 28 cases of apple crop payments pending before SIT Horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur informed that a total of 28 cases and 311 complaints were pending before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) for recovery of payments of apple crop from commission agents. He was replying to question raised by Theogh legislator Rakesh Singha. He said an amount of more than ₹13.40 crore is to be recovered from the commission agents. No proposal of regularising ASHA workersServices of ASHA workers are purely incentive-based for which the government of India has not fixed any working hours, health minister Rajiv Saizal said on Thursday. He was replying to a question asked by Theog MLA Rakesh Singha and Nagrota Bagwan legislator Arun Kumar.He said an ASHA worker is paid a monthly honorarium of ₹2,000/month by the Centre and an additional ₹2,000/month by the state government from its exchequer which is now being enhanced to ₹2,750 with effect from April 1, 2021. The amount will be disbursed accordingly to all the ASHAs.They are also entitled for additional incentives, based on their performance. ASHA workers are local residents of the area who cover 800 people in rural areas and 2,500 in urban areas, said the health minister adding that each household under the population of the ward/panchayat has to be covered by an ASHA.The ASHA being a local resident of her area works only in her panchayat/ward and there is no provision to provide a vehicle facility to them. He said ASHAs are honorarium-based workers hence there is no proposal of regularising their services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-govt-makes-efforts-to-declare-monkeys-vermin-again-101628797668106.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Now, zip around Chandigarh on rented bicycles||The first phase of the public bicycle sharing system was launched on Thursday, making 1,250 bicycles available to public at 155 docking stations across the city. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore launched the project at Shanti Kunj, Sector 16.Users can borrow a bicycle for ₹10 per half an hour, while the charge will drop to ₹5 per half an hour for those holding annual membership worth ₹500. The bicycles can be borrowed after registering on the Smart Bike app.Speaking about the project, Badnore said Chandigarh was the only city to launch the project on pan-city basis and was proud to announce the deployment of pedal-assisted, hybrid e-bicycles as well. The project will ultimately be expanded to 5,000 bicycles and 617 stations in a year’s time, making it India’s densest and largest PBS system.The project includes bicycles, docking stations, GPS-based tracking, central control system with call centre, workshop, user registration and fare collection system through a mobile app, and advertisement space. It will be maintained by the concessionaire for 10 years.Track garbage collection vehicles with app A mobile app to track garbage collection vehicles, and a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system for it was also launched.It will help monitor, track and manage various solid waste management tasks related to door-to-door collection through GPS-enabled devices, mounted on 642 vehicles. The movement of the vehicles will also be monitored by a team at the command and control centre to ensure assigned routes are followed.Residents can register on Clean Chandigarh App to get a notification on their mobile phone when the vehicle is about to reach their vicinity. They can also see the route of the waste collection vehicle assigned to their area. In the event of vehicle breakdown, the command centre will get an alert and replacement vehicle will be assigned to complete the work.SCADA for tertiary waterThe SCADA for tertiary treated water recycled water distribution system was also launched. It will monitor daily supply and requisite parameters for better management of tertiary treated (TT) water distribution system.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said for this project, a mobile app had also been developed to fetch real-time data by the city officials. With this, monitoring and data collection related to TT water will help in analysis of flow of the supply, along with quantity and quality parameters, which will help in future use of TT water for various purposes.Online approvals for commercial building plansUnder the Online Building Plan Approval System (OBPAS) for commercial units, launched on Thursday, residents will now be able to apply for approval of commercial building plans online.SMS and email notifications will be sent to citizens with regard to their application status and further to pay the fee online. Residents and architects can also avail of 24 x 7 support at 0172-278-7200.Registration form for the architects is available on MCC and CSCL web portal (mcchandigarh.gov.in and www.chandigarhsmartcity.in). The form will be approved by the department of urban planning (architecture wing), and username and password will be shared with the architects through e-mail. The centralised dashboard will help track applications status and also grievances of applicants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-zip-around-chandigarh-on-rented-bicycles-101628797609791.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate polls: Goyal group gets three seats from 2 campus teachers’ constituencies||The alliance between Navdeep Goyal and Ashok Goyal retained majority in the contest for two teachers’ constituencies of the Panjab University (PU) campus, results for which were declared on Thursday.Of the four elected candidates from the constituencies of professors and associate/assistant professors, three candidates — Jatinder Grover, Rajat Sandhir and Parveen Goyal — belong to the Goyal group. Another candidate, Dinesh Kumar, who was elected, was contesting independently.While Rajat and Jatinder were elected from professors’ constituency, Parveen and Dinesh were elected from the constituency of associate/assistant professors.Polling for both the constituencies was held on August 10.In the constituency of professors of university teaching departments, Jatinder secured 94 votes after the final round of counting and was declared winner from the arts faculty, while Rajat, who was contesting from sciences, secured 54 votes.Jatinder was in a neck and neck fight with Sanjay Kaushik, who managed to secure 91 votes after the final round of counting.Grover said, “I will ensure more participation of teachers in the affairs of the university and better facilities to teachers as well as students to improve research and academia. Faculty recruitment will be among my priorities.”Stressing that they would ensure that the democratic structure of the varsity remains intact, Rajat said, “I would work on early implementation of seventh pay commission and resolution of the promotion policy of dental faculty, besides enhancing the academic and research environment in PU.”Constituency of associate/assistant professorsIn the constituency of associate/assistant professors, Dinesh Kumar (arts) secured 116 votes after the final round of counting, while Parveen Goyal (sciences) got 136 votes. Seven candidates were in fray from this constituency.Dinesh said, “My foremost focus and agenda for now will be on issues like implementation of the seventh pay commission, passing of CAS policy for dental college faculty and most importantly, strengthening the internal dispute resolution mechanism to avoid unnecessary litigation.”“I will be the voice of teachers and ensure that their issues are resolved timely,” said Parveen. Now, the registered graduates’ constituency, which is the largest with 3,61,869 voters, will go to polls on August 18, along with the constituencies of heads and associate/assistant professors of affiliated arts colleges. Voting for the constituency of faculties will be held last on August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pusenate-polls-goyal-group-gets-three-seats-from-2-campus-teachers-constituencies-101628797308015.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Missing ₹5-crore bank guarantee: Vigilance books two PUDA staffers||Nearly six years after a ₹5-crore bank guarantee submitted by a hotel firm went missing at Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA), the Punjab Vigilance Bureau has booked two employees of the authority for forgery.Among the two accused, Harpreet Singh, a clerk, has been arrested, while Raj Kumar Garg,an administrative officer, who has since retired, is at large.It was in 2009 when Blue Coast Hotels and Resorts Limited had applied for a hotel site in Amritsar through Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) that further asked PUDA to allot the land.For this, the company submitted a bank guarantee of ₹5 crore to PIDB that forwarded it to PUDA. Before its expiry on March 31, 2013, the firm wrote to the PUDA chief administrator (CA) in February to extend the bank guarantee till 2016 as they had not got site clearance. But the officials concerned failed to do so, despite the directions of the CA, and the guarantee’s period expired.Following this, the then CA, Manvesh Singh Sidhu, directed the officials to fix the responsibility of the negligent staff. After an internal probe, the bank guarantee was found missing, following which an FIR of theft was registered against Raj Kumar Garg. In 2018, the case was handed over to the Vigilance Bureau. After a three-year-long probe, the bureau established that the bank guarantee was not stolen, but deliberately misplaced under a conspiracy by Garg and Singh.As such, the theft FIR lodged under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was changed to Sections 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC, and Section 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act.“We have arrested Harpreet Singh, who has been sent to two-day police remand, and will also nab Garg soon. We are looking into who was benefitted by their act of destroying the evidence and the role of the hotel firm,” said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ajay Kumar.Garg retired in September 2013 and is currently living in Sector 67, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalimissing-5-crore-bank-guarantee-vigilance-books-two-puda-staffers-101628797247929.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana building collapse: Escaped certain death by a whisker, say labourers||“It seemed like someone had set off a bomb. The building collapsed within seconds. Bricks, and iron grills were falling from the roof at full tilt. Luckily, nobody was buried in the rubble, and we made it out,” says a labourer, Laxman, who had escaped unscathed.Arush, 2; Gobind Kumar 17; Sunil Kumar 33; Manoj, 22; Pooja, 28; Pawan Kumar, 35; and Malkhan, 35, who were not so lucky, have been admitted to a private hospital. Eight-year-old Prem was discharged with three stitches on his head.The labourers, who had a close shave after the adjoining building suddenly collapsed with the rubble falling on the roof of their quarters, say that it was a stroke of luck that the incident did not take place during night, as many people sleep in the verandah or open spaces. Many people were just returning from the night shift, while others were busy with routine chores when the incident took place. Around 400 labourers live in over 150 labour quarters in the building.Waiting outside the emergency ward of the hospital, Jagatram, whose brother Sunil was injured in the incident, said, “ I was inside my room when the bricks started falling. People started screaming and I was sure that we were all going to die.”Sunil’s wife, Malti Devi said, “My husband, our two children and I were inside our room when the building collapsed. Hearing a blast-like sound Sunil ran outside and was promptly hit on the head with a falling brick. There was dust all around and the injured were lying on the floor with bricks and irons grills crushing them.”Shiv Nath, a relative of 28-year-old Pooja and her two-year-old son Arush, who sustained serious injuries, said, “Pooja was busy with household chores and her son close by when the building collapse. We can only hope that they survive as their injuries are grave.”One Krishna, who works at the adjoining transport shed, said he saw the first few bricks fall and raised the alarm, due to which six employees, who were inside the shed came out safe. The building came crashing down seconds later.The labourers have demanded compensation from the administration saying that they could not afford to pay for the treatment of the injured. A labourer, Durga Baba, said, “The owner of labour quarters has submitted some amount with the hospital, but that will not be enough. The owner of the building that collapsed has not even visited the hospital.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said,” Tara Chand, the owner of the unsafe building, will pay for the treatment of the injured labourers.” The labourers have demanded compensation from the administration saying that they cannot afford to pay for the treatment of the injured. A labourer, Durga Baba, said, “The owner of labour quarters has submitted some amount with the hospital, but that will not be enough. The owner of the building which collapsed has not even visited the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-building-collapse-escaped-certain-death-by-a-whisker-say-labourers-101628797187854.html
13-08-2021||Other||In this Punjab village, villagers block access to drug peddlers’ street||Moga In the by-lanes of the Moga village of Chuhar Chak, it is the residents who have taken upon themselves to eradicate the drug menace. Claiming that the police and the civic administration have failed to act on their repeated complaints, residents have cordoned off the main road that leads to a street, where drugs are bought and sold. Villagers claim that of 30-odd houses in this street, seven are in the business of drug peddling. It has been eight days since they cordoned off the thoroughfare.The issue has assumed such grave proportions here that Kamaljeet Kaur, 40, a mother of two teenaged sons, wants the police to arrest them. The sons have already sold all household items to finance their addiction and have now taken to selling wheat. “The administration and police are not doing their duty. I am requesting the police to arrest my both sons in any case. This is the only solution to stop their addiction,” she said, adding that this was the story of the majority of households.Villagers have identified 17 persons who are allegedly selling drugs; they claimed to have handed over the list to police, but no action has resulted. Gurdarshan Singh, 73, a retired sub-inspector from CRPF, said, “Over the past two years, the illegal practice of drug peddling has only gotten worse. Now, we have decided to take action on our own.”Another village resident, Resham Singh, 45, said, “Last year, I found that my son had started taking drugs and he was buying them from our neighbours. I had to shift him to Daroli Bhai village with my relatives. I am not allowing him to visit his own village. Now, we have cordoned off the road and are not allowing anyone to buy drugs.”Mandeep Kaur, 57, said, “I live on the street and drug peddlers and addicts used to cram it with their vehicles. I, along with dozens of women, went to the local police station to seek help, but nothing happened. We will end the menace on our own.”Sarpanch Charanjeet Kaur said, “We want to eradicate drug menace from the village. Over the past two years, 12 people have died around the infamous street.” Moga SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said, “There is no such list of names of drug peddlers or houses on record with my office. I have asked SP (D) to work on villagers’ allegations. Truth will prevail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-this-punjab-village-villagers-block-access-to-drug-peddlers-street-101628797068764.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Olympians from Punjab honoured, 20 players handed ₹28.36 cr||Clad in red turban, Indian men’s hockey team captain Manpreet Singh was cynosure of all eyes during the glittering felicitation function organised by Punjab government to honour state athletes who participated and won medals at the Tokyo Olympics 2020, at the Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh on Thursday evening. From village Mithapur, Manpreet, who is a DSP with Punjab Police, not only fetched cash prize of ₹2.5 crore but was also promoted to the post of superintendent of police. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced this during the function. A beaming Manpreet said, “Thanks to the Punjab government for appreciating our efforts. We will work harder in the coming months towards securing medals in the upcoming World Cup, Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games. It is a huge encouragement when your state recognises sportspersons’ efforts and looks after their requirements.” The cash reward for 11 players from the state, who were part of the Indian hockey team which won a medal (bronze) after 41 years, was increased from earlier announcement of ₹1 crore to ₹2.51 crore each. Apart from Manpreet, vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh, Rupinder Pal Singh, Simranjit Singh, Mandeep Singh, Gurjant Singh, Shamsher Singh, Varun Kumar, Dilpreet Singh, Hardik Singh and Krishan Pathak from Punjab were honoured with ₹2.51 crore each. Nine other athletes were also felicitated with cash awards during the function. Hockey players Reena Khokhar and Gurjit Kaur, and discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur, who took sixth position, were handed over ₹50 lakh each. Boxer Simranjit Kaur, shooters Anjum Moudgill and Angadveer Singh, athletes Tejinder Pal Singh Toor and Gurpreet Singh, and paralympic badminton player Palak Kohli were given ₹21 lakh each. The Punjab chief minister assured government jobs to all athletes present during the function. A cash award of ₹2.51 crore was also announced for gold medallist Neeraj Chopra, who has roots in Punjab. Earlier, government had announced ₹2 crore cash reward for the javelin thrower. The 23-year-old athlete from Haryana could not make it to the function. Punjab chief minister announced that the state government would soon work out modalities for providing jobs to the medallists and asked the state chief secretary to examine the matter on priority before taking a final decision. The chief minister, along with the Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore, also transferred the cash prize money online in the accounts of the players. The women hockey players presented a hockey stick to the chief minister with signatures of the entire team members. In recognition of the stupendous performance of state players in Olympics, Captain Amarinder announced to name the schools and approach roads leading to players’ native villages after them. The chief minister said that the upcoming ‘Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University, Patiala’ will further boost sports in Punjab. He also asked the sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi to chalk out a blueprint for developing ultramodern stadiums for different sports in consultation with the players and their coaches. While making a special mention of the hockey legend Balbir Singh Senior and iconic athlete Milkha Singh, he said, “Nobody would have been happier than these two stalwarts at this rare achievement, had they been alive today.” Punjab governor appreciated the spirit of the players to join the police force and also made an offer to the willing players to join the Chandigarh Police. Speaking on the occasion, sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi announced that the Punjab government would soon set up a hockey academy for women on the lines of Surjit Hockey Academy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/olympians-from-punjab-honoured-20-players-handed-28-36-cr-101628797010766.html
13-08-2021||Other||SAD Sanyukt in talks for poll alliance with AAP, no question of merger: Dhindsa||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Sanyukt president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Thursday said that talks with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) are on for an electoral alliance, but there was no question of their merging into the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). He was responding to media query on the issue. Dhindsa, also a Rajya Sabha MP, announced the formation of an electoral front with Azad Samaj Party (ASP) that Kanshi Ram’ sister, Swaran Kaur, leads as a patron. Kanshi Ram founded the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) which now has a pre-poll alliance with the SAD. Others who came in support of SAD (Samyukt) today included Bhim Army president, Chandra Shekhar Azad; SAD (Kirti) president Buta Singh Ransee; state president Janata Dal (Secular) Avtar Singh, state president of Janata Dal-United Manvinderpal Singh Benipal and National Secretary of Indian Union Muslim League (Banatwala) Coordination Committee Maqsood-ul-Haq. “The new front will take on the Badals and the Congress in Punjab assembly elections,” Dhindsa said, alleging that the Badals hade tarnished the image of SAD which has a glorious history of sacrifices. He reiterated that his party will not be part of the SGPC polls, as it wanted to stop politicians’ interference in the body. Dhindsa called upon Punjabis to support his party to free the state of mafias. “Our party would ensure that the investment in education is increased and industry is brought back on track.”Former union minister Balwant Singh Ramoowalia, former SAD leader Jagdish Singh Garcha, former deputy speaker vidhan sabha Bir Davinder Singh, Justice (Retd) Nirmal Singh, former MP Paramjit Kaur Gulshan, and former minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-sanyukt-in-talks-for-poll-alliance-with-aap-no-question-of-merger-dhindsa-101628796708321.html
13-08-2021||Other||Haryana govt cannot suppress farm agitation by registering FIRs against farmers: Tikait||Farm leader Rakesh Tikait said on Thursday that the Haryana government led by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar cannot suppress the farmers’ agitation by registering FIRs against farmers and sending them to jail.“The Haryana government is trying to silence farmers by registering FIRs, but they cannot suppress it by using police force,” Tikait said during his visit at Jat Dharmshala in Kurukshetra.“Farmers are protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws. We don’t understand why the Haryana CM is taking action against farmers,” he said.“Movements so not end by registration of FIRs and the government should understand it,” he said.Tikait slammed the Haryana government for arresting around 200 farmers in Ambala for showing black flags to state home minister Anil Vij.He said, “There are no differences between BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni and leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). He is with the Morcha and we will continue our fight united.”He said the agitation is going on in the right direction and the government will have to repeal the “black laws”.“Farmers are known for their patience and we will wait for the government to resume talks,” Tikait said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-govt-cannot-suppress-farm-agitation-by-registering-firs-against-farmers-tikait-101628796527727.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Decades after anti-Sikh riots, UP cops examine crime scene again||Kanpur A special investigation team (SIT) is re-examining the scene of a crime decades after two men were allegedly murdered and their bodies set on fire in their house here during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.Crucial evidence, including blood samples, has been lifted this week from a locked house in city’s Govind Nagar, attacked by a mob during the anti-Sikh riots that followed the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi.The SIT, formed by the Yogi Adityanath government on the orders of the Supreme Court, entered the locked house with a forensic team on Tuesday, superintendent of police (SIT) Balendu Bhushan said.After Delhi, Kanpur was among the worse-hit by the violence. Teja Singh (45) and his son Satpal Singh (22) were killed on November 1, 1984.The SIT has got the statement of Teja Singh’s surviving son, Charanjeet Singh -- now 61 and a resident of Delhi -- recorded before a special magistrate.The witness narrated the horrific episode and disclosed the identities of those allegedly involved in the murders. The surviving members of Teja Singh’s family had sold off the Kanpur house and moved first to Punjab and then Delhi. A Kanpur sub-inspector filed the FIR.SP Bhushan said the crime scene was undisturbed as the new occupants stayed on the first floor. The ground floor rooms where the murders took place remained locked.The SIT entered the house in the presence of an eyewitness to the attack who lived in the same area.Bhushan said the forensic science laboratory determined that the blood samples collected were of human beings, which confirmed that killings had taken place there.Earlier this year, the SIT had collected blood samples from a house in Kanpur’s Naubasta area. It too had been locked up after a similar attack.The Uttar Pradesh SIT was formed to revisit cases filed after the 1984 riots.The Kanpur SSP provided the SIT with a list of 40 cases of serious nature. Of them, the Kanpur Police had filed charge sheets in 11 cases and final reports in the remaining 29, which lacked substantial evidence.But the accused were acquitted in all 11 cases with the trial court citing lack of evidence.“We have sought permission from the state government to file an appeal against the judgment of lower courts in five cases,” Bhushan said. “We are still waiting for the government nod.” The SIT also started further investigations in the 29 cases closed by Kanpur Police and hopes to file charge-sheet in some of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/decades-after-anti-sikh-riots-up-cops-examine-crime-scene-again-101628796467962.html
13-08-2021||Other||Two more held in constable recruitment paper leak case in Kaithal||The Kaithal police have arrested two more persons involved in Haryana Police constable recruitment paper leak, taking the number of accused arrested in the case to 16.As per Kaithal superintendent of police Lokender Singh, the arrested accused are Ankit Kumar (21) and Vikash Kumar (24), residents of Dhamtan Sahib in Jind.Police did not disclose how they are involved in the case.Police have recovered two mobile phones allegedly used to circulate answer keys from their possession. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.As per probe, Narender had allegedly purchased the answer keys at ₹1 crore from unknown sources and sold it to the aspirants with the help of owner of a coaching centre (Ramesh) at ₹12-18 lakh per candidate.Police have so far arrested 16 people in the case, including four candidates and three relatives of candidates.The written exam for the recruitment of 5,500 male constables was scheduled on July 7 and 8 but the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) cancelled the exam on August 7, hours after reports of answer key leak.Police have still not reached any conclusion as to from where Narender got the answer keys and whether any officials from the HSSC are involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-more-held-in-constable-recruitment-paper-leak-case-in-kaithal-101628796407979.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||40 new soil testing labs set up in Haryana||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday inaugurated 40 new soil testing laboratories set up at block level through video conferencing.The labs have been set up under the state government’s ‘Har Khet Swasth Khet’ programme. In the first phase, soil testing of 25 lakh acre land will be done this year through these labs.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal and marketing board chairman Nayanpal Rawat were also present on the occasion. Union minister of state Krishan Pal Gujjar, state ministers, MPs and MLAs joined the programme through video conferencing.Khattar said the state government is leaving no stone unturned to realise PM Narendra Modi’s vision of doubling income of farmers.Soil testing labs have been set up so that farmers can be made aware of what crop should be sown where based on the soil health, he added.Khattar said in the next three years, soil testing of entire 75 lakh acre agricultural land in Haryana will be done.‘Earn while you learn’The chief minister directed officers of the agriculture department to make a comprehensive plan to ensure participation of senior secondary schools and college students in the work of soil testing so that students can earn while studying.He said students engaged in this work will get an honorarium of ₹40 per sample.Under the programme, last year 115 science teachers and assistant professors of schools and colleges imparted soil testing training.While 50 small soil labs have already been established in government senior secondary schools and 65 more such labs are being set up in schools and colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/40-new-soil-testing-labs-set-up-in-haryana-101628796227908.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Dattatreya to unfurl Tricolour in Gurugram on I-Day||Haryana will hold the state-level Independence Day function at Gurugram where governor Bandaru Dattatreya will unfurl the national flag.The ‘At Home’ will be organised in Gurugram later in the evening on the same day, an official spokesperson said.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will hoist the national flag at Faridabad, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala at Mahendragarh, Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta at Karnal, and deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa at Bhiwani.According to the spokesperson, among the cabinet ministers, Anil Vij will unfurl the Tricolour at Ambala, Kanwar Pal at Charkhi Dadri, Mool Chand Sharma at Palwal, Ranjit Singh at Fatehabad, JP Dalal at Panchkula, and Banwari Lal at Panipat.Minister of state OP Yadav will unfurl the national flag at Yamunanagar, Kamlesh Dhanda at Hisar, Anoop Dhanak at Rewari, and Sandeep Singh at Nuh.The Karnal divisional commissioner will hoist national flag at Kaithal, Rohtak divisional commissioner at Rohtak, Hisar divisional commissioner at Sirsa, and Kurukshetra deputy commissioner at Kurukshetra.If any of the dignitaries or officers are unable to reach the places due to any reason, the DC concerned will hoist the national flag there, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dattatreya-to-unfurl-tricolour-in-gurugram-on-iday-101628796169661.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||PNB fraud accused allowed to attend kin’s roka ceremony in Mumbai||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Thursday granted interim bail to Gitanjali Group’s vice-president Vipul Chitalia, who is an accused in the ₹13,500-crore fraud at state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB).Chitalia had approached the court through his counsel for temporary bail to attend the roka ceremony (a pre-wedding ritual) of his daughter.A special CBI judge allowed Chitalia to attend the function at his residence in Borivli on Saturday and Sunday. The court has also directed the police to escort him for the purpose. Chitalia was arrested in March 2018 and is currently lodged in Arthur Road prison.Absconding diamond trader Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi allegedly perpetuated the massive fraud with the help of two PNB staffers. The duo is accused of obtaining letters of undertakings (LoUs) and foreign letters of credit (FLCs) of about ₹13,500 crore from Brady House branch of PNB in favour of foreign branches of Indian banks, based on fraudulent documents, and allegedly siphoned off the money.The two PNB staffers did not enter the LoUs and FLCs in the computerised core banking system to avoid scrutiny and allegedly carried out the fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pnb-fraud-accused-allowed-to-attend-kin-s-roka-ceremony-in-mumbai-101628796168400.html
13-08-2021||Other||IRCTC’s festive offer for women boarding Tejas Express||LUCKNOW Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will provide 5 per cent cashback to women passengers travelling by the Tejas Express. Ajit Kumar Sinha, chief regional manager, IRCTC regional office, Lucknow said that the cash back offer has been made ahead of the festival of Raksha Bandhan and would be valid from August 15 to August 24. Sinha said the Delhi bound train runs four days a week. The days on which the train operates are Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Sinha said IRCTC has made elaborate safety arrangement on Tejas and the staff travelling by the train has been directed to follow all COVID guidelines. These include thermal scanning, luggage sanitisation and providing safety kit to all passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/irctcs-festive-offer-for-women-boarding-tejas-express-101628796167215.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||UPSC panel shortlists 3 IPS officers for post of new Haryana DGP||Strap: DG (vigilance) PK Agrawal seems an obvious choice for the top job The empanelment committee of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) went strictly by seniority to shortlist a panel of three senior-most Haryana IPS officers on Thursday for selection of the new director general of police (DGP).The new police chief will be picked by the state government from among these three officers.The 1988-batch officer and director general (vigilance bureau) PK Agrawal, who is the senior-most of the three seems to be the obvious choice, followed by 1989-batch officer and DG (crime) Mohammad Akil, and Haryana Police Housing Corporation managing director RC Mishra.The empanelment committee headed by UPSC member Rajiv Nayan Choubey which met in New Delhi on Thursday also approved the minutes of the meeting and the select list for conveying it to the state government.Other members of the committee include director general, CRPF, Kuldip Singh; secretary, border management, ministry of home affairs, Sanjeeva Kumar; and Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan. The new DGP is likely to be appointed in a day or two.The state government had last month set in motion the process to appoint the new police chief after incumbent DGP Manoj Yadava sought premature repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau citing career consideration and family requirements.Subsequently, a proposal containing the names of eight IPS officers was sent to the UPSC for shortlisting three senior-most officers. Seven IPS officers who have put in 30 years of service and were eligible for empanelment were in the zone of consideration.They included PK Agrawal, Mohammad Akil, RC Mishra, 1990-batch officers Shatrujeet Kapoor and Desh Raj Singh, and 1991-batch officers Alok Roy and Sanjeev Kumar Jain.As per the directions of the Supreme Court, the state DGP will be selected by the state government from among the three senior-most officers of the department who have been empanelled for promotion to that rank by the UPSC on the basis of their length of service, good record and range of experience for heading the police force.“Once he has been selected for the job, he should have a minimum tenure of two years irrespective of his date of superannuation,” said the 2006 landmark Prakash Singh judgment of the apex court.The SC had in March 2019 clarified that recommendation for appointment to the post of DGP by the UPSC and preparation of panel should be purely on the basis of merit from officers who have at least six months of service prior to retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/upsc-panel-shortlists-3-ips-officers-for-post-of-new-haryana-dgp-101628795988151.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||4 Haryana Police personnel selected for medals for excellence in investigation||Four Haryana Police personnel, including two women cops, have been chosen for the 2021 Union home minister’s medal for excellence in investigation.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Amit Dahiya, inspector Aman Kumar, inspector Poonam Kumari and sub-inspector Kamlesh are among the 152 awardees selected from across country this year.Dahiya will be honoured for speedy investigation in the rape and murder of a woman in Rohtak in which the accused was later held guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment.In another operation against white collar crime of GST fraud, Dahiya, while being posted in state crime bureau Madhuban, had busted major gangs of fraudsters involved in the scam which resulted in recovery of ₹112 crore to the state exchequer.Other three cops will also receive the honour in recognition of their innovative methods and outstanding contribution in the field of investigation.Haryana director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava congratulated them and said that it is a matter of great pride that four cops from state have been selected for the honour.Established in 2018, the aim of the award is to encourage high standards in crime investigations and recognise the “excellence in investigation” delivered by police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-haryana-police-personnel-selected-for-medals-for-excellence-in-investigation-101628795868126.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Forgery case: HC reserves order on 2019 plea by Badals||The Punjab and Haryana high court has reserved its judgment in the 2019 plea from former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, his son and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and SAD vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema in an alleged forgery case.They had approached the high court after a court of additional chief judicial magistrate, Hoshiarpur, had summoned Badals and Cheema on November 4, 2019, in a 2009 case of alleged forgery and cheating filed by one Balwant Singh Khera.In February 2009, Khera had filed a complaint alleging that the SAD possessed two constitutions – one that it had submitted with the Gurdwara Election Commission and the other with the Election Commission (EC). The Badals and Cheema had approached the high court seeking quashing of the complaint and the summoning order in which they were asked to face the trial for cheating, criminal conspiracy, forgery, submitting forged document and using forged document as genuine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/forgery-case-hc-reserves-order-on-2019-plea-by-badals-101628795808727.html
13-08-2021||Other||Army’s Red Eagle Div felicitated for flood relief operations in Jalaun||PRAYAGRAJ Prayagraj-based Red Eagle Division of the Indian army is carrying out flood relief operation in Jalaun district, for the past many days now. Villages here have been marooned due to the rising river water levels. Priyanka Niranjan, the Jalaun district magistrate felicitated flood relief team. “The DM expressed her gratitude towards the work done in rescuing the people stranded in the flood affected areas,” said Wing Commander Shantanu Pratap Singh, Regional PRO (defence), Prayagraj. Priyanka Niranjan highlighted the achievements of the Red Eagle team, which included rescuing more than 150 people and supplying more than 10,000 kilograms of rations and relief materials to the needy. “The team was also appreciated for rescuing three pregnant women and providing timely first aid to a ill man during the flood relief operations, thereby saving precious lives,” the regional PRO (defence) said. The DM gave an appreciation letter and a memento on behalf of the district administration to the Red Eagle Division Flood Relief Team and also took suggestions from the team for improving future flood relief operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/armys-red-eagle-div-felicitated-for-flood-relief-operations-in-jalaun-101628795807173.html
13-08-2021||Other||Vij shown black flags: After hours of deadlock, 70 arrested farmers released in Ambala||After hours of deadlock due to extreme protests by farmers near the SP office in Ambala’s police lines, at least 70 farmers who were arrested on Thursday in three separate cases were released by the police.The farmers, under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), staged a protest that led to a near face-off between them and the police for almost four hours.However, it was averted after a series of meetings between the administration and senior SKM leaders Suresh Koth, Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, Rakesh Bains and others.The high drama started on Wednesday night after police arrested one Aman, of Machounda for allegedly showing black flags to Haryana home minister Anil Vij while he was returning after a meeting with his ailing PA Ajay Kumar at his residence in Chanderpuri behind the DRM office.Many young farmers of BKU (Charuni) protested his visit at an empty plot amid sloganeering at around 8:30pm.Water cannon boy Navdeep Singh from Jalbera was also arrested late at 2am, while he was heading to Machounda after he received calls about police raids in the area. Three others were also taken into custody by the police at Parao police station.The overnight police operation prompted more farmers to gather near the police station, who staged a sit-in on NH-44 just next to Vij’s residence.All of them were detained, including the union’s district president Malkit Singh, and taken to police lines.Meanwhile, many BJP workers gathered outside Parao police station demanding early arrest of the accused. Party’s Sadar Mandal chief Rajiv Gupta alleged usage of stones and weapons (swords) to attack Vij.On the other side, the situation turned tense as farmers from nearby districts gathered at the Shambhu border and unanimously decided to gherao the SP office. A huge police force was deployed on both sides of a lane leading to police lines.At around 3pm on Thursday, a local court released Navdeep, who was arrested in an old case of June 21 lodged at the city police station for protesting against a public event of education minister Kanwar Pal.His counsel and Haryana Congress treasurer Rohit Jain said, “While the police asked for a judicial custody citing law and order, the court released him on bail terming his arrest unjustified.”Inspector Devender Singh, station in-charge, Parao police station, said two FIRs were lodged on the day.“Those who showed black flags also pelted stones and a case under the Damage to Public Property Act and related charges was lodged. Farmers, who staged a dharna in the morning, were booked for blocking the national highway and related charges.”SSP Hamid Akhtar said all arrested farmers were released. As police found no involvement of three men taken into custody last night, they were let go.“Fifteen of those who were arrested were booked by name along with 50 others. They, along with Aman, were released after being presented before a court,” the IPS officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vij-shown-black-flags-after-hours-of-deadlock-70-arrested-farmers-released-in-ambala-101628795687960.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 78 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Thursday reported 78 fresh Covid cases, taking the total count to 5,99,758, according to a medical bulletin.On Wednesday, the state had seen 107 cases.One death from Patiala took the toll to 16,334 in the state.The toll also included eight deaths, which were not reported earlier, according to the bulletin.The number of active Covid cases rose to 533 from 517 on Wednesday.Bathinda reported a maximum of 13 new cases, followed by eight in Ludhiana and seven in Hoshiarpur.With 55 recoveries from the infection, the recovery count reached 5,82,891, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-78-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101628795629294.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet meet on Aug 16||Amid factionalism in the state Congress, the Punjab cabinet will meet under the chairmanship of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday after a gap of nearly eight weeks. The meeting will take place through video conference on August 16, according to a government order. It will be the first cabinet meeting since the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress chief which was preceded by a tussle during which some cabinet ministers and MLAs were critical of the chief minister in public. Though the agenda of the cabinet meeting is yet to be circulated, a new Bill that seeks to earmark a part of the state budget for the welfare of the Scheduled Castes in proportion to their population in the state is likely to be taken up for approval. On July 29, Amarinder had given the go-ahead for putting the new Bill before the state council of ministers to the pave the way for its enactment in the next session of the Vidhan Sabha. The government also plans to bring an ordinance for establishment and incorporation of a private university coming up in Mohali which is likely to be taken up in the meeting for approval. The cabinet may also decide the date for convening the monsoon session of the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-meet-on-aug-16-101628795567764.html
13-08-2021||Lucknow||UP IPS officer accused of harassing woman gets clean chit||Inspector General (IG) of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), BR Meena, who was accused of harassing a woman has been given clean chit by an investigation committee headed by additional director general, PAC, Ajay Anand. BR Meena is presently posted in Prayagraj as inspector general (IG) of police, PAC (east zone).The committee has submitted its findings to the director general of police Mukul Goyal, a senior police official said. The official said the complainant and his family reportedly retracted their complaint a few days after the July 30 tweet in which they had mentioned about the alleged harassment. He said the family also issued a written apology to the investigation committee claiming that the tweet wasn’t authentic. On July 30, the committee was formed by the DGP to investigate the allegation against 1997 batch Indian Police Services (IPS) officer after a Ghaziabad man tweeted about the alleged harassment of his daughter by the IPS officer. The complainant tagged the chief minister Yogi Adityanath, DGP, IAS and IPS associations in his tweet. His twitter bio described him as a retired government officer and his twitter handle was created on July 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ips-officer-accused-of-harassing-woman-gets-clean-chit-101628795568240.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mali’s appointment as adviser to Sidhu raises brows in Cong||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s decision to appoint Malvinder Singh Mali, a strident critic of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, as his adviser has raised eyebrows in section of the ruling party. Sidhu, who took over as the new chief of the Punjab Congress last month, named Mali among his four advisers on Wednesday. His appointment has not gone down well with a section of the party, who are upset over his frequent comments on social media against the CM. On Amarinder’s meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday, Mali wrote: “Punjabis beware! Signals from the trio of Capt, Shah and Modi to create communal tension, fear and terror are alarm bells for Punjabis and farmers.” Capt (Amarinder) has handed over his agenda to the central government, he added on his Facebook wall. Congress leader Anish Sidana has questioned the new state chief’s decision to appoint Mali as his adviser. “His post is highly objectionable. We respect the PPCC chief since he is the appointee of the Congress president, but he should be more circumspect in selecting his team,” said the former member of the Kandi Area Development Board, seeking Mali’s removal. Another senior party leader said though it was the prerogative of the Punjab Congress president to choose his advisers, he should have taken committed Congressmen in his team. However, Mali, who started out as a student leader and then worked in education department for 19 years before turning to activism, said he had been expressing his opinion on various issues of Punjab and would continue to voice his views, but would keep in mind his role as the adviser to president of the Punjab Congress now. “I was with (former SGPC president Gurcharan Singh) Tohra Saab, but did not join the SAD or attend any of its meetings. When I was in government service, I worked as a PRO to close aides of two chief ministers Capt Amarinder and (Parkash Singh) Badal Saab but never attended any party meetings or spoke on party matters. This is not something new for me,” he said. Mali said those questioning my appointment had not understood it as he was not taking anyone’s position or joining the party. “The Congress has its own culture, and I will have nothing to do with the party’s internal matters. I will only give advice to Sidhu on his Punjab agenda and the roadmap for solutions to issues such as diversification and loot of public money,” he said.Mustafa declines Sidhu’s offer Former IPS officer Mohd Mustafa has declined state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s offer to become his adviser. Mustafa’s name was among the four advisers appointed by Sidhu on Wednesday to assist him in the daily functioning of the state. The other three advisers are Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh, Malwinder Mali and retired registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Dr Pyare Lal Garg. “I have humbly said no to this offer as I don’t find myself fit for the role. There is nothing much to it. I have thanked Sidhu for considering me,” said Mustafa.According to a senior government official, Mustafa is still in the race for an important assignment in the government.Sidhu to meet MLAs from urban areaSidhu has called a meeting of party MLAs from urban areas in Chandigarh on Friday to discuss and seek feedback on their issues and problems. The meeting will be held at Punjab Congress Bhawan. Sidhu, who took over as the president of the state unit on July 23, has already held a series of meetings with legislators belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Other Backward Classes and party leaders from different districts in the past two weeks. The meetings were organised by working presidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/malis-appointment-as-adviser-to-sidhu-raises-brows-in-cong-101628795387715.html
13-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC grants anticipatory bail to Punjab ex-DGP Saini in corruption case||The high court on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini in a corruption case.The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan granted interim bail subject to his joining the investigation within a week and directed the Punjab Police that in the event of arrest, he be released on bail subject to him furnishing bail bonds. Saini has been directed to join the probe as and when called for and surrender his passport.The former director general of police had moved the court on Wednesday after a Mohali trial court dismissed his plea on August 6. Supreme Court lawyer Mukul Rohatgi, along with senior advocate APS Deol, appeared for Saini and Punjab had roped in former Union minister and senior advocate P Chidambaram.The bench observed that while dealing with the application for grant of bail or anticipatory bail, elaborate discussion on the merits of the case should be desisted. There should not be an impression to the parties concerned of the case having been pre-judged. Only prima facie case is to be considered, it said, adding that it would also not be appropriate at this stage to deal with the contentions raised by Saini of political vendetta and that he has been granted protection in all other FIRs. The prayer for anticipatory bail is to be considered on the facts of each case, it added.The bench further observed that at this stage, the court exercises restraint for going any further into factual aspects of transactions, which have taken place between Saini and owner of a Sector 20 house in Chandigarh Surinderjit Singh Jaspal and are being questioned by Punjab Police. It said that since petitioner is having Z-plus protection, there is no chance of his absconding. “For joining loose ends, if any, with regard to the documentary evidence or banking transactions (about the Sector 20 house deal), this court is of the opinion that custodial interrogation of the petitioner is not required,” the bench said, granting him bail and asking Punjab Police to file a status report on October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-punjab-ex-dgp-saini-in-corruption-case-101628795207663.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Task forces oppose school restart||The Maharashtra government is reconsidering its decision to reopen schools in the state from August 17 after the state Covid-19 task force of experts and paediatric task force strongly opposed the move over fears of infection among students, who are the unvaccinated class. Till Thursday evening, it was not clear whether the government would defer the decision or implement the same by bringing a stern standard operating procedure (SOP). This has led to confusion among both schools and parents.On Thursday, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said both task forces have their own suggestions on SOP, which they have received and a decision will be taken after deliberations.“The task force wants to study the SOP prepared by us. They also had their own suggestions. We have shared the SOP with them and also received theirs today, which the additional chief secretary, school education department (Vandana Krishna) will study. In the next few days, we will again have a meeting with task force members to deliberate in detail,” Gaikwad told reporters on Thursday.On August 10, the school education department ordered the reopening of physical classes in schools in urban areas from August 17. The offline classes have been allowed for classes 8 to 12 in the urban areas and for classes 5 to 7 in rural areas of the state. For Mumbai and Thane, it had empowered civic bodies of concerned cities to take a decision, considering the existing Covid-19 situation.The order specifies a standard operating procedure (SOP) for schools, in which the school education department has asked the school managements to follow certain rules pertaining to seating arrangements and maintaining social distancing and Covid-19 protocols in the schools.A day after a government resolution (GR) was issued, allowing schools and junior colleges to reopen from August 17, the state cabinet discussed the move and it was also decided to revisit the decision. Later, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte held a meeting with officials from the health department, school education department and the members of both task forces on the matter.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said, “Both task forces, unanimously, opposed the move in the backdrop of the rise in cases elsewhere in the country where schools were opened. Secondly, the students are not vaccinated, leaving a high risk of them getting infected. This has necessitated revisiting the decision of reopening of schools and colleges.” Tope said that the decision over the opening of the senior colleges will be taken after reports from district-level education societies and the universities are submitted to the government in the next few days. When asked if the likely deferment of the decision of reopening of schools is the result of lack of coordination within government, Tope said, “Different departments have the right to have different opinions. The school education department, however, does not appear to have taken the opinion of the task forces into account while issuing the GR.”Physical classes in schools were shut in Maharashtra from March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state. Schools in rural areas were already allowed to resume physical classes for class 8 to 12 students from July 12. Nearly 5,947 schools resumed offline classes in rural areas where Covid-19 cases are on a decline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-task-forces-oppose-school-restart-101628795030333.html
13-08-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to help firms get listed on stock exchanges||The Yogi Adityanath government on Thursday initiated the process to list more companies of the state on the National Stock Exchange (NDSE) and the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE). At present, eight companies from Uttar Pradesh are listed on the NSE and nine are listed on the BSE. The state has 55 lakh demat accounts and stands at the third position in the country in terms of the number of such accounts. Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, MSME, held a meeting with Rakesh Kumar, senior manager of NSE, to initiate the process of listing more companies at the two stock exchanges, on Thursday. During the meeting, Sehgal apprised the NSE official about the presence of a large number of companies from various sectors in the state, including IT, electronics, manufacturers of plastic, leather, agro, food products, processing and textiles among others. “Companies established in the state in the last four years will get preference in listing on the NSE and BSE,” Sehgal said. It was decided that virtual interactive sessions will be organised between the NSE/BSE officials and industry lobby bodies like FICCI and Udyog Bharti to help industrialists list their companies on the stock exchanges. “All help will be extended to new companies to get listed on the stock exchange. This will help them expand their business and increase their capital,” said Sehgal. Apart from this, the state government will also help in listing of companies trading in ODOP (products) on the stock exchange. The state government had launched the ODOP scheme in January 2018. It has identified 75 products in as many districts that are indigenous to that area. These products have made the respective districts famous. In the long list of 75 products are the world famous carpets of Bhadohi, brassware of Moradabad, locks of Aligarh, famous black pottery of Mirzapur, crockery of Khurja, leather of Agra and Kanpur among other products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-to-help-firms-get-listed-on-stock-exchanges-101628794847784.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Money laundering probe: Mumbai court grants bail to aide of Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Thursday granted bail to Kalyan-based builder Yogesh Deshmukh, who is a close associate of Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik, in the money laundering case related to the alleged National Spot Exchange (NSEL) scam. Special judge Dinesh E Kothalikar has, however, stayed the order till August 18 to allow the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to challenge it in the future before a higher court.Deshmukh’s counsel Priyanka Dubey had argued that there was no progress in ED’s investigation. She also pointed out that though last time the bail was rejected on the grounds that further investigations was required and more arrests were to be done, Yogesh Chandegela – a relative of Sarnaik – was protected from arrest by the court. Deshmukh was in custody since April 6, but the investigation had not been progressing, she said. They had also clarified that they were not challenging the attachments of plots at Titwala, which were allegedly purchased using the NSEL scam money. The special court accepted her contentions. Observing that no progress was made by ED in the investigation and that the co-accused was protected by court orders, the special court granted bail to Deshmukh on a bond of ₹3 lakh. However, on the request of special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves, the court stayed the order as ED intends to challenge it in the high court. Sarnaik’s company is been investigated as it allegedly received ₹11 crore from NSEL scam. It is alleged Aastha Group defrauded NSEL of ₹250 crore and Sarnaik’s company Vihang Group allegedly helped it to launder the money. Vihang and Aastha groups had formed a joint venture, Vihand Housing Projects, and had purchased plots in Titwala with Deshmukh’s help. ED was told that ₹22 crore was used to purchase the plots. However, the agency learnt only ₹1 crore had been used to purchase plots in Titwala while the other ₹11 crore was transferred to Sarnaik’s company and ₹10 crore to Deshmukh. Sarnaik had previously denied all the allegations against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/money-laundering-probe-mumbai-court-grants-bail-to-aide-of-sena-mla-pratap-sarnaik-101628794729305.html
13-08-2021||Other||Another disciplinary proceeding on against Dr Kafeel Khan: UP govt to HC||In a case relating to suspension of Dr Kafeel Khan, the state government has informed the Allahabad high court that another independent disciplinary proceeding is going on against Dr Khan. “This disciplinary proceeding, in respect of various incidents which occurred after he was attached to the office of the director, medical education, hasn’t been concluded as yet,” additional advocate general (AAG), Manish Goyal said. Taking these submissions of AAG on record, Justice Yashwant Varma directed the state government to bring on record, within two weeks, an affidavit regarding the other suspension order as well as other necessary facts related to the earlier order of suspension dated August 22, 2017, by which Dr Khan was suspended. The court fixed August 31, 2021, as the next date of hearing. Dr Khan was suspended from service on August 22, 2017, following the death of about 60 infants in the BRD Medical College hospital due to lack of oxygen. Later, he was attached to the office of the Director Medical Education where he was separately suspended in respect of various incidents. Earlier, on August 6, 2021, the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government had informed the Allahabad high court that the disciplinary authority’s order dated February 24, 2020, whereby further enquiry was directed against Dr Kafeel Ahmad Khan, a suspended pediatrician of BRD Medical College of Gorakhpur, has been withdrawn. In the present writ petition, through which Dr Khan has challenged the suspension order dated August 22, 2017, by which he was suspended from service, he has disclosed that initially the proceedings were drawn against nine persons. “Seven out of those who were suspended along with the petitioner have since been reinstated pending conclusion of disciplinary proceedings,” Dr Khan added. The court passed this order on August 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-disciplinary-proceeding-on-against-dr-kafeel-khan-up-govt-to-hc-101628794607964.html
13-08-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 cases - UP’s Balua village on Gkp-Maharajganj border in focus||Even as Covid-19 cases continued to decline in Uttar Pradesh, the detection of 10 fresh cases in Maharajganj district on Wednesday has brought Balua village located in Campeerganj tehsil area into focus.Earlier on Monday, seven Covid-19 cases were detected in Balua village. Out of these, five positive cases belonged to members of one family that included children in the one and two-year age group. The two other positive cases were residents of the same village.After the detection of the cases, the district health department launched an intensive trace-and-test drive in the village. The sample of 100 villagers was sent for laboratory tests which confirmed Covid-19 in 10 people. The positive cases are under observation in home isolation and the health teams have distributed medicine among them, a district administration officer said.The in-charge of Dhani community health centre, Dr Prakash Chandra Chaudhary, said that the members of the surveillance committee have been directed to maintain vigil on positive cases in Balua village. To check the spread of the infection, patients have been directed to remain in home isolation. Health teams are collecting samples of close contacts of the positive people, he said. CMO, Gorakhpur, Dr Sudhakar Pandey said that an alert has been sounded in the area as the village is located on Gorakhpur-Maharajganj district border. There is large migration of people to various parts of the country from the area and so members of health teams are collecting the travel history of the positive people, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-cases-up-s-balua-village-on-gkp-maharajganj-border-in-focus-101628794188893.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress condemns Twitter’s move to block leaders’ handles||The Maharashtra Congress has condemned Twitter India’s move to block the handles of its party leaders and alleged that the social media platform was succumbing to the pressure from the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP). Twitter also locked the handles of the Congress’s Maharashtra unit and state revenue minister and senior leader Balasaheb Thorat.Alleging that the handles of the Congress leaders have been blocked for supporting their leader Rahul Gandhi, Thorat said that the move was an attempt to suppress the fundamental right of freedom to expression.“My Twitter handle has been locked by @Twitterindia for supporting Rahulji Gandhi’s stand on the rape victim of Delhi. After Rahulji’s account was locked, the platform has locked the handles of other leaders including mine and that of @INCMaharashtra. We have been talking in the interest of the common people, and had never indulged in any anti national activities. Is standing firm in support of the rape victim a crime (sic),” Thorat has questioned. Twitter had recently suspended Gandhi’s handle after he tweeted photos of the family of a nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi. Twitter India told the Delhi high court that the handle was suspended because the tweet by Gandhi violated its policy.Party’s Maharashtra chief Nana Patole said that the action against the Congress and its leaders by the microblogging site was taken because the party had effectively used the platform against Narendra Modi government. “The Modi government has been trying to suppress every single voice raised against it in the past seven years. There is no action by Twitter against BJP leader who use it for the divisive, antisocial and hate messages. We would not bow before any such practices,” he said.Minister of state for home Satej Patil said that such action is being initiated under the pressure from BJP, which is scared. He said anyone who questions BJP’s fascism and corruption is silenced.Maharashtra BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari said, “Twitter had taken action against BJP leaders too in the past. Under whose pressure had Twitter acted then? The suspension of Gandhi’s account has come on the heels of a hearing in the Apex court and for the violation of the code. Congress has not said anything about the pictures of the victim’s family shared by their leader, violating the norms. They are crying foul against the action, but not uttering a word about the mistake committed by Gandhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-condemns-twitter-s-move-to-block-leaders-handles-101628793947995.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||27-year-old killed in Vasai after being run over by two-wheeler near Mumbai||A 27-year-old man was run over by a scooter on Suncity Road in Vasai (West) late on Wednesday evening. According to the police, the biker – Girish Shirsat – was riding the two-wheeler in an inebriated state. He has also suffered injuries and is yet to be arrested, the police said.The victim, Manish Kakri, was a resident of Uttar Pradesh. He was staying with his relatives and had stepped out for evening walk when the accident occurred. He died during treatment at a private hospital in Vasai.The biker tried to flee, but some locals handed him over to Manickpur police. He has been booked under section 304 (a) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Motor Vehicles Act.“We have seized the bike and are awaiting the post-mortem report,” said a police officer.According to a local, who did not wish to be identified, Suncity Road has no speed breakers or street lighting, and motorists drive vehicles rashly, leading to such mishaps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/27yearold-killed-in-vasai-after-being-run-over-by-two-wheeler-near-mumbai-101628793587835.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Najafgarh lake in fray to be Capital’s first bird sanctuary||The national capital may get its first bird sanctuary as the forest department plans to seek sanctuary status for the Najafgarh jheel (lake) and the area around it, said officials aware of the matter. A proposal to this effect is being prepared and will be presented to the Delhi government. Forest officials and environmental experts have been batting to conserve the lake for several years now, and argue that its environs need a higher degree of protection for its rich avian ecosystem, which could be lost without it. A survey of the area and species found in the waterbody was carried out in May. “A 50-acre area around the lake has been surveyed that has the potential to be demarcated as a bird sanctuary. It is extremely crucial to protect this wetland in order to conserve both its biodiversity as well as its ecological significance. This is one of the only rich wetlands in the city that has the potential to help raise the groundwater level of west Delhi areas such as Dwarka, which are mostly parched,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named.The lake is located in a natural depression in southwest Delhi, close to the Gurugram-Rajokri border on National Highway-48. It is fed by the Najafgarh drain, which has a sizeable catchment area in Gurugram. A portion of the lake falls in Haryana.There are a number of bird sanctuaries around Delhi, including Okhla (under the Uttar Pradesh administration), Bhindawas bird sanctuary in Jhajjar (Haryana) and Sultanpur national park, essentially a bird sanctuary on the Gurugram-Jhajjar highway. A sanctuary declared under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 is a green place reserved exclusively for wildlife — birds, mammals, reptiles, and insects. It provides protection from any encroachment or development activities surrounding the area while allowing favourable conditions for the wildlife within it.Birders say that Najafgarh, with its long stretch flowing from Haryana to Delhi, has a greater number of birds than Sultanpur or Okhla bird sanctuaries. “There is no other place in the Delhi-Haryana region except for Najafgarh where one can find such a large number of greater flamingoes. Also, it is the only place where they have been found trying to build nests. However, with an uncontrolled volume of water being released, the nests often get destroyed every monsoon. It has a large number of common cranes not found in many places in and around Delhi,” said birder Pankaj Gupta. He also said that Najafgarh along with Basai, Sultanpur and Bhindawas forms a wetland complex where there is the most bird movement. Amid these are a number of unprotected wetlands, which have a lot of birds too. “Making it a sanctuary will help strengthen this wetland complex and hence the movement of birds,” said Gupta. In a preliminary survey, the forest department with the help of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) has prepared a checklist of over 300 bird species (both migratory and resident birds) that are found in the wetland. This includes more than 15 species that are red-listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).“Once finalised, the proposal will be sent to the Delhi government for consideration. The proposal also considers the area to be developed as an eco-tourism site that may also help boost the local economy,” the official said.So far the lake is not a protected water body or wetland area either under the Delhi government or the Haryana government. In 2019, Delhi government’s wetland authority following an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) asked the concerned departments to carry out an extended survey of the area and formulate a plan to notify the area as a wetland under the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017. The new wetland conservation rules prohibit the setting up or expansion of industries and the disposal of construction and demolition waste in a wetland.The Delhi government had set up an expert committee to create a plan for the restoration and protection of the lake. “The environment management plan has been sent and is at present with the Union environment ministry for consideration,” said a Delhi government official requesting anonymity. Haryana is yet to submit its plan for the same, the official added.However, officials and experts believe that mere notification of the area as a wetland won’t do: it needs a sanctuary status for more stringent protection rules. Sohail Madan, an ecologist and centre manager of the BNHS’s Conservation Education Centre at the Asola wildlife sanctuary, said that Najafgarh jheel is a very important wetland for Delhi and its surrounding areas. Of all the migratory birds coming to Delhi, a huge percentage comes to this area. “It is an important habitat for predatory birds such as marsh harriers, Indian spotted eagle and peregrine falcons, among others. Apart from biodiversity, it’s an ecologically important site for groundwater recharge and hydrology of Delhi. But due to so many concerns and stakeholders, the project never takes off. I hope that in this instance, it’s successful,” said Madan.Citing an example of a lost wetland, he said the Basai wetland in neighbouring Gurugram was lost to the construction of a highway and housing colonies. Manu Bhatnagar, principal director, natural heritage division of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, said that if any area is declared as a sanctuary, it automatically comes under the purview of the Wildlife Protection Act, which has far stringent rules against encroachment or construction than those applied to a notified wetland.“The Najafgarh lake certainly requires this degree of protection. Once it’s declared a sanctuary it would imply that the environmental impact assessment requirements of new development interventions here and in the vicinity will change. It would also mean the place will have layers of protection in terms of a buffer zone, a core region (where visitors are not allowed) as well as prescribed limits for sound and the use of lights,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/najafgarh-lake-in-fray-to-be-capital-s-first-bird-sanctuary-101628793467739.html
13-08-2021||Other||UP’s Majhiari village cut off by flood waters, people seek safety elsewhere||Surrounded by water on all sides, many residents of the trans-Yamuna area’s Majhiari village have been forced to seek higher ground for safety. Many others stay on in the village, where they are forced to move about by boat.Floods have played havoc in the rural trans-Yamuna areas and around a dozen villages of Ghoorpur, Bara, Shankargarh, Lalapur etc have been hit. Relief from the administration has been inadequate as residents suffer not only due to the floods but also heavy rains. Meanwhile, officials claim that floods have mainly damaged crops and there is no threat to people and livestock.As the Yamuna’s water level rose, so did the level in its tributaries, Jhagra and Baria. Moreover, rain water from Madhya Pradesh reached these rivers causing flooding of Majhiari and other villages. The village now resembles an island as there is no way to reach or leave the village except by boat.The administration deployed boats for carrying food packets and ferrying villagers.Tribhuwan Kumar, a resident of Majhiari, said that he left the village in a boat while carrying necessary household goods. Many families have taken shelter at safer places where they are dependent on the assistance provided by the administration.Another resident, Sanjay, said that many families are still reluctant to leave the village as they have cattle. They fear that animals may starve or may die due to the floods if they leave them on their own.With the floods and rain playing havoc, the power supply to Majhiari has also been disrupted causing anger among villagers. They said that they are now using kerosene lamps for lighting. There is also a danger of wild animals and snakes entering the village due to floods, which again, is cause for fear among villagers. With a population of 1,600, most of them are still in the village.Other neighbouring villages Pure Kinnar, Ghori, Gujhwar, Jagdishpur, Naganpur, Mahera, Manpur, Naudhiya, Kanjasa, Mohni Ka Pura, Birwal and Semri villages are also flooded. State general secretary of Nishad Party Sanjeet Nishad said he carried out a survey of the villages on the banks of the Yamuna on boat on Thursday and found that people are suffering immense difficulties. Around a dozen villages are badly affected by the floods, and relief provided by the administration is inadequate.Bara SDM Saumya Gururani said that residents of Majhiari and Kanjasa village are affected by floods and are being taken to relief camps. Some families at Bhita village are also affected by the flood but are being provided help by the district administration. “Floods have affected the crops in other villages but there is no threat to life. Nine flood outposts have been established in the region where medical assistance is available round the clock,” the SDM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ups-majhiari-village-cut-off-by-flood-waters-people-seek-safety-elsewhere-101628793408825.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to attend meet called by Sonia Gandhi: Shiv Sena||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray will participate in the virtual meeting of CMs and Opposition leaders convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on August 20, said Shiv Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut. The meeting is seen as an attempt to consolidate the Opposition’s unity against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government. Gandhi has reportedly invited CMs of other non-BJP ruled states, including West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee, Tamil Nadu’s MK Stalin and Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren. Besides them, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar could also be participating in the virtual meeting.Raut said that the Opposition is united and will continue building its strength. “Unity among the Opposition [parties] is strong. All parties met at Kapil ji’s [Congress leader Kapil Sibal] home recently. Sonia Gandhi ji has convened a meeting of all prominent Opposition leaders, including chief ministers. Maharashtra CM, too, will participate in it,” Raut said.Senior Congress leader and Maharashtra minister Balasaheb Thorat said that the aim is to keep “democracy alive”. “This monsoon session, we saw in that all the Opposition parties had come together to strengthen the democracy. This is an attempt to fight BJP, which is attacking the democracy. Sonia ji has convened a meeting and we will collectively participate in it and the democracy will remain alive in this country.”During the recently-concluded monsoon session of the Parliament, around 15 Opposition parties together took on the government on various issues, including the alleged Pegasus snooping issue, rising fuel prices and farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. A series of Opposition parties’ meeting also took place in Delhi wherein Raut participated on behalf of Sena. Top Opposition leaders gathered at Sibal’s home on Monday evening and informally discussed how they could work together ahead of the next general polls in 2024 to defeat BJP, HT had reported on Tuesday, citing three attendees of the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-attend-meet-called-by-sonia-gandhi-shiv-sena-101628793407619.html
13-08-2021||Mumbai||Reservations over inclusion of Marathas in OBC quota||After the Parliament passed the 127th Constitutional Amendment, the demand for the inclusion of the Marathas in the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) category may gather momentum. However, OBC outfits are apprehensive about it and have conveyed their apprehension to the government.The Supreme Court had quashed the Maratha reservation on three grounds. It had crossed the 50%- limit meant for reservations and the report of the Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC), led by retired judge MG Gaikwad, did not substantiate the backwardness of the community. The Apex court also considered that the 102nd Constitutional Amendment had done away with the states’ power to give reservation on backwardness. With the 127th Amendment, the Centre has given this power back to the states, but the other two hurdles in the way of reservation to Marathas remain.In such a scenario, some Maratha community leaders are demanding that the community should be given the reservation on the basis of the backwardness in the existing OBC quota of 27%. “That is the only option left with and we have been pushing for it. When a few castes were given dedicated reservations without having substantiated their backwardness or conducting survey, why should we not be incorporated in the quota? Our backwardness has been established by the Gaikwad commission,” said Virendra Pawar, one of the leaders of Maratha Kranti Morcha.Pawar said that the state government does not have the will to incorporate the community in the OBC quota and hence, it had passed a resolution in the state legislature, clarifying that until the ceiling on the reservation was not removed by the Centre, the state cannot do anything.Balasaheb Sarate, one of the Maratha leaders, said that inclusion of the Maratha community in OBC category was the only constitutional and legal option. “We had been pressing for it even during the [Devendra] Fadnavis government and had asked for dedicated reservation within the OBC category. But neither the Fadnavis government agreed, nor will any other government agree to it. After the 127th Constitutional Amendment by the Parliament, the state has the right to accord reservation. But I doubt that even if the MSCBC generates empirical data to prove backwardness, it would not stand the legal scrutiny,” he said.Prakash Shendge, former legislator and president of OBC Jan Morcha, an umbrella body of the community’s organisations, said that their apprehension was raised during the meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier this week. “A section of the Maratha community has been demanding for their inclusion in OBC quota. Though it is now difficult to prove the backwardness of the community, we fear that using political might, the community can do anything. The Gaikwad commission, which endorsed the backwardness of the community, consisted of a majority of the Marathas as members. The survey conducted on behalf of commission was by the agencies led by Maratha leaders. We have clarified to the government such attempts will not be tolerated. We have also demanded with the CM for the verification of the certificates of the government employees who have been recruited as OBCs,” he said.Shedge said that the CM has assured them that the OBC quota will not be touched.In Maharashtra, 346 castes get 19% OBC reservation, while another 8% reservation has been notified for 30-plus castes under three sub-categories of OBCs.Chandrakant Bavkar of Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti, an OBC outfit, said that the community will oppose inclusion of the Marathas under reservation for OBCs. “Thanks to the uprising within the Maratha community for their reservation, even OBC community have become aware about their rights. We would not tolerate any move to include the Maratha community in OBC category. There had been attempts in the past to prove that Kunbis, which are a part of the OBC category, are Marathas, but we successfully rubbished the claim. The OBCs, that form 52% of the population, gets 27% reservation, which is insufficient for us,” he said.Bavkar said that the three successive backward classes’ commissions – Khatri, Bapat and Saraf – had turned down the claim of backwardness of the Maratha community. “Even the Apex court in its verdict on May 5 questioned the validity of the Gaikwad Commission. Five out of the 11 members of the Gaikwad Commission dissented on the Maratha reservation recommendation. I don’t think it’s that easy for the government to include the community in OBC quota,” he said.Food and civil supplies minister and Nationalist Congress Party’s OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal said, “No such demand for the inclusion of the Marathas in OBC quota came up. Not only are the three ruling parties, but even the opposition BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) is against any such inclusion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reservations-over-inclusion-of-marathas-in-obc-quota-101628793048896.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||CM Kejriwal: Health info management system to be launched next year||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday his government’s ambitious project to create a cloud-based health information management system (HIMS) for Delhi residents is likely to be rolled out early next year.Kejriwal on Thursday chaired a review meeting on the progress of the project, which was also attended by health minister Satyendar Jain.After the meeting, his office issued a statement, “The world-class health information management system (HIMS) is all set to be implemented by the beginning of next year. The department has completed the vendor selection and bidding process and is working on war footing to streamline the project and place it in front of the cabinet. As part of the project, health cards will be assigned to each citizen, which will be a repository of medical information. Doctors will be able to see patient’s medical history using the card and the patients will be able to make appointments from home.”The HIMS project envisages digital health cards for each patient — essentially be a QR code-based system — that will keep a record of details such as health checkups, follow-ups, surgeries, medications and vaccinations. The system is also supposed to include a mobile phone app as well as a 24X7 call centre to help patients with health-related information, fix consultations and offer other assistance, senior government officials said.The project was earlier slated to be launched this month but was delayed on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially the deadly second wave that Delhi saw in April, which left the health-care infrastructure overwhelmed, officials said.“The chief minister intricately reviewed the progress of HIMS along with the health helpline and the e-health card which are two crucial landmarks that the project aims to achieve. The health department officers presented a detailed project report to the chief minister... The project will be placed before the cabinet soon,” said the statement.The officials also told Kejriwal and Jain that the first phase of the project will be completed by the end of the year and the implementation can happen by the beginning of next year. A lot of progress has been made in the helpline project and the vendor will be selected soon. Call centres will be set up in the next three months to address grievances, the release said.In its first phase, the project is likely to cover all Delhi government hospitals and dispensaries. Central government hospitals and private hospitals are likely to be included in subsequent phases, said senior government officials.“The government is making sure that people don’t have to make the rounds of hospitals to get their e-health cards made. The cards will be distributed through a door-to-door campaign and will contain the entire medical history of the cardholder. They will be able to get treated at any hospital on the HIMS. After its implementation, Delhi will become the only state in the country to have a cloud-based health management system. At present, such a system is available in some developed countries like Sweden, Uganda and Germany,” Kejriwal said.300 ICU beds ready at NIRANKARI GROUNDJain said on Thursday that a Covid-19 care centre with 800 oxygen beds and 300 ICU beds is ready at the Nirankari ground in north Delhi’s Burari The centre, which also has tele-counselling facility, is part of the government’s larger plan to manage potential waves of the pandemic in the future.Jain said in a statement, “This 800-bed Covid Care Centre is being upgraded with more than 300 ICUs (beds), ventilators and a telemedicine centre and will be one of the best and most unique field hospitals in the world.”“The Covid-19 Care Centre that has seen one of the highest recovery rates across the state will be provided knowledge support by 750 physicians of the British Association for Physicians of Indian Origin (BAPIO),” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-kejriwal-health-info-management-system-to-be-launched-next-year-101628792807547.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Facades lining Chandni Chowk set for extensive revamp||New Delhi: The Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) is expected to soon start work on restoring the façade of buildings lining the 1.3km Chandni Chowk stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid that has been revamped and made a no-go zone for motorised vehicles. Starting from the ES Pearey Lal Building to the State Bank of India building, and the iconic Chunnamal Haveli near Town Hall, besides Sis Ganj Gurdwara and Shahi Sunehri Masjid, the stretch is dotted with buildings demonstrating architectural influences from different time periods, underlining the fact that the Mughal-era market embodies both built heritage and a vibrant culture. Some of the building go back several centuries. Many of these buildings are dilapidated, and in dire need of repairs. Nitin Panigrahi, deputy general manager, Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), the nodal agency for Chandni Chowk redevelopment, said the appointment of a consultant for façade restoration was underway. However, heritage experts and local residents have cautioned against a cosmetic approach to the process. A shopkeeper at Pearey Lal building, who asked not to be named, said cosmetic beautification alone will be like covering up the mess in the market. Established in the early 20th century, the building is currently occupied by hundreds of shops and has not been repaired in years. “Beautification alone is not development. The government is trying to replicate what was done in Connaught Place. However, CP consists of a uniform pattern building with shops of similar sizes. You can’t implement a “uniform approach” in Chandni Chowk where every building and shop is different from each other,” said the shopkeeper. “Since the past many years, we have heard how all signage will be similar or how shops will have similar signboards. Different signboards add to the character of a market and here they want to kill all innovation,” he said. Heritage body INTACH offered help with facade improvement in 2019, and said that it was crucial to preserve individual characters of buildings. A uniform one-size-fits-all approach was unlikely to work for Chandni Chowk, experts said. Annabel Lopez, a consultant with INTACH, said the any attempt at restoration will need to preserve the ethos of the market. “Why should an old building change its unique front that they have been using for the last hundred years? There is no reason why all the boards or hoardings should be at a specific location and of same height. In popular memory, people associate and identify places due to their unique characteristics. These elements should be preserved,” said Lopez. Citing the facelift of the walled city in Amritsar, she said such an approach will not work in Chandni Chowk. Lopez said as part of the façade treatment in Amritsar, the whole street was given a standard treatment due to which the individual character of buildings was lost. “In Shahjahanabad, every building is unique. One building might be a late Mughal period structure, the next might be an early colonial one, and another building might have a mix of both styles. So, there is a unique character to each of the facade in Shahjahanabad and that should be retained,” she said. Local residents welcomed facade improvement but insisted on the need to curb unauthorised construction and encroachments in the area. Pointing to a recent development in which a building was given a massive façade on the lines of Jaipur’s Hawa Mahal, residents said it was important to keep a check on construction that was undertaken without necessary permissions, and does not align with the proposed restoration plans. “Local residents have to go from pillar to post for basic repairs. No construction can be undertaken here without permission, on paper, but we see examples where people are making massive buildings. It’s crucial to ensure that unauthorised construction is stopped, if the agencies are sincere about façade restoration,” said a resident, asking to remain anonymous. Conservationist and executive director of World Monuments Fund, India, Amita Baig said it was crucial for design guidelines to be framed for a façade improvement exercise. “Someone made a façade that looks like Hawa Mahal recently. How do you stop instances like these in the absence of design guidelines? And if you have design guidelines, who will be paying for them? These questions need answers,” said Baig.Both traders and residents also stressed the need for agencies to incorporate suggestions from stakeholders before finalising plans. Anil Pershad (77), one of the owners of Chandni Chowk’s iconic Chunnamal Haveli, said that he was not aware if the haveli would be taken up for façade restoration. “We don’t have any idea if our building will be included among those that will be taken up for façade restoration. I presume that they will undertake a drive similar to the one that was taken up at CP. Chandni Chowk, however, is a different place. Every building has its own unique façade and we are not sure if the agencies will be roping in conservation experts before undertaking such a drive,” said Pershad. Structures such as the haveli and many other buildings that have become weak over the years can only be restored with intervention from conservation experts. “The balcony of our haveli is made of wood. Any work would depend on the availability of raw materials and craftsmen who can deal with the process. Only conservationists can take such calls as per the needs,” said Pershad. Ashok Mathur, 52, another resident, said redevelopment in a true sense will require that issues faced by residents are addressed first. Mathur said while the façade restoration was being discussed, there was no clarity on how it will be undertaken and what buildings will be shortlisted. “The SRDC might selectively take up some buildings which are owned by banks and other institutions. There is congestion in arterial lanes and other local issues. Since such crucial aspects are not being addressed, I am not hopeful about the façade restoration plans either,” said Mathur.A senior PWD official, however, said that all buildings along the corridor will be given a facelift so that a uniform look is achieved. “The appointment of a consultant will be done this month. Once a uniform facade is achieved, MCD or SRDC might impose conditions on owners to ensure that the facade is maintained,” said the official, adding that any future facade work by individuals may require permission.Manoj Aggarwal, who runs a saree shop near Sarafa Bazaar, said while façade improvement sounds promising, it was crucial that feedback was sought from people in the area. Aggarwal recalled that some years ago, shop keepers in the area were asked to remove hoardings so that newer ones could replace them, but the exercise ended abruptly. “They removed our boards and said that we will get new ones. While some got new ones, others didn’t and the entire exercise just died down. The government should at least seek feedback from us before undertaking any exercise,” said Aggarwal. Amit Jain, another resident, whose family owns a nearly 60-year-old building at Bhai Mati Das Chowk said he was looking forward to the façade restoration of his building. Jain said since buildings have deteriorated over time, restoration has become necessary. “If the government wants to undertake repairs, why should we have any issue? We welcome the move. The government can give special attention to heritage buildings on the stretch. However, they should also ensure that residents are not inconvenienced,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-facades-lining-chandni-chowk-set-for-extensive-revamp-101628792207814.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Two killed after shoot-out with police in north-east Delhi’s Khajuri Khas||Two alleged criminals were killed in a shoot-out between them and a police team inside a residential building in north-east Delhi’s Khajuri Khas area on Wednesday midnight, police said on Thursday.Two police constables also suffered bullet injuries in the exchange of fire, and were being treated at the Jag Pravesh Chandra Hospital, the police said. Two automatic pistols, four magazines, 50 bullets, and nearly ₹1.5 lakh cash were recovered from the room where the two criminals lived on rent. Police have identified them as Aamir Khan, a resident of Loni, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajman, from Wazirabad in north-west Delhi.An investigator, who asked not to be named, said Khan was named in seven criminal cases and Rajman had five cases against him. Most of these cases were related to robbery and murder. A second investigator, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity, said a team from Begumpur police station went to the building in Khajuri Khas on Wednesday tracking a stolen bike. “As part of the checks before Independence Day, the team went there to verify a stolen motorcycle, and landed at the flat where the two men were hiding. When the police team identified themselves while knocking the doors of the flat, and asked the residents to come out, the two men refused and threatened to kill everyone,” he said. The Begampur police personnel then informed the local police. Deputy commissioner of police (north-east) SK Sain said the station house officer of Khajuri Khas police station received information from his Begumpur counterpart on Wednesday night about the presence of “wanted criminals with heavy arms and ammunition” in Shri Ram Colony area.” A joint team was formed and the cops left for the spot.When the police team asked them to surrender, they refused and threatened that they will kill themselves and blow up the building. “They warned the police to leave and threatened to blow up the building. They said they would kill themselves and everyone else,” the DCP said, adding that the police tried to pacify them but they did not calm down and kept shouting threats from inside. The police team then asked families living in other flats of the four-storey building to vacate their houses. One officer, who was part of the operation, said, “One of them said they had explosives. Another was continuously threatening to kill himself. We even called the landlord of the house and promised to them that they would not be hurt. We have a photograph of one of them holding a pistol to his head. They said they have weapons and ammunition to last hours, but we kept trying to talk to them and asking them surrender.” Around midnight, two hours after reaching the spot, the police decided to break into the room. When the inmates realised that the police were coming inside, they allegedly opened fire. “The accused fired indiscriminately. They fired at our policemen from the windows and the door. The police team retaliated in self-defence. During cross firing, constables Sachin Khokar and Kalik Tomar suffered bullet injuries. Other members of the team pulled them back. The two criminals were also hit. Both of them and the injured police personnel were immediately shifted to Jag Pravesh Chandra Hospital, Khan and Rajman were declared brought dead,” DCP Sain said. Investigation has shown that the two men took the room on rent from a Sonia Vihar resident about two weeks ago. The house owner told police that the had asked them to provide their identification papers for police verification, but they were dilly-dallying. On Thursday afternoon, there was heavy security in the area even as several locals were seen standing outside the building. Most of them said they were shocked and could not believe how these two men, who looked like school teachers, were actually fugitives with a history of heinous criminal cases. “They looked like teachers and carried bag packs. They also wore black goggles. Nobody knew about their criminal record. We have always seen them on a bike, with their masks on,” said Virender, a local resident adding that on Wednesday night, the residents first saw police personnel outside the building around 10.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-killed-after-shoot-out-with-police-in-north-east-delhi-s-khajuri-khas-101628791319093.html
13-08-2021||Lucknow||PM transfers ₹476 crore to accounts of 53k women self-help groups in Uttar Pradesh||Ahead of Rakshabandhan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi transferred ₹476 crore to the accounts of 53,000 women self-help groups (SHGs) in Uttar Pradesh under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM), the state government said in a statement on Thursday.The step was taken to increase the scope of entrepreneurship among women and the financial support came out of revolving funds and Community Investment Fund (CIF), the statement elaborated.The Prime Minister disbursed a capitalisation fund of ₹ 1,625 crore to more than four lakh SHGs of the country through online transfer. The ₹ 476 crore transferred to 53,000 women self-help groups in UP was part of this.“When a woman is empowered, not just a family is empowered, but also the society and the country develop,” the Prime Minister said, according to the statement.Earlier on July 30, chief minister Yogi Adityanath distributed ₹ 88.66 crore out of revolving funds and CIF to over 42, 000 SHGs under the Uttar Pradesh Rural Livelihood Mission, said the statement.Since 2017, the government has created over 10 lakh self-help groups, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-transfers-476-crore-to-accounts-of-53-000-women-self-help-groups-in-uttar-pradesh-101628791247540.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Spate of transfers in Delhi’s Tihar jail, a week after inmate’s suspected murder||Following the suspected murder of a prisoner — he was found dead in his cell — in Tihar jail last week, the jail administration on Thursday issued transfer orders to several jail superintendents, in the wake of a high-ranking jail official being named as a suspect in the murder case.Ankit Gujjar, an alleged top gangster, was found dead in his cell in jail number 3 last Wednesday. Police registered a case of murder against a deputy jail superintendent and are probing the role of his junior officers as well.Prisons director general Sandeep Goel confirmed the spate of transfers and said,” The superintendent of jail 3 has been transferred to the headquarters. The officer who was at the headquarters has been transferred to Rohini. The Rohini superintendent has been transferred to jail 5, while the officer who headed jail 5 is now in charge of jail 3.”After Gujjar’s death, four officers of jail 3, including the deputy superintendent, were transferred pending investigation.In their statement to police, the jail officers of jail 3 said that during a search of Gujjar’s cell on August 3, they seized a cellphone, data cable and a knife. While they were carrying out the search, Gujjar assaulted the deputy superintendent after which the jail officers beat him with “minimum force”. Gujjar was then transferred to another cell and was found unconscious the following morning during roll call. He was rushed to the jail hospital where he was declared brought dead, they told the police.Police registered a case of murder under the Indian Penal Code and named the deputy superintendent as an accused, among others, but are yet to arrest anyone.Until his arrest in August 2020, Gujjar, 29, was one of western Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted criminals, police said. Accused in at least eight murder cases, among others, Gujjar carried a reward of ₹1.25 lakh at the time of his arrest --- ₹1 lakh was announced by the Uttar Pradesh Police and ₹25,000 by Delhi Police.Gujjar, a resident of Baghpat , was arrested by UP Police in 2015 but he came out on bail in 2019. He then shifted his operations to Delhi and joined hands with Delhi gangster Rohit Chaudhary to form the “Chaudhary-Gujjar gang”. In July 2019, Gujjar shot dead a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vinod Pandit as he was contesting the panchayat elections from Chandi Nagar in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh.This is not the first instance of an inmate being killed in Tihar. Only last month, the Delhi high court had asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe an inmate’s murder that took place in May. Delhi Police arrested four Tihar inmates for that murder, but the family of the dead prisoner, Srikant Swami, accused jail officers of being responsible for his murder, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/spate-of-transfers-in-delhi-s-tihar-jail-a-week-after-inmate-s-suspected-murder-101628791067667.html
13-08-2021||Delhi||Will resend oxygen panel proposal to Lieutenant Governor, says Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said the Delhi government was resending a proposal to lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal to set up an audit committee to ascertain the number of deaths caused by the oxygen shortage in the city during the second national wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.He also wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya urging him to request the LG to allow constituting the panel so such deaths can be probed.Addressing a digital press briefing, the deputy chief minister on Thursday stressed on the need for the panel, saying it will be difficult to determine if there were oxygen-related deaths in April-May without a proper inquiry.On May 27, the state government set up a six-member panel to look into deaths caused due to oxygen shortages at the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 (fourth for Delhi).The panel was also asked to ascertain the criteria for compensation of ₹50,000 to ₹5 lakh to be given to families of the deceased. The committee comprised five doctors from Delhi government hospitals, and one member from the director general of health services’ office.“But through the LG, the Centre did not allow that committee to be formed. We are sending the file again to the Delhi LG for approval. We will carry out the probe with full responsibility and even punish those who were guilty,” Sisodia said.The LG’s office did not respond to request for comment on the matter.On June 16, Sisodia said in a press briefing that the Centre dismissed the Delhi government’s panel saying a similar committee was constituted weeks before that on the directions of the Supreme Court.On Thursday, Sisodia said the national capital has recorded a total of over 25,000 deaths due to Covid-19, and emphasised that it needs to be probed how many of these were linked to the oxygen crisis in April and May.“We cannot say there was no oxygen crisis. The families of patients, hospitals were sending out SOS messages for help at that time,” he said on Thursday.The issue of the panel has become a new flashpoint with the Delhi government and the Centre in recent weeks.On Wednesday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said his ministry, on July 26, wrote to the Delhi government seeking details on deaths caused by oxygen shortage in Delhi during the latest wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Mandaviya’s comment was in response to Sisodia’s comments on Tuesday, when the deputy chief minister said that the central government did not write any letter to the Delhi government seeking details of the deaths caused by oxygen shortage.On Wednesday, Sisodia reacted to Mandaviya’s comment, saying the Centre gave states barely 12-13 hours to respond to their letter, and that they were not informed that the responses could have been sent till August 13.At the peak of the fourth wave of infections, Delhi recorded around 28,300 cases in a day and a positivity rate exceeding 36%.Around that time, at least 31 people are believed to have died because of oxygen shortage in separate incidents in two separate facilities — between April 23 and 24 at Jaipur Golden hospital and on May 1 at Batra hospital.On May 4, the state government told the Delhi high court that an expert committee could not ascertain whether 21 deaths at Jaipur Golden hospital had happened because of oxygen shortage.On July 20, when the Centre told Parliament that states have so far recorded no deaths caused by oxygen shortage, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi criticised the Union government saying that they did not let the city government probe such matters by setting up a larger expert committee.When asked about its previous statements in the court, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that those were based on “preliminary” findings and the matter needed more investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-resend-oxygen-panel-proposal-to-lieutenant-governor-says-delhi-s-deputy-cm-sisodia-101628790947635.html
13-08-2021||Gurugram||One held for trying to sell brass as Mughal-era gold||The Faridabad police arrested a Palwal resident for allegedly conning people from other states on the pretext of selling them gold bricks from the Mughal era that were excavated in Jimrawat village of Palwal.The police said that the suspect, identified as Ishak, of Jimrawat, is a member of the Tatlu gang and he had conned over 30 people over the past two years by selling them brass bricks.The police zeroed in on Ishak following a complaint from a Delhi resident who said that he was getting frequent calls about a 200-year-old gold brick. The complainant, identified as Anuj Kumar, a resident of Badarpur in Delhi, who works in Ballabgarh, approached the police suspecting it to be a fraud.OP Singh, the Faridabad commissioner of police, said that Kumar decided to meet the suspect and alerted the police in advance. “He asked the suspect to meet him at the Ballabhgarh Metro station and assured him of purchasing the gold brick, telling him that his mother was keen on getting ornaments made,” he said. Singh said that Kumar met the suspect at the gate, where police were already deployed in plainclothes. “The suspect started narrating a story, telling Kumar that his brother is a JCB machine driver in a remote area of Palwal and had found the brick while digging. He said that his brother hid it in his pocket and they were selling it as they were facing a financial crisis,” he said. However, when Kumar refused and alleged he was trying to con him, the suspect fled. The police caught hold of him and recovered a gold-coloured brick that was found to be made of brass.A case under sections 34 (common intention), 420 (cheating) and 511 (committing offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Ballabhgarh police station. The police said that the suspect cheated people from Bihar, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, and Odisha, and revealed the names of three associates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/one-held-for-trying-to-sell-brass-as-mughal-era-gold-101628789567703.html
13-08-2021||Ranchi||Dhanbad judge death case: CBI submits first status report in HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday submitted its first investigation status report to the Jharkhand High Court in connection with the death of a Dhanbad judge in a “road accident” in the coal city last month.Both the Supreme Court and the HC had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident and the apex court had directed the CBI to file status report every week with the high court.The investigation officer in the case also appeared before the division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad that directed the agency to conduct probe in a professional manner and file a detailed report next week.During the hearing, the court also sought details from the state government about security measures at Dhanbad court and the judges.“I can’t comment on the content of the status report. We submitted the first status report today as per the Supreme Court direction. The next progress report in sealed cover would be submitted for the next hearing on August 20,” said CBI counsel Rajiv Sinha.A news agency, however, quoted Jharkhand’s advocate general Rajiv Ranjan as saying that the HC was not satisfied with the status report.People involved in the proceedings said the bench sought to know from the investigation officer about forensic report of the crime scene and the auto rickshaw that mowed down additional district judge Uttam Anand, besides questioning of people seen in the CCTV footage that emerged after the accident.The CBI informed the court it had taken custody of the auto rickshaw involved in the accident to recreate the crime scene and that the forensic report of the samples lifted for test was still awaited. It also said they had questioned one of two bike riders on CCTV passing on the same road at the time of the accident.Anand was brought dead to the hospital on July 28, about an hour after he was hit by the three-wheeler from behind near Randhir Verma square in Dhanbad when he was out for a morning walk.Footage from a CCTV installed near the accident site however raised suspicion about the motive of incident as the involved three-wheeler is seen swerving towards extreme left from the middle of the road and hitting the judge from behind before fleeing the spot.The CBI took over the investigation from the state police after the Jharkhand government recommended to the Centre to hand over investigation to the central agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhanbad-judge-death-case-cbi-submits-first-status-report-in-hc-101628785787449.html
13-08-2021||Lucknow||Previous govt didn’t try to create jobs in Uttar Pradesh, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said the previous government was only engaged in the politics of caste and made no attempt to prevent brain drain by generating employment in the state.“But in the last four years ever since the BJP came to power in 2017, the image of the state changed completely with large-scale appointment of teachers against vacant post,” he said.The chief minister was distributing appointment letters to 2,846 newly selected lecturers and assistant teachers of government secondary schools at an event held at Lok Bhavan in Lucknow under Mission Rozgar. He said his government had given jobs to over 4.5 lakh (450,000) youths in Uttar Pradesh and by the end of the government’s present term, the number will cross five lakh. The Uttar Pradesh assembly election is due early next year.In the last 15 to 20 years, no other government in the state could boast of giving jobs to such a large number of youths, he said.Reiterating the “fair and transparent” recruitment process in Uttar Pradesh, the chief minister said, “Before 2017, every selection process used to face allegations of corruption. Desperate and hopeless, they youths were forced to migrate. The system of recruitment was mired in dishonesty and nepotism.”“Our government has controlled the entire process and made it transparent. The effects are visible. I am happy that by following the eligibility and reservation rules, the most qualified candidates were selected as teachers by the secondary education department. About 1.5 lakh (150,000) teachers have been appointed in the departments of basic, secondary, higher and technical education,” he said.Lauding the New Education Policy 2020, Yogi said it would encourage innovation and research.“From 2022, the country will move forward with the new education policy,” he said.Stressing the need for all-round development of students in Uttar Pradesh, he said with the implementation of NEP: “Education should not be just bookish knowledge, but new innovation will be brought in. This has been taken care of in the new education policy and you all have to prepare for the same.”“If teachers perform their duties, the students will always remember them. If they are careless, the same students will curse them throughout their life. If a teacher works as a student with the curiosity to learn continuously, he will be known as a qualified teacher throughout his life,” he said.Call to restore golden days of govt schoolsChief minister Yogi Adityanath has called upon the teachers to restore the golden days of government and aided secondary schools.Noting that the challenge before these educational institutions was to save their identity, he said teachers would have to come forward to change their image.Asking the selected lecturers to discharge their responsibility with sincerity, he said there was a need to build confidence in the new generation and the teachers should take a personal interest in every student.He also asked the teachers to inform students about government welfare schemes in the education sector.“Often, the students complain that they did not get the scholarships. It is the responsibility of teachers to inform the students regarding the same,” he stated.Describing teachers as the building blocks of the society and the nation, he said they must realise their great responsibility and prepare a generation that will be able to lead the nation in the future.Speaking at the event, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said that under the direction of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Uttar Pradesh was the first state to implement the education policy of India. The education system in the state was totally fair and transparent, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/previous-govt-didn-t-try-to-create-jobs-in-up-says-yogi-adityanath-101628783987296.html
