14-08-2021||Pune||Starting Sunday, all shops, malls, gyms, salons to remain open till 10pm in PMC, PCMC||PUNE: After the state government on Wednesday announced operational timings for various businesses till 10pm, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Saturday issued an order extending daily closing timings for businesses till 10pm, effective from Sunday.Following implementation of the latest round of relaxations in the cities of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad from Monday this week, only restaurants had been allowed to operate the dine-in facility till 10pm. With the Saturday order however, daily closing timings for other businesses too namely, all shops, malls, gymnasiums, salons, beauty parlours and spas have been extended from the earlier 8pm to 10pm within both civic limits.In the PMC order, Vikram Kumar, municipal commissioner Pune, said, “The orders issued by the state government on August 11, will be applicable in the limits of the PMC from August 15.” Kumar had earlier said that the decision regarding extension of business hours would be taken in the weekly covid-19 review meeting which hasn’t taken place yet.While operators of gyms, salons and beauty parlours welcomed the extension in timings, they also demanded relief from the government for the losses sustained during the lockdown.Nilesh Kale, president of the Pune Fitness Club Association, said, “The fitness industry is slowly dying and many popular chains have withdrawn from this business. With the extension in timings, we hope to get more clients but we still need some support from the government to sustain the losses.”Mall operators expressed the view that their business cannot revive unless the precondition of allowing only fully vaccinated people is relaxed. An official from a mall in the Shivajinagar area said, “Even if malls have reopened, the footfalls are less because of only fully vaccinated people being allowed entry. We have to turn down customers on a daily basis because they have only taken a single jab of the vaccine.” Earlier, traders in Pune expressed satisfaction over the 8pm deadline as well.Meanwhile, after a gap of almost five months, Pune’s popular market places were once again abuzz with customers on Saturday. Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary, Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP), said, “We got a good response on Saturday from customers. In the afternoon, there were long spells of rain which impacted the number of customers but by evening, the number began to increase again. We have been taking feedback from shop-owners from different parts of the city regarding the Saturday response for formulation of future policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/starting-sunday-all-shops-malls-gyms-salons-to-remain-open-till-10pm-in-pmc-pcmc-101628965143820.html
14-08-2021||Other||Gandhi-Nehru Park atLucknow’s Charbagh stn poised for a facelift||LUCKNOW: The Gandhi-Nehru Park, a small but historically significant park on the premises of Charbagh railway station is all set for a facelift, courtesy the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) that aims to cover the park under its ₹560 crore prestigious modernisation plan of development and beautification of Charbagh railway station and Lucknow Junction. The project is expected to take off by the end of this year. RLDA officials said they also had special plans for the development of this small piece of history (Gandhi-Nehru Park) that was a reminder of the freedom movement. “Under the project, the park would be developed in a special way so that its significance remains intact,” a senior RLDA official said. As per the blueprint of the project, the official said the park’s development would be carried out in two phases. The first phase would comprise landscaping and other infrastructure work while the second phase would include illumination and beautification. The historians gave the thumbs up to the project, which they said would preserve an important chapter of history. According to Roshan Taqui, a city-based historian, on December 26, 1916, a 27-year-old man arrived at Lucknow railway station from Allahabad and met another 47-year-old man for the first time in front of Charbagh station. The young man was Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru and the older one was Mohan Das Karam Chand Gandhi. “Why this place is significant is because it was here the two great personalities met for the first time during the freedom movement,” the historian said. RLDA officials said the entire project would be based on PPP model. “Three companies have shown interest. The papers are being scrutinised after which the work would be awarded,” the official said. Jagtosh Shukla, senior divisional commercial manager (DCM), NR said the project was expected to take off soon. “The entire modernisation project will be carried out in two phases. The first phase would be completed by 2025 whereas the second phase will take another two years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gandhinehru-park-atlucknow-s-charbagh-stn-poised-for-a-facelift-101628964844162.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana NGOs spearheading agitation to save Sutlej from pollution||Members of various NGOs and civil societies launched an agitation, “freedom from pollution”, on Saturday to spread awareness about the importance of protecting the Sutlej river and Mattewara forest from potential risks of industrial projects including Dhanansu Cycle Valley project and Mattewara industrial park.While launching the agitation at Buddha Nullah point in Dhanansu village, they said that a series of protests will be held at different points in the coming days to spread awareness about saving the Sutlej, which is already being polluted by discharge from the nullah. NGOs including Punjabi Bhasha Prasar Bhaichara, United Sikhs, Sangharsh, Naroa Punjab Manch, Initiators of Change and Vigilant Citizens Forum participated.Jaskirat Singh from Naroa Punjab Manch, industrialist Ranjodh Singh and Kuldeep Khaira from Vigilant Citizens Forum said the Mattewara industrial park will add to the pollution in the river and damage the Mattewara forest.Leading the group of protesters, Colonel (retired) CM Lakhanpal said, “The southern side of the high-tech cycle valley touches the nullah and an outlet of the sewage system is into the Buddha Darya. This can adversely impact the ongoing Buddha Darya rejuvenation project, if not handled carefully. Recent allocation of lands in the cycle valley to Birla and JK Group does not inspire confidence that Punjab is headed towards a cleaner future. The state needs eco-friendly industrial projects which do not cause air, water or soil pollution and industries like dyeing, textile, paper, cardboard and paint should be discouraged to save the existing natural resources.”Residents stated that Sutlej not only supplies drinking water to different parts of Punjab, but also to Rajasthan and is also used for agricultural and other purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ngos-spearheading-agitation-to-save-sutlej-from-pollution-101628964726541.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||1,600 shirts stolen from Ludhiana factory: Trader, workers booked||Member of various social and religious organisations and local trader Bittu Gumbar has been booked by Tibba police for buying stolen material from a factory worker and his son.The police have also booked the father-son duo for stealing 1,600 shirts from a factory where they work. They were identified as Vikas Chhabra and his father Amarjeet Chhabra of Gandhi Nagar.The FIR was lodged following the complaint of one Kunal Kumar of Banda Bahadur Colony, who owns a washing and dyeing factory in Karamsar Colony of Tibba area. On July 2, Vikas had slept inside the factory. Next morning, when Kunal found the factory locked from outside, he made several calls to Vikas who did not answer. The lock was broken open and 1,600 shirts were found stolen.Kumar added that he traced the accused, who confessed to stealing the shirts and selling them to Bittu Gumbar, who runs a shop near Clock Tower. The accused had promised to pay him back, but later refused.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurdev Singh said that a case was registered against the accused under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house etc), 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master), 454 (house trespassing) and 120-B (Criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1600-shirts-stolen-from-ludhiana-factory-trader-workers-booked-101628964666717.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Man asleep on roof of house hit by stray bullet in Ludhiana, suffers hand injury||A stray bullet hit a man sleeping on the roof of his rented accommodation at Kuldeep Nagar in Daresi late on Friday night. He suffered an injury to his hand. The victim has been identified as Mohammad Irfan, 34, who is a hosiery worker. Gurmeet Kumar, the owner of the house, said that there was a power cut in the area because of which Irfan was sleeping on the roof of the house.Irfan said that as he was sleep, he felt a sharp pain in his arm. As he woke up, he was shocked to see it was bleeding. He raised the alarm and called the landlord.Gurmeet said the injury appeared to be from a bullet and he immediately sounded the police. Police reached the spot and recovered a bullet from the roof.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Dharampal said it is suspected that someone near the labour quarter had opened fire in the air. Daresi police have lodged an FIR against unidentified accused under Section 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms act. Police are going through records to trace licensed weapon holders in the area. Previous incidentsA 22-year-old man was accidentally shot at during a celebratory firing at a marriage function in Janta Nagar here on February 19, 2019.A two-year-old girl was injured after a stray bullet hit her in Kidwayi Nagar on November 9, 2018. A 21- year-old girl sustained injuries on her hand after a stray bullet hit her while she was flying kites at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Nagar on January 13, 2018. A 35-year-old woman suffered injuries on her thigh as a stray bullet hit her in Kot Mangal Singh area of Daba on January 15, 2018. The woman, Riti Sharma, was on the roof of her house flying a kite with her family when the bullet hit her.A hosiery worker suffered injuries on his finger after a stray bullet brushing his hand in Manmohan Colony at Bahadurke Road on August 18, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-asleep-on-roof-of-house-hit-by-stray-bullet-in-ludhiana-suffers-hand-injury-101628964604974.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||SAD leader accuses Punjab minister, Ludhiana police chief of sheltering rape accused MLA||Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia slammed cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal on Saturday for allegedly sheltering Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjeet Singh Bains who is facing rape charges.Majithia was in the city to attend a function where former Congress and LIP workers were being inducted into the Akali Dal. He said that despite high court’s order, Bains is roaming scot-free.He added that paddy was being procured from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar at ₹1,000 per quintal and being sold for ₹1,883 at mandis in Punjab and the money was being pocketed by corrupt officials and leaders. “A CBI probe was initiated, but it was conveniently pushed under the carpet. Once back in power, we will reopen the probe and take action against also those involved in large scale corruption,” said Majithia.He said it was utterly shameful that the Congress government had plundered Punjab and most corrupt ministers were given clean chit by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.He also criticised Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal for taking the people of Punjab for a ride on the issue of subsidies. He added that the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president was just a distraction to camouflage the failure of the ruling Congress regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-leader-accuses-punjab-minister-ludhiana-police-chief-of-sheltering-rape-accused-mla-101628964545058.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM virtually inaugurates children’s Covid ward, three PSA oxygen plants in Ludhiana||Augmenting the district’s health infrastructure, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday virtually inaugurated a paediatric Covid care ward at the Ludhiana civil hospital and three pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants built at a cost of ₹4.21 crore.The ultra-modern paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) has five PICU units and eight bedsfor multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MISC). Besides the ward has ECHO and cardiology backup from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H). The five PICU beds have been donated by Dr Rupesh Aggarwal from Singapore for project O2 with Zeiss, India, while Vijay Munjal of Hero Ecotech Ltd, Ludhiana, and Dr Bishav Mohan have also donated equipment worth ₹20 lakh.The PSA oxygen plants include two of 1,000 LPM each at ESI Hospital and civil hospital, and a 500 LPM plant at Urban Health Centre, Vardhman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-virtually-inaugurates-children-s-covid-ward-three-psa-oxygen-plants-in-ludhiana-101628964424371.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Wanted gangster found hiding in customs official’s farmhouse in Ludhiana||Wanted in three cases of attempt to murder, a gangster was arrested from the farmhouse of a customs official in Green Ville, Jhande, on Friday night. Police have recovered a .32-bore pistol, a 7.65mm pistol and eight bullets from the possession of the gangster, Naveen, alias Negi, of Geeta Nagar of Tajpur Road, who has also been declared a proclaimed offender in three cases.Investigators said he was an aide of notorious gangsters Neeraj Kumar, alias Ashu, of Ganesh Nagar and Puneet Bains, alias Mani Bains, of Ghoda Colony. Deputy superintendent of police (DCP, Investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said Naveen was caught through a joint operation between the Ludhiana police and counter intelligence. “He had been changing his location to avoid being caught. Earlier he was hiding in different guest houses in Chandigarh and came to Ludhiana three days ago,” said the DCP.“The customs official claims that he was not aware about the gangster hiding in his farmhouse. He was allowed in by the security guard for a couple of days through the reference of one of his acquaintances. The guard also claims that he wasn’t aware of the accused’s antecedents,” he added.The police official said further investigation was on and they hadn’t given the clean chit to either the customs official or the security guard.Naveen is wanted by the police in three cases of attempt to murder lodged at Salem Tabri and Division Number 3 police stations in 2020. He is also facing trial in multiple cases of snatching and robbery conspiracy.Police are questioning him for the source of the weapons recovered from him. A fresh case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against him at the Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wanted-gangster-found-hiding-in-customs-official-s-farmhouse-in-ludhiana-101628964184128.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Maha records highest one-day Covid vaccinations with over 9L jabs administered||A day before the Mumbai suburban train services open for fully-vaccinated people, the Maharashtra health department said on Saturday that the state registered the highest number of single-day vaccinations against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till 7pm with 936,000 beneficiaries getting inoculated with the jabs.“Earlier, on July 3, the state had set a record by vaccinating 811,000 people in a day,” the department was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.This comes as the recently announced Covid-19 curbs are set to take effect in the state from Sunday onwards, which also marks the 75th Independence Day. Besides, Mumbai local trains opening for fully vaccinated people, shopping malls and other establishments will be permitted to function till 10pm, given all staffers are fully vaccinated. Restaurants have also been allowed to run till 10pm as against the current deadline of 4pm but they can only do so at 50 per cent capacity. Furthermore, gyms, spas and parlours can also operate with 50 per cent capacity from August 15 onwards.Also Read | Mumbai local trains, gyms and malls: Maharashtra relaxations coming into effect from Aug 15On August 8, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced the state government’s decision to allow fully vaccinated people to avail of local train services. However, he cautioned against lowering the guard, citing that Covid-19 crisis is “yet to be over.” “I know that people are running out of patience due to the lockdown curbs…We are trying to strike a balance between keeping the virus in check and opening up financial activities,” he tweeted.Meanwhile, fatalities due to the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus in the state have climbed up to five so far with as many as 66 people found with the same, the health department said. Of the five deaths, two are from Ratnagiri while one each has been reported from Beed, Raigad, and Mumbai.Also Read | Delta Plus advances in Maharashtra: 5 deaths, 66 cases from coronavirus variantA 63-year-old fully-vaccinated woman from Mumbai became the second person to succumb to the Delta Plus variant, after an 80-year-old woman from Ratnagiri district.Maharashtra on Saturday witnessed a decline in the daily coronavirus infections with 5,787 cases, down from Friday’s 6,686, thereby taking the cumulative tally to 63,87,863, according to data shared by the health department. As many as 134 deaths were logged, down from Friday’s 158. However, the number of fresh recoveries deteriorated with 5,352 people recovering from the virus on Saturday as opposed to 5,861 on the preceding day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-records-highest-one-day-covid-vaccinations-with-over-9l-jabs-administered-101628963587829.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area records 11 more Covid cases, no casualty||Eleven more coronavirus cases were reported in the Chandigarh tricity area on Saturday, while no casualty was reported for the 14th consecutive day. Mohali, with seven fresh Covid cases, reported the highest number of new infections ; while Chandigarh and Panchkula added two infections each to their tally. There are 112 active cases in the tricity area, of which 58 are in Mohali, 44 in Chandigarh and 10 in Panchkula. Of the seven cases in Mohali, five were reported from the city and one each from Kharar and Dera Bassi. Residents of Sector 23 and 46 tested positive in Chandigarh and residents of Kalka and Sector-11 tested positive in Panchkula.So far, 68,528 people have tested positive in Mohali, of which 67,413 have recovered and 1,057 have succumbed .In Chandigarh, 61,173 of 62,028 Covid patients have recovered and 811 have been claimed by the virus. Of the 30,658 people who have contracted the infection in Panchkula so far, 30,272 people have recovered and 376 have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-records-11-more-cases-no-casualty-101628963883942.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana ADCP Jaskiranjit Singh Teja decorated with President’s Police Medal||Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 4) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja has been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Services on the occasion of Independence Day.Since joining the police force as inspector in 2001, Teja has received five DGP discs and also Chief Minister’s Medal for Meritorious Services.After working as SHO at various police stations, he was promoted to the rank of deputy superintendent of police in 2007.Teja was elevated to superintendent of police in 2013 and has been serving as ADCP City-2 in Ludhiana police commissionerate since February 2019. Apart from maintaining law and order situation in Ludhiana, Teja has played a key role in solving criminal cases. He also remained active during the lockdown by helping the needy with ration and other essentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-adcp-jaskiranjit-singh-teja-decorated-with-president-s-police-medal-101628963824003.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Another unsafe building gives way in Ludhiana, this time on Rehmatullah Road||Two days after an unsafe factory building collapsed on RK Road in Industrial Area-A, leaving at least 10 people injured, the fourth floor of an old four-storey building gave way on Rehmatullah Road near Neemwala Chowk on Saturday evening.The building owner had already hired labourers to raze the unsafe building and some workers were inside when the incident took place. They all escaped injury.Debris of the collapsing building also fell on the busy road outside and damaged power supply lines in the area. The rubble was being cleared after police’s arrival till the filing of this report.Neighbours complained that they had been complaining about the unsafe building and when the owner started work to dismantle it, he did not employ any safety precautions. A shopkeeper in the area, Kunal Sachdeva, said the MC should bring down the remaining portion of the building safely, as it could collapse further and cause injuries to the labourers working in it and passers-by.Despite several attempts, assistant town planner (ATP) Mohan Singh remained unavailable for comments. Station house officer (SHO), Division Number 3 police station, Madhu Bala said, “Barricading has been done outside the building as a precautionary measure. We are also looking into the complaint made by residents. No loss to property or injury has been reported as of now.”As many as 132 unsafe buildings have been identified in different parts of the city, posing grave danger to lives, but the civic body is sitting tight on further action. Even on July 29, a portion of an unsafe building had collapsed on Deepak Cinema Road and its 80-year-old owner Ashok Kumar had a narrow escape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-unsafe-building-gives-way-in-ludhiana-this-time-on-rehmatullah-road-101628963644427.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination centres in Mumbai operated at full capacity on Saturday: BMC||The vaccination figures released by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday’s show that 219,727 beneficiaries were vaccinated, of which, 154,703 received their first shot, and 65,024 beneficiaries received their second shot. However, this figure also includes the vaccination done at private hospitals on August 12 and 13 (Thursday and Friday) when public vaccination centres were closed due to a shortage of doses. On Saturday alone, civic authorities estimated that over 150,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of the civic public health department said, “The figures released on Saturday also show the vaccinations conducted at private hospitals on Thursday and Friday. However, on Saturday alone, we operated vaccination centres at full capacity. Mumbai’s capacity is to administer around 150,000 doses per day at public and private centres.”On Thursday night, BMC received 170,000 doses, which were distributed to vaccination centres on Friday. Kakani said, “These doses will be sufficient for the vaccination drive over the next two days. Anticipating this, we vaccinated every individual who turned up on Saturday.”On Saturday, vaccination centres saw a higher turnout. A senior civic official said, “This was partly because vaccination was closed at public centres for two days in a row. Also, now that train travel is allowed for fully vaccinated beneficiaries, past week we have seen a larger turnout at all vaccination centres.”On Saturday, 84,105 beneficiaries were vaccinated at 296 BMC centres, of which, 54,426 beneficiaries received their first dose, and 29,679 beneficiaries received their second dose; 5,997 beneficiaries were vaccinated at 19 state and Centre-operated vaccine centres, of which 3,516 received their first dose and 2,481 received their second dose.Vaccination will be closed at public vaccine centres on Sunday. Vaccination will take place at all public vaccine centres on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-centres-in-mumbai-operated-at-full-capacity-on-saturday-bmc-101628963584479.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Dogs found devouring female foetus in Ludhiana’s Giaspura||Locals were left shocked after a pack of dogs was found eating a female human foetus in a garbage dump near the Giaspura flats.Investigation officer ASI Ranjit Singh said the foetus was decomposing and mutilated. From its state, police surmised it could have been dumped two to three days ago.A passer-by saw stray dogs feasting on some flesh and was aghast to find it was a human foetus. He raised the alarm, drove the dogs away and called the police.The ASI said the foetus could have been aborted by an unmarried woman to avoid social harassment or it could also be a case of female foeticide. The Daba police have lodged an FIR under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code against unknown persons in this context. The foetus was taken to civil hospital for post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dogs-found-devouring-female-foetus-in-ludhiana-s-giaspura-101628963345341.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Newborn girl’s decomposing body found in Ludhiana||The decomposing body of a newborn girl was found in the bushes near Lakkar Bridge on Saturday morning. The umbilical cord was still attached to the body, leading police to believe that she was killed and dumped in the bushes right after birth. A passer-by noticed the infant’s naked body when he stopped by the roadside to relieve himself and alerted the police.“The body seems to be around three days old. The umbilical cord was still attached to the body. No injury mark was visible, apart from insect bites,” said sub-inspector Harjit Singh, station house officer (SHO), Division Number 1 police station.He added that they were scanning nearby CCTV cameras for clues on who dumped the body there. It has been sent to the civil hospital for autopsy to establish the cause of death.Meanwhile, police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure.Nine days ago, on August 5, a newborn girl’s body was found in a garbage dump on a vacant plot behind Swarn Palace in Sherpur area. Locals noticed the body and informed the Moti Nagar police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/newborn-girl-s-decomposing-body-found-in-ludhiana-101628963163913.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Harassed by husband for not bearing son, Ludhiana woman ends life||Police have booked a labourer for driving his wife to suicide by harassing her for not bearing a male child.Upset over the abuse, the 30-year-old woman consumed a poisonous substance at their house in Lopo village, Samrala, on Thursday and died during treatment at a hospital a day later.Following her death, her brother filed a police complaint against her husband, who was booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.The complainant, a resident of Madiya Road, Khanna, told the police that his sister got married to the accused 12 years ago and had three daughters with him. Her husband was keen on a son and would harass her for only bearing girls, which she shared with him several times. He had also intervened in the matter previously, the brother said.On Thursday, his eldest niece, who is 10 years old, called him and informed that her mother had consumed a poisonous substance after an argument with her father. The complainant reached the house and rushed his sister to a local hospital, but she died during treatment on Friday.Assistant sub-inspector Mohan Lal, who is investigating the case, said they had booked the accused at the Samrala police station and launched a manhunt to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harassed-by-husband-for-not-bearing-son-ludhiana-woman-ends-life-101628962983971.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | Loving the owl brat||When it comes to rescuing, rearing and releasing a little owl, the compassionate human may not get a ‘thank you’ note from the bird when it finally glides into the dark night. On the face of it, one of the most endearing chicks is that of the Indian scops owl (ISO). But its looks are deceptive as the unflaggingly patient and compassionate Sanjiv Khanna was to discover. He runs ‘Aashray’, a bird shelter in Jalandhar, and has rescued more than 1,300 birds since 1994. The ISO chick was discovered on the roadside by passersby and was blessed enough to somehow be delivered to the warm cup of Khanna’s palms. “For the first few days, the chick was totally dependent on us and overawed by human presence. When I would feed it chicken morsels, it would fold its sharp talons (claws) so that they did not prick into the palms of my hands. But later, after it gained confidence and once it had its daily feed, the chick grew a bit cocky. While sitting in the palm of my hand, it would frequently unfurl its talons and prick my flesh, sometimes even petulantly pecked at my fingers while I fed it,” Khanna told this writer.The adorable tramp would regale the Khannas with what they perceived as a dance: the chick would sway its body and couple it with varied movements of the head. The supposed ‘dance’ was actually the owl’s way of enhancing situational awareness or sharpening its three-dimensional view. An owl’s eyes are fixed in the socket but the head rotates fully and even dips sideways (180 degrees) to bring the world to its eye level. With Khanna’s house brimming with rescued birds, he has constructed a shelter for them on the first floor. But at night when diurnal birds go silent, captive owls can be a pain in the wrong place. “Owls are generally quiet during the day, but at night they create such a racket that sleep is impossible! So, they leave their perch on my arm or within my hands and I relocate them to the first floor during the night. Rescued barn owls hiss like enraged cobras at night and give humans trying to sleep the real jitters. The ISO is vociferous, it utters a medley of hisses, shrieks and cackles. However, rescued spotted owlets tend to keep the volume down at night,” revealed Khanna.Death begets new life On the graves of the dead, do the most beautiful flying flowers bloom.Nature has little time or emotive energies to spare and mourn the young dead. The remains of the jungle’s mortals, be it a fawn or an aging lion, offer the glimmer of new life to an opportunistic army of manual scavengers. What is still left after the scavengers are done with, assimilates into the soils and enriches the flourish of floral eruptions from the womb of mother earth. Each part of Death’s stillness is requisitioned to serve a movement and finds a designated slot in the endless reinvention and recycling of life forms, from animate to inanimate and vice versa.I stumbled upon this amoral truism of nature in the guise of a vividly contrasting spectacle: an ugly, rotting skeletal piece fancied by beautiful butterflies. I was on a ramble along the western hillsides flanking Perch Check Dam, situated a few miles behind the PGIMER. The pelvic girdle of a young sambar deer was degenerating speedily in the monsoon humidity. But common gull butterflies seemed to rejoice at death. The butterflies were indulging in a bout of mud-puddling, while being so prettily perched on rotting bones, flitting to and fro at the faintest shadow cast upon them as they nibbled away at the wholesome girdle.Mud-puddling is the generic term for a natural phenomenon. Male butterflies gather on substrates like wet soil, dung and rotting animal bodies to obtain nutrients such as mineral salts, sodium and ammonium ions, amino acids and simple carbohydrates, which may be absent in the nectar they otherwise feed on. Male butterflies pass on these collections to females as nuptial gifts through the spermatophore (a sac of nutrients combined with the sperm). In turn, females apportion these gifted nutrients towards improving egg viability.Death had enhanced the butterflies’ capabilities to breed new lives and stamp their genes on the tireless turns of mother earth that mark time’s passage. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-loving-the-owl-brat-101628962684383.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Unshackle Indian athletes for more Olympic success||The performance of Indian athletes at the Olympics is laudable. Now, it is time to build on this success. The Niti Aayog’s plan, First Play, lays down a strategy for India to win 50 medals in the 2024 Olympics. For a country that won seven medals at the Tokyo Olympics and has won 30 medals over the last 100 years, this goal seems to be a stretch. The Niti’s plan to get there makes the goal delusional. The well-meaning bureaucrats that run the Niti Aayog are programmed to find solutions through the government machinery. Thus, more government involvement is their solution to most problems. The First Play plan includes, among other things, ‘targeting’ 10 priority sports based on past success and something they call ‘high winning potential’. This sounds eerily like the License Raj policy that destroyed India’s economic growth for five decades. Allowing bureaucrats and politicians to pick priority sectors did not work for our economy and will not help Indian sports.Flaw in the plan Neeraj Chopra would never have succeeded under the Niti’s plan because javelin throw would not have featured in the list of priority sports as it did not have a success track record. Other athletes such as Swapna Barman, who won the Heptathlon Gold in the 2018 Asian Games; 400m runners like Milkha Singh and PT Usha, and the gymnast Dipa Karmakar would also not have made the cut. It is always the success of an elite athlete that increases participation in a sport. It was the success of Mark Spitz that gave an impetus to the next generation of American swimmers such as Michael Phelps and not some wacky government prioritisation scheme. Similarly, Usain Bolt ignited the recent success of Jamaican runners, not a government priority scheme. Let the talented athletes decide, which sports India wins medals in, not priorities set by bureaucrats or politicians. India can become a successful sporting country not through more government involvement, but by creating the right incentives for the athletes. These incentives are best created in a free market, unencumbered by government control. Professional sports management companies are in the business of finding talent, paying for their training, finding the best trainers, coaches and performance psychologists, and eventually making a profit for themselves and the athletes they represent by maximising their sponsorship value. Phelps, who has won as many medals (28) in the last four Olympics as India has in hundred years (30), has never received a penny from the US government. Sponsorship has paid for his training. Nurture young talent Countries such as Norway, Finland, and Germany have dozens of private sports clubs and schools dedicated to training world-class athletes. Sports management companies armed with the latest scientific methods in functional and muscle movement identify potential athletes from a very early age. They adopt, train, support, and convert these athletes into world-class medal winners. India needs a similar model, and, given the size of its market and its huge TV audience, professional sports companies would jump at the opportunity to be involved in Indian sports. America has dominated world athletics with over 2,600 Olympic medals. Yet its government has no involvement in sports. The US Olympic Committee is funded entirely from private sources and is privately managed. There are no bureaucrats or politicians in any sports federation, and unlike India, the US does not have a sports ministry.Abolish sports ministries India’s athletics, on the other hand, is still controlled by bureaucrats and politicians. They head the sports bodies, manage the budgets and decide what and who gets funded. This must stop. The government is not a help, but a hindrance for optimum athletic performance. All sports ministries must be abolished. Sports has to become an industry with its sports schools, sports clubs, private coaching academies, sports management companies, equipment manufacturers, professional leagues, TV rights, and sponsorships. The world of professional sports operates entirely in the private domain. Whether it is professional basketball, or soccer clubs like the Manchester United or Real Madrid, private ownership and management is the key. This should be the direction for sports in India. A good example is the IPL, a private cricket league, which has played a major role in raising the standard of Indian cricket.Market-based solutions that allow individuals to pursue goals based on their own set of skills and incentives are the best way to achieve optimum performance.Unshackle Indian athletes from the burden of dealing with the government and they will get 50 Olympic medals.sb@sanjivbhatia.com(The writer is the founder and CEO of Contract With India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-unshackle-indian-athletes-for-more-olympic-success-101628962623956.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s stock of anti-coronavirus vaccine will last for 6 days: Bulletin||The national capital's stock of anti-coronavirus vaccine will last for six days, the city government said on Saturday, adding that over 1,20,541 vaccine doses were administered the previous day.As of Saturday morning, Delhi had 6,87,150 coronavirus vaccines in its balance stock, of which, 3,96,110 doses were of Covishield and 2,91,040 of Covaxin, according to the Covid vaccination bulletin issued by the government.A total of 1,20,541 doses were administered on Thursday, including 74,755 first doses, it said.The cumulative number of doses administered in the city so far has reached 1.13 crore doses -- 81,60,782 first doses and 31,97,481 second doses.Delhi's current vaccination capacity stands at 1,77,496 doses daily, the bulletin stated.The city health department officials had recently told the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) that it would take another year to fully vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries aged above 18 against the novel coronavirus infection at the "present rate of vaccine supply".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-stock-of-anti-coronavirus-vaccine-will-last-for-6-days-bulletin-101628961913222.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays | India needs a sports revolution||The signs have been evident for a while now. India’s sportspersons have sparkled intermittently on the global stage. But the culture of sports in our land just hasn’t kept pace. Our gargantuan system, with its elephantine gait, has just not been able to trot along rapidly enough to allow Indian sports to truly conquer the world stage.Happily, sport has briefly become one of the priorities of a large section of India’s populace, even if most people are bystanders and fair-weather friends of it! With the hoopla relating to our successes at Tokyo yet to die down, the time is ripe to strike the hot iron. Revolutionary changes in the firmament of sports are needed before more mundane matters overtake our collective consciousness yet again.Sport has the potential to empower women, create employment opportunities, enhance immunity levels, nurture balanced mindsets among the youth, and also calm society as a whole.Presented below are some ideas which can propel India to the forefront among sporting nations, instead of being an also-ran:1. Changing the game: The very ethos of our society needs to be shaken and stirred by inspirational interactions with medalists and champions. Each district of our country needs to prioritise sports for the young, in schools, colleges, community centres, panchayat ghars and on village common land. 2. Elevating National Sports Day: In this era of clanging and banging, we need to make more noise about sports. And what better day than Major Dhyan Chand’s birthday, which is our National Sports Day, but which hardly anyone knows about. Let us as a nation, celebrate it with every family participating in local sports tournaments, in every nook of India.3. More games periods in schools: Most children in India grow up having attended one games period per week, with one football available to a class of 50 kids. How can any of them become sports champions? In order to develop their interest in sports, there need to be more dedicated hours for all students in all schools, and maybe marks allocated for sporting excellence.4. Encouraging the girls: The reason for a large percentage of Indian medals coming through the feats of women participants is not tough to fathom. Girls are more sincere and disciplined in whatever they pursue, sports or studies. What they need is coaching, mentoring, encouragement, support and guidance. They also need those pernicious influences in society who intimidate them if they play a sport, to back off and to stay away!5. Neighbourhood schools to open their gates:One of the recommendations that our think tank, Suvichar, forwarded to the government, was the need for all schools, private and government, to open their fields and facilities to neighbourhood kids after school hours. Adequate supervision would indeed be needed, but children who live nearby should be allowed to play every evening at a nearby school on a regular basis.6. Pumping in CSR funds:The government is always limited in its resources and outreach, in its expertise and levels of excellence. Sports departments across the states of India need a fillip in the shape of conglomerates from industry coming forward with finances, infrastructure and even coaching staff, to create a true impact at the ground level, especially in rural India where athleticism is generally superior to urban parameters.7. Promoting team games: Sports like hockey, soccer and volleyball need to follow the cricket example, and develop a large catchment of players. The recent magnificence of the hockey teams, men and women, can be capitalised upon by organising age-group tournaments in all team sports at the state, district, block and village levels, with adequate prizes and incentives being offered to winners, and certificates to all participants.8. Inspiring the whole nation: By inviting Olympic medallists and all noted sports achievers to deliver lectures and hold regular interactions in schools, colleges and communities as well as with defence forces and para military staff, the whole nation can be inspired to adopt sports as a passion.The Olympic Games of Paris in 2024 are not far away, but let us start preparing for Los Angeles, 2028, and Brisbane, 2032, right away!vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-india-needs-a-sports-revolution-101628962323784.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout | Padma, I will meet you yet again…||None other than India’s nightingale Lata Mangeshkar in her tribute to Dogri poet Padma Sachdev, who passed from life to legend last week, said, “I am at a loss of words on hearing of the passing away of my dear friend, the famous Dogri poet and composer. Ours was a long and old friendship. She anchored my music concert in the US and I sang her Dogri song. It is a sad day for me.”Such was the charisma of the fair-faced girl, born in 1940 at Purmandal village of the Jammu hills, who went onto be hailed as the first modern poet of the Dogri language.I first caught a glimpse of Padma at an all-woman poetry symposium, which had been organised by Punjabi poet and television producer SS Misha in honour of Amrita Pritam winning the prestigious Jnanpith Award in 1981. My first introduction to her was her tinkling laughter and the jokes she was cracking as we sat in the bus that was to take us from the hotel to the auditorium.At the symposium, Padma was the lone Dogri star who charmed the audience with a recitation of her two famous poems – Deshnikala, in which she described exile as the lot of a young girl after marriage, and ‘Raaje Dian Mandian’, another classic poem on class difference.A home away from homeToo shy to ask her for an interview, I just wrote a piece on her poetry and the songs she had written for films. I was to meet her five years later on stage at yet another symposium, at the end of which she stopped me and said, laughing: “Hain te tu kallo par terian nazman barhi gorian ne. My aithe nerhe is Bengali Market rehandi haan, ghar aa ja kisse din!” (Though, you are dark, but your poems are fair enough. Why don’t you come and meet me at my house, which is close by in Bengali Market?)I was staying in Delhi those days and went to meet her. The warmth of Padma and her husband, Surinder Singh, the famous classical singer who made the duo with his elder brother Tejpal Singh, would make it my home away from home. The room of their daughter, Manjit Sachdev (Meeta), then but a child, was always at my disposal whenever I stayed the night. Meeta would bunk with one of her parents for the night and Padma would treat me to home-cooked food.Looking back at this rare couple who were the celebrities of the 80s, I wonder at their warmth and generosity in making a small-town Chandigarh girl part of their family in the cold and harsh capital city.The couple had just moved to Delhi from Mumbai as Meeta had developed allergies due to the damp weather. Their friends would keep dropping in from Mumbai and I got to meet the who’s who of writers and musicians in their Toder Mal Lane home. The most cherished part was the long time I got to spend with Ismat Chughtai of Lihaaf fame.Sitting on Meeta’s bed she would tell me one rare story after another of the Mumbai film world. Alzheimer’s disease had just about started setting in at the time, but Ismat was still alert and witty.Those were busy days for Padma. In the morning, she would go to her cabin in the library of the India International Centre to work on her book Sabad Milava, in which she was writing a prose piece accompanying her selected poems.She would leave Ismat Appa and I (the bad girls as she described us) stocked with cigarettes and beer in the fridge and return in the afternoon when it was time for Meeta to return from school. Oh! What days and what precious conversations.A friend for all timesDistance or long gaps of not being able to meet never weakened the tie of love and friendship with Padma and Surinderji as I moved back to Chandigarh. She was the happiest when I adopted a daughter. When I took her to meet Padma, what a celebration there was! Padma literally gave the child a silver spoon and Meeta’s best Russian doll.After a meningitis attack in 1988, many thought that Padma, who had braved and fought tuberculosis of the bones at age 16 at a Srinagar sanatorium, would succumb. However, there she was again winning more awards and accolades despite frail health.With my mother paralysed for long years and a daughter growing up, the meetings became fewer.The summer of 2019 was the last time I was to meet her. Surinderji was resting after a long stay in the hospital. Padma, too, was not well but had changed into a special suit to meet me. I saw something black on her upper lip and almost pulled it out when she stopped me because it was the oxygen line. It was then that I noticed the cylinder. “Don’t worry Padma, you will be fine!” I told her. “That I will be!” she replied confidently.Meeta who works for OTT platforms in Mumbai moved with them well before the Covid pandemic hit to be able to look after them. Meeta says her “ma” had been in the hospital for just two days when she insisted on returning home where she was actively planning what she would do in the future. “She called up just about everyone from Lata Mangeshkar to her dentist!”And then she went slowly into the good night. It is a line from Amrita’s poem to Imroz that comes to the mind: “Padma, I will meet you yet again…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-padma-i-will-meet-you-yet-again-101628962026949.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Fully vaccinated citizens get on board Mumbai local trains||Local trains in Mumbai will resume operations for the fully vaccinated citizens today (Sunday) after a gap of four months. On April 15 this year, the local train services were closed for the general public for the second time amid the pandemic, owing to an increase in Covid-19 cases in the city.Apart from fully vaccinated passengers who have pre-verified their vaccination status and obtained a monthly travel pass, healthcare workers and essential service employees are allowed to use the trains as usual.Trains will operate between routine operational hours of the Central and Western Railways.Railway authorities said they are prepared to handle the extra crowd on trains starting Sunday, especially as the first day of opening up trains for part of the general public also coincides with Independence Day. Random ticket checks will be conducted at all railway stations to ensure only pass holders are using train services.The municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), had since August 11, set up help desks at all railway stations for offline verification of vaccine status. Such desks were set up by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) at 53 railway stations on the central and western lines. Similarly, helpdesks were set up at 109 stations in the MMR.A spokesperson from Central railways said on Saturday, “In preparation for trains opening up for fully vaccinated beneficiaries, we have increased the number of ticket counters across stations. Before August 11, we had 300 counters, now we have 340, to avoid crowding at the ticket windows. Railway police have also been deployed, and ticket-checkers will conduct random checks at all stations. For Independence Day, Central Railway has taken additional security measures, a dog squad, and two ninja drone cameras for Mumbai division.”The Western Railways saw commuter traffic of an average of 150,000 passengers every day during the past four months when trains were not operating for the general public. A spokesperson from the Western Railways said, “On a weekend, we see around 120,000 passengers, and on a weekday it is around 150,000. This is likely to increase by a few thousand passengers as we have issued an average of 10,000 - 12,000 passes a day since August 11.”On Thursday, the state government also made the verification process online, via a web link, which generates an e-pass that can be showed at ticket counters to avail monthly travel passes.The process of applying online is as follows: Eligible citizens need to open the link: http://epassmsdma.mahait.org, click on the option travel pass for vaccinated citizens, mention their mobile number, which will generate a one time password via an SMS. After entering the OTP, other details such as the beneficiary name and reference number for vaccination status will automatically appear on the form. Citizens have to click on generate e-pass, upload a photograph that can be clicked using the phone camera. Within 48 hours, applicants will receive a link on their number, after which they can download the e-pass and save it in their mobile gallery.Applicants who have taken their second dose, but have not completed 14 days, will receive this link to download the e-pass only after 14 days are completed.So far, a total of 91,925 passes have been issued by the Central and Western Railways to fully vaccinated beneficiaries who have also completed 14 days after their second dose. On Wednesday, 34,353 suburban railway monthly passes were issued to passengers. Central Railway has issued 22,689 monthly passes, while the Western Railway issued 11,664 railway passes. On Thursday, 32,534 monthly passes were issued to the suburban railway passengers on both the Central and Western Railway networks. Of the 32,534 passes, 22,104 were issued on the Central Railway and 10,430 were issued on the Western Railway. On Friday, a total of 25,038 passes were issued, of which 17,765 monthly passes were issued by Central Railway and 7,873 passes were issued by Western Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fully-vaccinated-citizens-get-on-board-mumbai-local-trains-101628961123766.html
14-08-2021||Other||Kejriwal reviews road revamp projects in city||New Delhi: The Delhi government has set up benches, installed additional street lights, created a grass carpet along the pavements, set up a selfie point on a foot overbridge and set up statues of Bhagat Singh and Rani Laxmi Bhai on the now dismantled BRT corridor stretch between Chirag Delhi and Sheikh Sarai as part of its ongoing 540 km road redevelopment project, the office of the chief minister said in a statement on Saturday.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday noon visited the 800-metre stretch on the BRT corridor to review work progress, said the statement.“Kejriwal government develops road on the lines of European Cities. Modernity, along with a glimpse of patriotism is on offer. Beautification of Chirag Delhi to Sheikh Sarai is complete. Statues of freedom fighters and artifacts of historical heritage were placed along the road to celebrate 75 years of Independence. Delhi’s roads are being redesigned and made better, today a sample design of a road was inspected; 540 kms of roads are being beautified and redesigned along these lines,” said the CM in the statement.It further said, “Standards will be increased in the forthcoming projects to provide best quality roads -- 540kms of roads will be taken up in the first phase of the project. I appeal to the people of Delhi to give feedback on our work, inform us of our strengths and shortcomings.”The road redevelopment project was launched by the government in 2019. The public works department maintains 1,280 km roads in the city -- of which 540km roads in different parts of the city were chosen for the redesign and redevelopment project. All these roads chosen are more than 100-feet wide. Some common features of the project are creating grass carpet areas along pavements, cycling tracks, pedestrian tracks, installing adequate lighting, signages, constructing foot overbridges and placing benches along the roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-reviews-road-revamp-projects-in-city-101628960764589.html
14-08-2021||Noida||No walk-in facility for second dose of Covid vaccine at CHC Bhangel||Though Saturday was reserved for second dose of Covid vaccine in Uttar Pradesh, the Community Health Centre (CHC) at Bhangel in Gautam Budh Nagar turned away hundreds of people looking for walk-in vaccination for second dose due to a limited supply of vaccines.CHC Bhangel caters to a large population of Noida villages and urban sectors, including sectors 104, 110, 108, 137, 82, 93, 47 and 44.“The centre is near my residence. When I could not find a slot for second dose online, I reached the centre at 11am for walk-in vaccination. However, there was already a huge crowd at the centre for walk-in vaccination and people were being turned away as only those who had booked slots online were getting the second dose,” said Devesh Chaturvedi, a resident of Lotus Panache in Sector 104.Officials said that as the centre opened at 10am, at least 500 people came for walk-in vaccinations.“Till 1pm, we turned away at least 500 people as we did not have walk-in slots for the second dose. The health department had provided us with 350 doses of vaccines, including 150 for second dose. The doses were for beneficiaries who booked slots online,” said Dr Yatendra Singh, medical superintendent at CHC Bhangel.Dr Neeraj Tyagi, GB Nagar district immunisation officer, said that CHC Bhangel was the only government Covid vaccination centre (CVC) in the district that was not given walk-in slots for second dose.“With a limited number of vaccines, we try to divide the stock among all CVCs as per the demand and population they cater to. CHC Bhangel is the only one where walk-in slots were not opened on Saturday for second dose. Often 100% of beneficiaries who book their slots online do not turn up. So, by 1pm, we get an idea of how many vaccines are left, and after that we open the walk-in slots,” said Dr Tyagi.Later in the day, 50 slots were opened for walk-in vaccination of second dose at CHC Bhangel, said Dr Singh.Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, GB Nagar chief medical officer, said, “The walk-in slots for second dose were later opened after it was reported to the department that a number of walk-in beneficiaries were coming to the centre for second dose.”GB Nagar administered a total of 7,521 jabs on Saturday, of which 786 were first doses and 6,735 second doses, the officials said, adding that the vaccinations were carried out at 23 government CVCs.Child PGI hospital in Sector 30 renamed The Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) in Noida’s Sector 30, commonly known as Child PGI, has been renamed as the Post Graduate Institute of Child Health, Noida.“We had submitted an application to the Uttar Pradesh administration to rename the institute as the name was very long. The application has been approved and the changes are effective from today,” said Dr Akash Raj, medical superintendent at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-walk-in-facility-for-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine-at-chc-bhangel-101628960765295.html
14-08-2021||Other||Punjab chief secy reviews progress on ease of doing business in state||Chandigarh In a bid to cut red tape, the Punjab government has scrapped 1,498 mandatory compliances, while more reduction in compulsory formalities for trade and industry in the state is also being worked upon, chief secretary Vini Mahajan said on Saturday. She was chairing a meeting to review the status of compliance reduction across departments. All heads of department have been directed to reduce compliances expected to industry, even more, by the end of the month. Mahajan said the compliances fell under two categories, government to business (G2B) and government to citizen (G2C) – were being reduced to save the cost and time of users. She asked all administrative secretaries to identify more such compliances, where simplification is required, considering the fact that it will ultimately benefit the society at large. She added that Invest Punjab is the nodal agency for coordinating with all departments concerned for timely implementation of G2B compliances; Governance Reforms and Grievances department is the nodal agency for G2C compliances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-chief-secy-reviews-progress-on-ease-of-doing-business-in-state-101628960763956.html
14-08-2021||Noida||Jab shortage hits move to increase second dose coverage in Ghaziabad||More than 7,000 Covid-19 vaccines, including 2,203 first doses, were administered till 6pm on Saturday, that was the first ‘second dose day’ observed in the district. The Uttar Pradesh government had directed that starting August 14, every Saturday will be reserved for beneficiaries scheduled to take their second doses while weekdays will remain open for both first and second-dose recipients. The district administered 7,313 doses on Saturday with 69.87% of the shots administered to beneficiaries scheduled to take their second doses.“On Saturday, we reserved about 80% doses for second dose recipients and the remaining for first dose beneficiaries. But many people, including senior citizens, arrived during the day. So, instead of turning them away, we administered the jabs. We have some stock left from the vaccination drive of Friday and will receive more stocks on Sunday for the inoculation drive to be held on Monday,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for vaccination.The district opened 31 centres for the inoculation drive on Saturday. Many first-time beneficiaries also went to take the jab, due to which serpentine queues were observed at many centres. “Since the stock of vaccine was low, we had to curtail operation of several centres,” said Mathuria, adding that six centres in rural areas offered both doses on public demand.  “I came to take the second shot, along with my mother, and it took us about an hour to get the jab. In between, I went to another centre in Kavi Nagar industrial area, but there were long queues there too. I came back to the first centre and waited to take the jab,” said Prateek Pal, who arrived at the vaccination centre at the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital.Till Saturday, the district administered total 1,684,129 doses, which include 1,366,905 first doses and 317,224 second doses. Likewise, Uttar Pradesh has so far administered 57,412,747 doses, which include 48,238,092 (84.02%) first doses and 9,174,655 (15.98%) second doses. Health experts said taking the second dose is very important for protection against Covid-19. “The strategy of ‘second dose day’ is a good initiative but it needs adequate vaccine stock to make the drive a success. If first dose beneficiaries also arrive on the same day, it will defeat the purpose. Officials must plan accordingly, so that the second dose day is observed in true spirit,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jab-shortage-hits-move-to-increase-second-dose-coverage-in-ghaziabad-101628960582994.html
14-08-2021||Noida||Two persons arrested for murder of 30-year-old man in Dadri||Two suspects were arrested from Dadri on Saturday for allegedly killing a 30-year-old man three days ago. The suspects were identified as Anuj Singh, 26, and Gajendra Lohar, 25, residents of Chakrasenpur in Dadri. On August 11, Amit Bhati was allegedly shot dead by eight men over personal enmity in Chakrasenpur village. According to police, Bhati was driving his car when the criminals, some in a Mahindra Scorpio and others on two motorcycles, overtook the victim’s vehicle and sprayed bullets at him. Bhati was admitted to a private hospital where he died. Bhati’s cousin Manish filed a complaint at Dadri police station and named eight suspects – Anuj Singh, Gajendra Lohar, Satish, Manoj, Naresh, Manish, Suresh, and Sittu. A case was registered against them under sections 147 (rioting), 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC. Police said they received information about the two suspects’ movement on a motorcycle in Dadri’s Derin Cot village on Saturday. “A police team reached the spot and arrested the two persons. Police recovered a countrymade gun and a pistol from their possession,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.Pradeep Tripathi, SHO, Dadri police station, said that the two parties had an old enmity. “There was no specific reason for the enmity. The two arrested suspects said that they had fled their village a few months ago fearing attack by Bhati,” he said, adding that police have launched a search for the other suspects. Tripathi said the two suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-persons-arrested-for-murder-of-30-year-old-man-in-dadri-101628960163050.html
14-08-2021||Noida||Ramsar tag eludes Dhanauri wetland again, activists call for serious steps||On Saturday, when the Union environment ministry announced the names of four wetlands that were recognised as Ramsar sites — wetland of international importance — the absence of Gautam Budh Nagar’s Dhanauri was noticed.Spread across 101 hectares, Dhanauri wetland serves as a sanctuary for the vulnerable (as listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature) state bird of Uttar Pradesh, the Sarus crane. Not only did Dhanauri missed out on the Ramsar tag, but it is also yet to be conferred the status of “sanctuary” for the crane that would give it additional protection.While officials from the district’s forest department said that they are working on getting the Ramsar tag, experts said that the “government is only protecting the already protected”.Noida-based birder Anand Arya, who discovered the Dhanauri wetland and had been pushing for its conservation pointed out that all four sites declared Ramsar on Saturday were “either wildlife sanctuary or bird Sanctuaries”.“It seems that the government is not making efforts to save unrecognised or non-notified wetlands and only adding its tally of Ramsar sites by declaring the already protected sites like national parks or bird sanctuaries. Thol and Wadhwana (both in Gujarat) are bird sanctuaries, Sultanpur is a national park and Bhindawas is a wildlife sanctuary (both in Haryana) ,” said Anand Arya.Ramsar sites are the wetlands of international importance. India is a signatory to the Ramsar Convention held in 1971 in Iran that seeks to recognise and protect the important wetlands of the world. India has a total of 45 Ramsar sites and the surface area covered by these sites is now 1,083,322 hectares.“The forest department has been sitting on it (proposal to forward Dhanauri as a Ramsar site) for over seven years. So far, they did not even submit the detailed study to the Ramsar secretariat to make a case for it,” said Anand Arya.In 2018, the district forest department first sent its proposal to declare the waterbody as a wetland under Wetland Rules 2017, the state government has initiated the process and appointed a nodal officer for the task.In September 2020, the officials from Wetland International and state forest department began ground inspection and terrain analysis to make a case for the wetland to be declared as a Ramsar site and a Sarus crane sanctuary. Later that year, the forest department roped in WWF, officials said.“We had been working with different organisations like WWF also to gather a lot of information regarding Dhanauri This is a tedious task. We are however now in much better position and within next one month the forest department will send its proposal and detailed reports to the Ramsar secretariat to name Dhanauri a Ramsar site” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar.Once home to over 211 species of birds the Dhanauri wetland has suffered a habitat loss and drop in bird populations over the years. In April this year, the forest department has to rushed to fill the wetland using borewells after it ran dry for the first time following high temperatures and unregulated farming in the area.In January, the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) 2021, held by Wetlands International South Asia and the district forest department, found over four times drop in bird population as compared to 2020. The AWC 2021 found only 1,344 birds against 6,227 birds in January last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ramsar-tag-eludes-dhanauri-wetland-again-activists-call-for-serious-steps-101628959862754.html
14-08-2021||Bangalore||Districts to decide on Covid-19 restrictions, testing, vaccination to be increased: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Following a meeting with experts on Covid-19 in the state, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said that the state government has decided to delegate power to the district authorities to manage the situation after ruling out a statewide plan.The decision was taken based on the opinion of the Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19 was of the opinion that the second wave of infections were not over in the state.“We cannot formulate a statewide COVID-19 management plan. It should be district specific,” news agency PTI quoted the CM as saying after the meeting. Alongside experts, ministers and other state officials also attended the meeting. He also said that the decision on implementing lockdown will be made based on the positivity rate of a particular district. Further, in districts where the positivity rate is above 2%, schools would not be reopened, the CM said.Also read | Covid-19: Karnataka bans processions on Muharram, Ganesh ChaturthiThe experts had expressed their concerns that the positivity rate in the state was not reducing and the daily infections in the state was hovering around the 1600- to 1800-mark, Bommai said. During the end of the first wave, the single-day infections came down to 300 cases, he added. “We have to prevent Covid-19 because this disease is still around. Since the cases are still remaining between 1,600 and 1,800, we need to be careful,” he added.Testing and vaccination for the disease have been planned to be ramped up in some districts namely, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Mysuru, Hassan, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Bengaluru Rural, the CM said. They should also be increased in villages that are up to 10kms inside Karnataka from the borders with Kerala and Maharashtra. Further, it was also decided in the meeting to increase testing in Bengaluru, Raichur, Kalaburagi, Ballari, Bidar, Koppal, Haveri, Vijayapura, Tumakuru and Chikkamagaluru.Among other measures, six new genome sequencing labs would also be set up in Bengaluru, Raichur, Kalaburagi, Ballari, Bidar, Koppal, Haveri, Vijayapura, Tumakuru and Chikkamagaluru over the next three weeks to keep a track of new variants of the disease.As far as vaccinations are concerned, 40 million people have been inoculated in the state as of date, the CM said. While the state has a stock of 1.5 million vaccine doses, it will also receive 3 million doses by the end of August, he added. “We are demanding more vaccines. Next week I am going to meet the union health minister. We are getting 65 lakh vials every month, which should be increased to one crore. If that arrives, we can vaccinate all the districts,” he said.Bommai further mentioned that a case has been filed in the Kerala High Court against Karnataka’s move to mandate a negative RT-PCR certificate for people arriving from Kerala. “It's a different matter that we will fight it out legally but I would like to say that the first wave started from Kerala and maximum cases related to second wave is in Kerala. Hence, Kerala has to control Covid cases,” he added.Schools in the state would be reopened from September 23 and not August 23 the CM said, mentioning that the classes would resume in two alternative batches. He also said that the standard operating procedure regarding the number of students permitted and the precautions to be taken was also prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/districts-to-decide-on-covid-19-restrictions-testing-vaccination-to-be-increased-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-101628959258084.html
14-08-2021||Other||Show what you have done for martyrs: AAP to state, Centre||Jalandhar Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders paid homage at the memorial of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh at Khatkar Kalan on the eve of Independence Day on Saturday. AAP MLA from Delhi, national spokesperson and Punjab affairs co-incharge, Raghav Chadha, said, “I have come to seek guidance from the light of the martyrs who sacrificed their lives in the dream of a great India.” Chadha questioned the political, economic and social situation of Punjab and the country and said what successive governments have done to fulfil the dreams of these martyrs. “Today, the youth of Punjab is unemployed and ensnared to drugs, thanks to the ruling elite. The landlords of Punjab, the farmers of Punjab, the labourers of Punjab are forced to commit suicide. It has become difficult for the poor to live,” he said. Chadha said the youth of the state were sitting on dharnas for jobs and the teachers who were to shape the future of Punjab were sitting on the streets for their rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/show-what-you-have-done-for-martyrs-aap-to-state-centre-101628959744251.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||SC upholds NGT order, instructs BMC to take steps to stop polluting water bodies||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to stay an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), dated October 2020, which rapped the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for discharge of raw sewage into city creeks, rivers and drains. The SC said prescribed pollution norms are being violated, and directed BMC to expedite compliance with NGT’s orders which includes paying environmental compensation to the tune of ₹34 crore, in addition to future penalties.BMC had filed a civil appeal before the Supreme Court in March, seeking a stay on NGT’s directions issued in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) by NGO Vanashakti. The civic body had also attempted to stay a subsequent execution application that Vanashakti filed before NGT in June after observing little action by BMC toward complying with the Tribunal’s orders. A May audit report by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) revealed that none of the Tribunal’s mandated actions have been complied with so far.The SC on Friday allowed Vanashakti’s execution application to proceed and also clarified that the municipal commissioner himself will be responsible for compliance with NGT’s directions. However, the Apex court granted some relief in that the commissioner need not appear before the Tribunal in person. NGT had last month directed BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal to be present in person for the next hearing on August 28, while imposing additional environmental compensation of ₹2.1 crore on BMC.“The municipal corporation must, in our view, make every effort to comply with the directions of the NGT by setting up the required facilities and upgrading existing facilities. Humanity can ill afford the luxury of using water bodies as dumping grounds of municipal waste. It is absolutely no valid answer to say that the directions which have been issued by NGT would pose budgetary implications for the municipal corporation...,” noted the Supreme Court bench comprising justice DY Chandrachud and justice MR Shah.The Apex court also directed that within a period of two weeks, the commissioner shall file an affidavit before NGT “categorically indicating the steps which have been taken to comply with the directions of NGT, particularly with regard to ensuring compliance with the requisite standards for the discharge of effluents including municipal waste and sewage.”BMC, in a written response to MPCB earlier this year, had stated it would require at least another “four to five years” to stop polluting Mumbai’s creeks, stormwater drains and rivers with raw or partially-treated sewage. Officials with BMC’s sewage disposal project declined to comment on the story, saying that an official response will be presented to NGT in compliance with Supreme Court directions. At present, only one of the eight operational sewage treatment plants (STP) — the 37 million litres per day (MLD) one in Colaba — in the city is compliant with the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) latest discharge standards. The remaining STPs in Worli, Bandra, Ghatkopar, Bhandup, Versova, Charkop and Malad, some of which were constructed more than 20 years ago, are currently not fully equipped with the required sequencing batch bioreactor (SBBR) technology and continue to discharge polluting effluents into creeks, laboratory analyses by MPCB showed.However, fully-functional STPs are not the only solution to the problem. To prevent dry weather flow of untreated sewage in city’s creeks and rivers and to prevent the flow of waste into rivers, Mumbai also needs a well-connected system of sewer lines. The existing 2,025-km-long network services only 84% of Mumbai’s developed area and 68% of the city’s population, as per BMC. Due to these shortcomings, there are still 93 openings across the city and suburbs which continue to discharge untreated sewage directly into creeks and drains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-upholds-ngt-order-instructs-bmc-to-take-steps-to-stop-polluting-water-bodies-101628959628359.html
14-08-2021||Gurugram||170 newly registered voters download digital IDs||Only 170 of 11,551 newly registered voters from the district downloaded their e-EPIC (electoral photo identity card) on Saturday, when an application for the same was launched across the country.Officials said that 2,047 people from Pataudi, 3,932 from Badshahpur, 2,956 from Gurugram and 2,619 from Sohna assembly constituencies were registered under the special summary revision, 2021, and their mobile numbers linked by the election commission to test the application.“About 30,000 new voters are added to the district from January onwards. Of these, about 11,551 registered their mobile number to access the digital voter ID card. On Saturday, under the testing phase of e-EPIC for an hour between 11am -12 noon, only 170 voters downloaded their digital cards. Across the country, almost 29 lakh (2.9 million) voters had to test the application,” said Rajendra Huda, district election officer.The e-EPIC was launched on January 25 this year as an alternative and faster mode of obtaining the voter ID in a digital format. Only new electors registered during the special summary revision of 2021 are eligible to get digital IDs. All new registrations with mobile numbers get SMS for downloading e-EPIC. They can download the same based on one-time pin (OTP) authentication.According to a statement issued by the district administration on Saturday, the Election Commission of India (ECI) conducted the load testing of the e-EPIC server by allowing 2.9 million newly registered voters to download the application.Currently, in Gurugram there are about 1,252,000 voters, but the service is not applicable for everyone.According to Huda, the service will expand to include all general voters in the next couple of months. “The election commission is yet to open the service for all voters across the country. Since the load on the server will increase, it is being opened in a stepwise manner to avoid any hassle. Currently, only those who were registered from January 25 to 31 are included,” said Huda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/170-newly-registered-voters-download-digital-ids-101628959627125.html
14-08-2021||Gurugram||First electric bus between Gurugram, Faridabad to start; pollution control the aim||The city’s first electric bus service between Gurugram and Faridabad will be inaugurated and flagged off on Sunday by the state transport minister, officials said on Saturday. On Sunday afternoon, a trial service with one bus from Gurugram till Ballabgarh in Faridabad will be started. Officials said that this is being tried as an alternative to CNG buses to control pollution in these two cities, which is a major concern for most parts of the year. At present, a charging station for the bus has been set up at the Sector 8 office of the transport department in Faridabad. Rajeev Nagpal, the general manager of Haryana Roadways Engineering Corporation (HREC), said, “With the aim of controlling pollution in these two cities, state transport minister Mool Chand Sharma will be inaugurating this bus service after 3pm on Sunday. At present, we will monitor this service for two months to see its performance. The bus has a capacity of covering 150-200kms on a single charge.” The price of each ticket in the 33-seater electric bus has been set at ₹75. Nagpal said that after monitoring the service for two months and understanding the cost of operation on road, the department has the capacity to expand the fleet to 250 for use all across Delhi-NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/first-electric-bus-between-gurugram-faridabad-to-start-pollution-control-the-aim-101628959625490.html
14-08-2021||Gurugram||Rajiv Chowk needs signals and pedestrian refuge islands, say experts||Experts recommended installation of traffic signals, pedestrian refuge islands and pelican lights, among other safety measures, at Rajiv Chowk to make commute safer for pedestrians and cyclists, as per a report prepared on the behest of the district administration.The report, prepared by WRI India, Raahgiri Foundation, and Nagarro, to reduce the number of accidents and fatalities at the Rajiv Chowk black spot was submitted to deputy commissioner Yash Garg earlier in the week.A 500-metre stretch of a national highway is considered a black spot when more than five fatal accidents or at least 10 fatalities have been recorded over a three-year period.As per the report, from 2017-2020, there have been 23 fatalities at the intersection, of which 11 were pedestrians and five were cyclists. Further, 22 people suffered grievous injuries and 11 people suffered minor injuries due to lack of pedestrian amenities.Rajiv Chowk is one of the most congested areas in the city, with traffic from Sohna Road, service lanes of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and Old Railway Road converging at the intersection.The issue of the high number of accidents, fatalities and lack of proper pedestrian amenities had been brought up in district road safety meetings, including the most recent one on July 16, in which Garg asked for a comprehensive study of Rajiv Chowk.“A study of Rajiv Chowk by the three companies has been received earlier this week and is in the process of being reviewed. All findings and recommendations will be individually analysed and depending on their feasibility, directions will be issued to relevant public bodies to implement necessary changes on the ground,” said Garg.According to the report, signal-free movement at the intersection leaves pedestrians and cyclists vulnerable to accidents while crossing the road. It also highlighted that a non-motorised-transport (NMT) underpass is in a dilapidated state and is poorly lit, maintained, unclean and unsafe, due to which it is rarely used by cyclists and pedestrians.The report stated both the NMT underpass as well as a pedestrian bridge at the intersection are “impractical” to use as they increase the distance by three times. To overcome this, experts have recommended setting up dedicated at-grade pedestrian crossings, such as refuge islands, at the intersection along with pelican lights so that pedestrians and cyclists can navigate the intersection safely in the shortest distance.Further, experts also called for the installation of signals to check the speed of vehicles and ensure pedestrians have adequate time to cross the road.A pedestrian refuge island is an elevated median, which is wide in length and allows adequate space for pedestrians and cyclists to safely wait on the structure and proceed ahead when the traffic or pelican signal changes. A pelican light, used solely for pedestrians and cyclists, operates similar to a conventional traffic signal.“There is already a flyover and underpass at the intersection, allowing high-speed traffic movement between Manesar and Delhi. Hence, the intersection being non-signalised is redundant. The introduction of refuge islands and pelican lights along with traffic signals has been recommended so that pedestrians and cyclists have safe passage, something the NMT underpass and pedestrian bridge have been unable to provide due to the incorrect placement and poor maintenance,” Sarika Panda Bhatt, a co-founder of Raahgiri foundation and a road safety expert with Nagarro, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rajiv-chowk-needs-signals-and-pedestrian-refuge-islands-say-experts-101628959623560.html
14-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: 2 held for running fake Aadhaar card racket||Two people were arrested on Saturday for allegedly running a racket of making fake Aadhaar cards and other documents in Greater Noida West for the past six months, said police. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said police received information about the movement of the two suspects near Chaar Murti roundabout on Saturday. “A police team reached the spot and apprehended the two. The suspects have been identified as Shadab Alam (30), a resident of Sector Omicron 1 in Greater Noida, and his accomplice Sahil (25), a resident of Dankaur,” he said. During interrogation, police said, the suspects revealed that they produced fake Aadhaar cards, driving licences, and mark-sheets of class 10 and 12 and sold them to make quick money. The police team then conducted a search at their cyber cafe in Etcher area and recovered four computers, four CPUs, three printers, one spiral binding machine, two lamination machines, three keyboards, 54 Aadhaar cards, 50 blank Aadhaar cards, 39 blank registration certificates of vehicles, 51 driving licences, three photo copy machines, 12 mark-sheets of intermediate, 14 mark-sheets of Class 10, one birth certificate, among other documents. A case has been registered against them under Section 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the IPC. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Meanwhile, the suspects’ kin and their advocates Arti Gupta and Aman Asht reached the police station after getting information about their arrest and claimed that the allegations levelled against them are false. “My client Shadab was working at his cafe and making corrections in an Aadhaar card, and not making a fake one, when police picked him up and sealed the cafe. The other documents shown in the press conference were planted,” Gupta said. She also alleged that police detained a 16-year-old boy in connection with this case. Anita Chauhan, station house officer at Bisrakh police station, said the minor has been released after questioning. “The suspect’s family hired an advocate after he was arrested. The advocate was trying to defend her client. We have seized fake documents from Shadab’s cafe,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-2-held-for-running-fake-aadhaar-card-racket-101628959624169.html
14-08-2021||Gurugram||Sultanpur National Park gets Ramsar tag, of international importance||The Sultanpur National Park was notified as a Ramsar site, a wetland of international importance, by the union environment ministry on Saturday, a move that is expected to boost wildlife protection and tourism in the region, said officials. The Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary was also notified as a Ramsar site, making these two the first such sites of international importance in Haryana.The ministry of environment forest and climate change, in a tweet on Saturday, stated, “Four more sites in India get declared as Ramsar sites. These are Thol and Wadhwana from Gujarat and Sultanpur and Bhindawas from Haryana. With this, the number of Ramsar sites in India is 46 and the surface area covered by these sites is now 1,083,322 hectares.”The Ramsar Convention on Wetlands is an intergovernmental treaty adopted on February 2, 1971, in the Iranian city of Ramsar, on the southern shore of the Caspian Sea. It came into force in India on February 1, 1982, under which wetlands of international importance are declared as Ramsar sites.The Sultanpur National Park supports more than 220 species of resident, winter migratory and local migratory waterbirds at critical stages of their life cycles. The site supports more than 10 globally threatened species, including the endangered Egyptian vulture, steppe Eagle, Pallas’s fish eagle, and black-bellied tern, which are also found at the Bhindawas sanctuary.The Bhindawas sanctuary, the largest wetland in Haryana, is a man-made freshwater wetland. Over 250 bird species use this sanctuary throughout the year as resting and roosting sites.Officials said that by being declared a Ramsar site, restrictions on construction activities and non-forest activities come into effect around the wetland for increased protection. The Gurugram wildlife department is awaiting formal notification from higher authorities.“Being declared as a Ramsar site will help us protect and preserve these wetlands in a better manner. Restrictions on construction activities around the wetland, non-forest activities, which are already imposed, get further push as now the area is of international importance too. At present, habitat management is the focus of the department to further improve the ecology of the area,” an official of the district wildlife department said.Officials also said that the Ramsar tag helps increase tourism as international tourists like to visit such sites.Experts, however, said that a Ramsar tag does not help much in protection and called for the declaration of more sites as wetlands in the state.Pankaj Gupta, of the Delhi Bird Foundation, said, “It would be better if other places which are equally good in Gurugram and Jhajjar districts get declared as wetlands. Then, we would be able to protect more such habitats. A Ramsar tag for a national park or a sanctuary does not add much as they already have the protection of the highest order. It only brings these places on the international map.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sultanpur-national-park-gets-ramsar-tag-of-international-importance-101628959565104.html
14-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar police commissioner gets President’s medal||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh will receive the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service on Independence Day. The 1995-batch IPS officer took charge as commissioner in January 2020 and is credited to have efficiently managed crime and the pandemic in the district. “I am really thankful to the government of India for considering and bestowing this award on me. The award is more for my team that relentlessly worked in establishing this new commissionerate. They have done an outstanding and fantastic job. I dedicate this medal to them,” said the 54-year-old officer. “With the setting up of the commissionerate system, police are more responsible and accountable. Organised crime were taken head-on. With the use of magisterial power in the commissionerate system, active gangs have been legally restrained.” The commissioner said he aims to take policing to a higher level both in quality of response as well as building trust among citizens. “We are planning to set up 10 more police stations in the district,” he said. When the pandemic struck, Singh engaged the police to help the needy during the nationwide lockdown and organised special camps for the vaccination of personnel against Covid-19.Singh, a native of Aligarh, had earlier served as inspector general of police in Kanpur and Meerut range. On January 26, 2021, he was also honoured with the Union home minister’s Utkrisht Seva Padak. Singh previously commanded 10 other Uttar Pradesh districts -- Kaushambi, Baghpat, Basti, Sonbhadra, Raebareli, Sitapur, Unnao, Bijnor, Kanpur and Meerut. He is also credited with efficiently handling the situation in Ayodhya as the Supreme Court pronounced its verdict on the Babri Masjid-Ram janmabhoomi case in November 2019 when he was posted as the Meerut inspector-general. Meanwhile, 10 police officials from Gautam Budh Nagar will be honoured by the state government for meritorious service. Additional commissioner Love Kumar will get a platinum medal; Assistant police commissioner P P Singh gold medal; deputy commissioner of police (women safety) Vrinda Shukla silver medal; inspector Anita Chauhan silver medal; and sub-inspector Anil Kumar silver medal. Five others – sub-inspector Devendra Singh, constable Mahipal Singh, head constable Ranveer Singh, sub-inspector Shahvez Khan and inspector Vivek Trivedi - will get the state’s Utkrisht Seva Padak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-police-commissioner-gets-president-s-medal-101628959563918.html
14-08-2021||Other||Punjab must have a separate agriculture budget: Bajwa in letter to Captain||Chandigarh Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Bajwa on Saturday wrote a letter to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, pressing upon him to have a separate agricultural budget for Punjab. Bajwa added the Congress has always been the vanguard of social and economic change and ensuring a fairer, more just life for all. Tamil Nadu has already announced a separate agriculture budget for itself.“The Punjab government is in a unique position in bringing about the second green revolution in the state and we must not let this opportunity pass,” he said, adding, “A separate agricultural budget will allow greater stakeholder consultation between farmers, agriculturalists and allied industries with the government. We will have a more targeted, focused approach to agricultural policy in the state.”Bajwa added that the budget of Tamil Nadu has looked into promoting organic farming, building local weekly markets for agricultural produce and promoting vegetable/herbal/fruit production. Bajwa said agriculture has historically been the culture of Punjab and state’s successes during the Green Revolution has ensured that it became the food bowl of India. “Nevertheless, today Punjab stands at the threshold of a second green revolution. There is an urgent need to diversify from the paddy/wheat cycle to ensure the survival of future generations of farmers. Without urgent action, Punjab’s agriculture will be irrevocably damaged,” Bajwa added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-must-have-a-separate-agriculture-budget-bajwa-in-letter-to-captain-101628959563475.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Vaccinate fast, think of booster doses, say experts||Of the 66 Delta Plus cases identified in Maharashtra, only 10 people were fully vaccinated, while eight had received only one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. State health officials said that two of these patients had received Covaxin while the rest had got Covishield. Amidst the fear of mutant strains and abysmally low vaccination coverage, the medical fraternity is not just emphasising primary jabs but also booster doses to curtail the spread of the infection. “We will need booster doses for the population, but unfortunately we are stuck with an extremely slow rollout of the primary vaccination,” said Vellore-based virologist DT Jacob John. Experts say that the first, second or third dose for Covid-19 is likely to act as a priming dose. The population will require booster doses on top of the priming doses for long-lasting immunity. Some experts say that the vulnerable population like senior citizens and those with comorbid conditions should be considered for booster doses. “It is now widely known that the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) can cause breakthrough infections. We don’t know what the Delta Plus is capable of as yet,” said John. Breakthrough infections are those that occur among people two weeks after completing the mandated full vaccination schedule. The Delta variant, which was labelled as a variant of concern by the World Health Organization (WHO), is known as highly transmissible. Nearly 80% of the samples sent for genome sequencing from Maharashtra have the Delta variant, suggesting that it is widespread in the state. The Delta Plus or AY.1 is a mutation of the Delta variant, but little is known about its behaviour. “The clinical manifestations of Delta Plus patients have not shown anything unusual,” said infectious disease expert Dr Vasant Nagvekar who is also a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force. “To break the chain of infection, vaccination is the key. Our vaccination drives should be carried out at a greater speed,” he said. The unvaccinated population and those who are unexposed to the virus through a natural infection carry the highest risk of getting infected. Experts say that this large group also provides a conducive ground for the virus to mutate. For instance, Maharashtra has recorded five Delta Plus-related deaths, all among senior citizens and those with multiple comorbidities. Of these, only two were fully vaccinated. Of the 66 cases that have been identified in the state, 33 patients are in the age group of 19 to 45 years, 18 patients are in the age group of 46 to 60 and eight patients were above 60 years. Seven patients are in the paediatric age group were below 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vaccinate-fast-think-of-booster-doses-say-experts-101628959505274.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Man assaults woman in Mumbai local, snatches her mobile, arrested||Borivli Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly assaulting a woman inside ladies compartment of a local train and snatching her mobile phone, on Friday evening.Bhaskar Pawar, senior police inspector of Borivali GRP, said the incident took place around 7.55am on Thursday when the victim, Julie Jaiswal, 24, was returning from Malad fish market to Vasai. “She was alone in the compartment. As the train was superfast, it would have stopped at Vasai directly after Borivli,” said Pawar. The accused entered the ladies compartment at Borivli station as the train began to start. He then assaulted Jaiswal and hit her on chest, stomach, head and ears. He then snatched her phone and jumped off the running train while it was still at Borivli station.Jaiswal alighted the train at Vasai and reported the incident to the police. The case was transferred to Borivli GRP, following which they scanned CCTV of the platform and identified the accused.“Once we had the description of the accused, we alerted our informers. Within 24 hours, we received information that the accused was likely to visit Vasai station,” added Pawar.Police laid a trap at Vasai railway station and arrested the accused near the rickshaw stand on Friday. The accused has been identified as Akash Dhode, a pavement dweller from Jogeshwari.GRP officers said that they have recovered Jaiswal’s mobile phone from Dhode and are now investigating to find out if Dhode has committed any other robbery.Pawar said unmanned entry and exit points, especially vacant stretches near railway tracks, are the places from where such robbers enter station premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-assaults-woman-in-mumbai-local-snatches-her-mobile-arrested-101628959503433.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray’s aide Milind Narvekar gets threat of probe by central agencies||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close confidant Milind Narvekar has reportedly received threat that he would be probed by central agencies if he does not fulfil certain demands made by the unknown person. Narvekar has filed a complaint with the Mumbai Police over this matter.Narvekar received a WhatsApp message from an unknown person allegedly asking him to fulfil his demands. The said person warned Narvekar that if its demands are not met, he would ensure that the former gets probed by central agencies such as Enforcement Directorate (ED), National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The Shiv Sena leader then complained to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, who has handed over the investigation to crime branch.Sena leader Pratap Sarnaik is already facing the heat of the central agencies, as is Varsha Raut, wife of Sena MP Sanjay Raut. Opposition parties have been alleging that central agencies are employed to harass them by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government.Narvekar, who is the secretary of the Shiv Sena, has been one of the influential figures both in the party and government. Several former Sena leaders like Raj Thackeray and Narayan Rane, who deserted the party, blamed Narvekar for his role in maligning them in the Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-s-aide-milind-narvekar-gets-threat-of-probe-by-central-agencies-101628959263580.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||May stop NHAI work if Sena leaders continue obstruction: Gadkari to CM Thackeray||Union minister for transport and highways Nitin Gadkari has written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over the obstruction created by local Shiv Sena leaders and workers in the road construction works undertaken by National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) in Washim, which has led to a flutter in the state. The Union minister warned Thackeray government that it would consider stopping the road construction if the situation continues. Following this, Maharashtra home department has asked the director general of police (DGP) to inquire into the matter and submit a report immediately.Gadkari, in his letter dated July 23, cited three examples of obstruction by local Sena leaders who allegedly threatened contractors and vandalised equipment, spreading panic among workers. He has specifically mentioned that the work of the three highways has been obstructed in Washim Lok Sabha constituency by Sena workers. The letter also stated that NHAI is re-considering whether the road construction work should be discontinued amid these disruptions.Taking a serious note of it, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government led by Uddhav Thackeray has sought a report from the DGP. Home department has written a letter to the DGP on August 12, asking him to take action in such cases and submit a report immediately.“NHAI has undertaken road construction projects in a big way in the state. Elected representatives and their followers allegedly have been asking for illegal favours from officers and contractors. The ongoing works may get stopped if action is not taken against such individuals, as mentioned in the letter by Union minister. You are informed to find out whether the contractors have registered any such complaints and any action has been initiated by the police. Kindly submit the report at the earliest,” the letter written by a deputy secretary of home department read.Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said, “Generally, we do appreciate the work done by any minister in our constituencies and also put up hoardings to thank them. I am not aware of such complaints, but we will surely look into them.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya said he would visit the locations to get more details about the “high-handedness” of local Sena representatives.Sena MP and chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant said, “The CM ordered a probe immediately after the letter by Gadkari. It is yet to be proved if Sena leaders really have any role in this. The Central government is not talking about the hooliganism of elected representatives in Konkan where contractors and officers engaged in Mumbai-Goa highway construction are threatened and beaten up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/may-stop-nhai-work-if-sena-leaders-continue-obstruction-gadkari-to-cm-thackeray-101628959083290.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Taliban’s advance in Afghanistan giving nightmares to PhD students in Ludhiana’s PAU||With the Taliban close to reaching Kabul, Afghanistan’s capital, the future of that country is looking uncertain. The political turmoil in their home country is also worrying 11 Afghan students, who had enroled in Phd or MSc programmes in Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) in 2019. These scholars, who were seen as future policymakers in Afghanistan, now fear instant death at the hands of the Talibani militia, if they manage to return to their homeland. A common belief all of them hold is that the Taliban is just a front for Pakistan and China in these countries’ bid to plunder their mineral-rich homeland of Afghanistan.Noorali Noori, 32, from Parwan province is pursuing PhD in agronomy; he says his family members back home are in hiding. Noori, who lost his father due to Covid-19 in July, says, “The Taliban are pressuring one my relatives to hand over his three teenage daughters or else they will kill all the members in the family.”He added, “If Taliban finds out that I have studied in India, I will be killed along with my children,” said Noori, whose two-year-old younger daughter is suffering from Rett syndrome (a kind of muscular dystrophy among girls). He gets a stipend of ₹18,000 per month. Ahmad Mubasher, 30, of Baghlan province, which is now under Taliban control, says, “My family members are in hiding. I have been disturbed since the current developments began. Taliban want to paralyse the education system of Afghanistan so that no one opposes them. They want to plunder the natural resources of my country.”“Pakistan, who is supporting Taliban must learn that radical and terrorist organisations they are promoting will one day burn down their country,” said Mubasher, who is pursuing PhD in extension education.Habibullah Habibi from Kabul, a third-year PhD in plant breeding said they denounce the kind of Islam being propagated by Taliban. “My family has also had to flee and take shelter with relatives. Islam does not teach suppression of women, beating and killing them in public, picking up girls from houses and imposing dress codes,” he added. “Fortunately my wife and four children are with me, but I am worried about my remaining family members. What will happen to them? I’m concerned about the girls in our family as they are the target of Taliban,” said Habibi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/talibans-advance-in-afghanistan-giving-nightmares-to-phd-students-in-pau-101628958723775.html
14-08-2021||Other||Supplementary nutrition for midday meal: 1.4 lakh govt school students in two Punjab districts to get bananas||Moga Students in government schools of ‘Aspirational Districts’ of Moga and Ferozepur will get supplementary nutrition of bananas under the Mid-Day-Meal scheme in this academic session. In a recent meeting with the Programme Approval Board-Mid Day Meal (PAB-MDM), the union ministry has given its nod to the decision. The meeting was held through video conferencing to consider the annual work plan and the budget for 2021-22.The Punjab education department had proposed to provide bananas to around 1.43 lakh students in Moga and Ferozepur districts at the cost of ₹5 per child. Each student will get one banana for 74 days. The expenditure will be met from funds available with the state, which includes the Centre’s assistance of ₹3.15 crore and state’s share of ₹2.1 crore, minutes of the meeting say; HT has a copy. The development came after the MHRD expressed concern over supplementary nutrition not being provided over the last academic year. The minutes read, “The PAB observed that state did not even submit the proposal for supplementary nutrition under flexi-fund component, as was committed by them in the PAB meeting of 2020-21. The PAB advised the state to explore the feasibility of providing supplementary nutrition to children, especially in aspirational districts and districts with high prevalence of malnutrition.”  Krishan Kumar, secretary education department; Inderpal Singh Malhotra, assistant project director (MDM) and Prabhcharan Singh, general manager, MDM were present in the meeting. Malhotra said, “We had submitted a proposal to provide milk or bananas as supplementary food to raise the nutritional value of the MDM.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/supplementary-nutrition-for-midday-meal-1-4-lakh-govt-school-students-in-two-punjab-districts-to-get-bananas-101628958243458.html
14-08-2021||Other||Singla inaugurates govt college in Sangrur; faces protest from jobless||Sangrur Punjab public works and school education minister Vijay Inder Singla inaugurated a Government Degree College in Roshanwala village constructed at a cost of ₹12.2 crore on Saturday. With Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir accompanying him, the minister also dedicated a sports park constructed at a cost of ₹75 lakh to Gharachon village residents. Two other projects, the shed of a grain market in Nadampur, dedicated to farmers, who lost their lives during farmer agitation against new farm laws introduced by the Modi government and a community hall at a cost of ₹60 lakh in Ambedkar Nagar of Sangrur were also inaugurated. Singla said that the Government Degree College was spread over 7 acre and admissions in BA and BCom degree courses have been started. He added that based on demand, more vocational courses would be started. Unemployed teachers protest, seeking jobsUnemployed men and women, who have been staging a protest opposite Singla’s residence since December 31, 2020, opposed the minister when he was about to reach the venue. The aspiring teachers, including women, raised slogans against the minister. Cops took them away from the venue and released them later. Sukhwinder Singh Dhillon, a leader of the Unemployed Sanjha Morcha, said the protest would continue till the Congress government fulfilled its promise of Ghar Ghar Rozgar. “We will also hold a protest on independence day in Sangrur,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/singla-inaugurates-govt-college-in-sangrur-faces-protest-from-jobless-101628957583895.html
14-08-2021||Lucknow||BJP to launch Jan Ashirwad Yatras in UP from August 16||The new Union ministers from Uttar Pradesh who are also Lok Sabha members would take out the BJP’s “Jan Ashirwad Yatras” in the state from August 16 to connect with the people months ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls, party leaders said. The yatras would cover more than 3500 kilometres, touching 120 assembly constituencies.While the seven new ministers would take out these yatras, all lawmakers and local representatives would join in when these yatras pass through their respective areas, state BJP leaders said.The seven new faces from UP in the Modi ministry include six BJP MPs and one from the Apna Dal (Sonelal), a BJP ally. The move comes ahead of the campaign blitzkrieg that the ruling BJP plans to launch in UP. The decision to get the Lok Sabha MPs from the state who have been made ministers to lead the “Jan Ashirwad Yatras” was taken at a dinner meeting in Delhi chaired by BJP chief JP Nadda in July. Party leaders said these yatras were thought of after Prime Minister Narendra Modi was prevented by the Opposition from following the convention of introducing the new ministers in his team in the Lok Sabha. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev said the party’s state general secretary and member of legislative council (MLC) Govind Narayan Shukla has been made in-charge of these yatras that would cover several religious cities, including Ayodhya, Mathura, Kashi (Varanasi) and Chitrakoot.“Through these yatras, the party will connect with people and also make them aware of the various policies and initiatives of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the Yogi Adityanath governnent in UP,” Swatantra Dev said. BL Verma, minister of state for Development of Northeastern Region and Cooperation, will lead one of the seven yatras, from Vrindavan, Mathura on August 16. Verma is the protégé of former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh.After covering Mathura and various assembly constituencies in Agra, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Bulandshahr, the yatra would conclude at Budaun on August 19.While the yatra led by Verma would begin from Mathura, another one by Union minister of state for law and justice SP Singh Baghel, would start from Firozabad and conclude in Mathura. On August 17, Union minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises Bhanu Pratap Verma will start the yatra from Lalitpur and reach Fatehpur on August 19 via Jhansi, Mahoba, Banda and it will end in Chitrakoot. Kaushal Kishore, the Mohanlalganj MP who is the Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs, will arrive in Lucknow on August 16 and start the yatra from Mohan, Unnao on the same day. The yatra will end at Sitapur on August 18 via Unnao, Rae Bareli and Barabanki.Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra, too, will arrive in Lucknow on August 16 and start his yatra from Sandila, Hardoi the same day. This yatra will pass through Hardoi, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Gonda, Ayodhya and will culminate at Ambedkar Nagar on August 19.BJP ally and Apna Dal (S) leader Anupriya Patel, the Union minister of state for commerce and industry, will start the yatra from Prayagraj on August 18 and it will end on August 19 in Mirzapur, her Lok Sabha constituency.Union minister of state for finance Pankaj Choudhary would start the yatra on August 16 from Basti via Barabanki, Siddharthnagar and Ayodhya. It will conclude at Choudhary’s Lok Sabha constituency Maharajganj in eastern Uttar Pradesh on August 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-to-launch-jan-ashirwad-yatras-in-up-from-august-16-101628956684711.html
14-08-2021||Ranchi||Non-NDA parties’meet on Aug 20: Sonia invites JMM;Jharkhand CM to attend meeting||Jharkhand chief minister and JMM working president Hemant Soren will attend the meeting of the non-NDA parties called by the Congress party on August 20, said JMM principal secretary and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya.JMM leaders on Saturday confirmed that the party received an invitation from the office of Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. “Our working president would attend the meeting virtually. The JMM and the Congress are allies. Our leader will raise all the issues the country is currently facing, be it spiralling inflation or caste census or pegasus spying,” said Bhattacharya.Chief minister Hemant Soren has been leading the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance in Jharkhand since December 2019. He has been critical of the Centre on adequate cooperation and transparency in Covid management, including vaccines supply, besides centre-state relations, especially regarding the payment of GST dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/nonnda-parties-meet-on-aug-20-sonia-invites-jmm-jharkhand-cm-to-attend-meeting-101628956683482.html
14-08-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,065 new Covid cases, 3 deaths; over 97K vaccinated||PUNE ccording to the state health department, Pune district reported 1,065 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Saturday. The progressive count currently stands at 1.103 million, out of which 1.069 million have recovered, 19,049 deaths are reported, and 14,738 are active cases or patients who are in the hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.The district also saw over 97,000 vaccinations on Saturday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 584 new cases which took the progressive count to 336,310 and with three deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,372.Pune city reported 285 new cases which took the progressive count to 507,217 and as no deaths were reported on the day the toll stood at 8,917.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 196 new cases the progressive count went up to 259,741 and the toll stood at 3,438.The district, meanwhile, saw 97, 105 vaccinations as per the CoWIN dashboard on Saturday.Till date, 6,869,181 vaccines have been administered including 5,096,759 first dose and 1,772, 422 are second dose.A total of 698 vaccination sites conducted vaccination on the day out of which 471 were government and 227 private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-065-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-over-97k-vaccinated-101628956562213.html
14-08-2021||Patna||Bihari student killed in China cremated||The body of a 20-year-old Gaya student was cremated on Saturday, 21 days after he was allegedly killed at a university in China. Aman Nagsen’s body was brought to Kasathua village for the funeral procession, where hundreds of students, including members of Nagsen’s family, participated. People were demanding strict punishment to the killers of the boy.Aman was a student at the University of Technology in China, where he was murdered on July 23, police said. Aman’s body was brought to Gaya on Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihari-student-killed-in-china-cremated-101628956503119.html
14-08-2021||Patna||JD(U) plans grand welcome for RCP on his first visit to Patna as minister on Aug 16||Supporters of union steel minister RCP Singh, the Janata Dal (United) leader who was inducted into Narendra Modi’s cabinet recently, have planned a grand welcome for him on August 16 on his first visit to Bihar after being made a minister. Singh, 63, said to be a confidant of chief minister Nitish Kumar, was the party’s national president till a few days ago before being replaced by Munger MP Lalan Singh, also a close aide of Kumar.RCP’s supporters said they have planned a grand welcome from Patna airport to the state party office at Beerchand patel Marg. “We are expecting a big turnout,” said a JD(U) leader, wishing not to be named.On August 6, Lalan Singh had organised a big road show in Patna when he returned from New Delhi after being appointed party president.RCP and Lalan are said to be rivals in the party, though Nitish Kumar, the de facto leader and face of the party, has dismissed suggestions of any rift between the two. Asked about the issue recently, the CM said RCP himself had proposed the name of Lalan for the post of national president.Meanwhile, a party statement issued on Saturday said that RCP Singh would travel to Nalanda, his native district, on August 17 by road and would stop over at various places and visit his village. On August 18, he would travel to various adjoining places in Sheikhpura district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jduplans-grand-welcome-for-rcp-on-his-first-visit-to-patna-as-minister-on-aug-16-101628956263022.html
14-08-2021||Patna||Ganga above danger level: Hundreds of houses on banks flooded in Patna||Floodwaters from Ganga in spate have entered houses and apartments built between the southern bank of Ganga and the Patna protection wall, forcing residents to shift to the upper floors or relocate at safer places.Hundreds of apartments and private houses have been built on the bank of the river and within the safety protection wall in violation of the standard safety norms.An official from the water resources department said Ganga maintained the rising trend across its course in Bihar on Saturday and is likely to set a new highest flood level (HFL) at Hathidah by Sunday if the current trend was any indication.In Buxar, however, the pace of rise in water level of the river has decreased vis-à-vis Friday, though it continued to flow 82 cm above the danger level (DL) of 60.32 metres. Buxar has the HFL of 62.09, recorded in 1948, when the entire town was submerged with floodwaters.Officials said the flood situation in the districts crisscrossed by Ganga and its other tributaries from Nepal might deteriorate, as the local meteorological office has predicted heavy downpour in almost all districts of north and central Bihar over the next 48 hours.Already, a swollen Ganga and its tributaries like Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Gandak, Kosi, Sone, Ghaghra and Punpun have impacted a population of more than 20 lakh in 15 districts, which include Patna, Bhojpur, East and West Champaran, Begusarai, Munger, Bhagalpur, Katihar and Khagaria. All the tributaries were reported flowing over the danger levels at different points of their course.A Central Water Commission (CWC) report said Ganga was flowing 83 cm above the DL of 50.45 m at Digha Ghat and 1.77 m above DL of 48.60 m at Gandhi Ghat, all in Patna. The river was flowing at 32.30 m against the DL of 31.09 m at Kahalgaon and approaching the HFL of 32.82 m, which was set in the year 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ganga-above-danger-level-hundreds-of-houses-on-banks-flooded-in-patna-101628956142777.html
14-08-2021||Patna||23 from Bihar Police get President’s medals||Twenty-three members of Bihar Police have been conferred police medals on the eve of Independence Day this year in recognition of distinguished and meritorious services, a release from ministry of home affairs said on Friday.While two of them have been awarded President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service (PPMDS), the rest 21 got Police Medal for Meritorious Service (PMMS). This is sixth time when no one from Bihar was awarded President’s Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG). These medals will be handed to the awardees by chief minister Nitish kumar in Patna during police week scheduled in February next year. PPMDS awardees are inspector Bipin Kumar Singh of Economic Offences Unit and sub-inspector Ramkumar Singh of Patna police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/23-from-bihar-police-get-president-s-medals-101628955962998.html
14-08-2021||Other||ASI in STF Amritsar border range to get President medal for gallantry||Chandigarh Gursewak Singh, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) with the Special Task Force, Border Range, Amritsar has been awarded the Police Medal for Gallantry for 2021. On the eve of the 75th Independence Day, the Union home ministry has announced the names of Punjab Police officers/officials, to be awarded with Police Medal of Gallantry, President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and Police Medal for Meritorious Service.Assistant director general of police (ADGP) modernisation Ram Singh and AIG-cum-staff officer, Jasdeep Singh, posted in the Punjab DGP office will be conferred the distinguished service medal.Five Punjab Police Service (PPS) officers, including SSP Kapurthala, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, ADCP-2 Ludhiana Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, DSP PBI Raj Kumar, DSP CID Unit Bathinda Parminder Singh and DSP (detective) Amritsar Rural Gurinderpal Singh are among 13 members of the force who will get the medal for meritorious service.Other to be awarded for meritorious service are inspectors Kulvir Singh; Ashok Kumar; Puran Singh, SIs Natha Singh; Niranjan Dass, Harjit Singh; ASIs Onkar Tiwari Ashok Kumar.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta congratulated the awardees and expressed gratitude to the Union home ministry for recognising the services of these officers and boosting the morale of Punjab Police. “Such recognition plays a significant role in encouraging the police to work with more dedication and devotion, qualities that are a huge asset in a border state like Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/asi-in-stf-amritsar-border-range-to-get-president-medal-for-gallantry-101628953322246.html
14-08-2021||Other||Team of Geological Survey of India to visit Negulsari in Kinnaur to study shooting stones||A team of experts from the Geological Survey of India will visit Negulsari of Kinnaur district on Sunday to assess the shooting stones that had triggered a landslide here, leading to the death of 23 people. Kinnaur deputy commissioner (DC) Abid Hussain Sadiq said, “We have asked the geological experts to study the shooting stones and suggest long-term measures to avoid such tragedies in the future. There have been repeated calamities in Kinnaur, so we asked the GSI to study all sites vulnerable to landslides. The district administration has also requested the GSI to conduct studies at 16 sites -- Pagal Nullah, Garam Paani Tapri, Nathpa in Nichar subdivision, Karogla nullah near Batseri, Ralli glacier, Rathurang near Kuppa in Purbani, Jhula in Kalpa and Tinku Nullah, Maling Nullah, Rippa water reservoir and Ribba nullah. On July 26, nine lives were lost when shooting stones hit a mini-bus on the Batseri and Sangla road. Central team to study lake-formation in Lahaul SpitiAnother team from the Central Water Commission and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are in Udaipur of Lahaul and Spiti to study the landslide that had obstructed the course of Chandrabagha river. The landslide had led to the formation of a lake but the water-level had later receded. NN Rai, director, Central Water Commission, will lead the team.Inspector Sandeep Rawal from NDRF, along with two other officials, will accompany him.The landslide had led to waterlogging in two villages, Jasrat and Tarang. As many have four houses and five cowsheds had been damaged due to the sudden flooding on about 30 bighas of agricultural land. The families residing here had to be evacuated to safer places. “There is a threat to as many as 10 villages both upstream and downstream in Chandrabagha river,” said Lahaul and Spiti DC Neeraj Kumar.Members of the Defense Geo-informatic Research Establishment, Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE), Central Water Commission and Indo Tibetan Border Police have already reached Udaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/team-of-geological-survey-of-india-to-visit-negulsari-to-study-shooting-stones-101628952962299.html
14-08-2021||Pune||Man kills wife for putting ‘excess’ turmeric on him at relative’s wedding in Indapur||PUNE: In a shocking incident in the Bhatnimgaon area of Indapur, a man killed his wife in the early hours of Friday for putting too much turmeric paste (haldi) on him during a family wedding they were attending. The accused man, Jansan Popat Pawar, 25, and his father Tanaji alias Yogesh Narayan Pawar have been arrested. The deceased woman, identified as Seema Pawar, 20, lived with her husband and in-laws.Police inspector Dhanyakumar Godse of Indapur police station said, “They were travelling to attend a relative’s wedding. At the haldi ceremony, the wife put a lot of haldi on the husband and they started fighting. When they were sleeping, he took a screwdriver lying nearby and stabbed her with it.”The two had been married for nine months. The woman was the accused man’s second wife while the man was the woman’s third husband, according to the police. They belonged to the Pardhi community and worked as labourers to earn a living, according to the police. A case under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Indapur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-kills-wife-for-putting-excess-turmeric-on-him-at-relative-s-wedding-in-indapur-101628951161206.html
14-08-2021||Pune||Two members of trust booked for cheating Maharashtra Waqf board of ₹7.7 crore||PUNE: Two members of a trust attached to the Maharashtra Waqf board were booked for cheating the board in Pune of ₹7.76 crore in the past one year by posing as office-bearers of a trust. Bundgarden police station filed a case on Friday. According to the police, the two men are trustees but the board has accused them of posing as decision-making officials of the trust and taking money meant for the trust. “They are both trustees, but the board believes that they have duped the trust,” said sub-inspector Tukaram Fadd of Bundgarden police station who is investigating the case. The Maharashtra government had acquired land belonging to Taboot Inam Endowment trust which is registered with the Waqf Board for a project in Pune. The government was supposed to give around ₹9,64,42,500 to the trust in return and accordingly government had released an amount of ₹7.73 crore to the trust, but upon inquiry later the Waqf board regional officer got to know that the amount did not reach the trust members. The two men posed as office-bearers of Taboot Inam Endowment trust and allegedly made the officials at the Pune collectorate believe that they were decision-making officials of the trust. They accepted a part of the land remuneration from the collector’s office on behalf of the trust into their personal bank accounts. A demand draft of ₹7,76,98,250 issued on January 2 was deposited on January 4 in a private bank account instead of the trust account, according to the complaint in the case. The Waqf officials later approached the Bundgarden police. A case was registered under Sections 420, 406, 464, 467, 471, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code at Bundgarden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-members-of-trust-booked-for-cheating-maharashtra-waqf-board-of-rs-7-7-crore-101628950921308.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Compassionate appointment can’t be denied only because family is non-indigent: Bombay HC||Mumbai An eligible person cannot be denied employment on compassionate grounds only because his family is not impoverished, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) said recently and directed the Central Bank of India to consider the case of an Ahmednagar resident whose plea was rejected by the financial institution.“It is unheard of that compassionate appointment could be refused to an eligible member of the family, which has lost its sole bread-earner, if the family was not indigent,” said the bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice SG Mehare.“We have not come across any such example when the compassionate appointment is refused to an eligible member only on the ground that the family has funds to survive, and therefore, would not need a source of income,” the bench added and allowed the petition filed by the resident, Nitin Arawade.Arawade’s father Yohan was employed with the public sector bank. After 34 years of service, Yohan had to take voluntary retirement in June 2015 as the medical board of the bank found him incapacitated on account of a medical condition.Thereafter, Arawade applied to the bank for appointment on compassionate grounds, but on March 31, 2018, his plea was rejected only on the ground that his family was not indigent. Nitin had then moved HC.The bank responded to his petition, contending that the ex-employee’s family had received gratuity amount, provident fund accumulations as well as pension and did not need financial support.HC, however, refused to accept the bank’s contention.“We are unable to accede to the submission by the respondent (bank) that because of such payments, an eligible person can be refused compassionate appointment,” said the bench.HC said gratuity, provident fund and monthly pension are legal rights of an employee or his family, if the sole earner has either died in harness or has been medically incapacitated leading to his retirement.“Payment of these amounts cannot be considered as an impediment or an embargo on the appointment of an eligible member of the family on compassionate basis,” the bench observed.HC added that the bank would be justified in in assessing the financial status of the family of an employee, only for granting a one-time financial aid, as an alternative to compassionate appointment under the bank’s scheme.“However, whether, the family is indigent or not, cannot be the basis for refusing compassionate appointment to an otherwise eligible candidate,” the bench said.HC has now directed the bank to consider Arawade’s claim for appointment on compassionate grounds on the basis of his seniority in the list of such candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/compassionate-appointment-can-t-be-denied-only-because-family-is-non-indigent-bombay-hc-101628948941811.html
14-08-2021||Other||Kinnaur landslide toll climbs to 23, flow of Chandrabagha river normal||The Kinnaur landslide toll has gone up to 23 with the recovery of six more bodies as rescuers rummaged through the rubble for the fourth day on Saturday along National Highway number 5 connecting the border district with Shimla. “The bodies were found scattered within a 50-100 feet radius from the wreckage of the bus that was pushed down 70 metres from the highway in the landslide near Negulsari,” Kinnaur deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq said. “The rescue operation is being repeatedly hampered due to shooting stones in the area,” he said. Teams of the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), army and police along with local residents are engaged in the rescue operations, which chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said will continue till the last body is recovered. On Friday, the Kinnaur district administration had released a list of the 13 people, including a woman passenger and two Nepalese labourers, who had boarded the bus on Wednesday. “There was slight rain this morning. This tightened the soil and consequently, the shooting stones stopped. So we got more time to work,” said superintendent of police Sarju Ram Rana. Chenab tributary back on course in Lahaul-Spiti district The flow of the Chandrabagha river tributary of the Chenab that was obstructed due to the landslide on its course on Friday was back to normal on Saturday. The water has flown downstream through a channel formed naturally. As a precautionary measure, the district administration has put villages downstream on the alert,” said Lahaul-Spiti deputy commssioner Neeraj Kumar. Chief secretary Ram Subagh Singh, state police chief Sanjay Kundu and state tribal affairs minister Ram Lal Markanda conducted an aerial survey of the area to assess the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kinnaur-landslide-toll-climbs-to-23-flow-of-chandrabagha-river-normal-101628943541158.html
14-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand minister urges CM to name hockey stadium after Vandana Katariya||Uttarakhand cabinet minister Swami Yatishwaranand on Saturday wrote to chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, demanding to rename the hockey stadium in Haridwar’s Roshnabad after Team India hockey player Vandana Katariya. Earlier, a ropeway company Usha Breco Limited announced that namesakes of star Javelin thrower and Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra, and Katariya, can avail free rides to the Mata Chandi Devi temple in Haridwar till August 22. “[They] will have to show their Aadhaar card as identity proof,” Usha Breco’s regional manager Manoj Dobhal said.Katariya was felicitated at her residence on Thursday by the chief minister for her performance at the Olympics. She was also handed a cheque of ₹25 lakh. Calling her Uttarakhand’s pride, Dhami further said that Katariya as a member of the Indian women’s hockey team for over 10 years, had made everyone proud through her dedication and hard work.The 29-year-old scored a hat-trick at the recently concluded Olympics where the Indian women’s hockey team reached the semi-final for the first time but narrowly missed a medal after losing the bronze medal match to Great Britain.Also Read | 'Nothing but proud': India laud women's hockey team's valiant performance at Tokyo OlympicsOn August 8, Dhami had conferred the Tilu Rauteli award to Katariya – which is given to 22 women annually for their exemplary services. Furthermore, the sportsperson was also declared the brand ambassador for the state’s Beti Bachao, Beti Padavo campaign.The hockey player received a grand welcome in her home village of Aurangabad in Haridwar district on Wednesday after she returned from Tokyo. “It is a unique feeling seeing so much adulation and wishes pouring in. The Olympics was a litmus test for the past year’s hard work and intense training as a team,” Katariya said, adding that although the Indian women’s hockey team missed the bronze medal, they surely did win “hearts both of people and [the] opposition [team].”After the women’s hockey team lost the bronze medal match at the Olympics, a few people had hurled casteist slurs on Katariya’s family in Haridwar. According to the hockey player’s brother, Chandrashekhar Kataria, two men and some more unknown persons hurled “abusive remarks, blamed Vandana and Dalit players for being responsible for the defeat.”“When we protested they used more abusive language and made fun of us for being Dalits. Our family is in deep shock at a time when the whole country is feeling proud of Vandana’s ability and achievement,” he added.Also Read | Man held for bursting crackers, being abusive outside Olympian Vandana Kataria’s houseOne person named Vijaypal was apprehended after a case was registered against him under relevant sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and Section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code, station house officer Lakhpat Butola said. A manhunt is on to arrest other accused.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-minister-urges-cm-to-name-hockey-stadium-after-vandana-katariya-101628938647682.html
14-08-2021||Pune||Pune Startup Mantra: Busting the menstrual hygiene barriers||A customer’s quote is rarely the go-to kickoff in this weekly startup space.However, given the product in question and the “taboo” surrounding the topics of “women’s sexual health” and “menstrual well-being” in India, this customer’s quote best captures the breakthroughs that the startup in question, Safecup, is making in the Indian women’s health market.Mansi Salunkhe, a 21-year-old BTech final year student from Katraj in Pune, and a Safecup user and customer says, “Around a year ago I started reading and looking at videos of menstrual cups. Yet after learning almost everything about the cups, the idea of inserting something inside my vagina was scary. I was seeking a skin treatment for having extra sensitive skin. For years I went through hell due to irritation from sanitary napkins. Finally, I decided to order a menstrual cup. First time insertion and removal can seem daunting, but I was finally successful. I wasn’t able to feel it at all. As a result, I was in love with the cup!”Akarsh Tekriwal is a third-generation entrepreneur who founded Safecup Impact Lab, the company that imports and sells Safecup, in 2019.No IIM or IIT or even terms like “incubation” fit this startup story. Just the hustle-and-flow of a Patna-born Marwadi, with some serious on-the-ground experience in terms of sales, distribution and processes. And, a commitment to, and understanding of women’s sexual health that bodes well for a generation of “woke” entrepreneurs in India.Tekriwal’s Safecup is branded as a “premium menstrual care” product that has 75,000 customers as of today. Tekriwal drops the pithy phrases like “Gynocare revolution” and “The Shameless Company”, all offering an insight into the long game he is attempting to play to become, in his words, “the new-age Unilever.”That means Tekriwal has to convince menstruating women to stop using pads and start using a Safecup, the pitch for which, encompasses not just health benefits, but also environment concerns, given that, according to Tekriwal, not all pads are biodegradble.But first, a change of behaviour for his target customer - a woman on her period.Cue Safecup user Mansi Salunkhe’s closing quote, “You will find people saying it may cause cramps and it may destroy the hymen. Choose your comfort and your body before anything else. I say stop caring about what people will say and start living life to the fullest!”“Opting for a menstrual cup instead of sanitary pads requires a behavioural change. It takes a lot of effort to convince and convert one person into a customer,” says Tekriwal, explaining how he gained the trust and confidence of his customers. “The product needs support. So we have a digital manual along with the product. Any person who wants to understand how to use it, can visit our website and read, or watch videos. We have offered lifetime text-chat support on WhatsApp. We don’t have voice support, as women might be uncomfortable with it,” he adds. Menstrual factsSays Tekriwal, “I did my research before getting into the business of period-hygiene and sexual wellness products. A woman uses between 12 to 20 sanitary pads every month and these are mostly non-biodegradable. With more and more women using non-biodegradable pads, the problem of collection and disposal will get worse. Also, a pad is an external protection which irritates women due to moisture and itchiness.”“Menstrual cup, on the other side, solves all problems – distribution, hygiene and disposal. A woman bleeds about 80ml in the whole period cycle and the menstrual cup can hold between 25ml to 30ml of blood. Even during a heavy flow day, the menstrual cup can suffice. It is also cost-effective as it can be re-used for 60 months. Since it is an internal protection, it is made from medical-grade silicon which can be sterilised and washed with hot water and reused. After understanding the sterilising and washing requirement, we also launched the steriliser product,” Tekriwal added. Because of a taboo, period care product development and awareness is lacking in India, says Tekriwal. “In India, menstrual cups penetration will be a maximum of 20 per cent to 30 per cent, as it requires a behavioural change. It is not related to anyone’s income, but is more personality driven. The outgoing, risk-takers will go for it. Today, the product exists, but is not mainstream. Lifestyle sells and design is a very important aspect. It will take another 20 years for sexual wellness to become mainstream,” he added. In the beginningTekriwal had seen what the fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) market is, thanks to his father’s business as a distributor. He learnt his business lessons - number crunching, managing cash flow – from childhood. Says Tekriwal, “The most important thing I learnt was how the distribution channel worked for FMCG products. A brand which is visible to customers, will sell. And to stay alive in the business, one needs to manage the positives and negatives. We stay in the game only if our cash-flow is positive. I learnt these two lessons while growing up.”Tekriwal’s family shifted to Mumbai and then to Pune when his father acquired a small pharma company. Tekriwal, while pursuing his education, started working at the age of 17 to help his father. Says Tekriwal, “My learning started as a salesperson. I visited almost all villages in Pune district and the doctors there. I wanted to learn on the ground and in the process gained communication skills. I did this for almost four years. Then I opted for CA and did my articleship in internal audit. Since, businesses are run on processes and with people, an internal audit is very crucial even, though it is not mandated by law, for companies. I got to work with Quick Heal when they were going in for their IPO initial public offering).”In 2019, Tekriwal then dropped out of formal education and decided to start his own firm. “I wanted to contribute to the society in some way. I had seen rural India and interacted with lots of women and thought I could do something in that domain,” Tekriwal recalls.Tekriwal started distribution of iron tablets to rural women. “In the process, I got to know and understand women’s health issues. We were running a campaign called ‘Red Revolution’ to create awareness on the issue of anaemia. I also understood how periods, sex, and menopause are taboo and societal issues and how they have a real, tangible impact on women’s health. I started looking for an entry point and the right product or service to launch,” said Tekriwal.“I decided to start a ‘for-profit’ social enterprise. Then I found this product called ‘menstrual cup’ to enter into the space.”BootstrappingSays Tekriwal, “I had no clue that I would have a D2C brand and sell it online. My plan was to setup stalls. The money I had was over and I was looking for funding. I to raise ₹30,000. My sister noticed my campaign and told my mother about it. She, in turn, asked my father to help me. But I didn’t want to take money from him. I accepted his money only on the condition I would return it. I got ₹3 lakh and with that I ordered inventory. I was anxious over the first import order, but finally it all went well.”After the inventory landed, Tekriwal did the packaging of the product and decided to setup a stall in Pune Camp. He then drove down to Bengaluru in March 2019 for a women’s event. Tekriwal recalls, “Not a single cup was sold on first day. While I was sitting in a café, I came across an event organiser and asked him to help me. He allowed me to put up a stall at a farmers’ market organised by him in Pune and Bengaluru. Since I could not pay him charges, we decided to revenue share. The first sale happened in Bengaluru.”“Women would inquire about the product, but were unsure about the quality and utility. One of them asked me if I could give her money back if she did not like the product. I assured her on that front and she purchased the cup for ₹1,299. The money-back guarantee changed the game. I was able to sell about 20 menstrual cups at the event and total of 50 in that month. Then I came back to Pune and explored other options to scale up the business. It was then I listed the product on Amazon,” Tekriwal explained.Trust and confidence “Considering the unavailability of raw materials and lack of advanced machinery, medical device manufacturing in India is not easy. So, we decided to opt for US-based manufacturers. User safety is our priority. Our next priority was the sizing guarantee. If a cup does not fit a customer, we send them another cup of different size for free. However, we can’t take the first cup back. So, we ask the customers to cut that cup and send us the images of that product. We need to trust our customers and hence, we offer them no-questions asked replacement and money-back guarantee,” says Tekriwal. From periods to the complete packageApart from offering Period Underwear, Period Cup Steriliser and Washer to its customers, Safecup will now launch sexual wellness products for women.Says Tekriwal, “We have made the product available in 150 stores across Kerala since July this year. In other states, we are available only through our website and Amazon. We would soon launch our first store in Pune, in December this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-startup-mantra-busting-the-menstrual-hygiene-barriers-101628938740779.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Timing of first and last train on Delhi Metro's Pink Line to change from Monday||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Saturday announced changes in the schedule of Pink Line, which connects Majlis Park in north-west Delhi to Shiv Vihar in north-east Delhi, from Monday. The schedule is being changed to integrate the signalling system between Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake and Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 section, the DMRC said on Twitter."To integrate the signalling system between recently opened Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake and Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 section of Pink Line, the first and last train services to be effective from the night of 16.08.21 till 10.09.2021 will be as per given below timings," the DMRC tweet said.To integrate the signalling system between recently opened Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake and Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 section of Pink Line, the first and last train services to be effective from the night of 16.08.21 till 10.09.2021 on this Line* will be as per given below timings :-"First train service from both the ends (Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar) will commence at 6:30 AM (instead of present 6:00 AM). Similarly, the last train service from both the ends will start at 10:00 PM (instead of 11:00 PM at present)," It tweeted further, explaining the changes.The DMRC said that on Sundays, services from both the ends will continue to start at 8am, but the last train from both the ends will start at 10pm instead of the current 11pm time."Normal first and last train services from 6:00 AM and 11:00 PM on Pink Line will resume from 11th September 2021 onwards," the DMRC further said.The Pink Line became the longest operational corridor of the Delhi Metro network after a small section of the 59-km-long corridor was inaugurated earlier this month. The section of 289 metres between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations was inaugurated on August 6.The Pink Line was opened in multiple phases in 2018. However, a small portion in east Delhi's Trilokpuri area had become a bottleneck, due to which the line remained disjointed there.The Pink Line connects important landmarks of the city, such as the Anand Vihar Railway station, Anand Vihar ISBT, Nizamuddin Railway station, markets in South Extension, INA and Lajpat Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/timing-of-first-and-last-train-on-delhi-metro-s-pink-line-to-change-from-monday-101628937700077.html
14-08-2021||Lucknow||Former IPS officer Amitabh Thakur says will contest UP assembly elections against Yogi Adityanath||Former Uttar Pradesh cadre Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Amitabh Thakur announced on Saturday he will contest the upcoming assembly elections against chief minister Yogi Adityanath. In a video statement on his Twitter account, Thakur accused Adityanath of taking several “undemocratic, divisionary and discriminatory steps” during his tenure.“Yesterday, after I announced my intention to contest against Yogi Adityanath, several friends have requested me to do so. After giving it a serious thought, I have decided to contest the upcoming assembly elections against him from whichever constituency he contests the polls,” the former IPS officer posted in a tweet, along with a video message in which he confirmed he will contest against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. कल योगी आदित्यनाथ के खिलाफ चुनाव लड़ने की मंशा जाहिर करने के बाद से तमाम साथी लगातार मुझे उनके खिलाफ चुनाव लड़ने के लिए कह रहे हैं. सभी बातों पर गंभीरता से विचार कर मैंने निर्णय लिया है कि वे जहाँ से भी आगामी विधान सभा चुनाव लड़ेंगे, मैं निश्चित रूप से उनके विरुद्ध चुनाव लडूंगा. pic.twitter.com/41zhECPKXP“Many friends are requesting me to contest against Yogiji. This is not a bad idea at all. Though I know I will not receive too many votes as I don't have any politician-like quality, I will make sure that the chief minister fully complies with the Model Code of Conduct,” Thakur tweeted on Friday.
14-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi government to commission a study on city farmers with aim to boost incomes||The Delhi government will open bids this week to select an agency to commission a research on farming patterns, costs, revenue, farmers’ economic conditions, harvest, sales, access to procurement agents, source of technical advice and awareness of minimum support price (MSP) – with a larger aim of augmenting income for the city’s 21,000 farmers.“The government proposes to conduct a comprehensive research study on pattern on farming and to assess the costing and income from cultivation of major crops in Delhi with objective to know the major crops being grown along with grade and quality, average yield of various crops, main channels of sale, price realisation of the last two years at least both for Kharif and Rabi crops, proportion of tenant farmers, etc,” said a government document, a copy of which HT has seen.The bids are scheduled to be opened on August 20, and within a week, the government plans to commission the research study – which, according to the documents, is supposed to include a detailed survey of at least 1,000 farmers randomly chosen from 25 or more villages scattered across the city. The agency hired for the research is expected to file a detailed report by September 24.According to the records of the city’s agriculture department, the total farmed area in the Capital is around 29,000 hectares, mostly spread in the northern, western and southern peripheries of the city. Most farmers grow seasonal vegetables other than wheat and paddy. The government also estimates the total number of farmers in Delhi at 21,000 currently.“But there is no clarity on what proportion of land is used for cultivation of each. Delhi has also witnessed a decline in cropped area. For instance, till five years ago, it used to be 37,750 hectares. We need to have a good idea of costs incurred by farmers and their incomes,” said a senior government official, adding: “This will be the first such comprehensive study. It is aimed at augmenting incomes of farmers based in the city.”According to the documents seen by HT, the research is also planned to cover details on land holdings, household incomes, crop insurance details, if insurance claimed, source of irrigation, harvest details for period between January and June this year, expenses on diesel, electricity, water, machinery, farming equipment, interest on loans, availability of procurement agencies, source of technical advice and awareness about minimum support price (MSP).MSP is the assured price at which the government buys major farm produce to give farmers assured returns for their yield. It also acts as a base price for private traders. MSP applies to 23 crops, which include paddy and wheat.The study is also expected to cover details on causes of crop loss such as inadequate rainfall, flood, disease, insects, other causes such as fire, locusts, storm, etc along with further details on crop insurance, amount claimed, amount received, time taken to receive the amount, said the documents.It comes at a time when farmers from across states are protesting at the border points of the city against three contentious farm laws passed in the Parliament last year and demanding a law for implementation of MSP. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi has been supporting the farmer groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-to-commission-a-study-on-city-farmers-with-aim-to-boost-incomes-101628931971457.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: From Monday, negative RT-PCR report or full vaccination needed to enter Punjab||The Punjab government on Saturday made it mandatory for those entering the state to show a negative RT-PCR test report or full Covid-19 vaccination certificate, from August 16. The decision was taken at a Covid-19 review meet chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said.“Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has ordered mandatory full Covid-19 vaccination or negative RT-PCR report for those entering the state from Monday. Those arriving from Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir will, in particular, be strictly monitored, as these are showing increased positivity,” the statement read. This rule, it said, will apply to all those arriving in Punjab by road, rail or air routes, adding that if a person does not have either of the two documents, they will have to undergo mandatory RAT testing. Only those who have recently recovered from the coronavirus disease will be exempted from testing, the statement said.During the meeting, the chief minister also expressed concern over Covid-19 cases being reported from schools, with at least 41 students and one staff member in government schools testing positive since August 9. “Only fully vaccinated teaching and non-teaching staff, or those who recently recovered from the viral disease, should physically teach in schools and colleges. Online learning option remains available to all students,” Singh was quoted as saying. He further directed that teaching and non-teaching staff be prioritised for vaccination, with special camps to be organised for both first and second dose beneficiaries.“The chief minister has ordered that 10,000 test samples of students and staff from schools should be undertaken every day,” the statement further noted. It also quoted CM Singh as saying that parents of school going children should also be encouraged to immediately get vaccinated to enable the physical learning in schools without any interruptions.On Friday, Punjab reported 89 new Covid-19 infections, taking the cumulative infection tally to 599,846, a health department bulletin showed. The death toll remained unchanged at 16,334 while total recoveries mounted to 582,944.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/from-monday-negative-rt-pcr-report-or-full-vaccination-needed-to-enter-punjab-101628929877644.html
14-08-2021||Patna||Raids on Bihar officer linked to sand mafia reveals illegal assets worth crores||Bihar’s economic offences unit (EOU) on Friday claimed to have unearthed illegal assets worth crores, belonging to former Dehri sub divisional officer (SDO) Sunil Kumar Singh, who along with 17 others including two Indian Police Service (IPS) officers and four deputy superintendent of police (DSP) was suspended on July 27 for allegedly aiding and abetting illegal sand mining mafias in four districts of Bihar.The EOU conducted searches at Singh’s ancestral house at Gazipur, flats in Patna, along with the office and residences of his wife, who was earlier posted as Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) Paliganj in connection with a disproportionate assets (DA) case.The EoU had registered the case against Sunil on Thursday alleging he is likely to have amassed disproportionate assets worth ₹1.5 crore. People aware of the developments said the EoU raids revealed that the suspended SDO was involved in real estate business in Bihar and outside. Incriminating documents related to investments in banks, post offices, stocks, property, gold and silver were also seized during the raids, people mentioned above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/raids-on-bihar-officer-linked-to-sand-mafia-reveals-illegal-assets-worth-crores-101628929561743.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||#IndependenceDay2021: Ditch plastic, opt for eco-friendly Tricolour!||Independence Day is certainly an occasion that deserves to be celebrated. But the exuberance needs to be accompanied with the message of being environment friendly! Recently, the central government prohibited the use of national flags made out of plastic. And several NGOs and non-profit organisations in Delhi-NCR have already been accomplishing the task to make and sell eco-friendly flags at economical prices. Bhavisha Buddhadeo, from the Noida-based NGO Green Society India, is not just making eco-friendly flags, but also spreading awareness among school children about the need to care for the environment. “We want that the flag should not be made out of plastic or plastic straws, but instead with recycled paper or cloth. Iske liye hum flags banake social media ke through bech rahe hain aur sath hi logon ko jagruk bhi kar rahe hain. These flags are priced at ₹20 to ₹30, according to the size. To make them, we first soak the paper and add the three colour, and tulsi or tomato seeds. Or, if there is unused paper such as from a wedding invitation, we use those as well. Our motto is not just to sell these, but create awareness among people. We’ve even tried to use alternatives such as ice cream spoons or broom sticks, to hold it together,” says Buddhadeo. Delhi-based Kritika Saxena, who makes eco-friendly products all round the year, all makes flags from seed paper. She explains, “I started making flags three years ago. The idea is to reduce waste, create and make one time use eco-friendly things that are reasonable as well. Because whenever a product gets a tag of eco-friendly, the price often goes high. I wanted to cater to as many people as possible. The best part of these flags is that you get plants out of it. We operate through WhatsApp and Instagram, to sell them for ₹5. Looking at the overwhelming response, we’ve over the years, we expanded to making eco-friendly greeting cards, diaries and even wedding invites.”An international women’s organisation, Inner Wheel Club, is working with various NGOs in the city to empower women by enabling them to make sustainable flags. “The plastic straw and the plastic flag will remain forever. But, we as citizens of India are responsible for the pollution and the waste we are producing,” says Manisha Kaushik, from the organisation, adding, “This is my passion to bring about whatever little change in the society we can. We are working with different NGOs to make flags out of cloth, and even try to market these for them alongside purchasing and putting them across various societies. We also take it as a social responsibility to work with schools and slums by teaching young kids to make flags by using wooden sticks from brooms, or ice cream sticks.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/independenceday2021-ditch-plastic-opt-for-eco-friendly-tricolour-101628928059443.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Anti-terror cell, bomb squad activated: Mumbai prepares for Independence Day||On the eve of Independence Day, the Mumbai Police said that all necessary arrangements have been made in preparation for August 15. The police in the city, which has historically been the site of a series of coordinated terrorist attacks, are attempting to leave no stones unturned in security arrangements ahead of the highly-anticipated Independence Day celebrations on Sunday. According to a press release issued by the Mumbai Police and seen by news agency ANI, all police stations are on high alert while the anti-terror cell and bomb squads across all stations have also been activated to ensure sufficient security arrangements for Independence Day.Bandobast will be kept at important govt offices such as Mantralaya for govt function of flag hoisting, along with anti-sabotage measures such as frisking of persons & checking of premises with bomb detection & disposal squads: Mumbai Police on #IndependenceDay arrangementsAll police stations will maintain a high degree of alert in the form of static deployment and patrolling to prevent any untoward incident on Independence Day, the Mumbai Police said. The anti-terror cell (ATC) and beat officers in all police stations have been activated to gather intelligence, according to the cops.Also Read | Threats to blow up Mumbai University if undergrad results not declared soonestMoreover, extra security arrangements will be kept at important government offices such as the mantralaya (ministry) for the official flag hoisting function. The authorities will also be carrying out anti-sabotage measures such as frisking people. The bomb detection and disposal squads will also be deployed to check the premises for any suspected terrorist activity.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government has allowed a few more relaxations in coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related protocols for Independence Day. While all fully vaccinated passengers will be able to travel in local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) from August 15, shops, malls, and restaurants have also been permitted to operate till 10pm. However, with the likelihood of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic hitting the state, the government also made it clear that the entire state will be put under immediate lockdown if the demand for oxygen reaches 700 metric tonnes (MT) on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antiterror-cell-bomb-squad-activated-mumbai-prepares-for-independence-day-101628920330518.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Threats to blow up Mumbai University if undergrad results not declared soonest||Mumbai University (MU) has received several emails in the last month threatening to blow up its Kalina campus if results of Bachelor of Arts, Commerce and Science examinations were not declared immediately, police said, and added that a case for causing public mischief and criminal intimidation has been registered against unknown persons."We are taking help from the cyber cell of the Mumbai Police to trace the accused," said a police official from Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) police station. The complaint was lodged by the university’s security officer alleging the threatening emails were received by the director of examinations and evaluation.The present email bomb threats come in the backdrop of two hoax bomb calls made to the police in the last fortnight. The first one, received on August 4, threatened to blow up the US consulate at the BKC, whereas the second call on August 7 claimed that bombs had been planted near actor Amitabh Bachchan's bungalow at Juhu CSMT (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus) and Dadar railway stations. Three inebriated individuals were arrested for making the second hoax call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/threats-to-blow-up-mumbai-university-if-undergrad-results-not-declared-soonest-101628924329668.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||#IndependenceDay: Delhiites hit the virtual button for workshops||Independence Day is a great occasion to teach young ones about the struggles of our freedom fighters and the history of how India achieved freedom. In the pre-Covid era, children used to head to schools where August 15 celebrations would entail quite a few activities. But, in absence of that, it’s the love for kites and everything craft that has taken over the bonding time with parents, in Delhi-NCR. A number of virtual, creative workshops for kite making and flag making are being attended by denizens, ahead of August 15. “I’m so glad that we have the option of logging on to virtual classes to learn such creative things such as kite making,” says Priyanka Sinha, a homemaker and mother to five-year-old twins Marvi and Ayansh. “I was happy when I came across such a class because it’s a great way to teach my kids about the country’s history. Also, for me to spend time with my children, beyond giving them school lessons, this is a good excuse. I attend the workshop along with them, and these activities often lead to a lot of discussions between us as we get to learn and explore so much more. It’s great that we can do so much even while sitting at home during the pandemic.” Besides craft workshops, there are also some other I-Day theme activities that are providing the parents and children to get a chance to bond. Sangita Gambhir, from an art and craft studio, says, “Besides the flag making workshop that we are conducting, we also have a food distribution activity as well as a stationery distribution activity, which will be conducted by both adults and children, in Rohini, on the occasion of Independence Day.” Artist Simran Kaur, who is conducting a kite decoration and national symbols workshop for both kids and parents, informs that parents are indeed keen in indulging in these activities as schools are still closed. “We have regular sign ups by those who know we will do something creative. Also, more parents want to join in now as kids love to explore and learn through the play-way! And honestly, parents are clueless about what to teach and where to begin after so many days of being indoor in the pandemic. We have noticed that parents are really involved in these workshops so that they can spend time with the child,” she says.And in fact, there are also some I-Day virtual parties designed especially for parents and children to attend together. “We’ll be holding a special class on August 15 where kids and parents will be dressed in Tricolour theme, and we’ll all have a small party online,” says Delhi-based Samridhi Verma, adding, “We will use this occasion to showcase whatever we have made during our craft classes before August 15!”Author tweets @AnjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/independenceday-delhiites-hit-the-virtual-button-for-workshops-101628920682473.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Independence Day 2021: Delhi Police issue traffic advisory. Details here||The Delhi Police have issued a traffic advisory ahead of Sunday’s Independence Day celebrations at the iconic Red Fort, from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation. In the advisory, the force has directed commuters to avoid certain routes while the official functions are going on.
14-08-2021||Jaipur||Minor abducted, raped in Barmer; 4-year-old killed in Jaipur: Police||A 24-year-old man was arrested on Friday on charges of abducting and raping a minor girl in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, the police said.According to the survivor, the incident took place on August 11 when she took her goats for grazing to a field nearby and the accused forcibly dragged her to an isolated area, tied her and raped her multiple times, said Deputy Superintendent of Police, Seema Chopra.The survivor’s parents and local residents found her in an unconscious state on the outskirts of the village on Wednesday, during a search operation. The girl’s medical examination report is awaited. “On the complaint, the accused has been booked under POCSO act, SC/ST Act, IPC sections 376 and 342. The probe has been started and accused is arrested,” the SP saidIn a separate incident, a four-year-old girl, who went missing on Wednesday, was allegedly raped and murdered in Jaipur, said the police, adding that her body was found near a pond on Thursday. The main accused in the case was arrested late on Friday after a 15-hour manhut involving 700 personnel, officials familiar with the matter said,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/minor-abducted-raped-in-barmer-4-year-old-killed-in-jaipur-police-101628902936694.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Two crushed to death after crane part falls on them at US embassy||Two labourers working at an under-construction site at the United States embassy in New Delhi’s Chanakyapuri area were crushed to death on Friday after a part of a crane operating on the ground fell on them, police said, adding that a third man, who was also injured in the incident, is currently battling for his life at a private hospital in Chanakyapuri.A senior police officer said that they received a PCR call from Primus hospital at 1.44pm after “three severely injured persons were brought there”.A police team rushed to the hospital where they were informed that one of the labourers, identified as Kanchan (32), was brought dead to the hospital. Doctors tried to save the life of the second victim, Babulal (32), but he succumbed to injuries within a few hours, police said.The third labourer, Mukesh (33), is currently undergoing treatment. Police said all three hailed from Dausa in Rajasthan.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said an FIR under IPC sections 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) was registered immediately after they were informed about the accident.“Further investigation is being carried out in the matter,” said the DCP.A spokesperson for the US embassy did not respond to calls and emails seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-crushed-to-death-after-crane-part-falls-on-them-at-usembassy-101628899310436.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||4 men held for smuggling arms in Delhi||The Delhi Police’s special cell has arrested four men who were smuggling arms in the Capital, said senior officers on Thursday. The police recovered 55 illegal pistols and 50 live cartridges from them. One of the men, police said, was convicted in a 2007 kidnapping case but was released on parole from the jail some months ago.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said the police has launched a special drive against suppliers of illegal firearms, and that in the run-up to the Independence Day celebrations, police have also increased surveillance on such gangs smuggling weapons into Delhi.“During surveillance, it transpired that illegal weapons were brought into Delhi from the areas of Khargaon, Dhar, Sendhwa and Burhanpur in Madhya Pradesh besides other parts of the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4-men-held-for-smuggling-arms-in-delhi-101628899411521.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC restrains film on murder at Gurugram school||The Delhi high court has restrained over-the-top (OTT) platform Netflix and Channel News Asia (CNA) from broadcasting ‘A Big Little Murder’, a documentary based on the alleged murder of a seven year-old boy in 2017 at his school in Gurugram.“The defendants are restrained from streaming, broadcasting, telecasting etc the documentary titled ‘A big Little Murder’ or any of its abridged versions,” Justice Jayant Nath said in an August 10 order.The court said that a trust that runs the private school and moved to the high court challenging the airing of the documentary, have prima facie made out a case for the restraint.The judge, however, said the documentary could be streamed after deleting all references to the school in question and deleting the portion which shows a visual of the school building.On September 8, 2017, the seven-year-old boy, a student of Class 1, was found dead in the school’s washroom with his throat slit. While initially, the Gurugram police arrested a school bus conductor, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) later arrested a Class 11 student for the alleged murder.In its order, the court said the screening of the documentary was in violation of a January 8, 2018, Gurugram district court order that directed that the public at large including the media to use imaginary names given while referring to the persons or facts of the case.The trust contended that the documentary was released on August 6 on Netflix, where the name of the school and its building was shown in complete violation of the order passed by the Gurugram court.The petitioner also said that in another case, a co-ordinate bench on January 22 stayed the release of a book regarding the incident.The trial in the alleged murder case is pending adjudication at a Gurugram court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-restrains-film-on-murder-at-gurugram-school-101628899451539.html
14-08-2021||Lucknow||AAP to mark Independence Day eve with ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Lucknow today||A day before India celebrates its 75th Independence Day, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will be conducting a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ (tricolour march) in Uttar Pradesh's Lucknow on Saturday to pay tributes to freedom fighters, who dedicated their lives to the nation in the struggle for independence. According to party officials familiar with the matter, the ‘yatra’ will be led by AAP's UP in-charge and Rajya Sabha lawmaker Sanjay Singh.Also Read | 75th Independence Day: History, significance and rare factsCiting a district official of the party, HT's sister publication Live Hindustan reported that the AAP ‘Tiranga Yatra’ will be launched in Lucknow at 3pm on Saturday under the leadership of Sanjay Singh.AAP workers and leaders, including the party's state president Sabhajeet Singh, are expected to take part in the ‘Tiranga Yatra’ being held in the evening in honour of the freedom fighters. Reports indicate that a meeting of AAP workers took place on Friday at the party's district office in Moradabad, where it was decided that hundreds of people from the district will be rallied by party workers to travel to Lucknow for the purpose of attending the march.Also Read | Independence Day special: Five classics about India to read right nowAccording to the party's spokesperson Mahendra Pratap Singh, the march will begin at Shaheed Memorial near Lucknow's Gandhi Bhawan and end at GPO in Hazratganj. While speaking to reporters on the ‘Tiranga Yatra’, Singh said earlier this week that the AAP has taken the decision to hold the march in honour of the freedom fighters who made great sacrifices to free the country from British colonial rule.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) took out a similar ‘Tiranga Yatra’ on Friday at its party office in the national capital and in other parts of the country. Organised by the state Mahila Morcha unit, the yatra was flagged off by the party's national vice-president, Baijayant Jai Panda. “This yatra is a befitting reply to those for whom patriotism has become a joke,” he was quoted as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aap-to-mark-independence-day-eve-with-tiranga-yatra-in-lucknow-today-101628898362330.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||No Covid-19 death in Delhi for 3rd straight day||The city added no Covid-19 deaths to its toll for the third straight day on Friday, showed state government data, the first time this has happened since May last year, before even the first wave of infections hit the national capital.The state health department’s daily health bulletin on Friday added 50 infections to the city’s tally. The city has, over the past week, added an average of 52 cases every day. The Covid-19 case trajectory, which denotes a region’s infection curve, in the city has now been below 100 for 46 days.At its peak in the third week of April, the seven-day average of new cases soared to a peak of 25,294 a day.The 50 new cases came on the back of 73,324 new tests, at a positivity rate of 0.07%, and took the city’s overall Covid-19 tally to 1,436,988. So far, 25,068 people in Delhi have succumbed to the viral infection. Over 13,200 of them died between April and May alone, as Delhi battled a fourth wave of infectionsPositivity rate is a crucial metric as it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when a dropping positivity rate is coupled with decreasing new cases, it indicates that the spread of the virus is reducing within the community. Tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control. In Delhi, this number has been below the threshold for 85 days now, and below 1% for 75.At the peak of the fourth wave of infections in Delhi during the third week of April, this statistic soared past 36%.As on Friday, 468 people in Delhi are currently battling the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-covid-19-death-in-delhi-for-3rd-straight-day-101628897100323.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Cops to court: No proof yet to confirm 9-year-old in Delhi was raped||The Delhi Police have informed a city court that it is yet to find any evidence to confirm that a nine-year-old Dalit girl was raped before she was allegedly murdered and forcibly cremated at a village near the cantonment on August 1.The investigating officer (IO), Richhpal Singh, also told the court that at this stage, it was not possible to conclusively say that the victim was raped. Four men have been arrested for the crime and are in jail.On a specific query by additional sessions judge Ashutosh Kumar, the IO told the court that he cannot “conclusively” say as to whether the victim was sexually assaulted before allegedly being murdered.“The IO has further admitted that neither any statement of any eye-witness nor any other evidence, including medical or scientific, could be collected so far to confirm as to whether the victim child was raped or not. He has further submitted that at this stage, he cannot conclusively say as to whether the victim child was raped or not,” the court noted in its order of August 12.In his report, the IO also told the court that as per the post mortem of the victim conducted on August 3, “no definite opinion can be ascertained with regard to any sexual assault on the body of the deceased”.“...but it is very clear that the body was burnt after the death of the deceased,” the IO said in his report.The police also said that it only had the disclosure statement of two of the four accused admitting to the crime.“..the IO has stated that the disclosure statements of the four accused persons have revealed that accused Radhey Shyam and Kuldeep Singh had raped & killed the minor child victim and that the remaining two accused, namely Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan, had helped them in trying to cremate the deceased minor child,” said the bench in its order.Radhe Shyam, the priest at the local crematorium where the victim’s remains were found, is the prime accused in the case.The police claimed that Shyam and Singh, in their disclosure statements, admitted to raping the victim. But under the Indian Evidence Act, disclosure statement or confessions made to a police officer is not admissible if not supported by additional evidence.The submissions were made while hearing an application by the New Delhi District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) seeking compensation for the victim’s family according to the state compensation scheme.On August 1, the Dalit girl was raped and killed allegedly by a priest and three of his male associates at a crematorium in Purani Nangal village near Delhi cantonment in southwest Delhi. The four men then cremated her body allegedly without her parents’ consent or the police being informed.The accused say the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from a cooler but the family alleges that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after raping her.Village residents and Dalit groups blocked local roads and protested against the crime for days, prompting prominent Opposition politicians to visit the family and announce compensation. The accused have been booked under sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, along with the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act .On August 4, the autopsy of the victim’s body had come back inconclusive for rape. At the time, the three-member medical board conducting the autopsy told police that it will be impossible to arrive at a conclusion because only charred remains were available for them to examine.The victim’s parents, through advocate Jitendra Kumar Jha, have moved the Delhi high court seeking a judicial probe into the alleged laxity of the police officials in conducting the preliminary probe, while also urging for an SIT investigation in the alleged rape and murder.“We have already filed a petition on the administrative failure in conducting the initial probe and delay in registration. It is being processed by the registry and might get cleared by Monday,” Jha told HT.On Thursday, the court awarded an interim compensation of ₹2.5 lakh to the parents for the loss of life of the minor girl. However, the judge refused to give any interim relief for the alleged rape of the victim noting that the IO was not sure whether the assault happened or not.“As regards the interim compensation on the additional ground of the alleged rape of the victim, in view of the submissions of the IO and in view of the fact that the investigating agency itself is not sure as to whether the victim was raped or not, the interim compensation qua the same is not allowed at this stage”.“However, liberty is granted to move a fresh application to that regard, in case the investigating agency collects further material or comes to the conclusion that the victim child was raped,” the court said in its order.As per the government’s victim compensation scheme, the maximum compensation awardable in case of loss of life is ₹10 lakh. The court granted 25 per cent of the compensation amount as interim relief.On Thursday, the court also sent the accused to 14-days judicial custody after they were produced at the end of their three days custodial investigation.The incident sparked uproar, following which several people, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal met the victim’s parents.Gandhi tweeted pictures with the parents on August 4, following which his Twitter account was locked by the social media company for violating India’s laws on not identifying rape victims.Kejriwal ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident, announced financial assistance of ₹10 lakh for the girl’s family and said the city government would appoint top lawyers to represent them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-to-court-no-proof-yet-to-confirm-9-year-old-was-raped-101628890569183.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The new Iron Lady||This role, to her, is both familiar and strange. Familiar, because being a working woman is by no means a novel experience. She has been “working, working, working” all her adult life, mostly administering her home in Lakshmi Nagar. Strange, because only recently did she start to step out everyday into the big wide world as the family’s sole breadwinner.Devki is the new face of an old landmark. She succeeds husband Radhe Shyam as an ironing service provider in the Capital’s upscale Nizamuddin East. He was managing the household laundry of a part of the neighbourhood for more than a decade — his stall under a khirni tree in the C-block park comprised a table and a sooty black iron. He died of a heart attack in April, leaving behind three children and Devki, who is 45.“One moment he was fine, the next moment he was no more,” says Devki. This sweltering afternoon, clad in a pink kurta and an orange salwar, she is standing on the exact spot where her husband would stand. A rad awning is blocking the unforgiving sun. The stall is unchanged except for the new gas-fuelled iron. The husband’s coal-fired press was so huge that it looked like a mini steam engine. “Its handle would get hot very quickly and burn my hands,” she says, showing the blisters on her fingers.Meanwhile, Devki’s older son is quietly watching her speak, his gaze full of protective love. “He wants to be by his mummy’s side these days,” she explains. Atul recently cleared his 12th standard and is aiming for university education. Daughter Parul, a Master’s student in history, is simultaneously building a career in nursing. The youngest, Anmol, is a school student.The days following Radhe Shyam’s death passed in a blur of shock and grief. “I would cry all the time.” Realising that she must help the children get on with life, she eventually took up the husband’s profession in July. The long-time patrons showed solidarity by staying loyal to the establishment. Devki irons about 100 clothes daily. The work is demanding and her shoulders start aching by the day’s end, but it is helping her to come to terms with the great loss. “When I’m here I’ve less khali (spare) time to think of my grief… at home, I still sometimes cry.”The stall was founded by Radhe Shyam’s grandfather, Nanhe Ram, 60 years ago. It later passed to his widowed mother, Draupadi, who ironed the clothes here for 30 years. Radhe Shyam took over in 2010.Devki leaves her house every morning at 9, after preparing lunch for the family. She returns 12 hours later. Her daughter keeps the night meal ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-new-iron-lady-101628890889925.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||2020 hooch deaths: Police challenges bail to Ludhiana bizman||The district police have filed a review petition in a local court against the bail granted to a Ludhiana-based businessman, one of the main accused in Punjab’s worst-ever hooch tragedy that had claimed nearly 140 lives last year. As the special investigation team (SIT) could not find any substantial evidence against him in its probe that was completed a few months ago, the court granted him bail. “Seeking cancellation of the bail, we have filed a review petition in the court,” a police statement said on Friday. Rajeev Joshi (51), owner of RC Joshi and Company, Ludhiana, was arrested by the police for allegedly supplying two drums of methyl alcohol to Ravinder Singh, alias Pinka of Moga, also an accused. The police had said the methyl alcohol was further used for preparing spurious illicit liquor. Earlier, during the case hearing, Joshi’s counsel argued that his client was falsely implicated in the case. It was Joshi’s second bail application. Earlier, his first bail plea was rejected by court considering “seriousness” of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2020-hooch-deaths-police-challenges-bail-to-ludhiana-bizman-101628885756084.html
14-08-2021||Other||Salaries not paid for two months, Punjabi varsity employees protest outside V-C office||Furious over the non-payment of salaries for the last two months, members of the Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) staged a protest outside the vice-chancellor’s office on Friday.PUTA secretary Avneet Pal Singh said the university management has failed to find a way to pay its employees and pensioners amid the financial crisis. “Instead of making stopgap arrangements every month, the university should come up with a concrete solution to deal with the financial crisis,” said the PUTA secretary. “The varsity should put forward the case before the state government and seek a special bailout package at the earliest,” he said.PUTA members added the teachers’ body has to sit on protest every month to get their salaries released. “This trend is not good for the academic atmosphere of the varsity,” the teachers’ body stated.It may be mentioned that the financial crisis of the varsity has deepened over the years as it is facing difficulty in meeting even the committed expenses, including payment of monthly salaries and pensions. The total monthly salary budget of the university is ₹33 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/salaries-not-paid-for-two-months-punjabi-varsity-employees-protest-outside-v-c-office-101628885215632.html
14-08-2021||Other||Gym owner, aide held with 5.3kg heroin in Ludhiana||The Special Task Force (STF) busted a drug supply chain with the arrest of a gym owner and his accomplice on late Thursday night. They were allegedly operating from a gym and food supplements’ shop in the city. The STF has recovered 5.3kg heroin, ₹2.10 lakh drug money, a Mahindra Bolero jeep and a motorcycle from their possession. According to STF officials, the recovered heroin costs ₹26.5 crore in the international market.Those arrested have been identified as Jagjit Singh alias Eedu, 30, of Sunet village who owns the gym, and Harminder Singh alias Pannu, 30, of Aman Nagar of Salem Tabri. The kingpin has been identified as Mandeep Singh alias Pistoli of Salem Tabri, who owns the food supplement shop. He is yet to be arrested. STF Ludhiana in-charge, inspector Harbans Singh said that on Thursday night, the team nabbed Jagjit from Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar when he, along with Harminder, was going to supply the consignment on a motorcycle. The team initially recovered 800gm heroin from the duo’s possession but later found 4.5 kg heroin hidden in a Mahindra Bolero jeep and ₹2.5 lakh at Jagjit’s house.“During questioning, the accused told STF that they, along with Mandeep Singh Pistoli, have been smuggling drugs for the past six years and operate from a food supplements’ shop and gym,” he added.The inspector further revealed that Mandeep already has six criminal cases against him. Jagit, who is said to be the great grandson of freedom fighter Gadri Baba Bhan Singh of Sunet village, also faces a case of assault.A case under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the accused at STF, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar (Mohali). The court on Friday remanded the accused four-day STF custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gym-owner-aide-held-with-5-3kg-heroin-in-ludhiana-101628884975625.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab intensifies voters’ list revision process||With assembly elections round the corner, Punjab has intensified the process of revision of electoral rolls. Punjab chief electoral officer, S Karuna Raju said the pandemic is posing some challenges, however, the election machinery is geared up to tide over this unprecedented situation. He said as per guidelines of the Election Commission of India (ECI), a special campaign for registration, deletion and correction of particulars in the voters’ list with qualifying date as January 1, 2022, has begun. Known as special summary revision, this gives an opportunity to citizens to register themselves as voters and also verify their electoral details through offline or online medium, he added. The state’s chief electoral officer further said that ahead of the assembly election in the first quarter of the next year, this exercise will be extensively carried out across the state. A door-to-door exercise will be undertaken by the booth-level officers (BLOs) between August 9, 2021, to October 10, 2021, to further intensify the campaign and plug the existing gaps. He further said that to improve the health of electoral rolls and ensure enrolment of all eligible citizens, a special summary revision is conducted in the later part of each year in all states/UTs. People who have not been able to register themselves as voters and those who find errors in the electoral rolls or have migrated to some other constituency, can utilise the special summary revision of the roll if they have attained the age of 18 on or before January 1, 2022. He also said as per the revised guidelines, ECI has provided the facility of voting through postal ballots (PB) paper to persons above the age of 80, persons with disability and Covid-19 suspected or affected persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-intensifies-voters-list-revision-process-101628884795702.html
14-08-2021||Other||Hospitalisations rise in Kerala amid Covid spike||Thiruvananthapuram As the Covid-19 graph continues to shoot up in Kerala for almost two months, pressure is visible on overworked health machinery and demand for beds and ventilators is on the rise, state health ministry data shows. But private and government hospitals are facing no shortage of oxygen. According to the health ministry statistics, ICU occupancy of Covid-19 patients in private and government hospitals has gone up from 2,101 to 2,175 on Friday, but those on ventilator dropped from 800 to 780. Around 70% of the infected remain in home quarantine and those serious with co-morbid conditions are approaching hospitals. But increased home isolation invited more trouble, with many experts saying large families are turning transmission hubs in the state. For the last one week, the average daily hospital admissions stand at 3,000, but 2,000 patients are getting discharged on an average, maintaining the active caseload steady, statistics show. As the state is resorting to targeted testing, many experts have asked it to do random testing and double the testing rate. On Friday, 20,452 people tested positive and 16,856 turned negative, maintaining a near balance. When 1,42, 501 samples were tested, 20,452 turned positive with a test positivity rate of 14.35%. In the country, 40,120 Covid cases were reported on Friday with a TPR below 3%. But the state’s average TPR in last two weeks is above 12%. Like daily cases, the death rate is also going up. The state reported 114 fatalities On Friday, taking the death toll to 18,394 The government has tightened regulations after many experts warned that cases may go up after Onam festivities. Though the festive season has begun, it will peak with Thiru Onam on Aug 21. “Post-Onam surge can be expected in the state. Therefore, it is best to keep social bubble minimum this season,” said Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, senior consultant and public health activist. State health minister Veena George has also asked people to be more vigilant. “Though cases are on the rise, the situation is under control. There is no need to panic. Our effort is to vaccinate maximum people and the Centre was approached for more doses,” she said. The state health ministry said 2,28,29,007 people were given vaccination till Thursday. Out of these, 1,58,70, 802 were given first dose and the rest got both doses. Of the total population, 45.5% were given first dose and 18.41% both the doses. Kerala is credited with a zero per cent vaccine wastage. The state has vaccinated 55% of its eligible population against the national average of 42%, according to the health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hospitalisations-rise-in-kerala-amid-covid-spike-101628884616347.html
14-08-2021||Other||Capt to inaugurate Jallianwala Bagh centenary memorial in Amritsar today||Punjab chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh will inaugurate the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre centenary memorial, set up at Anand Amrit Park in Ranjit Avenue locality of Amritsar, on Saturday. The CM is on a two-day visit to the holy city.The memorial has been set up over 4,490 square metres at a cost of ₹3.5 crore to serve as a memory of the Jallianwala Bagh martyrs for the future generations.The names of 492 martyrs of the massacre have been enshrined on the walls of the memorial, in accordance with the list available with the Amritsar deputy commissioner’s office. The CM will also honour the martyrs’ kin on the occasion. Punjab government has been able to trace the family members of only 29 martyrs.The CM had laid the foundation stone of the memorial in January this year. It may be recalled that the project had irked BJP leaders including Rajya Sabha MP and Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust member Shwait Malik who cited that building another memorial, just five kilometres away from the place of massacre, is unfair. It will be after more than two years that Capt will be visiting Amritsar, the constituency from where he had been elected to the Lok Sabha in 2014. It is to be seen if he newly appointed Punjab Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu will attend the inaugural ceremony being organised on his home turf. The CM is also scheduled to visit Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) campus and Government Medical College for inaugurations. On Sunday, he will preside over the state-level Independence Day function at Guru Nanak Dev Stadium here. In wake of his visit, the city has been turned into a virtual fortress with heavy deployment of cops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/capt-to-inaugurate-jallianwala-bagh-centenary-memorial-in-amritsar-today-101628884555901.html
14-08-2021||Other||B’luru civic body to honour 100 Covid warriors on August 15||Bengaluru The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Friday said that they would honour 100 Covid-19 warriors who have recovered after fighting the virus on Independence Day. “All those (health workers, frontline workers and others) who have recovered from Covid, we will call them and honour them and felicitate them on Independence Day,” BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said on Friday.Independence Day celebrations that are held in a grand manner in Field Marshal Manekshaw parade ground in the city’s central business district. Gupta said that all precautions had been taken to ensure that Covid safety measures are in place. “All invitees have to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. The celebrations will be held in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedures issued by the Centre,” Gupta said.Kamal Pant, the Bengaluru city police commissioner said that the chief minister would unfurl the flag at 9 am and receive a guard of honour from 10 battalions (470 personnel) from different wings of law enforement agencies in the state. He added that elaborate arrangements have been made including CCTV cameras and over 1500 personnel will be stationed for security for the event.Bengaluru, one of India’s most populated cities, was among the most Covid-19 impacted regions in the country. However, the second wave has waned in the state and city, allowing more such public events despite the threat of the pandemic still looming large and just as potent as ever before.The Basavaraj Bommai-led state government has issued orders to mute any mass gatherings for the upcoming festivals but continues to turn a blind eye on political events.There were over a thousand people with no masks or social distancing at the swearing in ceremony of Bommai’s cabinet in Raj Bhavan, the Karnataka Governor’s official residence, on August 4.Karnataka has seen a marginal increase in new infections, which experts and others have indicated as a sign of the imminent third wave.The state government has tightened vigil and checks at both Kerala and Maharashtra borders but has left most of Bengaluru, which houses around a quarter of the state’s over 70 million population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bluru-civic-body-to-honour-100-covid-warriors-on-august-15-101628884434954.html
14-08-2021||Other||K’taka looks to revive sick PSUs in a bid to restore economy||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Friday said that it would revive sick and loss-making public sector industries and turn them profitable as a way to bring back jobs and kickstart the fledgling economy.“There are several corporations and institutions such as Kalaburagi Cement Corporation, Mysugar and Mysore Paper Mills that are on the path of bankruptcy,” Murugesh Nirani, Karantaka’s minister for large and medium industries said on Friday.The minister, who is himself an industrialist, has conveyed the state government’s plans to revive loss-making public sector enterprises.“I won’t allow closure of industries during my tenure and try to make them function 24 hours. Our goal is to utilise the state’s natural resources and create an industrial employment revolution,” Nirani added.Karnataka, like its counterparts has seen many of its public sector units fail to perform and cease to be operational. Bengaluru is a city that has among the highest number of public sector units in the country for aerospace, electronics, defence, railways, telecommunications and several other industries that was one of the bedrocks on which the city has now grown into one of the most lucrative technology ecosystems in the world.Karnataka gets a significant share of India’s total foreign direct investment (FDI) and some of the largest corporations in the world have a presence in Bengaluru, which has other monikers like “India’s IT capital”, “Knowledge Capital” , “startup hub” and other names which makes it an attractive destination.Karnataka stands 4th in merchandise exports in the national export basket. Exports from the state stood at around $15 bn in 2019-20 which is 5.2% of India’s total exports. The state stands third among Indian states in terms of FDI inflows contributing 14.27% of total FDI inflow (as of March 2021).However, acquisition of land, corruption and red tape among other issues has added to the state’s challenges over the decades.The delays in procuring land for industries under Section 109 of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act had cost Karnataka a chance to convert investments totalling over ₹39,000 crore and a chance to create over 80,000 jobs between 2013 and 2019, Mint reported in November 2019.The Act has since been amended along with other changes to industrial and labour laws to make it more attractive for investors to fund projects in Karnataka. The government has also announced to hold the Global Investors Meet (GIM) in February 2022, a biennial event until 2016, which was put off following the political uncertainty in the state.Nirani added that any misuse of land allotted by the government would be probed.He has also assured to put to use around 3,000 acres of unused land in Kolar Gold Fields, which have been exploited for centuries before losing most of its prized minerals.“There are more than 3,000 acres of unused land in KGF. They used to get 40 grams of gold for one tonne of mining but now it has dwindled. The officials in their findings have declared that there is no scope for exploration in 3,200 acres of land. So we have urged the Centre to hand over that land to the state government. Revenue officials have been instructed to consider this. We will set up Industrial Township when we get the land,” he said.The last two years have been particularly bad for Karnataka, a calamity-prone state, which has seen the extremes of floods and droughts, coupled with the Covid-19 situation further strap it for funds and other developmental works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-looks-to-revive-sick-psus-in-a-bid-to-restore-economy-101628884374965.html
14-08-2021||Other||K’taka chalks out programme to send 100 athletes for 2024 Paris Olympics||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Friday said that it has devised a programme which aims to send 100 athletes from the state to the Paris Olympics in 2024 by providing them required money for training and other requirements.KC Narayana Gowda, Karnataka’s minister for sericulture,youth empowerment and sports department on Friday said that a sum of ₹5 lakh would be given to such athletes and around 35 of them have already been identified. However, former Olympians say that though the announcement is in the right direction, it all boils down to the execution. A former Olympian, requesting anonymity, said: “It’s a welcoming gesture, but now it’s all about trying to get it done”. He added that the reason why the state government is keen on such a programme is also because Karnataka had just three participants in the just concluded Tokyo Olympics. India had sent its largest-ever contingent of 126 athletes across 18 different sport disciplines to Tokyo, which also became India’s most successful outing in the games ever with seven medals, including one gold in Javelin. Karnataka, that has produced some of the most successful hockey players over the decades among other athletes in various disciplines has seen the quality of the sport come down over the years, largely due to red tape, a pattern seen in other states as well. For the last nearly two decades, the head of Karnataka’s Olympic Association (KOA) has been headed by K Govindaraj, a Congress politician. Govindraj took charge of KOA after his earlier stint as secretary of Karnataka Basketball Association. According to the description of Govindraj in the KOA, he has transformed the body from “receiving” organization to a “giving entity”. “Time was when the KOA sought government funds to even train sportspersons from Karnataka for the state games or the national games. But not any more. The KOA has initiated a number of measures beneficial to the sporting fraternity of the state,” according to the KOA.However, the on-ground realities have painted a different picture as sports personalities losing out on opportunities for want of basic facilities is a story all of India’s athletes share. MP Ganesh, one of Karnataka and India’s most celebrated Olympians, said that it takes a minimum of eight years to get someone ready for the Olympics if they are not already in the national circuit in their respective sport. Ganesh was an integral part of India’s hockey team and was part of the bronze winning side in Barcelona in 1971 and participated in 1972 Munich Olympics. He said that the government and authorities should fix its associations, support mechanism, technically qualified staff to identify talent and infrastructure among other requirements starting from the very basics. “In my opinion, ₹5 lakh is a very meager amount,” he said. He added that the government should be more aware of the ground realities before announcing such schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-chalks-out-programme-to-send-100-athletes-for-2024-paris-olympics-101628884015689.html
14-08-2021||Other||Sultanpur Lodhi wheat pilferage: ‘Whistle-blower’ officer’s name figures among accused in FIR||Assistant food supply officer (AFSO) Munish Bassi, who was among the five officials booked for allegedly siphoning off 24,000 quintals of wheat meant for the Atta-Dal scheme in Sultanpur Lodhi, had himself flagged the issue of missing grain stocks in March this year. Apart from Bassi, the Kapurthala police had booked four supply inspectors Vivek Sharma, Bhupinder Singh, Vikas Sethi and Rameshwar Singh in the case. Official documents reveal that Bassi had joined as AFSO in Sultanpur Lodhi on January 25, 2021, and sought records of the Khera storage stock from the circle office of the department but the inspectors failed to reply to his letters. Bassi then conducted an inspection on March 4 and found nearly 25,000 quintals of wheat grain missing from the stock. He had sent a report regarding this to the district food supply controller, Geeta Bishambhu, who then sought explanation from the four inspectors. In June this year, Bishambhu conducted a probe after Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema and members of the Kisan Union lodged multiple complaints over non-disbursement of wheat between October 2020 and March 2021. During the probe, the Sultanpur Lodhi centre reportedly didn’t provide records of wheat distribution to the inspection teams despite repeated orders, thus making them guilty of “grave negligence”. On July 26, Bishambhu wrote to senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh for legal action against Vivek Sharma and Bhupinder Singh. When contacted, Bishambhu confirmed that ASFO Bassi had no role in the scam while two food inspectors -- Vivek Sharma and Bhupinder Singh -- were responsible for embezzlement. The rest of the accused may be liable for department inquiry for lapses in wheat distribution as they were posted here during the said period. Sultanpur Lodhi deputy superintendent of police Sarwan Singh Bal said, “We are not arresting any accused at this stage but are recording the statements of the food and civil supply department officials. After gathering the evidence, we will remove names of any persons found innocent.” AAP demands CBI or HC judge probe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sajjan Singh Cheema, while addressing a press conference here in Jalandhar on Friday, demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a high court judge in the scam. Cheema said one of the accused food inspectors, Vivek Sharma, had faced similar charges last year too and was booked by the police for cheating but no action was taken against him, and he continued to be posted at Sultanpur Lodhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sultanpur-lodhi-wheat-pilferage-whistle-blower-officer-s-name-figures-among-accused-in-fir-101628883835502.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Two women among nine held for attack on cops||Nine people from two families of Rajiv Colony have been arrested for injuring at least nine police officers by pelting stones at them in the wee hours of Thursday.Four others have been booked and are on the run. More names are likely to be added to the FIR, police said.Those who have been booked are Sumer, Radha, Usha, Kulwinder, Sanjay, Sagar, Meeto, Savita, Sunita, Khushi, Sahil, Sunder and Vicky. The families are from Karnal and Sonepat and had moved to Panchkula around five years ago.Police stated in the FIR that around 3am, they received information about a clash between the two families. When they reached the spot, they found them pelting stones at each other.Then, they started pelting stones at the police, injuring nine of them. One of them had to be admitted to a hospital, but was discharged today. As per police, the accused also attacked them with sharp-edged weapons and sticks.Police had to fire rounds in the air. In the meantime, other residents gathered there and surrounded the house. They also carried out a flag march through Rajiv Colony to mark their presence and to maintain of law-and-order situation in the area.At around 7pm, both families got a complaint registered against each other, wherein they each other of pelting stones.Inspector Rajiv Miglani, SHO of Sector 14 police station, said: “There are eight to ten more people involved and their names will be added later in the investigation.” Those arrested have been sent to judicial custody.The case was registered under section 186 (whoever voluntary obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty), 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his or her duty) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-two-women-among-nine-held-for-attack-on-cops-101628882815634.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra governor duty-bound to decide on 12 nominated MLCs in reasonable time, says Bombay high court||It is the duty of Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to declare his decision on nomination of 12 members of legislative Council (MLC) within reasonable time and failure to do so defeats the statutory intent, the Bombay high court said on Friday, while passing an order on a petition seeking declaration that the inaction was in breach of constitutional provisions.The HC said as the list of nominees was forwarded to the governor by the council of ministers on November 6, 2020, the governor should have communicated his reservations about the list to the chief minister, rather than keeping the posts of MLCs vacant indefinitely. The court held that the governor should speak with the chief minister and let him know about his reservations on the list of nominees, if any, within reasonable timeA division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while pronouncing the judgment in the public interest litigation filed by Nashik resident Ratan Luth said, “We declare the public law that there is obligation on the Governor to accept or return the recommendation made as part of advice has to be decided within reasonable time and eight months is sufficient time in the present facts.” Arguing for the petitioner, senior advocate Aspi Chinoy had submitted that the governor’s failure was arbitrary, malafide and deprived the legislative council of the benefit of such nominees having special knowledge in various fields. Chinoy had submitted that by not taking a decision the governor had caused a loss to the general public. The list submitted to the governor included the names of Vijay Karanjkar, Urmila Matondkar, Nitin Bangude-Patil and Chandrakant Raghuvanshi from the Shiv Sena; Eknath Khadse, Raju Shetti, Yashpal Bhinge and Anand Shinde from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP); and Rajni Patil, Sachin Sawant, Anniruddha Vankar and Muzaffar Hussain from the Congress. The state, through senior counsel Rafiq Dada, had submitted that the governor was duty-bound to make nominations strictly based on the advice of the council of ministers and he had to either accept or reject the names and there was no third option, but the governor had not respected the recommendation and deprived the citizens of benefit of such persons. The centre through additional solicitor general Anil Singh had submitted that while Article 171 of the Constitution granted the power to the Governor of a state to nominate members it also allowed him to use his discretion on the same. While pronouncing the judgement, CJ Datta said, “Though the governor might have genuine reasons not to convey his decision earlier, the issue has to be resolved at the earliest. Whatever be the reason, it is time that the impasse is resolved. Eight months seems to be beyond reasonable time.” While referring to the difference in opinions that may arise between the governor and the CM the bench said, “It is mature, sensible and responsible governance both at the centre as well as in the state that the people look upto. Should there be any misunderstanding between two constitutional authorities or functionaries, the right steps in the correct direction ought to follow.” The bench opined that the offices of Governor, CM and ministers are “entitled to respect from each other in fair measure’ despite ‘ever-expanding uncertainties of political unrest“. The court held that the constitutional functionaries and authorities, “ought to stand tall and rise above all differences of opinion” and “arrive at workable solution as quickly as possible”.“It would not behove the dignity, prestige and majesty of the office of a Constitutional authority/functionary to take shelter of absence of a time limit to act in terms of a provision of the Constitution, so as to defend an inaction when it is challenged in a Constitutional court,” the bench said. It added, “It is with the prompt and effective resolution of differences of opinion to take the nation forward that the respective incumbents would glorify the offices they hold, and not otherwise.”The court concluded the judgement stating, “We will consider it eminently desirable if a decision is taken soon. We hope and trust that things will be set right at an early date.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-duty-bound-to-decide-on-12-nominated-mlcs-in-reasonable-time-says-bombay-high-court-101628882763571.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Badnore confers degrees on 160 doctors at BFUHS||Faridkot Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore on Friday appreciated the role of the medical fraternity in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. After conferring degrees to 160 doctors and other graduates, postgraduates in medical and allied services during convocation of the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, the governor said the role of the university in conducting 50,000 Covid tests per day and recruiting a health task force of more than 10,000 persons was remarkable. The university conferred degrees on students of the 2018 and 2019 batches who completed undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD in medical, dental, nursing, physiotherapy and other super speciality courses. BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur and principal secretary, medical education and research, Alok Shekhar also addressed the students. Thirty-five students who stood first and second in their respective courses were honoured with medals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badnore-confers-degrees-on-160-doctors-at-bfuhs-101628882762101.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting teachers climb atop water tank in Mohali||Five protesters, including two women members of the Teacher Coordination Committee, climbed atop the water tank of Kumbhra village in Mohali on Friday. This is the despite the district administration orders not to atop water tanks, mobile towers and roofs of government buildings. These five protesters have threatened to commit suicide on August 15, if their demands are not met. The protesters are seeking restart of recruitment, with some seeking regularisation of jobs.  Coordination Committee Punjab’s coordinator Sukhchain Singh Mansa added that they were protesting against the government’s decision to cancel recruitment. “The education department had advertised 8,393 posts of pre-primary teachers for which the exam was be held on June 27, which was cancelled. Teachers are demanding the conduct of the exam and recruitments to begin,” he added. With protests showing little sign of abating, district magistrate Girish Daylan said that protests can be held only at earmarked spots. These are the Dussehra Ground, Phase 8, Mohali; Panchayati land at Chappar Chiri Kalan, Mohali; Football ground, Darpan City, Kharar, and at vacant land near Focal Point, Mubarakpur Road, Dera Bassi. “Protesters must ensure following of all Covid-19 norms, including restrictions on number and seek prior permission. Organisers shall be personally liable for compliance. Failure to adhere to these directions shall attract criminal penalty as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the relevant provisions of the IPC,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-teachers-climb-atop-water-tank-in-mohali-101628882760682.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||I-Day: Chandigarh admn to give 111 commendation certificates||The Chandigarh administration will be giving commendation certificates to 111 individuals and organisations on the Independence Day.More than half of them are from the health sector or those directly involved in the fight against the pandemic.The health and frontline workers played a key role in containing the pandemic during the second wave that peaked in May. While 35 health staffers to be felicitated are from GMCH and GMSH, 20 are from the PGIMER. Among health workers, the achievers include director health services Dr Amandeep Kang, district immunisation officer Dr Manjeet Singh, medical officer Dr Preet Mohinder Kaur, medical superintendent Dr VK Nagpal, and nodal officers Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Dr Manjeet Singh, Dr Sanjeev Palta and Dr Manpreet Singh. Dr PVM Lakhsmi, Dr Mini P Singh, Dr Manisha Biswal, Dr Manoj Goyal and Dr Deba Prasad Dhibar are among those to be felicitated from the PGIMER.Others who will be given the commendation letters include officials from the civic body, Chandigarh Housing Board, education department and urban planning department and individuals and organisations from social welfare, sports and other fields.Eight to get police medal The Chandigarh administration has also released a list of eight cops who will receive the administrator’s police medal for distinguished or meritorious service during the Independence Day parade on Sunday. The cops to be felicitated for distinguished service are inspector Amanjot Singh, senior constable Sandeep Kumar, and head constables Jasbir Kumar, Malwinder Singh, Munish Kumar, Yashpaul Dhiman and Charanjit Kaur. Assistant sub-inspector Gulzar Singh will get the medal for meritorious service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/iday-chandigarh-admn-to-give-111-commendation-certificates-101628882758257.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Majithia seeks sacking of Ashu for allowing wheat from outside state||ChandigarhThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday demanded immediate sacking of Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for allegedly allowing wheat from outside the state to be procured on MSP in Punjab.The Akali leader also demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the functioning of department officials, including its chief vigilance commissioner.Addressing a press conference here, the former minister alleged that wheat was brought from outside the state at ₹1,000 per quintal and sold at ₹1,883. Majithia said the minister was responsible for appointing a tainted officer as the chief vigilance commissioner. He said the officer, Rakesh Singla, was indicted in October 2017 by the principal secretary of the department, who held him responsible for a corruption of ₹85 crore. He said the principal secretary had ordered that Singla be demoted and also accused him of diverting stock received from the Centre under various schemes. He said Ashu did not only appoint Singla as the CVC but also gave him charge of transportation and labour involving an annual budget of ₹600 crore.He also held Ashu responsible for alleged corruption by a department inspector, Jasdev Singh, nephew of Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur. The Akali leader alleged that Jasdev had been given the charge of eight godowns instead of two, which was the norm, and he allegedly misappropriated 87,000 quintals of wheat worth ₹20 crore. “Jalalpur was now claiming that his nephew was mentally upset, but it is a mystery as to how a mentally unsound person sold off his properties and disappeared with his family. It is clear that Jalalpur is involved in the scandal. No action is being taken in the case as he now has the patronage of the new state Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu,” Majithia alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/majithia-seeks-sacking-of-ashu-for-allowing-wheat-from-outside-state-101628882643971.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Animal Welfare Board tells adviser to shut illegal bird markets||The Animal Welfare Board of India under the ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying has written to the UT adviser over issues highlighted by social activist RK Garg in the walk-in aviary being constructed near Sukhna Lake.Politician and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi had also recently questioned the planned aviary, calling it illegal.In the letter written by the Board’s secretary SK Dutta, the administration has been asked to implement the Gujrat and Delhi High courts’ directions to wrap up all illegal bird markets, that were issued to all police stations, senior forest officials and chief wildlife wardens. The Board stated that all birds must be procured from authorised sellers registered under Pet Shop Rules 2018. “Till today, no pet shop has been registered by animal welfare boards in Haryana and Punjab or by the Chandigarh administration,” the board added.Further, the board mentions aerial birds covered under various schedules of the Wildlife Protection Act and special permissions needed from the wildlife department.Speaking about the reply, Garg said, “The administration has not taken note of the recommendations made earlier and we hope that the UT adviser now acts on them. The department must place all permissions and documents related to this aviary in the public domain.”Meanwhile, UT forest department Officials said they have taken all the necessary permissions and will replying to the letters sent by the board and Gandhi.However, not all residents are against the aviary. Convener of City Forum of Residents Welfare Organizations (CFORWO) Vinod Vashisht said, “An aviary is not a cage. Unlike cages, there will be a large space for birds to fly. Walk-in aviaries exist throughout the world and will add to Chandigarh’s tourist attractions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-animal-welfare-board-tells-adviser-to-shut-illegal-bird-markets-101628882642268.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University defers senate polls for graduate constituency||In the ongoing senate elections, Panjab University on Friday deferred the polling for the registered graduate constituency, which was scheduled on August 18. Polling for the constituencies of heads and teachers of arts colleges will be held as per the schedule on that date. The varsity said the decision was taken for the “time being” in view of the non-availability of required polling booths in Punjab and Haryana. Polling has taken place for four constituencies out of the eight so far. A total of 47 senators are to be elected, out of which elections have taken place for 10. The registered graduate constituency is the largest with around 3.61 lakh voters, who elect 15 members to the senate. Polling booths are set up across seven states/UTs. The varsity on Thursday had also informed the high court that it might have to defer polls as there are certain difficulties being faced, including non-availability of buildings to hold the elections according to the Covid-19 protocol. The court was hearing an appeal from PU, in which it had challenged a single-judge order asking the varsity to hold the senate polls in two months. The court observed that it has full faith in the vice-chancellor and appreciates his efforts for holding the elections. “However, we would observe that the sanctity of the election schedule qua this election be also maintained unless there is an exigency which is beyond the control of the vice-chancellor himself,” the court said. The lawyer appearing for seven former senators had also raised apprehensions and some technical issues about faculty polls scheduled for August 23. Satya Pal Jain, appearing for PU, had submitted that faith should be reposed in the vice-chancellor and the returning officer and no direction is required to be issued. He had also asserted that the court should not dictate the holding of the elections or its schedule. The bench observed that it is guided by the law and principles as laid down in the rulings and would, therefore, adhere to the laid down parameters. The court further stated that it has no doubt in the capacity and capability of the vice-chancellor and is confident that he would not leave any stone unturned to hold the elections as per the schedule. It also termed former senators’ apprehensions “unfounded” taking note of how elections have proceeded so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-defers-senate-polls-for-graduate-constituency-101628882635494.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid in Maharashtra: Three more Delta Plus related deaths, tally now five||Three more deaths linked to the Delta Plus variant of the novel coronavirus were reported from Maharashtra on Friday, taking the total count to five. The deceased –all senior citizens – were from Raigad, Beed and Ratnagiri districts. The Raigad patient was a 69-year-old journalist from Nagothane. He had diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to a civil hospital for nearly 17 days. He succumbed on July 22. According to civil surgeon Dr Suhas Mane, the deceased was fully vaccinated in May. During the contact-tracing exercise, the Raigad health officials found four family members of the journalist infected with Covid-19. “We have sent their samples for genome sequencing. However, none of them had severe disease and all of them recovered at home,” said Raigad’s district health officer Dr Sudhakar More. The deceased from Beed was a 78-year-old man, who was hospitalised on June 5 and discharged on June 29. He succumbed at his home on July 5. “He did not have any known comorbid conditions. He had recovered and gone home, but died suddenly,” said Dr Raus Shaikh, acting district health officer of Beed, adding that he was unvaccinated. None of his contacts have tested positive for Covid-19. The fatality from Ratnagiri was a 73-year-old man from Sangameshwar taluka. While health officials could not get his vaccination details, they said that he was admitted to Mumbai’s St George Hospital for treatment and had succumbed on May 29. Maharashtra’s first Delta Plus fatality – an 80-year-old woman – was also from Ratnagiri’s Sangameshwar taluka. Since then, 12 Delta Plus cases have been identified from the district and a majority are from Sangameshwar. The state’s second death was a 63-year-old fully vaccinated woman from Mumbai. The total number of Delta Plus cases from Maharashtra now stands at 66, including a latest patient identified from Thane district. Delta Plus or AY.1 is a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant (B.1.617.2). More than 80% of samples from Maharashtra have the Delta variant, labelled as a variant of concern by the World Health Organization in May. The Delta Plus was labelled as a variant of concern by the Union Health Ministry in June. Two of the three Delta Plus deaths in Maharashtra – the latest one from Raigad and the one from Mumbai – have been reported in fully vaccinated people. Covid-19 infections that occur 14 days after being fully vaccinated are known as breakthrough infections. “Vaccines are an important tool to fight the ongoing pandemic as they reduce the risk of infection as well as complications,” said infectious disease expert Dr Om Shrivastav, who is also a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “But the chances of re-infection or breakthrough infections remain, which is why one must continue to adhere to Covid norms such as wearing a mask, washing hands and maintaining a physical distance. People with comorbid conditions have to be even more careful,” he said. According to Shrivastav, the United States has been struggling with a lot of Delta and Delta Plus cases. “We don’t know how intense our third wave will be. Therefore, we should not be complacent on any aspects related to the pandemic,” he said. Some experts said that the variants and related deaths highlight the need for booster doses of the vaccine, especially for the immunocompromised population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-in-maharashtra-three-more-delta-plus-related-deaths-tally-now-five-101628882576647.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Mohali’s daily count back in double digits after a month||With 10 fresh infections, Mohali on Friday reported the highest number of single-day tally in over one month. It was on July 11 when the daily infection count had dropped to nine in Mohali and remained in single digit. Meanwhile, the tricity’s daily tally reached 17 on Friday, an uptick from Thursday’s 13. Chandigarh reported seven cases while no fresh case was reported in Panchkula for the second consecutive day.However, no casualty owing to the virus has been reported in the tricity this month.Of the 10 cases in Mohali district, four surfaced in Ghauran, three in Banur and one each in Mohali city, Kharar and Boothgarh. In Chandigarh, the cases were scattered across Sectors 15, 44 and 46 besides Behlana and Kishangarh.Tricity’s active caseload climbs to 100Meanwhile, the active caseload in the tricity touched the 100 mark after around one month. Mohali has 58 active cases, followed by 42 in Chandigarh and eight in Panchkula.So far, 68,521 people in Mohali have tested positive, of which 67,406 have successfully beaten the virus and 1,057 have died.In Chandigarh, 61,171 out of the 62,024 total patients have recovered and 811 have succumbed to the virus. Of the 30,656 infections in Panchkula so far, 30,272 have recovered and 376 have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-mohali-s-daily-count-back-in-double-digits-after-a-month-101628882575583.html
14-08-2021||Other||Elderly couple found brutally murdered in house in Tarn Taran||An elderly couple was found brutally murdered with sharp-edged weapons at their residence in Chamba Kalan village, falling under the jurisdiction of the Goindwal police station, in Tarn Taran. The area’s milkman discovered the bodies on Friday morning when he reached there to deliver milk. The deceased have been identified as Harbhajan Singh, 60, and Parmjit Kaur, 58. As per the police, the couple belongs to Jalandhar district but had been residing here alone. Their son, Gurjit Singh, and daughter-in-law live in the Philippines. Their daughter is also married and lives in Amritsar. A case has been registered against unidentified persons under Section 302 (murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Police have taken the bodies into custody for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elderly-couple-found-brutally-murdered-in-house-in-tarn-taran-101628882335912.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali Merc mishap: Challan filed, stricter charges added||The Mohali police have filed a chargesheet in the accident case, wherein an 18-year-old boy driving a Mercedes left three men dead and three others injured in an accident near Radha Soami Chowk in March this year.In the chargesheet, filed by investigating officer (IO) deputy superintendent of police Gursher Singh, it has been stated that accused Samrat Singh, who was without a licence, was driving the car at a speed of 120 kmph. While removing Sections 304A (causing death by rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code, which were in the original FIR, police have added stricter charges under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) to the challan. Sections 181, 183 and 184 of the Motor Vehicle Act have also been added. If convicted under Section 304A of the IPC, a person can be imprisoned for a term up to two years. However, conviction under Section 304 can lead to a jail term up to 10 years or even life imprisonment.On March 20, Samrat, who belongs to a business family and resides in Sector 34, Chandigarh, was with his two friends when the accident took place. The trio had fled the scene in another car leaving the Mercedes behind.The deceased were Ram Prasad of Mataur, who was on a cycle, and Ankush Narula of Zirakpur and Dharampreet of Gholumajra village, who were returning from work in a taxi. The chargesheet stated that the Mercedes first hit the taxi, then the cyclist and ended up ramming into a railing. Samrat is out on bail now. During the hearing in a local court on Friday, he sought some documents related to the case from police, and the next date of hearing was fixed as August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-merc-mishap-challan-filed-stricter-charges-added-101628882155425.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Police crack murder of elderly woman in Sector 8||Chandigarh Police have cracked the blind murder of a 98-year-old woman in Sector 8 within a week with the arrest of a 31-year-old man who lives in servants’ quarters in the same area.The suspect has been identified as Kailash Bhatt, who belongs to Almora in Uttarakhand and works as a cook at a house in Sector 15. He stays with him wife at a house in Sector 8, where she works as a domestic help, said police during a press conference on Friday.Victim Joginder Kaur was found murdered with her throat slit at her house last Friday. Her domestic help was the one to call police around 8:15pm after she found the body on returning from a two-hour-long walk. The kitchen knife used for the murder was recovered from the spot. No valuables were found missing though the house had been ransacked. According to police, financial distress led the suspect to the crime. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said Bhatt had lost his job due to the pandemic and remained without work for long. “He also had a son around the same time (who is now 18-month-old), had purchased a bike recently, and had to repay a debt of about ₹2.5 lakh,” he said.While police had scanned CCTV footage and mobile data dump of the area to get leads, it was the “human intelligence” that helped them track the killer. “We talked to various residents and their domestic helps, which pointed us to the accused,” said Chahal.What transpired that dayAccording to police, Bhatt knew the victim’s domestic help as both were from the same community. He had even carried out a recce and knew that nobody except the elderly woman would be at home at the time of the crime.Bhatt’s wife had gone to meet her relatives when he struck at Kaur’s house. He first entered the servants’ quarters from the front side and stole ₹800 and some jewellery, said police. Kaur apparently saw him leaving the quarters, and he later returned and killed her.According to information gathered by police, Kaur was seen talking to him as he came out of the servants’ quarters.Police have recovered the bloodstained clothes that he had worn that day. They have been sent for forensic testing. Bhatt will be produced in court, where police will seek his remand for further investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-crack-murder-of-elderly-woman-in-sector-8-101628881976442.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 9,884 Ludhiana students tested over two days found negative||In a major relief for the education department, nearly 9,900 samples collected from students over the past two days have tested negative for Covid-19.The health department had sampled 9,884 students from government schools across the district on Wednesday and Thursday after 20 students tested positive for the virus at Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Basti Jodhewal, and Government High School (GHS), Kailash Nagar.“Samples were also taken from colonies near the schools, as the infected students live there and all 9,884 samples have turned out to be negative. The RT-PCR reports of 596 contacts of the infected students are also negative,” said district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat. Between Monday and Tuesday, 12 students were found infected at GHS, Kailash Nagar, and eight at GSSS, Basti Jodhewal, following which deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma had ordered suspension of in-person classes at the two schools till August 24. The students were tested as part of the health department’s initiative to sample 10,000 students every day since the reopening of schools, considered a trigger for the second Covid wave earlier this year.According to Rajesh Kumar, principal of GSSS, Basti Jodhewal, of the 500 students enrolled in the school, only 150 were attending offline classes: “The school is running in two shifts. Students of Classes 6 to 10 attend the morning shift and those of Classes 11 and 12 come in the afternoon shift. The positive students are all from Class 11.”Over 5,000 18+ students to be vaccinatedDistrict education officer, secondary, Lakhvir Singh said around 5,000 students over the age of 18 had been identified and efforts were on to vaccinate them over the next few weeks through special camps. “Nearly 95% of the government school teachers in Ludhiana have received at least one dose of vaccine,” said Singh.Dr Davinder Singh China, nodal officer, media, education department, said, “Students are being sensitised about social distancing. They have been advised not to visit school if they have cough, fever or other Covid symptoms and inform the class teachers about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-9-884-ludhiana-students-tested-over-two-days-found-negative-101628881800329.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Sexual harassment claims politically motivated to destroy career: Ex- Maharashtra min||A day after allegations of sexual harassment were levelled against former Maharashtra forest minister Sanjay Rathod, the Shiv Sena legislator dismissed the charges and said they were politically motivated to destroy his social and political career. In February, Rathod, a four-term Sena legislator, was linked to the death by suicide of a young woman from Pune. The incident had led to his resignation from the cabinet. While he is trying to regain the lost cabinet berth, fresh allegations have surfaced against him.On Thursday, Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice-president Chitra Wagh tweeted a photo of a complaint letter of a woman who alleged Rathod of sexually harassing her for re-employing her husband at an organisation that was headed by the former minister. Her husband reportedly claimed that his colleague in the school also got threatening messages and a complaint was registered with the police. Terming the allegations as serious, Wagh had sought action against Rathod. Speaking to media persons in Yavatmal on Friday, Rathod said, “The complainant’s husband was recruited as a teacher on a temporary basis in a Yavatmal school. However, he resigned in 2017. But since March, he has been requesting [the authorities] to take him back on the job. However, the school administration informed him that the matter pertaining to the recruitment was sub-judice.” “Later, I started getting messages from unknown numbers threatening to destroy my social and political career, and mentioning that they have the support of my political opponents. Why did he keep quiet for four years from 2017 and woke up now all of a sudden? So, all these allegations are baseless, politically motivated and made out of frustration,” he added. In February too, Wagh had campaigned for Rathod’s removal after his name cropped up in the suicide case. The woman, a resident of Beed, had died by suicide at a flat in Pune’s Hadapsar. After her death, several photos and audio clips surfaced, allegedly linking Rathod to her death. Twenty days after he came under the scanner, Rathod resigned on February 28||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sexual-harassment-claims-politically-motivated-to-destroy-career-ex-maharashtra-min-101628881798399.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||No plan to divest Punjab governor of Chandigarh’s charge: MHA||The Union home ministry on Friday made it clear that there is no proposal under its consideration to divest the Punjab governor of responsibility as the administrator of Chandigarh.The home ministry also denied Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s claim that he raised the issue with Union home minister Amit Shah and termed the former’s apprehension with regard to the Chandigarh administrator “unfounded”.In a series of tweets on Thursday, Sukhbir said he had requested Shah to review the Union government’s decision to appoint a full-fledged administrator for Chandigarh by divesting the Punjab governor of the charge, while calling it another attempt to “dilute” the state’s claim to its capital city. Sukhbir had met Shah on Wednesday evening. “It is clarified that the Union government has not taken any decision of divesting the Punjab governor of this responsibility of Chandigarh administrator; and, neither is any such proposal under contemplation. It is also clarified that Sukhbir Singh Badal has not raised this issue with the Union home minister,” a home ministry spokesperson said.With VP Singh Badnore set to complete his five-year tenure on the gubernatorial post later this month, speculation was rife that the Centre could divest the next Punjab governor of the charge of UT administrator and appoint a an exclusive administrator for Chandigarh. Sukhbir’s claims in the recent days had further fuelled the debate.A brief historyFrom 1952 to 1966 (the year Haryana was carved out of Punjab), Chandigarh was the capital of Punjab. Citizens of the city were represented in the state’s legislative assembly and a chief commissioner headed the local administration. When Punjab was divided, both Punjab and Haryana claimed the new city for its capital. Pending resolution of the issue, the Union government made Chandigarh a Union Territory with its administration functioning directly under the Centre. The practice of appointing an administrator of the UT designated as chief commissioner continued till May 31, 1984. At the time of insurgency in Punjab, the Union government decided to transfer the administrator’s role to the Punjab governor. On June 1, 1984, the Punjab governor took over the direct administration of the UT as the administrator, and the chief commissioner was redesignated as the adviser to the administrator. Both the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party, from time to time, have demanded greater democratic participation in the city’s governance rather than officialdom, without taking a clear stand on whether the UT should have an exclusive administrator or the Punjab governor should continue performing that role. In recent days, former Congress MP Pawan Bansal has floated the idea of a metropolitan council, while former BJP MP Satya Pal Jain advocated a system where the major role in decision making is that of citizens rather than bureaucrats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-plan-to-divest-punjab-governor-of-chandigarh-s-charge-mha-101628881796956.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||15 years on, terrorism rearing its head in Jammu again||While Kashmir remains the hotbed of militancy, the relatively peaceful Jammu region has also seen a resurgence in terror activities this year. At the peak of militancy, Jammu region, comprising 10 districts, had also witnessed selective killings and massacres. However, the violence had been consistently waning since 2004-05, with stray incidents reported once in a while. After the revocation of Articles 370 and 35-A on August 5, 2019, there was a thaw in terror activities for a year. However, terrorism seems to have picked up momentum yet again. Former director general of police SP Vaid, who also served as the inspector general of police for Jammu region, said, “Jammu is definitely seeing a resurgence in terror activities. Pakistan’s intelligence agency, ISI, wants to disturb Jammu because of the religious pluralism of the region. For instance, if there is a grenade attack in Kashmir and 10 civilians are injured then there is a backlash on terrorists in the Valley. However, Jammu has a mixed population.” “The recent terror attacks are proof that Pakistan is putting all its efforts to revive terrorism in Jammu region,” said Dr Vaid. Since January, terror activities have been witnessed in Rajouri, Poonch, Reasi, Jammu, Kishtwar, Doda, Ramban, Samba and Kathua districts. Pak does not want BJP strengthening its foothold in Valley: Ex-DGP “A new security threat has also emerged in the form of drones along the 200-km international border from Kathua to Akhnoor. Drones are being used to drop arms, IEDs, drugs and money. Tunnels are also being dug to push terrorists in Jammu. ISI has ‘contacts’ in Jammu region and it has started reactivating them besides harnessing new ones to de-stabilise the region,” the former DGP said. “Following August 5, 2019, Pakistan failed to create disturbances in Kashmir so it is trying to create chaos in Jammu to sabotage the political process initiated by the Centre so that Pakistan can claim that there is no democracy in Jammu and Kashmir.” On political killings, especially of BJP leaders and functionaries, Dr Vaid said, “Pakistan does not want to see BJP strengthening its foothold in Kashmir. Therefore, Pakistan has launched a vicious campaign against the BJP in Kashmir.” Intelligence inputs say there my be more intrusion bids: DGP Dilbag Singh Director general of police Dilbag Singh said, “After the February 25 ceasefire agreement between the two DGMOs, infiltration had come down to zero and there was no cross-border shelling either. However, unfortunately, terrorists have been infiltrating into India, especially from the Rajouri-Poonch sector”.“Recently, there were three encounters in Rajouri sector — Daddal in Nowshera, Sunderbani and Pangai in Thannamandi. All these were fresh groups. Intelligence inputs suugest the infiltration has resumed and more such intrusion bids are likely to follow,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-years-on-terrorism-rearing-its-head-in-jammu-again-101628881617371.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Marathi manoos can take on any oppressor: Maharashtra CM||Raking the sons-of-the-soil issue, Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that the ‘Marathi manoos’ always fights against injustice. In a veiled attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Thackeray said that the Marathi manoos may be called lazy or may not be enterprising, but they have the strength to attack an oppressor, no matter how big it might be.The Sena chief, who was speaking on the 61st anniversary of Marmik – a weekly cartoon magazine – said that Sena patriarch and his father late Bal Thackeray had started it when “outsiders were encroaching upon the rights of Marathi manoos” in Mumbai.“Marathi manoos might be called lazy by some, they might not be an entrepreneur, but Marathi manoos never backs away from a fight against injustice. No matter how big the oppressor, from generations, Marathi manoos has always shown the strength to attack them against injustice. That strength was there, it is there, and will remain tomorrow as well,” the Sena chief said.Thackeray’s statements gain significance, given the party has taken up the sons-of-the-soil agenda to counter BJP in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls next February. The Sena has used the Marathi manoos plank in two recent incidents – when Sena-BJP workers clashed outside Sena Bhavan and after BJP leader Prasad Lad made a controversial statement saying that if the time comes they will demolish the Sena Bhavan.In his speech for the event held virtually, Thackeray recalled Marmik’s journey and how his grandfather Prabhodhankar, father and his uncle Srikant were involved in the Samyukta Maharashtra (United Maharashtra) movement for the creation of a separate state. He said that through the Samyukta Maharashtra movement, they attained Mumbai.“Initially the role of Marmik was to entertain Marathi manoos, but looking at the situation where outsiders encroached upon the rights of Marathi manoos in their homes, the outlook [of Marmik] changed from providing entertainment to leading an attack against the injustice. Gradually, the movement led to the formation of an organisation that we now know by the name Shiv Sena,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathi-manoos-can-take-on-any-oppressor-maharashtra-cm-101628881495346.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Martyrs’ statues in Ludhiana to be beautified||The municipal corporation (MC), under the Smart City Mission, has issued work orders to a private contractor for beautification of the statues of martyrs Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev installed at Jagraon Bridge and for installation of a 100 feet tall national flag near the statues.The project for beautification of four statues, including those of Mahatma Gandhi near MC Zone-A office, Dr BR Ambedkar at Jalandhar Bypass, martyr Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon at DC Office Complex and Kartar Singh Sarabha at Bhai Bala Chowk, at a cost of ₹84 lakh, will also be commenced shortly.Conducting the meeting of the technical committee of Ludhiana Smart City Limited at MC Zone D office on Friday, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said the project cost for beautification of statues at Jagraon Bridge and installation of the Tricolour was around ₹86 lakh. The projects are expected to be completed in the next two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/martyrs-statues-in-ludhiana-to-be-beautified-101628881315414.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Plans afoot to set up 10 electric vehicle charging stations in Ludhiana||Hoping to reduce vehicular pollution by encouraging the use of electric vehicles (EV), authorities are working on establishing 10 EV charging stations in the city.Principal secretary of the state transport department, Kakumanu Siva Prasad, and state transport commissioner Amarpal Singh held a meeting in this regard with officials of the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) and district transport department through video conferencing on Friday. Officials were directed to identify 10 suitable locations where EV charging stations can be set up in partnership with a private firm. Ludhiana is among the 122 non-attainment cities in the country according to the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) norms. This means it has over a five-year period not consistently met the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for harmful PM 10 (particulate matter that is 10 microns or less in diameter), PM 2.5 or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide).Stating that a survey for the locations will be started soon, MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal said, “Residents are increasingly switching to EVs, including e-bikes, rickshaws and cars, for which public EV charging stations are needed. After the suitable locations are identified, a private firm will be hired to set these up through revenue-sharing model. A nominal fee will be charged from the users.” Earlier the Union government had allocated ₹52 crore for Ludhiana under the NCAP , following which authorities have been working on various projects, including introduction of mechanical sweeping and rejuvenation of green belts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/plans-afoot-to-set-up-10-electric-vehicle-charging-stations-in-ludhiana-101628881195327.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amid surging Covid cases, HP enforces travel curbs for outsiders||With Himachal witnessing a spike in the Covid cases for the last three weeks, curbs that were re-introduced by the state government came into force from Friday.Now, all people travelling to Himachal will either have to carry a Covid-negative report or a vaccination certificate (two doses) to enter the state. The RT-PCR test report should not be older than 72 hours and the RAT report not older than 24 hours, as per the August 10 order of the state executive committee.People intending to travel by bus will only be able to book a ticket on producing a negative test report or a vaccination certificate. Public transport will ply at 50% of the total seating capacity.The government has already closed schools. The state had reported 1,726 fresh coronavirus cases last week, taking the positivity rate to 1.9% and the daily case tally over the 400-mark. HP sees 333 fresh cases, 2 deaths 
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Disbarred lawyer held for blackmailing Bar members||A disbarred lawyer has been arrested for blackmailing District Bar Association members and trying to extort money from them.According to police, the accused, Rachna Devi of New Shivaji Nagar, Samrala Chowk, had been trying to get possession of a chamber in the court complex. However, after her disbarment, she was no longer eligible for the chamber.In his complaint, Gurkirpal Singh Gill, president, Ludhiana District Bar Association, alleged that intent on having her way, Devi captured a video while levelling false allegations against the Bar members.“In the video, Devi is seen claiming her right to the chamber in the court complex, and accusing the Bar president and secretary of demanding ₹50,000 from her to transfer it to her. On finding out about the video, the Bar president lodged a police complaint against Devi alleging that she was blackmailing the Bar members,” said ASI Sukhpal Singh, the investigating officer.Following a probe, police booked Devi under Section 383 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested her on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianadisbarred-lawyer-held-for-blackmailing-bar-members-101628881075827.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man shoots at wife, mother-in-law: Bid was cold-blooded, planned, say police||The Tuesday crime, where a resident of Patel Nagar in Haibowal shot at his wife and mother-in-law before travelling 45km to kill a Nurmahal resident was a planned, cold-blooded murder, say police. It was not a fit of rage as was presumed to date. The condition of his wife, Shivani, alias Jaspreet Kaur, and his mother-in-law, Vandana Likhi, is stable. The 25-year-old man, Rohit Kumar, who resided in Mohalla Khatika of Nurmahal of Jalandhar Rural had died. The accused, Jaswinder Singh, suspected his wife of having an affair with Kumar, police claim. The police added that the accused had switched off his two mobile phones on August 9, a day before executing the crime. His third mobile was switched off on August 10, only minutes before the crime. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, West) Gurpreet Singh said separate teams of Ludhiana Police Commissionerate and Jalandhar Rural police had been conducting raids for the arrest of the accused. “The phones were switched off to ensure that his location could not be traced. Still, we are scanning call records to know who was the last person he spoke with. No weapon licence had been issued to the accused.” The ACP added that the police had searched the house of the accused, but no mobile phone was recovered. Accused wanted to kill his two kids too The accused wanted to kill his children also, but he had changed his mind at the last moment. Damanjot, 9, son of Jaswinder, said his father and mother had indulged in a verbal spat on Monday night. Damanjot added that on Tuesday morning when he woke up he was shocked to see his father holding a gun and shouting at his mother. He added that his six-year-old sister, Jasleen, woke up due to the commotion, and his father fired at her, but his mother acted as a shield and the bullet hit her in the jaw. “Assuming her to be dead, my father fled outside stating that he would kill our grandmother. I still can remember that horrific scenes,” Damanjot added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-shoots-at-wife-mother-in-law-bid-was-cold-blooded-planned-say-police-101628881017826.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police crack ₹16.9 lakh gunpoint robbery with arrest of 4||Ten days after the employees of a fertiliser company were robbed of ₹16.9 lakh in Pal Majra village on August 3, police solved the case with the arrest of four robbers on Thursday. ₹3.6 lakh of the stolen cash was recovered from the accused, Vijay Kumar, alias Vicky, and Jatin Kumar of Ekta Colony, Rajpura; Sandeep Singh, alias Deepu, alias Mand, and Satpal Singh of Rudrapur, Uttarakhand. Police have also seized the Hyundai Santro that was used in the crime with a fake number plate.Superintendent of police (SP, Investigation) Manpreet Singh said the accused were arrested near Utala village following a tip-off. “It was Vijay who masterminded the robbery after gaining insider knowledge about the money’s movement on August 3. He involved his relative Jatin, and two accomplices Sandeep and Satpal for the crime. They ambushed the victims near a dhaba in Pal Majra village while they heading to their office in Rampura Phul, Bathinda, after collecting payments from dealers. Threatening them at gunpoint, they snatched ₹16.9 lakh from the victims and fled in the Hyundai Santro,” the SP said.Investigators said they were looking into the involvement of a company employee for tipping Vijay about the cash and more arrests were expected. The weapon used in the crime has not been recovered yet.Vijay was previously arrested by the Uttarakhand Police and lodged in jail where he met Sandeep and Satpal.All accused are facing a fresh case under Sections 379-B, 392, 473, 120-B and 34 of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-crack-16-9-lakh-gunpoint-robbery-with-arrest-of-4-101628881016564.html
14-08-2021||Other||Day before Capt’s Amritsar visit, inactive grenade found near event venue||Amritsar A day before Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s visit to the city to inaugurate the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre Centenary Memorial at Ranjit Avenue locality, an inactive (without a pin) grenade was recovered outside a house in the posh area.The object was found in a street in the D-block of Ranjit Avenue, which is an area with a lot of activity and has hotels and restaurants, offices of government departments, companies and banks. With the sanitation worker, who first saw the object informing the police, eventually a bomb detection and disposal squad was called in for handling it. Notably, Anand Amrit Park where the CM’s event is scheduled on Saturday is in the vicinity of the spot where the inactive grenade has been found. Amritsar police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, who visited the spot along with other senior police officials, said, “We have fielded our teams for search and cordoning in wake of the state-level Independence Day function being held in the city on August 15. During the search, this grenade-like object was found.”“At this stage, we cannot say what this object actually is. A forensic examination will reveal if it is dead or alive or if it is an abandoned or decorative grenade. Recovering such kinds of objects is normal,” the commissioner added. “We will investigate who kept this object here and why. It can be a mischievous act committed to create sensation. Had it been placed for damaging anyone, it would have exploded immediately after being thrown,” he added. Later in the evening, the squad took the object to a ground in Manawala village on the outskirts of the city to ensure it was disposed off safely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-before-capt-s-amritsar-visit-inactive-grenade-found-near-event-venue-101628881015416.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tortured by husband, Ludhiana woman jumps to death from second floor of house||Facing her husband’s violent behaviour for years, a 40-year-old woman jumped to death from the second floor of their house in Urban Estate, Dugri, on Wednesday. On a complaint by the woman’s father, the Dugri police have booked her husband for abetment to suicide. A garment trader, he remains on the run.The complainant, who lives in Punjabi Bagh Colony, Delhi, told the police that his daughter got married on February 2, 2001, and had a 17-year-old son and a 12-year-old daughter.He alleged that his son-in-law had anger issues and used to beat her up her over petty issues. He would also not allow her to meet her relatives. “He would even condemn her to die, which my daughter shared with me several times,” the father alleged.On August 10, when his son-in-law, his uncle and another relative were visiting him in Delhi, he counselled him to mend his ways and not harass his daughter. Later in the evening, he received a call from his crying daughter who said she cannot bear the torture anymore.The next day, he got a call from his daughter’s neighbour, who informed that she had jumped off the second floor of their house and was admitted to a private hospital in Model Town. She succumbed to her injuries on Thursday.“We have booked the deceased’s husband under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for his arrest,” said ASI Jaswinder Singh, who is investigating the case. He added that when the woman took the extreme step, her children were present at home.Was facing domestic abuse for yearsThe woman’s father said his son-in-law’s anger issues were out of control. Two years ago, while his daughter was boarding her children on the school bus, he took offence to her untied hair and brutally dragged her back to the house by her hair. Even then his daughter had tried to end her life, but survived. No police complaint was filed in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tortured-by-husband-ludhiana-woman-jumps-to-death-from-second-floor-of-house-101628880955410.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Factory collapse in Ludhiana: Finally, building owner starts demolition||A day after a factory building collapsed in Industrial Area A on RK Road, the municipal corporation (MC) on Friday got the building owner to commence the process of demolishing the remaining structure.At least 10 people, including two children, were injured after the two-storey building of RT Woollens Mill collapsed on Thursday morning. Three nearby buildings, including the one with over 150 labour quarters, were vacated. The demolition process was initiated under the supervision of MC officials.As per information, MC had earlier decided to hire a private contractor at the owner’s cost to bring down the remaining portion. A contractor reached the spot in the morning but was sent back after the owner, Tara Chand, insisted that he would get the remaining portion demolished himself.Slamming the civic body for the delay in action and raising concern over the remaining structure, the owners of adjoining buildings stated that it might also collapse, causing further damage to them.Three adjoining buildings, including the one with labour quarters, a transport shed, and a cycle parts godown were damaged after debris fell on them.Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) councillor Swarandeep Singh Chahal, owner of the adjoining transport shed, said, “The incident could have been averted if the MC had razed the building on August 5 instead of sealing it. The remaining part should be brought down at the earliest as it can also collapse at any time.” Meanwhile, MC assistant town planner (ATP) Mohan Singh said that the owner stressed upon getting the building demolished himself so, the MC got an affidavit from him stating that he will be responsible for any untoward incident that takes place during the process.Earlier during the day, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal marked an inquiry into the building collapse and removal of the seal by the owner. Meanwhile, in the FIR registered against the building owner, the names of his sons, Amit Singal and Deepak Singal, have also been added.Two still under treatmentA total of six out of seven injured persons admitted to the Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital, were discharged on Thursday evening, while Arush, a two-year-old, was still undergoing treatment. His mother Pooja, 28, was readmitted after her condition deteriorated.Shopkeepers highlight other unsafe buildingsShopkeepers of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Market, Gill Road, on Friday sought action against unsafe buildings in other parts of the city, especially the decades-old government buildings near MC’s Zone-C office.Despite identifying 132 unsafe buildings in the city in a recent survey, MC has failed to take action. Instead, the civic body has been writing to the police to get them vacated stating that it doesn’t have authority to do so under Municipal Corporation Act, 1976.The shopkeepers rued that a small portion of an unsafe government building had collapsed on July 6 and the civic body should take corrective steps to avoid any more untoward incidents.Jatinderpal Singh Saluja, president of the market association, said, “Three government buildings near the MC’s Zone-C office can collapse any time. They were established around 40 years ago. Fortunately, the small portion of one of these buildings collapsed at night on July 6, otherwise someone may have got injured.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said they will again conduct a survey of unsafe buildings in the city and take action against those on the verge of collapse. “Building branch officials also visited the unsafe buildings at Gill Road on Friday and corrective steps are being taken,” he added.“The owners and tenants in most of the buildings are at loggerheads over the possession and court cases regarding the same are sub-judice, due to which no action can be taken by MC,” the commissioner said.Homes damaged, over 400 labourers left shelterlessOver 400 labourers were rendered homeless as the municipal corporation (MC) got their quarters vacated to begin the demolition process of the unsafe building.The debris of the collapsed building had fallen on and damaged the labour quarters.The labourers spent Thursday night at a dharamshala and shifted to the MC’s night shelter in the area on Friday. They stated that they cannot return to their quarters until the unsafe building is demolished even though all their belongings are there. Many of them said that they could not even leave for their jobs on Friday as confusion prevailed over the availability of food and arrangement for temporary accommodation for their families. The labourers rued that the MC should demolish the unsafe building at the earliest so they can get back to their normal life.A labourer Shiv Nath said, “We do not even have our clothes, and the owner of the quarters is arranging food for us as of now. Many of us could not go to work as we might also have to look for some other accommodation. The administration should help us as it is becoming difficult for us to make ends meet. We are daily wagers and cannot survive without going to work.”The MC officials stated that they cannot allow the labourers to go back to their quarters until the adjoining unsafe building is demolished, as the remaining structure can collapse at any time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/factory-collapse-in-ludhiana-finally-building-owner-starts-demolition-101628880898018.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Why additional rules when IT Act has sufficient checks: Bombay HC asks Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) has reserved its order in the public interest litigations (PIL) seeking interim reliefs against the operation of the Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, announced by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) in February and implemented in May. While hearing the concluding arguments, the court sought to know from the Centre the need for additional rules while the provisions in the existing IT Act (2009) sufficed to make publications, portals and intermediaries answerable for posting any content that is objectionable and liable for penal action. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing two PILs filed by digital news portal The Leaflet and senior journalist Nikhil Wagle, was informed that by prescribing code of ethics under the new rules, the government was trying to supersede substantive legislation by way of delegated legislation. The bench was further informed that the Press Council and Cable Acts already had code of ethics that were being adhered to by the print and electronic media. Hence, bringing in additional rules would have a “chilling effect” on editors and authors. The bench was also informed that the objection was to rules 9, 14 and 16, which dealt with code of ethics, formation of an inter-departmental committee at the ministry level and blocking of information in the event of an emergency. Thereupon, the bench remarked that it was inclined to grant limited interim relief to the petitioners with regards to rule 9. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Centre, however, urged the court to not pass such orders as the petitioners’ fears of adverse action on the breach of the new rules were unfounded. He stated that there were three layers of answerability of the publishers, first through self-regulation and second through regulation by a body of the publishers, and only then would the matter be taken up by the committee of the ministry. He added that the committee was not yet notified but was in the process of being formed. The court, however, pointed out that while the committee formation yet underway, the publishers would have to deal with the fear of having a sword hanging on their heads. Advocate Darius Khambata for The Leaflet pointed to the fact that a journalist is at the threat of being held responsible for any inaccuracy in the event of writing or printing something without getting both sides. This, he said, would restrain one from writing anything at all, which is against the right to freedom of speech. He added that while section 69A of the IT Act dealt with blocking of content, in the event of its failure, the government was trying to have a second set of rules to achieve its purpose. Advocate Abhay Nevagi for Wagle informed the bench that the intermediaries had been protected against penal action by section 79 of the IT Act. However, the new rules took away that protection in case of non-compliance. He added that as the scope of the definition of intermediary was very wide, his client was also an intermediary. However, when the court questioned how Wagle could be considered an intermediary, Nevagi said the definition needed interpretation. When the court sought to know how the new rules could take away the protection granted by a law, Singh informed that it was a question of merit and as the court was only dealing with interim relief, the question would be answered at a later stage. He added that the rules were brought in to check the spread of fake news and illegal content only. The court will pass its order on Saturday at 5.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-additional-rules-when-it-act-has-sufficient-checks-bombay-hc-asks-centre-101628880475483.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||MSCBC considering 102 applications for inclusion in OBC category||What is common between diverse social groups like Mappilas from Kerala who are settled in Maharashtra, Lingayat Rangaris, Brahmins, Chunawalas, Kadava Patels and Halwais? They are all seeking inclusion in the other backward classes (OBC) category. The Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC) is considering 102 applications from various castes and sub-castes, classes and communities for inclusion in the OBC category or for a change from one category of reservations to another. “These applications include those made by communities that have migrated from other states decades ago and from castes and sub-castes like that of the Maratha community,” said a member of the commission.Some of those who want to be classified as OBCs or Nomadic Tribes (NT) include Mullahs, Loni Marathas, Kshatriya Saini Marathas, Muslim Khelkari (Untawale), and Rana Rajputs. Curiously, some from the Brahmin community and Gujarati Brahmin community have also sought OBC status for quota benefits. Some OBC castes also want to be reshuffled into the Vimukta Jati (VJ) or NT categories for ring-fenced reservations.After receiving the applications, MSCBC scrutinises them and forms a sub-committee to verify the validity of the claim. This sub-committee conducts area surveys, field visits and holds discussions with members of the community. The demand is scrutinised based on indicators of social, educational and economic backwardness; and those scoring over 50% in these aspects can be classified as a backward class.“Maharashtra has some small castes and groups that are largely ignored. They realised the benefits of reservations quite late. A gradual growth in literacy and social awareness made them understand the need for inclusion in OBC category. It is their Constitutional right to stake a claim for this. MSCBC shall take a decision based on inferences drawn through field visits and surveys,” said Hari Narke, activist and former member of the commission.Narke said these claims included those for fresh inclusion in OBC category or a change from OBC category to sections like VJ which covers denotified tribes, and NT. Some groups that are part of the OBC, VJ and NT categories also want to be included in the Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) category.C Shamshuddin, founder president of Pune Malyali Association who has sought inclusion of Mappila Muslims in OBC category in Maharashtra, said the community was part of OBC list in Kerala. “This will ensure quota benefits for those who have migrated from Kerala to Maharashtra… Even today, social and educational backwardness persist among this community,” he said, adding that in Maharashtra, Mappila Muslims were engaged in businesses like running small restaurants and shops, and plying vehicles.Shabbir Ansari, president of All India Muslim OBC Organisation, supported the inclusion of groups like Chunawalas and Halwais in the category. “Chunawalas do not have substantial numbers but are spread across Maharashtra. Earlier, they functioned as lime burners who manufactured lime used for white-washing houses. The advent of modern methods of painting has affected their trade,” explained Ansari. He added that similarly, Halwais, who were traditional sweetmeat manufacturers dispersed across the state, deserved inclusion in OBC category on the basis of social and educational backwardness.Surprisingly, MSCBC has also been petitioned seeking that Brahmins and Gujarati Brahmins be classified as OBCs. However, community leaders like Anil Gachke of Akhil Bharatiya Brahman Mahasangh and Moreshwar Ghaisas ‘Guruji’ of Bahubhashak Brahman Nyas have questioned this demand. Gachke said they were seeking that instead of quotas, the economically weaker section of the community get aid from the government.An OBC activist noted that reservation is not a poverty alleviation programme, but was meant to correct historic wrongs and help deprived groups overcome their social and educational backwardness.PG Jogdand, former head of the department of sociology, University of Mumbai, said this was the reversal of the Sankritisation theory formulated by sociologist MN Srinivas which said that castes lower in the hierarchy seek to emulate the upper castes for social mobility. Now, many castes, including dominant castes, seem to feel that development can be attained only by reservations, and claimed to have regressed in the social order for these benefits.Jogdand said while most castes and sub-castes were seeking reservations, there were demands for reservations within reservations, like Matang community which wants a separate quota in the scheduled castes (SC). This was because of a sentiment that some entrenched groups had cornered most benefits within a quota.When contacted, DD Deshmukh, member secretary of MSCBC, confirmed that the commission was considering these 102 cases, but refused to comment further.BOX:How a group is included in OBC Category There is a 25-mark formula to classify a community as backward. This includes social (12 marks), educational (8 marks) and economic (5 marks). Those groups getting over 50% marks can be classified as OBCs.These cover social indicators such as social practices and attitudes, age of marriage, religious traditions, whether widow remarriage is allowed; economic status such as average income, housing pattern and type of houses, land holding; educational indicators like literacy rate, women’s literacy, drop-out rate, presence in higher education and professional courses and in jobs.MSCBC’s Socio Economic and Caste Census (SECC) covering all households across the state will generate empirical data on the backwardness of individual communities and enable scientific decision-making.The 127th Constitution Amendment Bill approved by Parliament, has restored the rights of states to make their own OBC lists.OBCs form around 53% of Maharashtra’s population — 43.70% Hindus and 8.40% non-Hindus. They are divided in the category with around 350 Hindu and non-Hindu classes (19% reservation) and Vimukta Jati and Nomadic Tribes (VJ&NT) which covers about 50 groups (11% quota).Some quota claims:Fresh inclusion in OBC or VJNT category:Suryavanshi Kshatriya, Kasodhan, Mappila Muslims, Mullahs, Loni Marathas, Halwais, Lingayat Rangari, Chunewale/ Chungar/ Chunawalas, Kadava Patidars, Kshatriya Saini Marathas, Brahmins, Gujarati Brahmins, Muslim Khelkari (Untawale), Valanju/ Valanju Vani and Rana RajputsChange in category:Hanbar (OBC to NT)Halba Koshti (SBC to OBC)Bhaat (OBC to VJ)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mscbc-considering-102-applications-for-inclusion-in-obc-category-101628880415421.html
14-08-2021||Other||JCT Electronics land deal: Lokpal summons Punjab industries minister Arora, PSIEC director on Oct 12||Chandigarh The Punjab Lokpal has issued summons to state industries minister Sunder Sham Arora to appear before it in the controversial JCT Electronics land deal. The minister has been asked to appear on October 12, with Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) director and chief general manager SP Singh.The commission has acted on a complaint from former deputy speaker of Punjab assembly, Bir Devinder Singh. Bir Devinder has alleged a scam in sale of 32 acre of land in Mohali. “Under pressure of the industries minister Sunder Sham Arora, the PSIEC made attempts to issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) without the sanction of the finance department and the advise of the advocate general’s office,” the complaint alleges, adding that advice was taken only from private lawyers.When opposition political parties raised a hue and cry, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh referred the matter to the finance department and the AG; their reports confirmed that this sale of land caused the state exchequer a loss of ₹125 crore. The complaint adds that all this was done in March 2020, when no official activity and movement was allowed due to the curfew in place in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jct-electronics-land-deal-lokpal-summons-punjab-industries-minister-arora-psiec-director-on-oct-12-101628880295289.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kinnaur landslide toll reaches 17 with recovery of three more bodies||The toll from the landslide at Negulsari in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur went up to 17 after three more bodies were found from the rubble 70 metres downhill on Friday morning. The bodies were recovered close to the wreckage of a bus with 22 people on board that was hit by boulders and buried under their debris.The landslide buried at least five vehicles on a road on Wednesday afternoon.Police superintendent (Kinnaur) Sarju Ram Rana said the administration has deployed two excavators to reach the wreckage of the bus. “Manual search will continue besides two fork line machines have been deployed to remove the rubble to search for people feared trapped underneath,” said Rana.State Disaster Management Authority director Sudesh Mokta said they have been unable to trace a car that went missing after the landslide and they also do not know how many passengers were in it. Army personnel, the Indo Tibetan Border Police, and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) as well as sniffer dogs have been rummaging through the rubble for the third day. Rescuers earlier recovered two other cars from the rubble. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who visited the landslide scene on Wednesday, announced the search operation will continue till the last body is traced. Those still missing are Ravinder Singh, Chakti village, Nankhari; Surya Vansh,Nanspo village, Nichar; Arun Kumar, Nichar; Jagat Oli ,Naurav Bhadur village, Salyan; Rakesh Kumar, Nichar; Mehar Chand Tikkri village, Nirmand; Khem Lal, Gurangg village; Aanchal, Daleep Singh Giabong village; Santosh Kumari, Sungra village, Kinnaur; Karunesh, Moorang, Kinnaur; Jwala Devi, Bari village, Nichar, Kinnaur; Biraj Nath Rukum; Nepal; Prabhu Lal, Tapri, Kinnaur. The 13 people who were injured in the shooting stone incident and were hospitalised at the Community Health Center, Bhaba Nagar, have now been shifted to the civil hospital in Rampur Bushar. A woman and her son were also injured when a shooting stone hit a Himachal Pradesh Road Transportation bus at Negulsari when the vehicle was crossing the sliding zone on Friday afternoon. The two were taken to Community Health Centre, Bhabawa Nagar, and were discharged after receiving first-aid . National Highway-5 was opened to traffic late in the evening on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kinnaur-landslide-toll-reaches-17-with-recovery-of-three-more-bodies-101628880235297.html
14-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt hopes governor will appoint 12 MLCs||After the Bombay high court’s remark on Friday that governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was constitutionally obligated to either accept or reject within reasonable time the proposal sent by the state government to appoint 12 members of legislative Council, ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders said they are hopeful that the governor will now make the appointments. The governor nominates 12 people as members of the legislative council (MLCs) for a tenure of six years. The appointments are made by the governor based on the state cabinet’s recommendation. Most of the seats have been vacant since June last year. The state had approved the names in November 2020, but they are yet to be cleared by the governor. The list submitted to the governor included the names of Vijay Karanjkar, Urmila Matondkar, Nitin Bangude-Patil and Chandrakant Raghuvanshi from the Shiv Sena; Eknath Khadse, Raju Shetti, Yashpal Bhinge and Anand Shinde from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP); and Rajni Patil, Sachin Sawant, Anniruddha Vankar and Muzaffar Hussain from the Congress. The inaction by the governor was challenged before the Bombay high court. While disposing of a public interest litigation (PIL), the high court observed that it cannot give directions to the governor, but hoped that things would be set right at an early date. “Whatever be the reason, it is time that the impasse is resolved…Eight months seems to be beyond reasonable time,” said a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish S Kulkarni. The court also said the governor should speak with chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) and let him know about his reservations in the list of nominees, if any, within reasonable time, or else, the “statutory intent will stand defeated”. There was no reaction from Raj Bhavan till late on Friday. Senior Congress minister Balasaheb Thorat said, “There is a limit on how much time the governor can keep a file pending with him. By delaying the approval, he is denying people their right. The delay is because of politics.” Senior NCP minister Nawab Malik said although the governor is not bound to take a decision in a time-bound manner, the law clearly says it is the right of the state government. “Once a proposal is cleared by the state cabinet, it is mandatory for the governor to approve. As the governor cannot reject it, he is keeping it pending, which is unfair. While saying that the HC cannot give directions to him, it also said that in the interest of the state the decision should be taken at the earliest,” Malik said. Leader of opposition in the legislative council Pravin Darekar tried to support the governor. He said that by refusing to give directions to the governor, the high court has supported the stand taken by the governor, which indicated that the allegations made by the ruling parties against him are baseless. “The governor is aware of his powers. The court has not directed him to take a decision in a certain period. He (governor) will decide when to make the appointment. The ruling parties should not try to pressure him through repeated criticism,” Darekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-hopes-governor-will-appoint-12-mlcs-101628880175279.html
14-08-2021||Lucknow||ITIs to reopen from Aug 16, exams soon||Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) across the state would reopen from August 16 and conduct examinations soon, said Kunal Silku, director (training and employment), UP Skill Development Mission, on Friday “Given the present scenario, there is a possibility that ITI students may have to appear in examinations to be held soon after their colleges reopens. At present, ITIs conduct computer-based tests (CBT),” said secretary to the chief minister, Alok Kumar, who is also secretary (technical and vocational education). ITI students have been carrying on an online campaign, demanding to promote them to next level without exam. But the government and technical education department have decided to hold exams. “There are 305 government and 2749 private ITIs that impart education in 72 trades across the state. About 24,000 teachers are engaged in the pursuit of imparting knowledge,” said Silku adding that the state government was working towards addressing the issues, which had been caused due to the pandemic situation. ITIs would be made functional following the Covid protocols only, he said. “Apart from this, instructions have also been issued for commencement of classes in higher educational institutes from September 1,” the UP government said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/itis-to-reopen-from-aug-16-exams-soon-101628880055358.html
14-08-2021||Other||Security beefed up in UP for I-Day||LUCKNOW Security had been upped across the state and vigilance intensified before Independence Day (August 15), said senior police officials of UP police headquarters here on Friday. UP director general of police (DGP) Mukul Goel issued a detailed circular to all district police chiefs in this connection and asked for strict compliance with necessary security drill to be performed to avert any trouble on Independence Day. He directed the district police chiefs to ensure necessary security arrangements at railway, metro and bus stations, airports, markets, malls and other crowded places. He said a special security plan should be made for important installations. The DGP directed setting up of police check posts and installing of barriers strategically as well as anti-sabotage check where Independence Day’s functions are scheduled to be organised. He said the deployment of trained watches should also be ensured at these places. He directed that special vigil should be ensured for planes, gliders and drones as well as surprise checking at hotels, guesthouses, hospitals and shopping malls must be carried out. He said the verification of people who had recently taken houses on rent should be done. Besides, the checking of chemical shops should also be done, he added. Earlier, the UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) had claimed to have busted the al-Qaeda terror linked module in Lucknow on July 11, The ATS arrested five suspects in this connection and claimed that they were planning to assemble bombs with gunpowder and other things easily available in the market to carry out serial blasts in Lucknow as well as other parts of the state before August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-beefed-up-in-up-for-iday-101628879876168.html
14-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University ties up with University of Windsor for academic mentorship in BCom||Chitkara University on Friday announced a new international collaboration with the University of Windsor to support transnational education and student mobility. The agreement was virtually signed by University of Windsor president and vice-chancellor Dr Robert Gordon and and Chitkara University pro-chancellor Madhu Chitkara. Under the new academic mentorship agreement, the Chitkara faculty will be mentored by the Odette faculty, while fostering a connection with students in India who will transition to the University of Windsor after completing the first two years at Chitkara.As a part of the arrangement, students in the first two years of the programme will pay domestic tuition fee. Students will also be co-taught a part of the curriculum by the Canadian faculty.Transferring Chitkara students will earn a University of Windsor bachelor of commerce (honours) degree at the end of their study and will be eligible to apply for a three-year post-study work permit.Speaking at the event, Madhu Chitkara, said, “At Chitkara University, we are continuously innovating our programme offerings and with the prevailing pandemic challenges such innovative hybrid programs will help students keep their study and career aspirations on track. The agreement with the University of Windsor will definitely go a long way in helping the students from the region gain international exposure at one of the leading Canadian Universities. It is a step forward in our mission to bring the best global opportunities for our students. ”“International education brings important benefits that lead to a successful and secure future for all involved,” said Chris Busch, assistant vice-president, enrolment, University of Windsor. This unique programme provides participants with the opportunity to develop a broader worldview, strengthen communication skills across languages and cultures, and build crucial international connections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-ties-up-with-university-of-windsor-for-academic-mentorship-in-bcom-101628879695278.html
14-08-2021||Other||1 killed, 12 injured in Mandi Gobindgarh furnace blast||Mandi Gobindgarh A 37-year-old labourer, Arun Majhi, was killed and 12 others injured in an iron furnace blast on the premises of a private firm, Punjab Steel Forging and Agro Industries, during the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, police said, adding it had arrested five people, including the factory owner.The 12 injured are Vicky Kumar; Lal Tiwari; Rakesh; Vinod; Shailesh; Bittu; Amarjit; Aman Kumar; Dharminder Patel; Ashok and Brij Kumar, all aged between 19 and 34. They belong to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Mandi Gobindgarh. “Four of the victims had burns of up to 80% and have been referred to Ludhiana for advance treatment,” doctors at Khanna civil hospital said. Industrial unit owner, Sandeep Goyal, said, “Melted metal fell over workers. It was an accident.” Fatehgarh Sahib, superintendent of police, Jagjit Singh Jalla said, “We are probing the lapses that led to the accident. A forensics team has also visited the spot. The statement of the injured has been recorded.” Mandi Gobindgarh SHO Prem Singh said the owner Kumar and his partners, Sanjeev Kumar, Sahil Bansal, Vijayant Bansal, all of Mandi Gobindgarh, have been booked under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence); 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery), 336 (rashly or negligently endangering human life) on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-killed-12-injured-in-mandi-gobindgarh-furnace-blast-101628879575217.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||SC accepts banks’ demands, paves way for funding of stalled Amrapali projects||In a major relief to more than 40,000 homebuyers of Amrapali Group, the Supreme Court on Friday cleared the hurdles in the way of banks willing to fund stalled projects by agreeing to three of their demands set as conditions for processing the funding proposals.The court was also informed that the first tranche of the ₹650 crore funding from the Union government-sponsored SWAMIH (Special Window for Affordable & Mid-Income Housing) Investment Fund will be made available for six Amrapali projects in the coming weeks.The court-appointed receiver senior advocate R Venkataramani, who has been interacting with banks and the government as part of efforts to revive stalled housing projects, informed a bench of justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi that the SWAMIH Investment Fund had delivered the token amount of ₹10 crore to NBCC India Limited for the construction of six Amrapali housing projects. “In a fortnight, a huge quantum of ₹650 crore will come,” Venkataramani informed the judges.The ₹650 crore will benefit nearly 7,000 housing units in six Amrapali projects — Silicon City-1, Silicon City-2, Crystal Homes, Centurion Park-Low Rise, O2 Valley and Tropical Garden. Of the 6,947 units in these projects, about 6,132 units have been sold till date. The NBCC took over construction contracts of 23 Amrapali projects after the Supreme Court in July 2019 cancelled registration of Amrapali under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, for diverting money received from homebuyers and failing to deliver flats even five years past the promised deadline.The receiver further informed the Supreme Court that public banks have come a long way forward to fund Amrapali projects but needed an order from court to address their concerns.During the previous hearing in the matter, the banks raised concerns of sufficient security against the credit provided. The court then assured the banks that the “word of the Supreme Court was sufficient assurance” for the banks to proceed.On August 9, the Receiver met officials from 10 banks — State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Union Bank of India, UCO Bank, Bank of India, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Canara Bank, and Bank of Maharashtra — and crystallised their concerns in a note filed before the court.The bench agreed to three suggestions made by banks. These included funds to Amrapali projects to be categorised under priority funding sector with a reduced capital charge; status of funds given to these projects through Amrapali Stressed Projects Investments Reconstruction Establishment (ASPIRE) to remain standard in case of default or delay in repayment (without being declared non-performing asset); and, no further external valuation of Amrapali assets on the economic viability of the projects.Three banks – UCO Bank, Bank of Baroda and Bank of India – informed the court that talks are on to form a consortium for moving a funding proposal. with the court accepting the three conditions, counsels appearing for other banks — Axis Bank and PNB— assured the judges that their concerns stood addressed.The bench in its order said, “Banks shall now proceed to expedite the process of extending financial provision to Amrapali projects.”Venkataramani said with this, it will be easier to get banks on board. He further informed the court that owners of 15,748 units across Amrapali projects have not been paying their instalments. Of them, 9,538 flat buyers have not provided the customer data, a record of which is maintained by the receiver’s office.The bench gave a final opportunity of two weeks to the 9,538 homebuyers to register their details with the receiver, failing which, the apartments/villas booked by them will be included as part of the unsold inventory and will be put up for sale.The NBCC apprised the court of a fund crunch that was affecting one of the projects, Amrapali Zodiac; the residents’ welfare association was not letting the construction work to go on. Advocate ML Lahoty appearing for the homebuyers informed the court that he did not represent the homebuyers of the said project.Last month, Lahoty had complained that despite monitoring by the court, funds were not forthcoming. In a note filed by him, he stated that the construction of 46,459 Amrapali units, an amount of ₹8,016.88 crore is required. The assurance by SWAMIH Fund to provide ₹650 crore was recorded by the court on September 1, 2020, but nothing was forthcoming till date. Even on recoveries to be made by attaching Amrapali assets, only ₹7.64 crore has been achieved till date, Lahoty added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-accepts-banks-demands-paves-way-for-funding-of-stalled-amrapali-projects-101628879454715.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Traffic restrictions in several parts as police steps up security on I-Day||The city traffic police on Friday released a detailed road traffic advisory for Independence Day, restricting movement of vehicles on many roads across the city, especially in central and north Delhi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort during the Independence Day celebrations on August 15.Police said that the traffic advisory has also been shared on their social media handles and urged citizens to check the advisory before stepping out on Sunday. In a statement on Friday, police said, “The following roads will be closed for general traffic from 4am to 10am and only labelled vehicles (ones given permits) will be permitted. Netaji Subhash Marg from Delhi Gate to Chatta Rail Chowk; Lothian Road from GPO Delhi to Chatta Rail Chowk; SP Mukherjee Marg from HCSen Marg to Yamuna Bazar Chowk; Chandni Chowk Road from Fountain Chowk to Red Fort; Nishad Raj Marg from Ring Road to Netaji Subhash Marg; Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg; Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBT; and Outer ring Road from ISBT to IP Flyover i.e. Salimgarh Bypass (as and when required).” Police have also asked citizens to avoid many other stretches, especially between 4am and 10am, including C- Hexagon at India Gate, Copernicus Marg, Mandi House, Sikandra Road, W Point and A point of Tilak Marg, Mathura Road, BSZ Marg, Subhash Marg, Jawaharlal Nehru Marg and Ring Road between Nizamuddin Bridge and ISBT bridge. A detailed list of alternative routes has been shared by police on their website and social media handles. The list also provides alternative roads to reach railway stations, hospitals and other important places. Across the city, police are conducting stringent checks in hotels, guest houses, markets and on the road, as the force remains on high alert ahead of the Independence Day celebrations. “Members of the public are requested not to touch any suspicious object. They are requested to immediately report about the presence of any unidentified/suspected object, suspicious movement of individuals and vehicles, or anything out of the ordinary, to the nearest policeman,” police said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-restrictions-in-several-parts-of-delhi-as-police-steps-up-security-on-independence-day-101628879335954.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Plan to enforce single-use plastic ban in works, says pollution control panel||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Friday said they have already drafted a plan to enforce the Plastic Waste Management Amendment Rules, 2021, which aims to phase out single-use plastic in the country, and said it is pending approval with the state environment department.The DPCC said they are also in talks with industries, market associations and resident welfare associations to create awareness and to ensure that the ban is effectively implemented.“We have prepared our action plan to follow the directions that have been notified. It should be approved by next week,” said a DPCC official on Friday.According to the notification of the plastic waste management rules, the permitted thickness of the plastic bags will be increased from the current 50 microns to 75 microns from September 30 this year, and further to 120 microns from December 31, 2022.Further, all plastic products, including ear buds with plastic sticks, plastic flags, candy sticks, ice-cream sticks, polystyrene (thermocol) for decoration; plates, cups, glasses, cutlery such as forks, spoons, knives, straw, trays, wrapping or packing films around sweet boxes, invitation cards, and cigarette packets, plastic or PVC banners of less than 100 micron thickness, will be banned from July 1, 2022.In Delhi’s own draft action plan, which is pending approval, the state pollution control board has detailed short, medium and long-term measures to phase out plastic use.The plan includes identification of littering hot spots with respect to single-use plastic items and development of a strategy for their collection and further management; implementation of a plan to manage legacy plastic waste based on location by September 30 this year. It also details plans to develop setting up recycling facilities by December 31 next year.The plan also devises steps to control use of plastic at the local level too.In July this year, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) had banned single-use plastic with thickness less than 50 microns in south Delhi markets, citing environmental concerns. The focus of this was Greater Kailash, Yusuf Sarai, Green Park, Kailash Colony, Shahpur Jat and Chattarpur.Meanwhile, experts said the key is ensure effective enforcement of the ban.Atin Biswas, programme director (municipal solid waste), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said that nearly 18 states have already banned single use plastic. “The states have to ensure that there is proper implementation of the notification. There is also a jarring aspect about this notification that all of the 19-20 items that are listed in it are not something that big brands manufacture. This means that only the informal sector and small enterprises making these items will be impacted. There won’t be any effect on the big players,” Biswas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plan-to-enforce-single-use-plastic-ban-in-the-works-says-delhi-pollution-control-panel-101628879214668.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Three accused of raising anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar denied bail||A Delhi court dismissed the bail plea of three persons accused of raising communal slogans at Jantar Mantar during a protest on August 8 and said they made scathing remarks which were “undemocratic” and “uncalled for” from the citizens of the country.Metropolitan magistrate Udbhav Kumar Jain dismissed the bail pleas of Preet Singh, Deepak Singh and Vinod Sharma and said a prima facie perusal of all material available on record, including the video footage of the incident, failed to find support in favour of the accused.A video of anti-Muslim sloganeering during a protest at Jantar Mantar was widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter on Monday. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by “Bharat Jodo Aandolan” at Jantar Mantar on Sunday.Jain said, “In one of the clippings, applicant/accused, as identified by the IO (investigating officer) in the video clipping, can be seen with the other accused Deepak Singh, who in one of the video clippings has made scathing remarks which are undemocratic and uncalled for from a citizen of this country where principles like secularism hold the value of a basic feature imbibed in the Constitution.” “Freedom to express oneself is indeed allowed to be enjoyed by citizens to the fullest possible extent, yet with every right there is a corresponding duty attached. The principle behind Section 153A (IPC) is to preserve religious/communal harmony and it is the duty of every citizen that while he enjoys his right to express himself, he preserves religious harmony. This indeed is the positive aspect of secularism,” he further said in the order of August 12.The IO submitted that the release of the accused would be prejudicial in maintaining public tranquillity and would create a further law and order situation.The public prosecutor claimed that the gathering was held without permission near the Parliament during the ongoing monsoon session and the accused persons violated Covid-19 protocols.The court said, “Considering the fact that investigation of the present case is at a nascent stage, the nature of accusations levelled against the accused persons and also taking into account the overall facts and circumstances of the case, this court is not inclined to allow the present application at this stage.” Earlier on August 11, the court granted bail to Supreme Court lawyer and former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, noting that he was neither seen in the video nor were the slogans were raised at his behest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-accused-of-raising-anti-muslim-slogans-at-delhi-s-jantar-mantar-denied-bail-101628879156211.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Pregnant, lactating women to get Covid vaccine at check-up facilities||Pregnant and lactating women in Delhi can now get vaccinated against Covid-19 at the clinics where they go to for their ante-natal and post-natal check-ups, said an order issued by the Delhi government on Friday.The order also makes it clear that lactating women in the Capital will now be able to get themselves vaccinated at the sites where they go for routine immunisation of their children.“In order to enhance coverage of vulnerable cohort of pregnant and lactating women, it is directed that their Covid-19 Vaccination may be done at the health facility site where they report for their regular ANC/PNC (ante-natal/post-natal check-ups), on the designated days of the week,” said the order issued by the health department on August 9, a copy of which HT has seen.“Medical officers and health officers are already present in the facility along with the vaccines, as these centres also serve as cold chain points. Vaccination shall be done through CoWin portal in walk-in mode. Training of vaccinators for conduct of these sessions on CoWin must be ensured,” it further said.“Based on Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights’ recommendations, the Delhi government’s health department has issued orders allowing lactating mothers to get themselves vaccinated for Covid-19 (on the same day) at the centres meant for children’s routine immunisation. They no longer need to make separate visits now,” said Anurag Kundu, chairperson of the commission, in a tweet.The central government approved Covid-19 vaccination for lactating women on May 19 and pregnant women from June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhipregnant-lactating-women-to-get-covid-vaccine-at-check-up-facilities-101628878914619.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Rainfall deficit of 54% in August so far||After experiencing above average rains in July, Delhi has fallen back to recording a rainfall deficit of nearly 54% in the first half of August, India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings showed. Met officials and private weather forecasters, however, said that despite a dry start to the month, August is likely to cover its rainfall deficit in the last 10 days and it is likely to be a “near normal” monsoon month.IMD recordings show that this July, the rainfall at 507.1 mm was more than twice the average of 210.6 mm for the month. As August began, the showers relented.Till August 13, the Safdarjung weather station recorded 63.2 mm rains, close to half the 116.1 mm which is the normal for the month.Analysis further showed that south Delhi is standing at a 49% rainfall deficit, southwest Delhi is at a 46% deficit and New Delhi recorded a 33% rainfall deficit. Northwest Delhi saw a 20% rainfall deficit, west Delhi saw an 80% deficit and northeast Delhi recorded an 80% rainfall deficit. While this is partly because of the ‘break monsoon’ phase that the northwest and central India are experiencing currently, weather experts said that even before the Capital went into the break phase, it only recorded three rainy days. Even in these three days, the city recorded only light to moderate showers.According to weather experts, break monsoon is a phase typical of the southwest monsoon. This pause could last a couple of days or even a fortnight. Break monsoon is categorised by the trough shifting northwards and closer to the foothills of the Himalayas.While rainfall decreases in parts of north, northwest and central India, this weather phenomenon results in an increase in showers along the Himalayan foothills, in northeast India and also along the southern peninsula.Delhi and neighbouring states entered a break monsoon phase on August 9 and according to initial forecast this pause was likely to continue till August 16. However, in a recent forecast, the Met officials said that Delhi is likely to come out of this break phase only after August 19.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “There are no chances of rains till August 19. Revival of monsoon with only light rain is expected around August 19 and August 20.”While half the month has already gone in a dry spell, forecasters are still hopeful that August is likely to cover its deficit. “The monsoon trough is expected to shift southwards after August 15, but that will result in rainfall around Punjab and Haryana. While there could be patchy rains in Delhi, but it will take a few more days for rains to be more consistent in this region. However, the forecast says that after August 19, rains will become intense and we can get a near normal monsoon month,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services, a private weather forecasting agency.Weather officials also stressed that this was another example of erratic weather patterns Delhi has been recording over the last few years. This year, such extreme weather events were particularly jarring and this could be the larger impact of climate change, experts said.“It is true that the rainfall patterns are changing in the entire country. Delhi some 10 years back used to get an average of 15-20 rainy days, but now we are observing that the number of rainy days have reduced to only around eight to ten. This means that the rain spells are shorter and more intense. It is only natural that if the same amount of rain is received in a matter of a week as opposed to being uniformly distributed through the month, it will lead to incidents of flooding,” said a senior Met official, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rainfall-deficit-of-54-in-august-so-far-delhi-is-likely-to-make-up-for-dry-spell-in-last-10-days-met-101628878855227.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||HC asks authorities to enforce no-squatting policy in Nehru Place market||Appalled by the lack of cleanliness and presence of encroachment in the Nehru Place area that hampered the efforts of firefighters on Thursday to douse a blaze, the Delhi high court on Friday asked the authorities to hold a joint meeting to remove the vendors under the no-squatting policy.Taking suo motu cognizance, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the city police to file a status report on the matter, noting that the paved area is full of vendors which restricted the movement of the fire tenders.It directed that regular drives be conducted in the Nehru Place area by the SDMC and the Delhi police, along with the assistance of the local SHO, so that the vendors, once removed, do not return.A fire had broken out inside the showroom on the first floor of a multi-storey building in southeast Delhi’s Nehru Place on Thursday, following which six fire tenders were rushed to the spot. There were no casualties in the fire which reportedly started due to a short circuit in an electric board.Taking note of a video of the fire, the court observed that the fire engine struggled a lot to reach the spot due to the presence of hawkers. “The paved area is full of vendors which have restricted the movement of the fire tenders where the fire had broken out. The lack of cleanliness and maintenance on the part of the municipal bodies is apparent,” the bench noted in its order.Appearing for the city police, advocate Sanjay Lao, standing counsel (criminal) of the Delhi government, told the court that many vendors are covered by stay orders of the court, allowing them to squat in the area.Taking note of this submission, the court asked the authorities to sit together and solve the issue, while also asking them to file status reports on the no-hawking and no-vending policies, and the steps that can be taken to stop illegal occupation on the roads.DDA counsel Arjun Pant said that the area is under MCD and the agency would look into the matter. Advocate Divya Prakash Pande, appearing for SDMC, told the court that the PWD is carrying out construction work in the area and hence should be impleaded as party.“I have personally seen the construction and the demolition being carried on the main road, say for instance the flyover... the agencies pick up the dump and throw it behind in an area which is not visible by the eyes,” he claimed.However, this did not go down well with the court which remarked, “Let’s restrict ourselves only to the Nehru Place area. It seems that you are now covering up your wrongdoings.”The bench issued notice to the conditions of the roads and also issued notice to the Public Works Department (PWD) of the Delhi government, asking them to clarify their role in the construction work at the Nehru place area.The court has set August 24 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hcasks-authorities-to-enforce-no-squatting-policy-in-nehru-place-market-101628878735660.html
14-08-2021||Delhi||Online shift streamlined property conversion, no case pendency: DDA||Two months after the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) introduced the system for conversion of properties online, the land-owning agency on Friday claimed that there is no pendency of cases, adding that a few remaining cases are mostly on account of “action awaited on the part of the applicants”.The housing department gets a lot of applications related to conversion of properties from leasehold to freehold. In June, the DDA initiated an online process to dispose of all the offline cases -- ones submitted manually -- in a time bound manner.“There is no pendency on part of the DDA in the housing department regarding cases (mostly related to conversion of property from leasehold to freehold) prior to June 1,2021,” said DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain.Explaining the 882 cases remaining with the body, Jain said, “These are cases where action is awaited on the part of applicants. Either their payments are due or some documents need to be submitted. The name and other details of these applicants have been uploaded on DDA’s website. The applicants may access the deficiency letter online.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/online-shift-streamlined-property-conversion-no-case-pendencydda-101628878434610.html
14-08-2021||Pune||Pune schools set for virtual I-Day celebration||On August 15, India will celebrate its 75th Independence Day. However, due to the ongoing pandemic, the celebration in schools across the city will be limited to virtual platforms.Different schools from the city noted that only a limited staff will be present in school on August 15 for the flag hoisting ceremony.Neelam Chakrabarty, principal, Delhi Public School, said that the school conducted a week-long celebration ahead of August 15.“On Friday, teachers had dressed up as freedom fighters and shared the contribution of these freedom fighters with the students. On August 15, there will be flag hoisting at the school followed by a cultural programme. This programme will be telecast ‘live’ on the school’s YouTube channel for students,” said Chakrabarty.Jayshree Venkatraman, principal at SNBP International School, Rahatani, said that the school planned a week-long celebration with various activities for the students.“As a corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative we had an arrangement with the Lion’s Club. We had collected participation fees from students. The total amount which was collected was then sent to the Lion’s Club. As an Independence Day initiative, this amount will be used to help those in need during this pandemic. We have collected around ₹60,000 from students,” said Venkatraman.Kavita Sahay Kerawalla, vice-chairperson, Vibgyor Group of Schools, said that the school will be running a platinum informative series.“This series will acknowledge 75 of Vibgyor’s academic and non-academic achievers on the social media pages of the schools. As we celebrate our Independence Day, it is indeed the dawn of a new era in education with the eagerly awaited implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP),” said Kerawalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-schools-set-for-virtual-i-day-celebration-101628872194136.html
14-08-2021||Pune||Lockdown not necessary, prevents herd immunity: Cyrus Poonawalla||Responding to whether lockdown was necessary, Poonawalla said that he believes that the lockdown was not necessary as it would stop herd immunity from developing. He also criticised the Modi government for banning export of vaccines, as many countries ready to pay are not able to get it. He also praised the Modi government for speeding up the process to get approval for the vaccine licensing. Poonawallla also said that it is not possible that 75% of the country would be vaccinated by year end. He said, “Politicians are lying. We are yet to increase our production to 10 crore vaccines. No single company in the world can produce 10 crore vaccines in a month. We have promised about 110-120 crore doses annually because we invested in it prior. So you can do the math now. If other manufacturers produce 1-2 crores every month then the production would increase accordingly.” He said, “I don’t agree that there should be a lockdown because if there is a lockdown there would be no herd immunity. If there is no lockdown there we will be bound to see the disease in the beginning, but later people will get herd immunity. Why do I prefer lockdown over herd immunity? It’s because the number of deaths will be low. If many people are dying then lockdown could be essential. About 50-60% of the people who have died have lost their lives due to negligence, like not being able to reach the hospital on time, no money for treatment, vaccine hesitancy and treatment hesitancy, reaching in the hospital late when the symptoms have worsened. If there is immediate treatment, then the number of deaths would be much lower.” He further added, “Until the virus is eliminated from across the world, we might need to continue to take the vaccines after regular intervals. As of now people fear a third wave, however, in my opinion the third wave would not be so severe because of the herd immunity, and also vaccinated people who would have some immunity. We do not have so much experience to ignore the danger of this disease as of now. We are seeing one wave after another. For example in America, despite the high rate of vaccination, the situation is dire. I am not saying this because I want to make money by selling vaccines, but people should really get the vaccine or else they might regret it. He also said that the family had to bear huge cuts in profit as the vaccine costs less than what a cup of tea would cost in a five star restaurant. He said, “A measles vaccine which we give to the Government of India costs ₹10 a dose, while UNICEF and other countries are giving ₹50 a dose. These are the sacrifices that the Poonawalla family is making. Earlier, we used to produce a total of 15 crore vaccines every month. Now we are producing 15 crore doses of this one product monthly so that everyone gets the vaccine. We have prioritised Covid vaccine production over all other vaccines.” Speaking about the threats that the family was said to have received earlier, he said that it was blown out of proportion. “There was no threat as such and no reason for people to exaggerate that my son had to leave the country because of the threats. It was his annual summer vacation. It was completely blown out of proportion.” Praising the Modi government he said, “He has instructed the drug controller officials to ensure speedy licensing and approvals and not to sit on the files for a month or two.. Earlier, when we had to launch a pneumonia vaccine but we could not get approvals for over two years. They gave reasons like no challan, no document or would reply after a month. However, this time the process is much smoother. Although this applies only for the drug controller department I cannot speak for other government departments.”He said, “My son would not want me to say this but the Modi government should not ban us from exporting. Exports must be opened because the other 170 countries who took our vaccines all these years and now not able to get it. The Bill Gates foundation has given us ₹5,000 crore, but we are not yet able to give them the vaccine. We even offered to return the money, but they said they are ready to wait and get the vaccine when exports would open up.” “Centre is not approving extra doses for Pune”In view of a shortage of Covishield vaccines for Pune, Poonawalla said, “We had written to the Modi government to release more vaccines for Pune since there are more cases in Pune and also our company is in Pune, However, they have not even replied to our letter. They said that they would do what they want.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lockdown-not-necessary-prevents-herd-immunity-cyrus-poonawalla-101628871414116.html
14-08-2021||Pune||Once parent company gets clearance from US FDA, we’ll get approval for Covavax: Cyrus Poonawalla||On Friday, Cyrus Poonawalla, founder of Serum institute of India (SII), which is mass producing Covishield, the anti-Covid19 vaccine, said that Covavax would be sent for approval once its parent company in the US gets approval for the same. Covavax is a vaccine developed specially for children, but has faced hurdles at the US FDA, said Poonawalla. Novavax which is developed by a US pharmaceutical company with the same name will be mass manufactured by SII. The current approved vaccines are only approved for adults making children a susceptible population.Poonawalla said, “Novavax is a very good product, however, unless we get the licence to launch it we cannot do so. The American parent company has got some issues with the US FDA which should be cleared by the end of year. Once they get the licence, we will get the licence. We will also try to get it approved before the parent company if possible.” Novavax is yet to be tried for phase 2/3 trials and efficacy for children aged 12-18 years.Poonawalla said, “Novavax can be given to the age group of 12 years and above and the trial is underway . However, Covishield was found to not be safe for kids aged under 18 and if something happens due to this then who would bear the responsibility? Not me. Regarding reopening of schools and colleges, we will need to see the effect as they start opening each class and then we can go ahead. If students do not go to school for a year or two it is fine, they can study at home. I never went to college and today, I am the founder of Serum Institute.”“As schools reopen,” he said, “it would be wise to wait and see how it impacts children and then we can take a call.” Poonawalla also said that lockdown is not a good option because it will not lead to herd immunity. “Those who have lost lives in this pandemic lost it because of lack of treatment, vaccine hesitancy or delay in reaching the hospital,” he said.Poonawalla also said that he is against mixing vaccines. He said, “It is too risky to mix two different vaccines and as a manufacturer I would not take the responsibility in case anyone develops any reactions or side effects due to the mixing. Also if one vaccine type is working then why mix?”Poonawalla also said that a gap of two months is ideal between two doses of Covishield, however, the current gap of three months, or the earlier gap of just one month, both were wrong. He said, “Two months’ gap is ideal. Also it is true that the number of antibodies would decrease after six months, however, memory cells in the body are present. It is advised to get a third dose or a booster shot, six months after the second shot. Unless the virus is reduced nominally across the world we might need to take vaccines.”Poonawalla was speaking during an award ceremony, where was presented with the Lokmanya Tilak National Award 2021 for his contribution in fighting the pandemic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/once-parent-company-gets-clearance-from-us-fda-we-ll-get-approval-for-covavax-cyrus-poonawalla-101628870934084.html
