16-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity: Covid cases climb for second week in row||Even as the tricity had a breather on Monday with just five new Covid-19 cases, the trend in the past two weeks has raised concerns across the three health departments.The number of Covid-19 cases continued to rise for the second consecutive week after showing a constant decline since the second wave peak in May. As many as 86 people tested positive in the tricity in the week ending August 15 (Sunday), as compared to 65 in the previous week. Earlier, the weekly cases had dropped to 50 (July 26-August 1). Medical experts believe the uptick is due to the apathy and complacency on the part of locals, who have stopped following Covid-appropriate behaviour, especially wearing of face masks.Even though cases in Chandigarh and Panchkula are fairly consistent, there has been a significant rise in Mohali. In August, so far, 82 cases have been reported in Mohali, followed by 57 in Chandigarh and 21 in Panchkula. Meanwhile, no death owing to the virus has been reported this month, and even daily positivity rate has mostly remained below 1% across the three jurisdictions. It was on July 31 when the tricity had last reported a death. A breather on MondayThe tricity’s daily tally dropped to a single digit, after a week, on Monday. As compared to 10 cases on Sunday, only five were reported, with two each in Chandigarh and Panchkula and one in Mohali. The active caseload, which had crossed the 100 mark on August 13, stood at 111, with 55 cases in Mohali, 43 in Chandigarh and 13 in Panchkula.So far, 68,537 people in Mohali have tested positive, of whom 67,425 have successfully beaten the virus and 1,057 have died. In Chandigarh, 61,177 out of the 62,031 patients have recovered and 811 have died. Of the 30,661 patients in Panchkula so far, 30,272 have recovered and 376 have lost their lives.‘Keep following protocol’Even though experts say it is too early to declare the third wave, they advised people to keep following the Covid-19 safety protocol.“In Chandigarh, we have not seen a significant rise in cases yet, as most people are already vaccinated. However, we have learnt that people have stopped wearing face masks, especially in restaurants and public places. This attitude is an invitation to the third wave,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “Since cases have started increasing in the district again, we have stepped up daily testing and contact tracing. People must get vaccinated at the earliest and follow the safety protocol to avert another peak.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-covid-cases-climb-for-second-week-in-row-101629138507981.html
16-08-2021||Gurugram||Lack of space for compensatory afforestation forces officials to look at other districts||The Gurugram forest department has started searching for land in other districts to conduct compensatory afforestation on 700 hectares, officials said on Monday, due to paucity of space for the same in Gurugram.Rajeev Tejyan, the divisional forest officer of the Gurugram forest division, said, “With different projects started in the past few years, almost 700 hectares of compensatory afforestation is yet to be completed. The delay is mainly due to a lack of land availability in the district. There are several conditions that need to be met before starting any afforestation project. We have now started looking for land in other districts such as Panchkula and Faridabad.”At present, Gurugram officials are undertaking compensatory afforestation near Morni-Pinjore in Panchkula district to compensate for the greenery cut for the Gurugram-Pataudi road widening project. Almost 8,000 trees were felled in the district for widening this road to have four lanes. Officials said that compensatory afforestation for some projects was carried out in Faridabad district. According to records, almost 25,000 trees were felled in the district between 2013 and 2018.The afforestation process is carried out through Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA). The funds given under this initiative by the Central government are used for protecting the environment, compensating for losses incurred by deforestation and mining. The law aims to reimburse ecological damage caused due to the transfer of forest land.A senior forest official, wishing not to be named, said, “We cannot carry out compensatory afforestation near roads as the trees would have to be felled if the road needs to be widened. Similarly, there is land available with panchayats in the district, but it cannot be done there too as panchayats can ask for their land back. The purpose is to develop substitute forests for trees that are being cut for infrastructure projects, but due to lack of land, we have started looking outside the district too.”The official further said that the department is not able to carry out plantation in land falling under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) due to lack of clarity, as in many places, private land also falls under PLPA.According to directives of the Supreme Court, the PLPA attracts protection under the Forest Conservation Act of 1980, which states that “no state government or other authority shall make, except with the prior approval of the central government, any order directing that any forest land or any portion thereof may be used for any non-forest purpose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lack-of-space-for-compensatory-afforestation-forces-officials-to-look-at-other-districts-101629138091117.html
16-08-2021||Gurugram||Govt may build check dam around Najagfarh lake: Khattar||Even as the Haryana government is yet to submit an environment management plan pertaining to the Najafgarh lake with the National Green Tribunal (NGT), chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said that the government is considering construction of check dams (bundhs) around the lake to prevent flooding of around 5,000 acres of agricultural land located in its vicinity. Stating that he was aware of the problems faced by villagers, Khattar said, “Activities are ongoing at the state level to resolve the issue. The deputy commissioner has submitted the report to the state wetland authority. Under this, technical and financial subcommittees have been formed. Also, the plan is to build a dam on the slope side of the lake to stop water from inundating the agricultural land.”Khattar was in the city to attend the monthly grievance redressal meeting where the issue was raised by the Badshahpur member of the legislative assembly (MLA) Rakesh Daulatabad. Construction of a dam near the Najafgarh drain to prevent flooding has been a longstanding demand of farmers in the area. In 2019, farmers wrote to the state human rights commission, demanding the construction of a check dam and compensation for losses due to flooding. On June 17 this year, the principal bench of the NGT asked the Haryana government to submit an environment management plan (EMP), which has been pending for the past 10 months. The next hearing is scheduled for October 10.Since sewage water from nearby villages is also drained in the area, the CM said that daily-use water from Dharampur village has to be processed by a sewage treatment plant before it is discharged. According to the district administration officials, sewer lines from Dharampur village will be connected to Jahajgarh village, where an STP of 20 MLD capacity is being constructed and will be functional by March 2022.However, experts were against the construction of a check dam at Najafgarh.Ritu Rao, a PhD scholar at the TERI School of Advanced Studies, who specialises and works on urban water bodies and has been working on the Najafgarh lake, said, “Building a check dam near the lake will block the only outlet for stormwater in Gurugram. With climate change, Gurugram is facing extreme precipitation in a short span of time, which leads to urban flooding; this will only increase in future. Further, to build a check dam, undulated terrain is needed, whereas the area in question is not such a land.”The seven-square kilometre Najafgarh Jheel is an important water body for Gurugram as it acts as a large aquifer to recharge groundwater. Many creeks in the Aravallis flow into the Najafgarh Jheel, which is further carried to the Yamuna. The lake is located in a natural depression in southwest Delhi, close to the Gurugram-Rajokri border on National Highway-48. It is fed by the Najafgarh drain, which has a sizeable catchment area in Gurugram. A portion of the lake falls in Haryana. The Haryana government is yet to submit an environmental management plan for the lake, giving details of how the area along with its ecology will be protected. The Delhi government, in the last hearing, had submitted a draft EMP to the NGT. Experts working for the protection of the lake have been demanding that the Haryana government declare the water body a wetland till 212.5 metres above mean sea level, in accordance with the high flood level of the past 100 years. If it is done lower than that, then there is a risk of flooding and collapse of the buildings constructed on this land as the Najafgarh Jheel is a natural hazard zone. CM IN CITY Besides the Najafgarh issue, at least 12 other complaints were placed before the CM, including issues pertaining to the ongoing construction work at Atul Kataria crossing that is likely to be completed by November 30, availability of differential global positioning system machines to measure land and encroachment of land in villages. Over 33 complaints were to be placed before the CM, of which at least 20 complaints were resolved before the grievance meeting. Khattar, on Monday, also inaugurated the drinking water supply project set up for sectors 81 to 99. The project is a part of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) three-phase plan to lay water pipelines in newer sectors, 58 to 115, at a cost of ₹235 crore. Officials said that the first phase was constructed at a cost of ₹76.21 crore and it will cater to around 380,000 people.Giving a presentation to the CM, GMDA chairman Sudhir Rajpal said that at least 229 water licences have been issued in these sectors. Among them, 56 licensees have received occupation certificates from the town and country planning department. Currently, these colonies are dependent on water tankers for their daily water requirement. He said that the department faced hurdles at 47 spots while laying the pipeline, according to the district administration statement. Khattar also virtually inaugurated a waste-to-energy plant worth ₹176.87 crores in Sonepat and Panipat. The project has been set up under a public-private partnership and will produce eight megawatts of electricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/govt-may-build-check-dam-around-najagfarh-lake-khattar-101629138089977.html
16-08-2021||Gurugram||Mercury continues to rise, relief only towards weekend||Even as the temperature in the city continues to rise, relief from the heat is likely only towards the weekend, officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday.According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, one or two spells of rain or thundershowers is likely on Friday. Till then, the city will witness partly cloudy sky. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature is likely to remain around 33-37 degrees Celsius (°C) and the minimum temperature is likely to remain around 25°C.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “Delhi-NCR is witnessing a break monsoon condition as the monsoon trough has shifted to the foothills. Rain activity is expected in the region from August 20. Rain is likely to continue for a few days after that, but it will mostly be light to moderate activity. With rain, a drop in temperature is likely with maximum temperature to be around 31°C.”On Monday, the mercury touched 37.2°C, which was three degrees above normal, while the minimum temperature was recorded at 25.6°C. The humidity level at the end of the day was recorded to be 65%.Meanwhile, the air quality in the city has been in the satisfactory zone for four consecutive days. On Monday, Gurugram reported an air quality index (AQI) 91 in the satisfactory category. The last time the air quality had dipped was on last Thursday when AQI of 106, in moderate category, was recorded.Over the next five days, air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain largely in the moderate category, according to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi. The air quality can improve between August 20-22, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mercury-continues-to-rise-relief-only-towards-weekend-101629138088900.html
16-08-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 detection: Third round of serological survey likely this month||The third round of the Covid-19 serological survey that was scheduled to be held in June is likely to be conducted in the last week of August, covering about 3,000 people in the district. According to officials, the estimated sample size for every district has been decided by the state health department, based on which a micro plan has to be submitted on Tuesday.“As directed by the state, the survey will be held in 75 clusters. It includes 45 in rural and 30 in urban areas. Details on the age-wise coverage of the population and the final dates for the survey are yet to be shared by the state health department. But a training session for health workers will be held this week. Blood samples will be collected to check for IgG antibodies. It will provide information on the proportion of the population having antibodies to fight Covid-19 even if they did not have symptoms or receive a diagnosis of Covid-19,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram.Generally, a serological survey is done to detect the body’s immune response to coronavirus infection.Across the state, the survey will be done among 36,520 participants. According to Yadav, it will be done next week and will continue for two to three days. The highest number of samples will be collected from Gurugram, while only 800 samples will be taken from Palwal, which has the lowest case count in the state.As per the plan in June, over 3,520 children of six to 17 years were to be covered in Gurugram, while the total sample size was 8,800. Of this, 5,280 were to be adults, 2,640 children of 10-17 years and 880 children of six to nine years.Haryana conducted two rounds of serological surveys in 2020. During the first round of the survey in Gurugram, the seropositivity rate of the urban areas was 18.5%, while in the second round, it increased to 25.9%. Likewise, in rural areas, it increased from 5.7% in the first round to 10.1% in the second round. In both surveys, over 800 people were tested for the antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-detection-third-round-of-serological-survey-likely-this-month-101629138087549.html
16-08-2021||Gurugram||Electric vehicles zone set up, 600 vehicles launched in first phase of project||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Monday launched the city’s first electric three-wheelers zone (ETWZ), where only electric autos and e-rickshaws can ply. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar flagged off these vehicles, as part of the Parivartan project, from Galleria Market in DLF Phase 4 on Monday morning.Officials said that 600 electric three-wheelers are currently on the roads and users can book a ride via an app created by its concessionaire. Around 550 of these vehicles are e-rickshaws while the rest are e-autorickshaws. Fares for the ride will be the same for both vehicles, officials said.In the electric zone, diesel and compressed natural gas (CNG) powered autorickshaws are prohibited. A violation of the rule will lead to traffic police officials penalising the offending driver and also impounding their vehicles, in case of repeated violations.Areas of Cyber ​​City, Golf Course Road, MG Road, Iffco Chowk, Huda City Centre, Galleria Market, Sushant Lok-1, Vyapar Kendra Road and Hamilton Court Road have been included in the electric three-wheelers zone.Khattar said that the high level of air pollution across Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) is a matter of concern and vehicular pollution is a big problem. The CM said that cleaner modes of public transport, such as e-rickshaws and e-autorickshaws, are a priority.“Vehicular pollution has been an issue not just in Gurugram, but across NCR. Through the Parivartan project, the government aims to lower air pollution by switching to a non-polluting mode of travel. The change is necessary,” said Khattar.He said that initially, the ETWZ will be limited to just MCG’s Zone 3, and that it would later be implemented across Gurugram and other Haryana districts as well. “The main aim of this project is to replace 5,000 diesel autorickshaws in Gurugram with e-rickshaws and e-autorickshaws, through subsidies and financial aid to diesel autorickshaw owners and drivers,” said Khattar.The project was launched by the MCG in collaboration with Gurugram traffic police, Haryana transport department, and SmartE, a private electric mobility service and MCG’s concessionaire for the project.The concessionaire is responsible for looking after the operations of the three-wheelers and the recharge stations, said officials.Currently, there are five electric parking and charging hubs, at Udyog Vihar, Wazirabad, Huda City Centre, MG Road Metro station and Sikanderpur Metro station. More charging hubs are proposed to come up in DLF Phase 3, Guru Dronacharya Metro station and Galleria Market.MCG officials said that a fare of ₹30 for the first two kilometres and ₹10 for each subsequent kilometre has been set for private rides that can be booked through the SmartE app. For shared rides, the fare is fixed at ₹10 for the first two kilometres and ₹5 for each subsequent kilometre. However, shared rides cannot be booked through the app.Regarding the financial aid provided to diesel autorickshaw owners and drivers switching over to e-rickshaws or e-autorickshaws, Khattar in his speech said that the MCG, under the Union government’s Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of hybrid and Electric vehicle (FAME) scheme, is providing a subsidy of ₹30,000- ₹35,000, along with scrap cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/electric-vehicles-zone-set-up-600-vehicles-launched-in-first-phase-of-project-101629137907337.html
16-08-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Covid-19 cases on rise again in state capital||In a worrying trend, the number of daily Covid-19 cases is once again on the rise in state capital Ranchi after it recorded cases in double digits on atleast four days last week, as per the latest data shared by the health department on Monday. Prior to this, the city clocked daily cases in single digit over last several weeks. As per the health bulletin, 79 cases were detected in the state capital in last six days of the past week. With this, the number of active cases across the state crossed the 200-mark. Almost 50% of these active cases are in Ranchi district. According to health officials, the recent rise in cases is due to influx of passengers from other states. “Majority of these new cases are being detected at the railway station and the airport. Sporadic cases are being registered among locals as well. However, most cases are those alighting at Ranchi airport and station,” said Dr Vinod Kumar, civil surgeon, Ranchi district. The fact that the health department is unable to do contract tracing of such cases allegedly because passengers were giving wrong contact details is also worrisome.The civil surgeon said they have requested the district administration to take corrective measures. The issue was raised at a review meeting chaired by Patna deputy commissioner, Kumar said. “The passengers are giving wrong contact details. From Tuesday, test centres would test the mobile numbers provided by incoming passengers. A request has also been made to increase police deployment at the airport and station to ensure all passengers are tested,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-covid-19-cases-on-rise-again-in-state-capital-101629133767471.html
16-08-2021||Ranchi||DSPMU gets acting V-C||South Chhotanagpur divisional commissioner has been appointed as the acting Vice-Chancellor of Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University (DSPMU) here, as per a recent order from the Governor’s office.The move came as serving V-C Prof SN Munda is set to retire on August 18. In the interim, chancellor cum Governor Ramesh Bais has directed the divisional commissioner to function as the university V-C, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/dspmu-gets-acting-vc-101629133766325.html
16-08-2021||Other||Admission test for APJAKWIT to be conducted by BCECEB||From now on, the admission process of Dr APJ Women’s Institute of Technology (APJAKWIT) in Darbhanga will be conducted by the Bihar Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Board (BCECEB), officials said. The institute uploaded the information on its official website on August 14. The engineering college, exclusively set up for women in this part of the region, was established in 2005 as a unit of LN Mithila University (LNMU), Darbhanga. Since its inception, the entrance test for admission was being conducted by LNMU.According to the website of APJAKWIT, Computer Science and Engineering, Information Technology and Bioinformatics session 2021-25 and 3-year B.Tech (lateral entry) in Computer Science and Engineering, Information Technology and Bioinformatics session 2021-24, shall be made through BCECEB, Patna.Institute’s incumbent director Dr U K Das said that following the completion of the enrollment process by the BCECEB, if necessary, the admission process will be done at the university level like in previous years. The information in this regard will be made available at the appropriate time.APJAKWIT has finally joined 38 other engineering institutes for which BCECEB will be conducting admission tests. The official notification, prospectus etc., have been made available on the website of the BCECE Board, Das added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/admission-test-for-apjakwit-to-be-conducted-by-bceceb-101629133046796.html
16-08-2021||Other||Demand to rename Aligarh as Harigarh and Mainpuri as Mayan Nagar||AGRA The zila panchayat of Aligarh on Monday passed a resolution seeking to rechristen Aligarh as Harigarh, which members claimed, was a long pending demand. The proposal was passed in the first meeting of the panchayat without any opposition with 50 out of 72 members in attendance. “It was a long pending demand to rename Aligarh as Harigarh. The zila panchayat approved the proposal unopposed. It would now be forwarded to the state government for approval,” stated Vijay Singh, zila panchayat chairman for Aligarh. A proposal was also passed to name the airport of Aligarh after BJP leader Kalyan Singh, informed the zila panchayat chairman. Kalyan Singh was a resident of the ‘Lock City’ and chief minister of UP during the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. Aligarh division comprises Hathras, Etah and Kasganj districts. Earlier in the day, the zila panchayat of Mainpuri passed a resolution seeking to rename Mainpuri as Mayan Nagar after sage Mayan who founded the present day Mainpuri, said members. “One of the zila panchayat members had moved the proposal for renaming Mainpuri as Mayan Nagar and the proposal was passed on Monday with 23 members supporting the motion and two opposing it,” said Archana Bhadoria, zila panchayat chairperson of Mainpuri. It was the first meeting after the constitution of Mainpuri zila panchayat. Located near Isan river, Mainpuri became a stronghold of Samajwadi Party (SP) patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, who won five elections from the constituency. Earlier this month, the Firozabad district panchayat had passed a resolution demanding that Firozabad be renamed as Chandra Nagar. Locals believed that King Chandrasen lived in Firozabad and because of this it was earlier known as Chandravar Nagar till about 1560 AD. “Later, a representative of emperor Akbar, Firoz Shah, visited the area and the place was named after him as Firozabad. The demand to rename Firozabad as Chandra Nagar has been raised time and again,” said a local.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/demand-to-rename-aligarh-as-harigarh-and-mainpuri-as-mayan-nagar-101629132868559.html
16-08-2021||Patna||Boat accident: Search on for 2 missing persons||Two persons, who went missing after a boat carrying them came in contact with a high-tension wire in the swollen river Ganga in rural Patna late Saturday night, were untraceable even as search operations continued on Monday, officials said. According to locals, the boat was carrying at least 50 persons when the incident took place near Kachi Dargah at Fatuha around 9pm Saturday. However, officials could not provide the exact figure.Officials said at least 28 persons were injured in the incident. However, eyewitnesses claimed that the figure was much higher. Some of the injured were currently undergoing treatment at different medical institutions, while rest were safely sent home, officials said.“The boat started from Patna and was on its way to Raghopur in Vaishali district. It came in contact with a live wire when it reached the river midstream. All passengers were daily wagers who used to come to Patna for work,” a local said. City sub-divisonal officer, Mukesh Ranjan, said, “The number of passengers who were on the boat at the time of the accident is not clear. But so far, 28 persons were injured, while 12 persons were safely returned to their homes. Family members of two missing persons on Sunday approached us. An NDRF team has been pressed into service to locate the missing persons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/boat-accident-search-on-for-2-missing-persons-101629132866781.html
16-08-2021||Patna||3 minors among four killed after boat capsizes in Gandak||At least four people, including three minors, drowned after a boat capsized in river Gandak in Gopalganj district on Monday, police said. Two other minors were also said to be missing.The incident took place around 3pm when 13 persons went for a river cruise on a country boat. Sadar sub-divisonal officer (SDO), Upendra Kumar Pal, said around 12 minors were on the boat when the accident occurred. Locals rescued seven minors, while bodies of four people, including a woman, were recovered. “I have ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident and asked for the report within 15 days,” said the SDO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/3-minors-among-four-killed-after-boat-capsizes-in-gandak-101629132506713.html
16-08-2021||Patna||Woman’s body found, murder after rape suspected||A 32-year-old woman found dead on Monday at a locality under the Baniapur police station area of Saran district, police said. SHO of Baniyapur police station Kishori Choudhary said her stomach, face, neck and chest bore multiple injury marks. “We have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) against unidentified criminals based on the statement of the deceased’s husband.” Family members and locals suspect that the woman was raped before the miscreants killed her. “My wife had gone to graze cattle on Sunday. When she did not return home for long, villagers carried out a search operation and her body was found in the wee hours,” said the victim’s husband.Saran SP Santosh Kumar said that it was a suspected case of sexual assault. However, it can only be confirmed after the medical reports arrive. “We have formed a team to nab the culprits. Further actions will be taken after the autopsy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/womans-body-found-murder-after-rape-suspected-101629132267273.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi seeks LG's nod to form panel to probe Covid deaths due to oxygen shortage||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the government has again sent a file to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, seeking his approval to form a high-level committee to probe how many patients died due to oxygen shortage in the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during April-May.Sisodia said, "We've sent a file to LG for his approval to set up a high-level committee for a probe to find out how many Ccovid-19 patients died due to oxygen shortage. I've written to Union home minister Amit Shah, urging him to direct LG not to stop the formation of the committee."The Deputy chief minister said, "Being a responsible government, we should not hide deaths due to shortage of medical oxygen. If there is a death due to oxygen scarcity, then we have to implement a number of reforms, change our system so that such incidents do not happen again in the future. If we cover or hide deaths due to oxygen shortage then it is not good governance."Also Read | 'Only 1 state reported suspected death due to oxygen shortage’: Health ministryHe added, "I have also written to Union home minister Amit Shah and urged him to direct LG not to stop the formation of the committee. I have also briefed him how Delhi struggled for medical oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 in April-May."In June, the Delhi government had formed a four-member expert committee to look into deaths due to the shortage of oxygen during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.According to Sisodia, it did not receive approval from the central government for the formation of the committee.Therefore, he urged the central government not to stop the formation of the committee this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-seeks-lg-s-nod-to-form-panel-to-probe-covid-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101629130719787.html
16-08-2021||Patna||Three of family killed in Siwan||Unidentified miscreants late Sunday hacked to death three members of a family, including a couple, at their house at Bhikhaband in Siwan district. Their bodies bore sharp force injury marks, police said on Monday.The deceased have been identified as Ali Hussain Sai (75), his wife Nazma Khatoon (70) and their daughter Nasima Khatoon (30). Nasima’s nine-year-old daughter was also injured in the incident. The neighbours alerted the police around 4am. “We heard screams from their house. We rushed to the spot and saw some people escaping from the house,” said Wazira Khatoon, a neighbour.Villagers said the family was poor and the bed-ridden elderly couple was being looked after by their daughter, who remarried one Mohammad Mubarak Ali three years ago. Mubarak, an auto-driver, stayed with Nasima, her daughter from the first marriage, and his in-laws.Siwan superintendent of police (SP) Abhinav Kumar ruled out robbery angle as the motive and said persons known to the family were likely involved in the crime. No arrest has been made so far.“Role of Mubarak is under scanner. He has been missing after the crime. A police team has been dispatched to Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh to trace him,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/three-of-family-killed-in-siwan-101629131486646.html
16-08-2021||Patna||Bihar’s fee waiver policy to boost PG enrolment stuck since start in 2015||On February 3, 2015, the Bihar government took a policy decision to provide free education to all girl students as well as those belonging to SC and ST up to post-graduation level. This meant no fees would be charged from the students of identified categories and the government would reimburse the financial loss to institutions. It was then said the move would cost the state exchequer about ₹29 crore annually and benefit nearly 4.05 lakh students in the three categories spread across 262 constituent colleges, including 28 girls’ colleges.The move was necessitated by the finding that enrolment of the three categories in PG had dropped significantly. More than six years later, none of the girls’ institutions, except Patna University once, has been reimbursed the fees to meet their recurring expenses. Some of the institutions that tried to take fee in anticipation of reimbursement have landed in legal wrangle, with the Patna High Court asking the government to return the fee amount to the students, some of whom had moved court. “The principal secretary, department of education, shall ascertain information with regard to disbursement of the amount recovered from the students from the three categories provided freeship and file his personal affidavit stating the latest position. He shall immediately convene a meeting of vice chancellors of all universities and ensure that the fee illegally recovered is refunded to the students forthwith,” said the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar in July. After that, additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar held a meeting with the V-Cs to gather information on the issue. “We have reimbursed ₹6 crore to Patna University once, but it has not happened for other universities. We can reimburse only if there is claim presented in the prescribed format. We have asked the V-Cs to submit their claims,” he said. The problem of reimbursement had started surfacing the very first year after the colleges started charging fee on the pretext that it would be refunded on getting funds form the government. Many college principals had then sought reimbursement from their respective universities also, but things remained unattended. “After all, colleges have various recurring expenses and they cannot wait for reimbursement from the government, which has not happened even once in six years. With admission fee and tuition fee structure of 1952, the colleges hardly earn enough revenue to manage the recurring costs on library, laboratory, cleanliness, electricity and telephone bills,” said the principal of a college in Patna who did not want to be identified. A senior official said there was no reason why one university would be reimbursed, and others not. “The problem is that the universities are not sending claims as it should be. For reimbursement, details of students availing waiver with fees are required. Many colleges submitted overall figures, without details. The government has made the policy and it will certainly reimburse, as it happened in the case of PU,” he said. Headline: Aiming higher in educationIntro: Policy was aimed at providing free education to all girl students and SC and ST students up to PG levelCost to state exchequer annually: ₹29 crore Number of intended beneficiaries: 4.05 lakhConstituent colleges with PG course: 262 Number of girls’ colleges: 28Lone reimbursement so far: ₹6 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-fee-waiver-policy-to-boost-pg-enrolment-stuck-since-start-in-2015-101629130766826.html
16-08-2021||Patna||Nitish praises Modi for OBC bill, says keen to meet him on caste census||Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi deserves praise for removing the confusion on state’s right to decide on other backward castes (OBCs).“The states had the right to decide on OBCs earlier also. In Bihar, former CM Karpoori Thakur also created a separate category for extremely backward classes (EBCs). Different states have done it differently, as they were empowered to do so. There was, however, some confusion for the last few years. After the court order, the Centre decide to clear it that states continue to have the right,” he said, reiterating his demand for caste census, saying it would be in the interest of the country and it was for the Centre to decide. Talking to media persons after his weekly “Janata ke durbar me mukhyamantri” programme, Kumar, who unfurled the Tricolour for a record 15th time as Bihar CM on Sunday, said he had received the acknowledgment to his letter from the prime minister on caste census on August 13. “Now whenever he deems fit, he will give time and we will discuss the matter with him. If it has to be done at the state level, it will be decided through a unanimous decision after talking to all sections. At present, we are waiting for time from the PM to discuss the matter with him,” he said.Partition Horrors Remembrance DayOn PM’s announcement to observe August 14 as the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, Kumar said there was nothing wrong with it, as nobody wanted Partition of the country. “Bapu (Mahatma Gandhi) was also against. He never wanted it, but it happened and the anger resulted in his assassination. The pains of partition are natural. My father was a freedom fighter and he used to narrate us everything. The new generation should also get to know of it,” he said.Ayansh parents go for helpAt the CM’s weekly programme on Monday, the parents of Ayansh, a 10-month-old child from Patna who is suffering from a rare disease called spinal muscular atrophy and needs an injection worth ₹16 crore to get cured of the disease, also reached there to meet Kumar, but officials just took their representation as his registration was not completed. The parents of Ayansh have so far collected around ₹6 crore through donations and have sought the remaining amount in government assistance. Last time, when the CM was asked about Ayansh, he had said that all should support it, but the government did not have any such scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-praises-modi-for-obc-bill-says-keen-to-meet-him-on-caste-census-101629130646614.html
16-08-2021||Patna||JD(U) chief skips RCP’s function amid talks of rift, Nitish says all is well||Factionalism within the ruling Janata Dal (United) in Bihar came to the fore on Monday when senior party leaders, including its national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh and party parliamentary board president Upendra Kushwaha, stayed away from the programme organised to felicitate former party president and union minister R C P Singh though chief minister Nitish Kumar, the de facto leader and face of the party, “laughed off speculation” of a rift. “I have not been invited. I have not received any information or letter regarding the function. So how can I join? I have to go to Jehanabad for an event. I came to know about his visit only through media,” Kushwaha told reporters. The former union minister, who joined JD (U) in March this year, however, was quick to add that there was no factionalism in the party. “There is no factionalism in the party. Those who are indulging in such things will fall flat,” he said.What further fuelled the talks of a rift between RCP and Lalan Singh on Monday was the initial absence of photographs of the party president and parliamentary board president in the posters put up to welcome the newly appointed union minister on his first visit to Patna after his swearing-in. Their pictures were restored only after their supporters raise a hue and cry, party functionaries said. “The disappearance of Lalan Singh’s picture from the banners and poster made to welcome RCP Singh is intolerable. He is the national president of the party and his role should be understood by everyone,” said Kushwaha. Lalan Singh was not available for comment.CM Kumar, meanwhile, dismissed talks of differences in the party as “laughable”. Referring to the welcome accorded by party workers to RCP Singh in Patna on Monday, Kumar said, “When Lalan Singh arrived in Patna after being made the party president, he was also accorded welcome. Today, the same happened with RCP Singh. Why should there be any differences? When I see such speculation in newspapers, I cannot resist laughing. I was the president. I handed over charge to RCP Singh and when he became union minister, he handed over charge to Lalan Singh,” he said after his weekly “Janata durbar me mukhyamantri” programme.RCP Singh too was quick to dismiss talks of any rift, saying he has very cordial relations with Lalan Singh. “There is only one leader, Nitish Kumar, in the party. Others work under him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-chief-skips-rcp-s-function-amid-talks-of-rift-nitish-says-all-is-well-101629130346821.html
16-08-2021||Lucknow||New Union ministers from UP launch BJP’s jan ashirwad yatras||Newly appointed Union ministers from Uttar Pradesh kicked off “jan ashirwad yatras” on Monday about seven months ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls which are due early next year.During the mass connect drive to raise awareness of the BJP governments’ achievements at the Centre and in the state, the ministers will tour 120 assembly constituencies.“We are working to ensure that all those who don’t have a roof on their heads get them by August 15, 2022,” said Kaushal Kishore, the Mohanlalganj MP who is the Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs.He was referring to PM Awas Yojana (PMAY) which aims to construct 21.4 million houses in rural areas and 11.2 million units in urban areas by 2022.Kishore started his yatra from Unnao. It will culminate in Sitapur on August 18 after touching assembly segments in Unnao, Rae Bareli and Barabanki. During the welcome function for Kishore, Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra and Union minister of state for finance Pankaj Choudhary, majority of party workers were seen without face masks.“I had it on all through, have just removed it,” said a party worker.Mishra, before embarking on his yatra from Sandila, Hardoi, said, “Sensing the people’s mood, we are confident we will form our own majority government [in the state].”Mishra’s yatra will culminate in Ambedkar Nagar on August 19.Pankaj Choudhary said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always described himself as the pradhan sevak (chief servant) setting the template for us.”Choudhary’s yatra will move from Basti and conclude in his Lok Sabha constituency Maharajganj on August 18.The others who will take out the yatras are Union ministers of state BL Verma, SP Singh Baghel, Bhanu Pratap Verma and Anupriya Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/union-ministers-from-up-launch-bjp-s-jan-ashirwad-yatras-101629128306452.html
16-08-2021||Other||In fight against Covid, UP’s Balua village caught between two districts||LUCKNOW In their fight against Covid, the natives of Balua village are caught between Gorakhpur and Maharajganj districts.Reason: For development projects, welfare schemes and administrative works, villagers visit the tehsil office in Campeerganj town of Gorakhpur district, but for health services they have to go to the community health centre at Dhani town in Maharajganj district, said the newly elected gram pradhan. Located in Campeerganj tehsil area (50km north of Gorakhpur), Balua village was in the headlines after detection of 17 fresh Covid cases on August 12. Though cases are on the decline in Uttar Pradesh, the sudden Covid surge in this sleepy village drew the state government’s attention and medical teams were rushed to launch containment drive.Interestingly, the village is located in Gorakhpur district, but the health team was sent from the neighbouring Maharajganj district.Newly elected gram pradhan Sambhu said around 8,000 residents of Balua village are trapped in “an administrative dichotomy.” Health care services in 28 villages, including Balua village in Gorakhpur district, are run by the Maharajganj district administration, he said.“When the spread of Covid was reported in the village, we were virtually tossed between the two districts. The officers of Gorakhpur administration told us that health teams from Maharajganj district will launch the treatment, sample collection and contact tracing drive, whereas the officers of the Maharajganj district said that the village is located in Gorakhpur district, it’s the responsblity of the Gorakhpur health department to launch the containment drive,” he said.Medicine distribution and sample collection were delayed. Finally, the health team from the CHC in Dhani town in Maharajganj launched the health services, door-to-door survey and Covid vaccination drive,” said Sambhu.“We are facing the problem since 1989, when Maharajganj district was carved out of Gorakhpur. The area faces flood fury and outbreak of encephalitis every year. While relief and rescue operation operations are carried out by the Gorakhpur administration, the treatment to sick children is provided by the Maharajganj administration,” he added.“The Campeerganj health centre is 11 km away, but we have to cross river Rapti to visit the Dhani health centre in Maharajganj district located 20 km from the village. For over two decades, we have been demanding that health services to the 28 villages be provided by the Gorakhpur health department. We are getting mere assurances from the MPs, MLAs and officers,” said Sambhu.Chief medical officer, Maharajganj, Dr AK Srivastava said no fresh Covid cases have been reported in Balua village after August 12. “Health workers had collected 1,000 samples for laboratory test (between Aug 8 and 12) under the contact tracing drive. The reports of the samples were negative while medical kits have been distributed among the people who tested positive earlier and staying in home isolation under constant surviellance of health teams. A health team is camping in the village to organize the Covid vaccination drive,” he said. Dr Sudhakar Pandey, CMO, Gorakhpur said after report of Covid cases an alert was sounded in the Campeeragnaj tehsil area. “The district health department is monitoring the situation. There is large migration of people to various parts of the country from the area and health teams are collecting details of people arriving from Mumbai, Kerala, Karnataka, West Bengal and Punjab where the spurt Covid has been reported,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-fight-against-covid-up-s-balua-village-caught-between-two-districts-101629128186818.html
16-08-2021||Lucknow||UP legislature’s monsoon session: Opposition wants more sittings to discuss key issues||The Uttar Pradesh legislature’s monsoon session begins here on Tuesday with the major Opposition parties demanding more sittings to discuss key issues.The demand comes as the state government placed a five-day agenda for sittings of the state assembly at the business advisory committee here on Monday.The state government proposes to present its first supplementary demands for grants for 2021-22 in the state assembly here on Wednesday (August 18) and get them passed on Thursday (August 19). It will also carry out legislative business and table bills to replace the ordinances (promulgated after the budget session of state legislature) along with some new bills.The state government had earlier proposed to get the supplementary demands for grants passed on August 24. Amid questions over whether the state government will further cut short the monsoon session, state assembly speaker Hridaya Narain Dikshit convened an all-party meeting on Monday to seek the cooperation of leaders of all the parties for the smooth conduct of the business of the House.“Yes, an all-party meeting was held on Monday. I, along with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna, sought the cooperation of all the parties. All the leaders have assured us their full cooperation,” said Dikshit.According to a government press release, speaking at the meeting, the chief minister said Covid-19 had been contained. He also said the state government had made all the necessary arrangements for protection from Covid-19 and state government would like to have serious debate on various issues in the House.The others who attended the meeting included Samajwadi Party’s Narendra Verma, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Shah Alam aka Guddu Jamali, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhana Mishra Mona, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) leader Om Prakash Rajbhar and Apna Dal leader Lina Tiwari, he said.“We requested the state government for a longer session so that key issues of public concern may be debated. We propose to raise the issue of the handling of Covid-19, besides the issues concerning rising inflation, unemployment, farmers and the law and order situation,” said Aradhana Mishra after the all-party meeting.“We will raise the issues concerning rising inflation, rising unemployment, farmers, law and order situation and the state government’s mishandling of Covid-19 that led to a large number of deaths,” leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary said. Samajwadi Party leader Narendra Verma, who attended the all-party meeting on behalf of Chaudhary, said he also requested the state government to have more sittings to ensure debate on important issues.The speaker said the state assembly will follow the Covid-19 protocol for the monsoon session as well. On the first day on August 17, the state assembly is likely to be adjourned after condoling the deaths of its sitting members and minister of state Vijay Kashyap, who also succumbed to Covid-19. Various bills to be tabled in the House include the ones to replace the Uttar Pradesh Repeal Ordinance 2021, the Uttar Pradesh State University (amendment) Ordinances 2021, the Uttar Pradesh Private University (amendment) Ordinance 2021 and the Uttar Pradesh Nagariya Parisar Kirayedari Vinimayan (Dwitiya) Ordinance 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-legislature-s-monsoon-session-opposition-wants-more-sittings-to-discuss-key-issues-101629126986285.html
16-08-2021||Pune||Pune continues to be a district of concern, RT-PCR positivity rises compared to last week||Pune: Even as the Pune administration has relaxed Covid-19 restrictions since August 8 and allowed shops to stay open till 10 pm and malls for fully vaccinated staff and customers, the district has reported a slight rise in the RT-PCR positivity. Many districts in the state are seeing a drop in RT-PCR positivity than the state average of 3.10% between August 8 and August 14. Among the districts of concern, which have reported a higher Covid-19 RT-PCR positivity rate, than the state average for the same period, are Pune at 6.10%, Ahmednagar 7.1%, Sangli 7.3%, Satara 7.0% and Solapur at 5.5%. The combined positivity rate for the district is 5.5% which is higher than state combined positivity at 2.9%. Pune has been in list of above state average for over two months. The number of new cases from rural area add to the increased positivity rate which is an important criterion to relax restrictions. Pune’s RT-PCR positivity rate which stood at 5.9% between August 2 and August 8 has risen to 6.1% between August 8 and August 14. Although this might seem like a small jump, increase in RT-PCR positivity reflects the spread of infection in the area. Combined positivity rate includes Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) which may also show false negatives. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state Covid-19 advisor, said, “The drop in cases in Vidharbha is a positive sign and at the same time these districts which continue to remain of concern need to be looked at too. Until now we do not know the role delta-plus variant plays in this, however, all variants of delta are of concern. What can be controlled is people following Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly. People in Pune demanded to open up more commercial activities and also relax restrictions, but at the same time they need to be aware that coronavirus is still around.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-continues-to-be-a-district-of-concern-rt-pcr-positivity-rises-compared-to-last-week-101629124705360.html
16-08-2021||Other||{Taliban takeover of Kabul} Traders at ICP a worried lot over import from Afghanistan||Amritsar With the Taliban militia taking over Afghanistan, Indian traders are a worried lot. Talibani forces have reportedly sealed Afghanistan’s Torkham and Chaman borders with Pakistan, the only two land routes used for trade activities from India to Afghanistan and vice-versa. India traders import dry fruits, onions and apples from Afghanistan. The Integrated check post (ICP), Attari, which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, has been receiving goods only from Afghanistan since New Delhi abrogated Article 370 in August 2019. In 2019-20, the ICP had recorded a business of ₹2,767 crore, which dipped to ₹2,500 crore in 2020-21. Prior to this, the ICP had been recording a trade valued between ₹4,000 crore and ₹5,000 crore trade a year.“We and our counterparts in Afghanistan are worried. Taliban has taken control of Torkham and Chaman borders. We also hear reports that the Taliban has promised to not disrupt any trade activity in transit routes. The situation will only be clear over the next two-three days,” said, Anil Mehra, president, Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association.“It takes around four-five days for a goods truck to reach the ICP after its departure from Afghanistan. On Monday, five trucks with dry-fruit reached the ICP,” said a Customs official, who didn’t wish to be named. He added, “There is one more worry. Trucks transporting goods to India also carry documents that the Afgani government issues. With the collapse of the regime, how will these trucks bring the required documents? Even if the Taliban allows trade, the Centre’s stand will also matter.”“Afghanistan mostly send us dry fruits, which are perishable. There are no arrangements for importing dry fruits via sea or air. We hope that the two land routes are opened for import, as the dry fruit is also not that far away,” he added. Hundreds of porters, working at the ICP, could also be rendered jobless. “We are already suffering as the trade with Pakistan has been shut two years. If import with Afghanistan also stops, our children will die of hunger,” said a porter Lakhwinder Singh.Trade at the ICP has been diminishing gradually since the Pulwama terror attack of February 2019, in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed. After the attack, India had increased duty on items imported from Pakistan from 5% to 200%. In August, 2019, when New Delhi abrogated Article 370 which gave special powers to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan had ceased trade with India. The neighbouring country had also barred India from exporting goods to Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taliban-takeover-of-kabul-traders-at-icp-a-worried-lot-over-import-from-afghanistan-101629123807054.html
16-08-2021||Other||Himachal farmers want Stokes’ birthday memorialised as Apple Day||Far from the madding crowd, orchardists from across Himachal Pradesh converged in the picturesque suburb of Narkanda, 15km from Kotgarh, the apple bowl of the hill state, on Monday to mark the birthday of Samuel Evans Stokes, later known as Satyanand Stokes, the American missionary who pioneered apple-growing in the state.Today, Himachal Pradesh’s fruit economy is pegged at ₹6,000 crore. But it all started with Stokes introducing viable apple cultivation at Barubagh in Kotgarh in 1916. The Delicious variety of apples, which Stokes introduced, is now grown in parts of Kullu, Shimla, Mandi, Sirmaur, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti and Chamba districts.“Stokes contribution to the hill-state should be immortalised, “ says Subash Kainthla, a Zila Parishad member from Bhutti-Thanedhar ward in Kotgarh, “Stokes’ statue should be installed on the Ridge. If Yashwant Singh Parmar (the first chief minister of Himachal Pradesh) is called the architect of Himachal, then Stokes’ too revolutionised the state’s economy.” Kainthla was among the 100 farmers paid floral tributes to Stokes, who was born on August 16, 1882, at a small statue installed in his remembrance. A small event was also organised at the Thanedhar panchayat. “Farmers in the region have demanded that Stokes’ birthday should be commemorated as apple day,” Kainthla said. The journey from Samuel Evans to Satyanand A year after the young Christian missionary arrived in Shimla in 1904 to join a leprosy mission, an earthquake ravaged Kangra and killed more than 20,000 people and Stokes walked from village to village, helping the affected. In 1912, he visited Kotgarh and settled there, marrying a local Christian girl, Agnes. Later, he entered Arya Samaj and changed his name to Satyanand.Inspired by Mahatma Gandhi, he joined the Congress and fought for India’s independence.Stokes wasn’t the first to introduce apple to the state, but it was his contribution that went a long way in transforming the apple economy. Captain RC Scot of the British army was the first to bring the fruit to the Kullu valley in 1870, but his variety was not viable economically. Stokes’ red, delicious variety was from Louisiana in the US. He planted an apple orchard on his Thanedhar estate in 1919 and taught the techniques to locals.The apple bowlApple is the most important fruit crop of Himachal Pradesh, which constitutes about 49% of the total area under fruit crops and about 79% of the total fruit production. The area under apple has increased from 400 hectares in 1950-61 and 1,12,634 hectares in 2017-18.The area under temperate fruits other than apple has increased from 900 hectares in 1960-61 to 28,369 hectares in 2017-18. The apple economy alone is pegged at ₹2,900 crore.As many as 450 cultivars (plants propagated through stem cuttings, not via seeds) of apple collected from all over the world, a majority from the United States, Italy, China and New Zealand are grown in seven districts of the state, namely Shimla, Kullu, Sirmaur, Chamba, Mandi, Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti.Last month, actor Kangana Ranaut, who hails from the hill state, had also urged the Himachal government to build a memorial for Stokes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-farmers-want-stokes-birthday-memorialised-as-apple-day-101629123508883.html
16-08-2021||Other||Lt Colonel booked for raping wife||Ludhiana A lieutenant colonel deputed in the Baddowal military area has been booked for allegedly raping his wife in his government accommodation. The woman, who is living at her maternal home in Khanna following a marital dispute, had visited her husband to see their son, who was not well. The couple had tied the nuptial knot in December 2010.On the woman’s complaint, the Mullanpur Dakha police have lodged an FIR against the accused. “Soon after our marriage, my husband started harassing me claiming that the wedding party was not as per his status. I have been living with my parents since July 2019, with my son also with me. Around a week ago, he took my son for staying with him. When I visited them on August 14, my husband raped me and threatened to kill me, if I did not keep mum,” her complaint reads. Sub-inspector Kamaldeep Kaur, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 376-B (intercourse by public servant with woman in his custody) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lt-colonel-booked-for-raping-wife-101629123505996.html
16-08-2021||Lucknow||I am here to play a long innings: Rahaao||Actor Rahaao believes in baby steps before taking a big stride. The UPite has completed a decade in Mumbai and calls it as his learning period than struggle. “Meri pyaas initi gehri hai ki mujhe kabhi pareshani nahi hoti (My thirst to learn is so great that nothing is ever a problem for me). I have gone through very tough times in these last 10 years, but I never felt it was a struggle. This is my dream, and I am on a path to achieve it, so all this is my learning,” says the actor who comes from Lukmanpur Baheda village in Shahjahanpur.The actor has featured in films like The Attack of 26/11, Baby, Special 26, Killing Veerappan and recently in Shershaah.“Sometimes I even wonder how I managed to reach here! In my village, we did not have a radio or TV. We are a family of farmers, and as a child, I remember delivering milk cans. Mine is the first generation in the family which went to school,” tells Rahaao.He recalls watching a patriotic play where freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s brother, Kartar Singh was present. “I was in Class 5 then and decided that this is what I wanted to do. For graduation, I went to Shahjahanpur where I started doing plays with different theatre groups. I tried for NSD but could not get through. In my third attempt, I got through Bhartendu Natya Akademi (2008), Lucknow. Padma Sri Raj Bisaria saheb and our director Suryamohan Kulshresthaji were my mentors. I did many plays under Rajji including the lead in King Lear.” Soon, he got a play Shifa of which he did 50 shows throughout the country and saving some money, left for Mumbai. “My film role was in Special 26 in which I was in the title of 26 people but technically I was in a crowd. In Ram Gopal Verma ’s Attacks of 26/11 I played Abu Ismail who was the leader of the terrorist gang followed by Killing Veerrapan in which I had a good role. I also acted in Les Cowboys, Neerja, Kissebaaz, Indian’s Most Wanted and Shershaah in which most roles are of Pakistani characters.”He has restricted himself from doing TV and advertisements. “I am focusing on films and OTT. I have played the lead in a 49-minute monochrome film Chalne Do which has gone to many festivals. After the lockdown, I shot for the series Mum Bhai and have also done a role in Akshay (Kumar) sir’s film Raksha Bandhan.”Rahaao is eying big roles but is content with doing small roles in big projects too. “I am fine with small roles in mega projects, as in them, besides acting, I present myself to the cast and crew who later become filmmakers themselves. Be it RGV or Neeraj (Pandey) sir, all have repeated me many times. I am not in a hurry and am here to play a long innings. Trust me, it’s very tough to sustain even today but I never think of quitting and will surely make it big. I believe my time has come,” says the actor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/i-am-here-to-play-a-long-innings-rahaao-101629119725691.html
16-08-2021||Other||Goa teenager death: Family junks drowning theory; CM asks Crime Branch to assist||Four days after a 19-year-old girl was found dead at Goa’s Calangute beach, chief minister Pramod Sawant has asked the Crime Branch to assist in the investigation. This comes in the wake of her family alleging foul play. The Goa Police had first said that she died of drowning and ruled out rape or murder when the autopsy found no evidence of sexual assault or injuries.Sawant said, “The Crime Branch will assist in the investigation.” The mother of the deceased said, “We want justice. Whoever has done this needs to come out. If she killed herself by drowning, why was the body not bloated? Even her stomach was not filled with water. It only had the breakfast she had taken.” Her father said, “I dropped her at the bus stop and I saw her board the bus. Then I proceeded my way. I got a call ten minutes later from a cousin who works at the mall (along with her) that she hadn’t reached. I asked her to wait a little more as sometimes the bus is slow, but she never reached.” Also Read | ‘India only G20 nation to meet climate goals’The missing persons report was lodged shortly before 1pm on the day she went missing. Police say they reached out to a bus conductor at Mapusa (that lies in the direction opposite to where the victim was headed) who recognised her and said she was alone at the time. The family has handed over her mobile phone to the police in the hope that it will offer some clue leading to her death. “I have met the SP and I am convinced that the truth will come out,” the father said after a late evening meeting with top brass of the Goa Police on Sunday.Shobit Saksena, Superintendent of Police(North Goa) said, “We are conducting a detailed probe in the matter and have preserved viscera for forensic analysis.”The Opposition has demanded a thorough probe into the death. “I have asked the chief minister for a complete investigation. The case should be handed over to the Crime Branch,” local BJP MLA Glenn Souza Tico said. The incident evokes memories of the death of British teenager Scarlett Keeling who was found dead on Goa’s Anjuna beach in February 2007. The police initially closed the case as an accidental drowning but after insistence by the girl’s mother, reopened it. An investigation by a different team of the Goa Police found that Keeling was drugged and sexually assaulted, leading to her death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-teenager-death-family-junks-drowning-theory-cm-asks-crime-branch-to-assist-101629119485783.html
16-08-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Door-to-door health survey begins in Bengaluru||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Bengaluru’s civic body, on Monday rolled out an ambitious initiative to send a team of medically qualified personnel door-to-door in India’s to monitor the general health of residents, collect information and spread awareness on Covid-19, among other tasks.The move comes at a time when Bengaluru and the rest of Karnataka are staring at another wave of Covid-19 infections, the number of which appears to be increasing with every day.As part of the scheme--“Palike Vaidyaru Nimma Mane Bagilige”(Palike doctors at your doorstep)--there will be one doctor and one para medical staff to collect information on Covid-19 symptoms and comorbidities as well as provide advice on healthcare.Also Read | Schools to reopen in K’taka dists with less than 2% TPR“In the first phase, two wards each from assembly constituencies, 54 in total, have been chosen and the survey will start on August 16, 2021,” the BBMP said in a statement on Monday. Bengaluru has 198 wards.The survey questions will include details of residence and family members, health and vaccination, which will be entered into the BBMP software every day.R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue and in-charge of Bengaluru city for Covid-19, said on Monday that the new programme is part of an initiative to ensure the safety of the city’s residents.“The first (intent of the new initiative) is to ensure health for Bangaloreans. If anyone tests positive when our team reaches them, then arrangements will be made to move them to hospitals,” Ashok said.He added that as part of the drive, healthcare workers would also collect information on vaccination coverage and details of comorbidities--diagnosed and undiagnosed--to provide more targeted healthcare requirements.Ashok said that the team will go to 50 homes each day with a set of questions. He added that this would also build confidence among the population.The erstwhile BS Yediyurappa-led government has been criticised for its mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis and prioritising elections and politics, adding to the challenges that the state had to overcome since the beginning of the pandemic around March last year.The new government under Basavaraj Bommai has been trying to prioritise Covid-19 management by imposing strict rules like weekend curfews in districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra and a night curfew across the state including in Bengaluru.Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP, said that the initiative was part of preventive measures in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-door-to-door-health-survey-begins-in-bengaluru-101629117445413.html
16-08-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Pune should create more effective youth engagement in climate change||Youth in Pune are definitely aware and receptive about climate change; we don’t need to be convinced that it is happening. However, we need more engagement on what to do about it”, says Aditi Kale, independent researcher and coordinator Climate Collective Pune. Aditi’s view matches the findings of a recent study on young people and drivers and barriers to climate adaptation action (2021 Youth Report) conducted by the Global Centre for Adaptation (GCA) with partners, including Centre for Environment Education (CEE). Understanding how to adapt is essential for young people who will live with these impacts in the coming decades. They are current and future decision-makers. Their local, national, and international engagement is vital for building resilience and developing effective adaptation policies. The purpose of the code red by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) with its Assessment Report 6 is to caution us about the impacts of climate change and spur action. Action is needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as well as to adapt to climate change impacts. Consequences of climate change include the extreme rainfall events and flooding and heatwaves experienced in recent weeks. Youth in India and other developing countries already face difficulties to access education, health services, livelihoods and jobs. The consequences of climate change, such as illnesses, deaths, loss of household assets and livelihoods, come on top of these circumstances. Poorer households are worst-affected and take much longer to recover from such adversities. The 2021 Youth Report says that the failure to include young people in policy processes remains the most critical hurdle for youth engagement in policymaking. Pune should take note and create much broader and more effective youth engagement in climate change and sustainability. In this context, here are two opportunities for young people to be involved in policy dialogue and local actions. The TCS Sustainathon, launched on Independence Day by Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) along with challenge partners the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), SWaCH and the Adar Poonawalla Clean City Initiative, is an exciting opportunity for school and college students in Pune. The challenge is to develop creative solutions for zero waste communities, waste to wealth, empowering waste handlers, and taking responsibility for the waste one generates. Strengthening circular economy, livelihoods and work conditions of waste handlers are an integral part of climate action. The second opportunity is the Local Conference of Youth (LCOY) events by YOUNGO, the official youth constituency of the United Nations Framework Convention of Climate Change. LCOY India 2021 is being organised online by the official host Centre for Environment Education in early October, focusing on youth actions for ecosystem restoration solutions. The policy recommendations, outcomes and suggestions of LCOY will be presented at the United Nations Climate Change Conference of Youth (COY). The COY will occur before the Conference of Parties which will be attended by the government delegations in Glasgow in October this year. The 2021 Youth Report highlights the strengths of youth: technology and social media savviness, their desire to connect across age groups, and a strong willingness to step up and act when facing extreme weather events. These characteristics have enormous potential to strengthen adaptation policies and climate resilience. As Harshad Barde from SWaCH said at the Sustainathon launch event on Sunday, “Those who are already working in the system often don’t try new things due to cynicism. Youth can create radical innovations and challenge the old set ways, which are sometimes part of the problem”. The report also cautions that “the burden of coping with climate change impacts and adapting should not be placed on young people alone when serious impediments to their participation in political processes exist in many societies”. As a city with a relatively larger youth population, Pune has the opportunity and the responsibility to foster youth learning, participation in decision-making and action for climate resilience in a free and supportive social environment. Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-pune-should-create-more-effective-youth-engagement-in-climate-change-101629116424572.html
16-08-2021||Dehradun||Over 80 Afghan cadets training at IMA worry about situation back home||As the Taliban continue to take over Afghanistan, and the Afghan National Army (ANA) has collapsed in the neighbouring country, over 80 Afghan cadets undergoing training at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun face an uncertain future. The ANA officers, including cadets in the first and the second semester, are on pre-commission training at IMA for a one-year course as per a strategic partnership agreement between India and Afghanistan signed in 2011 under which India has been providing military training to Afghan military officers. An army officer confirmed there are over 80 Afghan cadets training at IMA. On the recent development in Afghanistan, he said on condition of anonymity, “The young cadets are worried for their families back home...Their trainers and faculty members are constantly supporting them and trying to keep their morale high.” The officer added, “Even as their future seems uncertain as the ANA seems to have collapsed, the IMA is not stopping their training.” Also Read | In Afghanistan, the limits of Indian powerMeanwhile, IMA public relations officer, Lt Col Himani Pant, said the training academy has not received any communication from the Afghan authorities till Monday following the developments in their country. “As of now, we are imparting training to the Afghan cadets in IMA,” she said. Afghan cadets comprise the majority of foreign cadets undergoing training at the IMA. In the last passing out parade held in June, a total of 84 foreign cadets passed out, of whom 43 were from Afghanistan. ANA officers said they were angry at the Afghan political leaders more than anybody else. One of the officers, who passed out from the IMA in December 2018 and was deployed in the ministry of defence of Afghanistan till Saturday, told HT over WhatsApp, “We are angry with the politicians of the country who are political traders. They sold out our motherland and left the people of Afghanistan to their fate. More than any foreign power or Taliban, it is them who destroyed this country. People of Afghanistan will kill them one by one once this crisis ends,” he said. Despite repeated attempts, officials at the Afghanistan embassy couldn’t be contacted till the time of filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/over-80-afghan-cadets-training-at-ima-worry-about-situation-back-home-101629115585400.html
16-08-2021||Patna||Decision on state-level caste census only after Centre’s response: Bihar CM||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi deserves praise for removing the confusion regarding a state’s right to classify other backward castes (OBCs).“The states had the right to classify OBCs earlier also. In Bihar, former CM Karpoori Thakur also created a separate category for extremely backward classes (EBCs). Different states have done it differently, as they were empowered to do so. There was, however, some confusion for the last few years. After the court order, the Centre decided to clarify that states continue to have the right,” he said, reiterating his demand for the caste census, saying it would be in the interest of the country and it was for the Centre to decide. Also Read | Fight over jalebis on Independence Day in Bihar’s Katihar leads to firingTalking to media persons after his weekly “Janata ke durbar me mukhyamantri” programme to listen to people’s problems directly and address them, Kumar said that his letter was acknowledged by the PMO on August 13. “Now whenever he deems fit, we will discuss the matter with him. If it has to be done at t he state level, that is a separate issue. It will be decided through a unanimous decision after talking to all sections. But right now, that is not the issue,” he said.Kumar said that he had been advocating the need for caste-based census across the country for a long time. “It was done separately between 2011-13, but the report did not come out. We want it to be with the Census at least once to have a clear picture, as it will help in planning and policy-making for they weaker sections,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/decision-on-state-level-caste-census-only-after-centre-s-response-bihar-cm-101629115525169.html
16-08-2021||Other||TMC leader in Bengal’s Murshidabad escapes bomb attack; driver killed||A Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader escaped unhurt while his driver died when the car they were in was attacked by bombs late on Sunday, said the police. Two others were injured in the attack.Shah Alam Sarkar is TMC community bloc unit president at Raninagar in Bengal’s Murshidabad district and the attack took place at Godhonpara when Sarkar was returning home. “The car was approaching the Godhonpara road intersection when some unidentified criminals blocked its path and started hurling bombs at it. The injured were rushed to Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in a critical condition. The driver, Abdur Sattar, 40, died while he was being taken to SSKM Hospital in Kolkata on Sunday night,” a district police officer said on the condition of anonymity as he is not authorised to brief the media. Also Read | TMC celebrating ‘Khela Hobe divas’, BJP counters with save Bengal dayThe TMC leader’s aide, Sohel Rana, and his security guard, Jainal Abedin, sustained splinter injuries. Sarkar escaped unhurt, the officer said. TMC legislator from Raninagar, Soumik Hossain, said, “Shah Alam Sarkar was my election agent in the recent assembly polls. He helped me win by a margin of 81,000 votes. The Congress, Left and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wanted him dead. I suspect that some Opposition leader planned the attack.” The BJP’s Murshidabad (south) organisational district unit president Gouri Shankar Ghosh dismissed the allegation and said no one from his party was involved in the attack. Local Congress and Left leaders also denied the charge as well. Officers at Raninagar police station said charges have been registered against 12 people and two suspects have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tmc-leader-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-escapes-bomb-attack-driver-killed-101629113485192.html
16-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal CM announces 6% DA for govt staff, pensioners||With an eye on the byelections due in three assembly segments and a parliamentary constituency, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has announced 6% dearness allowance for state government employees. Presiding over the state-level Independence Day function in his hometown, Mandi, on Sunday, Thakur announced the 6% DA for state government employees and pensioners from July 1, 2021. This decision will provide financial benefits amounting to ₹450 crore to employees and pensioners. Also read: Peace in Afghanistan, won’t harm anyone. What have Taliban said so farThe chief minister also announced the enhancement in subsidy being provided to below poverty line and above poverty line families on edible oil from the existing ₹10 a litre to ₹30 a litre to BPL card holders and from ₹5 to ₹10 a litre to APL card holders for the next four months. This will benefit 18.71 lakh card holders. The chief minister said ₹15 crore will be given to the Mandi municipal corporation for development works. This was the first time that neither the state level nor the district level function was held at the Ridge in Shimla. State power minister Sukhram Chaudhary presided over the district-level function at DAV College, Kotkhai. The Jubbal Kotkhai assembly seat fell vacant after the death of former horticulture minister Narendra Bragta in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cm-announces-6-da-for-govt-staff-pensioners-101629112405107.html
16-08-2021||Pune||Your Space: Getting ready to tackle possible Covid third wave in Pune||The state government has relaxed Covid curbs again following a drop in virus cases and positivity rate. With reports of new variants of the virus and medical experts predicting a third wave, readers suggest steps that authorities should take to ensure citizens strictly follow prevention norms... Public participation, awareness must to contain virus spread The state is now reopening businesses that were shut down for months due to the Covid-19 lockdown. As daily caseload in the state goes down, the decision to reopen becomes imminent for trade and businesses, as well as for commoners. However, with regard to the chances of a third Covid-19 wave, authorities need to step up to the task of ensuring all safety protocols related to the virus are strictly followed. Till now, the Covid-19 inappropriate behaviour of the public often went unnoticed for the most part due to various reasons. Hence, this time the authorities can take the help of shopkeepers to ensure that citizens follow preventive norms at public places. There must be a consensus between authorities and shopkeepers not to allow anyone in the shop unless they have a mask on and it may also be made mandatory to have taken at least one shot of the vaccine. The authorities can determine the high-risk areas with the help of already available data and create a separate task force to focus on these areas. Setting up Covid-19 testing booths, stepping up vaccination drives in that particular area, and safety protocol awareness are some of the measures that could help contain the spread. Furthermore, it has been seen that the patient with mild symptoms of Covid-19 prefers to take medicines without getting themselves tested. Awareness and efforts shall be made to carry out more tests and the patient should be able to get tested near their house. Apart from that, in housing societies, the onus can be put on the society board members along with the local police station to ensure that no one is flouting the safety protocols. Lastly, the importance of wearing a mask cannot be stressed enough. In Pune itself, police have collected ₹43 crore in fine for not wearing masks in the last 16 months. Tougher restrictions and mandatory quarantines can be levied on those who have found to be regularly violating the safety protocols. Mihir Shete More vaccination and tests needed The second Covid wave was four times more devastating than the first one, according to a study. Kerala, which successfully tackled the second wave, reported 50% new cases last week. The third wave is inevitable, only the scale is not known and the time is unpredictable. All the states and the central government must ensure that the vaccination and testing won’t go out of sight. Children are not vaccinated till date therefore they are the most vulnerable to new variants. Few vaccination of adults will create trouble for children because if children get affected in the third wave then their parents need to be with them in hospitals. And if parents are not vaccinated then they will risk their life for their children. All the state governments have to frame a policy of cooperation, they must not be seen fighting with each other during the time of nationwide emergency. The central government really have to ensure that children won’t gasp for oxygen during the crisis. Prolonged lockdowns have severe impact on the livelihood of people, imposing repeated lockdowns without proper vaccination is an ill-thought policy. Santosh Bhagat Following Covid appropriate behaviour like fundamental duty It has been more than a year that we all have been observing the pattern of Covid. We saw that the wave is coming after every three months of relaxation, but now the Covid has many variants of the virus which have become dangerous. And it is spreading at a higher rate than earlier. Many states, including Maharashtra, have started giving permission to shops and malls to be operational as per regular time. We should never forget that the virus is still among us. We should always keep this in mind that only 13% of the total population in India is vaccinated. So, we can say that 87% are at risk. In order to be safe, following the Covid appropriate behaviour is like a fundamental duty to protect the health of all. Authorities should take following steps to curb the third wave: Vaccination: The only answer available to fight Covid today is vaccination. So, the government should increase the rate of vaccination. Genome sequencing: Authorities should be alert to find if there is any new variant of virus. Testing and tracing people with symptoms and isolating them will help to curb spread of any other variant. Test trace and isolate: Even if positivity rate is reduced, authorities should not reduce the testing rate. It is the main weapon to predict the wave and predict if there is any new variant of the virus. RT-PCR testing at public places will help in curbing the spread. Actions against people not following Covid appropriate behaviour: Authorities should be strict so that people will not forget to follow prevention rules. Public awareness: Authorities should be making the public aware about new variants or rising cases in their area. Housing societies, apartments where cases are increasing should be sealed and patients should be isolated. Though there are many steps that authorities should take to curb the third wave, but the real answer lies with us. If we follow the basics of Covid, we would win this battle. Apurv Londhe Follow the rules or let the virus follow you Many prominent personalities like India’s principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan and medical experts have already told us that a third wave is inevitable - it could only be curbed if people continue to take strong measures. Even in July, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told in a conference that last year we had the same trends of cases rising from Maharashtra and Kerala that lead to a disastrous second wave in India. As we all are already having an experience, we should be prepared mentally, economically and medically to curb the next wave. Steps that authorities should take to curb the third wave include door-to-door vaccination. It would also create awareness about vaccination and help in controlling the spread of virus. Authorities should allow only vaccinated people to open shops or there should be mandatory weekly Covid tests for shop owners and workers. Even though the virus cases have dropped, the government should avoid mass gathering events such as exams, rallies, festivals and such events. The third Covid wave is inevitable, but learning from past experiences we can be prepared for medical emergencies that can arise during this tough times which includes providing oxygen beds and maintaining proper inventory of essential drugs required in treatment of patients. We should have learned this from our earlier experience. It is very straight and simple – Follow the rules or let the virus follow you. Paritosh Munot||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-getting-ready-to-tackle-possible-covid-third-wave-in-pune-101629110845572.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||Very ‘important’ announcement tomorrow: Arvind Kejriwal on visit to Uttarakhand||Delhi chief minister and national convenor of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that his party would make “a very important announcement” on Tuesday regarding the “development of Uttarakhand.” The CM also said that he is scheduled to visit the state on Tuesday.Taking to Twitter, Kejriwal posted in Hindi, “I am going to Uttarakhand tomorrow. Aam Aadmi Party is going to make a very important announcement tomorrow. This announcement will prove to be a milestone for the progress and development of Uttarakhand.”कल उत्तराखंड जा रहा हूँ। आम आदमी पार्टी कल एक बेहद महत्वपूर्ण घोषणा करने जा रही है। उत्तराखंड की प्रगति और विकास के लिए ये घोषणा एक मील का पत्थर साबित होगी।During this visit, he is also set to hold a press conference, in which the announcement would be made, and a road show in the state capital Dehradun, the AAP confirmed in a tweet. However, no further details about the announcement were mentioned by Kejriwal or his party.Also read | Kejriwal says launch of Deshbhakti curriculum in Delhi schools from Sept 27Kejriwal’s visit comes ahead of the assembly elections scheduled in Uttarakhand next year. During his last visit to the state in July, Kejriwal had announced that if elected to power, his government would provide up to 300 units of free electricity to every household in the state, similar on the lines of the scheme in national capital Delhi.Kejriwal had also said that his party would announce the chief ministerial candidate for the state assembly elections during his next visit. The party announced its decision last year to contest the Uttarakhand assembly elections, trying to emerge as the alternative to the ruling BJP and the Congress.Currently, the BJP is in power in the state. Earlier, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami had criticised Kejriwal following his announcement of free electricity. “Their (AAP’s) agenda can be elections but our agenda is only the development of Uttarakhand,” news agency ANI quoted Dhami as saying earlier on July 12. The Congress too had commented that the AAP would not pose a challenge to the party in the state elections. However, leaders from the AAP’ state unit had said that both the Congress and the BJP parties were “rattled” by the free electricity announcement, HT had previously reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/very-important-announcement-tomorrow-arvind-kejriwal-announces-visit-to-uttarakhand-on-aug-17-101629110158343.html
16-08-2021||Patna||Fight over jalebis on Independence Day in Bihar’s Katihar leads to firing||Two groups led by locals aspiring to contest Kuretha Panchayat elections in Bihar’s Katihar district clashed over distribution of sweets after unfurling of the national flag at the panchayat bhawan on the Independence Day. An FIR was lodged against five persons for firing several rounds of bullet in the air during the showdown, police said.“We have lodged an FIR on the basis of the written complaint by Nilesh Kumar against five persons including Bijli Yadav, a local muscleman who allegedly fired several rounds, under various Sections including 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 344, 345 (both wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), apart from under the Arms Act besides the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.” station house officer (SHO) of Mansahi police station, Radhe Shyam Singh, saidHe added that a police team was carrying out raids to arrest the accused who have been absconding since the incident.Police said an altercation between Nilesh Kumar and Bijli Yadav started over distribution of jalebis after the Mukhiya of the Kuretha Panchayat hoisted the national flag at the panchayat bhawan. Both the men wanted a larger share of the sweet delicacy for their supporters.“Both were demanding more jalebis for their supporters, leading to an altercation, and later, they fired at least three rounds in the air,” an eyewitness said, adding that no one sustained injuries in the firing.Both Bijli Yadav and Nilesh Kumar are looking to contest the panchayat elections and had arrived at the Panchayat Bhawan with their supporters. “Bijli Yadav is a muscleman and considered de facto mukhiya of the panchayat,” a police officer aware of the developments, said.The incumbent mukhiya Mukesh Oraon claimed the incident took place after he had left the Panchayat Bhawan. However, locals said the incident took place in presence of the mukhiya, who remained a mute spectator throughout the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fight-over-jalebis-on-independence-day-in-bihar-s-katihar-leads-to-firing-101629109525106.html
16-08-2021||Lucknow||UP woman set afire after filing molestation complaint against neighbour, dies||A 30-year-old woman who was set on fire on Sunday, allegedly by the family members of a man she had accused of molestation, succumbed to her injuries at a hospital in Jhansi on Monday, police officials confirmed. The woman from Uttar Pradesh’s Mahoba district had sustained over 90% burn injuries.Mahoba’s superintendent of police (SP) Sudha Singh said it all started with the deceased woman lodging an FIR on Saturday, alleging she had been assaulted and molested by her neighbour. “On Saturday, she (the victim) registered a case against her neighbour for beating and molesting her. The accused was taken into custody,” the SP said.The SP added that the angry parents of the accused neighbour poured kerosene on the complainant and set her afire in retaliation. “I spoke to the woman and she told us that the parents of the accused had set her afire after finding her alone in a field, where she had gone to relieve herself on Sunday morning.”Station House Officer (SHO) of Kul Pahad police station, Mahendra Pratap Singh said that the woman was taken to a medical college in the adjoining Jhansi district and the police have arrested the 50 year old mother of the accused following a complaint lodged by the family of the deceased. The complaint has not named the husband, the police officer said.Following the death of the 30-year old woman, police have added murder charge against the mother of the accused. The deceased was mother of three children and her husband works in a factory in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-woman-set-afire-after-filing-molestation-complaint-against-neighbour-dies-101629107004627.html
16-08-2021||Other||This district in Kerala has vaccinated all aged above 18 against Covid-19||Wayanad has become the first district in Kerala to complete the administration of the first dose of vaccine to all above the age of 18 years. State health minister Veena George on Monday appreciated the efforts of the health workers, who were involved in the inoculation process of the targeted population above 18 years of age in the district."The Wayanad district of Kerala has completed the first dose vaccine among all the eligible population above the age of 18 years. The specialty of Wayanad district is that it has got a more tribal population and I do appreciate all health workers who were involved in the vaccination process and are still engaged in the process in the best possible way," George told PTI. The achievement comes ahead of the visit of Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the southern state.Also Read | Union health minister Mandaviya to visit Kerala today as state battles surge in Covid-19 casesGeorge said that special mobile teams visited the tribal hamlets of Wayanad to administer the vaccine. "The government had formed 28 mobile teams to visit the remote tribal hamlets. The teams also visited the houses of 636 bedridden patients and administered vaccines," she added. The state government has also given the second dose vaccine to 2,13,311 (31.67 per cent) persons in Wayanad district. The district had earlier completed giving the first dose of the vaccine to everyone above the age of 45, and on Sunday, they had completed giving the first dose of vaccine to all above the age of 18 years, the minister said.The civic bodies, tribal development, health and labour departments, members of Kudumbashree Mission and ASHA workers played their role in achieving this, George added. She said the first dose of vaccine was given to 6,16,112 targeted persons, above 18 years of age. "Persons who tested positive for the infection, those in quarantine, and persons who refused the vaccine were exempted from the drive," she said. Kerala on Sunday reported 18,582 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the total infection count to 36.69 lakh, as the number of people succumbing to the disease rose to 18,601 with 102 additional deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/this-district-in-kerala-has-vaccinated-all-aged-above-18-against-covid19-101629103796236.html
16-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Jagbir Singh Brar is SAD candidate from Jalandhar Cantt||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday announced that newly inducted leader Jagbir Singh Brar will be the party candidate from Jalandhar Cantonment constituency in next year’s assembly elections. Brar, a former Congress MLA, joined the Shiromani Akali Dal on Monday in the presence of the SAD chief in Jalandhar. Also read: Afghanistan unrest: Punjab CM urges MEA to evacuate 200 stranded SikhsBrar, who is the chairman of the Punjab Water Resources Management and Development Corporation, was first elected as a SAD MLA from Jalandhar cantonment in 2007. Later, he joined the People’s Party of Punjab, floated by Manpreet Singh Badal, only to leave it and walk into the Congress camp in 2012. Brar was defeated by Pargat Singh, a former Olympian and hockey player who fought the 2012 assembly elections from Jalandhar Cantt on a SAD ticket. Pargat joined the Congress in 2016 and is the present Jalandhar Cantt MLA.Brar lost the 2017 assembly election from Nakodar constituency. His supporters urged the SAD leadership to field him from Jalandhar Cantt and vowed to work for his win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-ex-cong-mla-jagbir-singh-brar-is-sad-candidate-from-jalandhar-cantt-101629105025249.html
16-08-2021||Jaipur||4 killed in road accident in Hanumangarh district of Rajasthan||Four men died at the spot and the fifth was critically injured when the car they were travelling in had a head-on collision with a Rajasthan Roadways bus in Hanumangarh district. Rajasthan Police are on the lookout for the bus driver, who fled the spot after the accident, said Bishan Sahai, station house officer of Gogameri police station. He said the accident took place late Sunday evening near the bus stand at Parlika village of Hanumangarh. Sahai said all the five were residents of Adampur Mandi in Haryana and were headed to Hisar from Pilibanga. Such was the impact of the collision that the bus overturned on the car, crushing it, before both the vehicles broke through a nearby wall to enter a vacant plot. The people in the car were pulled out after employing a JCB, he said. One critically injured person was rushed to the government hospital in Nohar.The police officer added that the roadways bus coming from Bhadra was overtaking a camel cart at the time of the collision. However, none of the 35 passengers on the bus were seriously injured, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/4-killed-in-road-accident-in-hanumangarh-district-of-rajasthan-101629104844686.html
16-08-2021||Patna||Three of a family hacked to death in Bihar’s Siwan||Three members of a family including an elderly couple were murdered by unknown assailants late on Sunday night at their Bhikhaband locality house in Bihar’s Siwan district, police said.Ali Hussain Sai (75), his wife Nazma Khatoon (70) and their daughter Nasima Khatoon (30) were hacked to death while Nasima’s nine-year-old daughter was injured.Villagers said the family was quite poor, and the bed-ridden elderly couple were being looked after by their daughter, who had remarried one Mohammad Mubarak Ali three years ago. Mubarak, an auto-driver, was staying with Nasima, her daughter from first marriage and his in-laws.Neighbors alerted the police around 4am after they heard loud shrieks from Hussain’s house. “We heard loud screams from their house. When we rushed there, we saw some people rushing out of the house,” said Wazira Khatoon, a neighbour.Police said the elderly couple had received neck injuries while Nasima was stabbed on her neck and stomach.Siwan superintendent of police (SP) Abhinav Kumar said there was no apparent motive behind the murders and no one had been arrested so far. He ruled out robbery as the motive and said persons known to the family were likely to be involved in the crime.“Role of Mubarak was under scanner, and he was found missing after the crime. A police team had been dispatched to Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh to trace him,” Kumar added. Mubarak was originally from Barabanki but was living with Nasima. Nasima’s daughter was undergoing treatment at Sadar hospital and police were trying to record her statement, the SP said. In another incident, armed criminals gunned down a youth identified as Sikandar Yadav, a resident of Khargi Rampur village under Ziradei police station on Monday morning. The incident occurred at Harpur village under Nautan police station of the district. Siwan’s GB Nagar police also recovered a bullet-riddled body from NH-73 near Madhopur. It was later identified as that of Happy Choubey, a resident of Muffasil police station area. He was missing since August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/three-of-a-family-hacked-to-death-in-bihar-s-siwan-101629102984679.html
16-08-2021||Chandigarh||Afghanistan unrest: Punjab CM urges MEA to evacuate 200 stranded Sikhs||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday urged external affairs minister S Jaishankar to arrange for the immediate evacuation of all Indians, including around 200 Sikhs, stranded in a gurdwara in Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover of the war-torn country. Also read: Peace in Afghanistan, won’t harm anyone. What have Taliban said so farIn a tweet tagging the MEA, Capt Amarinder Singh said: “My government is willing to extend any help needed to ensure their safe evacuation.” He emphasised on remaining extra vigilant at all borders of the country, saying Afghanistan’s fall to the Taliban did not augur well for India. “Afghanistan’s fall to #Taliban will strengthen the Sino-Pak nexus against India (China has already sought the militia’s help on Uyghur). The signs are not at all good, we need to be extra vigilant now at all our borders,” Capt Amarinder had tweeted on Sunday. India is trying to evacuate hundreds of its officials and citizens from Kabul with the Taliban seizing control of the Afghan capital after President Ashraf Ghani left the country on Sunday following an intense onslaught by the militant outfit. Afghanistan’s Tolo News reported that Ghani and his aides have left the country as the Taliban entered Kabul after capturing almost all major cities and provincial capitals. With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/afghanistan-unrest-punjab-cm-urges-mea-to-evacuate-200-stranded-sikhs-101629102085758.html
16-08-2021||Pune||Pune woman drowns after tyre burst, husband and kid survive||A 33-year-old woman drowned in Pune’s Kadave village on Independence Day after the car, she was travelling in with her family, fell in the Panshet dam on Sunday afternoon, police said on Monday. Her husband and 9-year old son survived the accident.Police said 33-year old victim Samruddhi Deshpande was sitting at the back-seat, while her 35 year old husband Yogesh Deshpande was driving the car with their child seated on the passenger seat next to him, when the car swerved and fell into the dam after suffering a blowout in one of its tyres.Following the accident, the husband and her son managed to escape from the drowning car through the two open windows next to their seats at the front, police said. The women, however, could not escape.The villagers who rushed to the family’s rescue tried to pull the car out, failing which, they pulled the woman out from the car and rushed her to a private hospital. However, she was declared dead at the hospital, police added. Her death was recorded at Velhe police station in an accidental death report.The family was from Shaniwar Peth area of Pune. A police officer said that the family was originally headed to the Torna Fort and surrounding areas for recreation but since the fort was shut due to heavy construction work on a pillar, they decided to go through Kadave village as it has some tourist spots.“They did not realise that a tyre had suffered a puncture and it burst at Panshet dam after the car was driven in that state for some time,” Hawaldar S Bandal of Velhe police station said, quoting from the deceased woman’s husband’s statement given to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-woman-drowns-after-tyre-burst-husband-and-kid-survive-101629100824708.html
16-08-2021||Mumbai||Gangster Chhota Shakeel’s brother booked for threatening builder||Anti-Extortion Cell (AEC) of the Mumbai crime branch has booked gangster Chhota Shakeel’s younger brother Anwar Shaikh for allegedly threatening a builder. AEC on Sunday arrested two Andheri residents in connection with the case.The arrested accused are identified as Kamran Sayyed, 49, and Arbaz Shaikh, 27. Both were produced before a holiday court on Sunday and remanded to police custody till August 17. According to the police, the complainant is a builder and has been redeveloping a slum pocket in Oshiwara area of Andheri (West). The arrested accused Arbaz Shaikh claimed that he had six rooms in the slums, but the builder had offered him only one rehabilitation tenement, saying his other five rooms were not entitled to rehabilitation tenements, said a police officer. Also Read | Mumbai playgrounds, gardens, beaches to stay open from 6am-10pm from todayFollowing a dispute with the builder over this, Arbaz Shaikh approached Sayyed, who allegedly was in touch with Anwar Shaikh, said the police officer.A few days ago, the complainant allegedly received a threatening call from Anwar Shaikh. Police said that Anwar Shaikh called through Voice over internet Protocol (VoIP) and allegedly threatened the builder, asking him to give five flats to Arbaz Shaikh. Anwar Shaikh also threatened the builder of dire consequences if he failed to follow his instructions, added the officer.The builder then approached the Oshiwara Police and a case was registered under sections 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt or to commit extortion) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.The case was transferred to the AEC for further investigation. “We nabbed Arbaz Shaikh, and during interrogation, he revealed that he had spoken to Sayyed. Sayyed was brought to the AEC office and confessed that he had allegedly spoken to Anwar Shaikh regarding the issue. Both were arrested on Sunday and produced in the court and are in police custody till August 1,” said an AEC official.Anwar Shaikh fled from the country around three decades ago and a red corner notice (RCN) was issued against him several years ago. He is reportedly in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gangster-chhota-shakeel-s-brother-booked-for-threatening-builder-in-mumbai-101629099624564.html
16-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Footfall to increase as suburban train services resume for vaccinated persons||The number of passengers travelling by local trains is expected to increase as services resume for fully vaccinated citizens.Anticipating a rise in the number of passengers next week, which could result in crowding, both the zonal railways will be increasing the number of local train services from Monday. Thirteen-hundred local trains will operate on the Western Railway as opposed to the present 1201, and 1686 trains will be operated as opposed to the 1612 currently on the Central Railway.Commuters were allowed to travel on the Mumbai suburban train network after four months on Sunday. Suburban train services were suspended for the general public on April 15 due to the rise in coronavirus disease cases in Mumbai during the second wave of the pandemic. Also Read | Local train services resume in Mumbai after four monthsThe eligibility criteria set by the Maharashtra government for travelling is to do so 14 days after receiving the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine. A universal pass has been made available to commuters both offline and online.By Sunday evening, 130,064 monthly passes were issued to passengers on the suburban railway network. About 87,875 passes were issued by Central Railway and 42,189 by Western Railway.On Sunday, low passenger turnout was witnessed on both the zonal railways. Approximately 1.2 million passengers travelled on the Central Railway and 1.1 million passengers travelled on the Western Railway.As of now, on an average, nearly 2.3 million passengers travel on the Central Railway and 2.1 million passengers commute on the Western Railway everyday. “We expect to see an increase in the number of passengers throughout the week. Sunday was a public holiday. We are expecting an increase in the number of commuters from today [Monday],” said a senior railway official. Before the pandemic, about 8 million commuters would travel by suburban trains in Mumbai every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-footfall-to-increase-as-suburban-train-services-resume-for-vaccinated-persons-101629098784194.html
16-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress chief Sidhu builds his team, makes Pargat PPCC gen secy, organisation||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday appointed Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh as PPCC general secretary, organisation. “With the approval of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, AICC general secretary, organisation, KC Venugopal and Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat, I hereby appoint Pargat Singh as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary, organisation, with immediate effect,” Sidhu tweeted. Also read: ‘You betrayed us’: Afghan nationals protest against Biden outside White HouseConsidered close to Sidhu, Pargat Singh, a two-time MLA, has been critical of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for the past more than two years, questioning the state government’s failure to fulfil key poll promises. A former India hockey captain, Pargat Singh had won the 2012 assembly election from Jalandhar Cantonment on a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) ticket. He joined the Congress with Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu, also a BJP MLA, in November 2016 ahead of the state elections. Sidhu had also joined the party a few days later. Last week, Sidhu, who took charge as the state Congress chief on July 23, appointed Lok Sabha member Dr Amar Singh, retired IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa, Dr Pyare Lal Garg and Malwinder Singh Mali as his advisers to seek their “wise counsel” on party affairs. While Mustafa declined the role, Mali got into a controversy for his strident comments on social media against Capt Amarinder Singh and the Hindu community with several party leaders disapproving of his statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-chief-sidhu-builds-his-team-makes-pargat-ppcc-gen-secy-organisation-101629096924071.html
16-08-2021||Other||Kinnaur landslide: 2 more bodies recovered, death toll reaches 25||Two more bodies were recovered from the site of a landslide in Negulsari in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district on Monday, taking the death toll to 25 on the sixth day of search and rescue operations, officials said.State disaster management director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said two unidentified bodies were retrieved from the debris about 500 metres below the road on which the landslide took place.  bodies are being brought to National Highway 5. Seven people are still missing, he added. An SUV and its passengers could not be traced so far. The vehicle might have rolled down with the rubble, Mokhta said. Most bodies were found in the wreckage of a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, which had slid down National Highway 5 after being hit by big boulders during the landslide. The bus, carrying around 22 passengers was en route to Haridwar from Reckong Peo, when the mishap took place on August 11. A few other private vehicles, including a truck, a car and a Tata Sumo were also buried under the debris, and have now been recovered. Also Read | Lahaul-Spiti landslide blocks river flow in Himachal PradeshKinnaur superintendent of police Sarju Ram Rana said, “The wreckage of the HRTC bus was found 70 metres down the National Highway 5. It was carrying around 22 passengers when it got buried.”The rescue operation is being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and members of the local police and home guards.Meanwhile, keeping in view the continuous rockfall, the administration has restricted the movement of all type of vehicles on the stretch from 9pm to 9am for the safety of the public. The decision was taken after two people were injured when rolling stones hit an HRTC bus on its way from Mandi to Reckong Peo. Police have been deputed at the site.Joint teams from CWC, NDRF, SASE and district administration visited another landslide site close to Jasrat village in tribal Lahaul and Spiti, which obstructed the flow of Chandrabhaga tributary of Chenab river, to asses the situation. Water from the lake that formed after the landslide is now flowing through a channel formed naturally. The teams are studying ways to clear the landslide at Nalda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kinnaur-landslide-2-more-bodies-recovered-death-toll-reaches-25-101629095364164.html
16-08-2021||Bhopal||Fight breaks out between communities in Indore locality; 2 injured||Two people were injured in a fight between two groups of a locality allegedly over shouting of provocative slogans against a community after flag hoisting in Indore on Independence Day, said police.Thirty people of the locality have been booked for rioting, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation, said Ashutosh Bagri, superintendent of police, Indore.Also Read | MP woman gives birth on muddy road as ambulance couldn’t enter village“According to eyewitnesses, the flag hoisting programme was organised by a right-wing organisation in Kaveri building in Nayanta Mundla which is for the economically weaker section. After the ceremony, they allegedly shouted slogans against a community which was objected to by some people who also raised slogans,” said Bagri.Later, a fight broke out between the groups. Stones were pelted, and a shop, and two cars damaged. A heavy police force reached the spot and brought the situation under control.Two people were injured and they were rushed to a hospital where their condition is stated to be stable.The SP said, “We are investigating the matter and will watch videos of alleged sloganeering before proceeding further.” A police team has been deployed in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/fight-breaks-out-between-communities-in-indore-locality-2-injured-101629093924756.html
16-08-2021||Kolkata||TMC celebrating ‘Khela Hobe divas’, BJP counters with save Bengal day||The Trinamool Congress is celebrating Khela Hobe Divas (Game on day) on Monday across West Bengal and a few other states including Tripura, following a call on July 21 by party chief and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s to mark August 16 as Khela Hobe Divas to promote sports.‘Kela Hobe’ was used as a rallying call by the TMC in the recently held assembly elections in the state. Coined by a TMC youth leader, the slogan became immensely popular and was used repeatedly by Banerjee during the campaigning while challenging the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).During the Khela Hobe Divas celebrations, Bengal sports and youth affairs department is handing out more than 100,000 footballs to various sporting clubs and organising football tournaments throughout the state.The BJP, however, plans to counter the TMC with ‘Paschim Banga Bachao Divas’, which translates to Save West Bengal Day. Top leaders of the BJP’s state unit, including the party’s president in West Bengal Dilip Ghosh, and the leader of Opposition in the state legislative assembly Suvendu Adhikari, will hold demonstrations in central Kolkata against post poll violence that allegedly lead to deaths of several BJP workers.“In our childhood, we used to play football with either pomelo (fruit) or a plastic ball. But now sports have a different connotation. It is all politics, hatred and [a] game is going on for cut money [a byword for illegal commission] and syndicate. We want sports and games to return to keep an individual healthy and fit,” said Dilip Ghosh.The BJP has objected to the choice of date for Khela Hobe Divas, saying it was a reminder to Muslim League’s Direct Action Day, observed on August 16, 1946, when a large number of people were killed in communal violence during protests. Last week, Suvendu Adhikari led a delegation of Hindu religious leaders to request for governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s intervention to change the date for the TMC programme.The TMC however brushed the objections aside claiming that Bengal was saved in 2011 when Mamata Banerjee first came to power.“West Bengal was saved in 2011 when the TMC came to power. In 2024, the TMC will save India by ousting the BJP government at the centre,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-celebrating-khela-hobe-divas-bjp-counters-with-save-bengal-day-101629091943685.html
16-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai playgrounds, gardens, beaches to stay open from 6am-10pm from today||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday announced that playgrounds, gardens and beaches will be allowed to open between 6am and 7pm in Mumbai until further notice.BMC has also appealed to citizens to maintain social distancing and follow all Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.Earlier, BMC had allowed all indoor and outdoor sports to restart, except for swimming and activities where physical distancing is not possible. However, gardens, playground and beaches were to open only between 5am and 10am. Several elected representatives across political parties had demanded that public parks and playgrounds should be opened for the entire day.Also Read | Local train services resume in Mumbai after four monthsThe new announcement comes a day after malls were allowed to reopen and restaurants were allowed to operate till 10pm. Starting Sunday, citizens, who received the second dose of the Covid vaccine at least 15 days ago, are allowed to travel using local trains.Meanwhile, on Sunday, 262 Covid-19 cases were reported in the city, followed by four deaths. The city’s Covid tally is 739,331 and death toll is 15,981.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/playgrounds-gardens-beaches-to-stay-open-from-6am-to-10pm-from-today-in-mumbai-101629091043677.html
16-08-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand Congress leader dies soon after hoisting tricolour in Dhanbad||A senior Congress party functionary in Jharkhand died of a heart attack on Independence Day soon after hosting the national flag at Chirkunda town in Dhanbad district.Anwar Hussain Ansari collapsed while hoisting the national flag at a roundabout in Chirkunda in presence of other party workers.In a video that captured the tragedy, Ansari was seen holding the flag post to maintain his balance soon after the audience completed singing the national anthem. He collapsed on the stage within seconds thereafter. Local Congress workers said he was rushed to the hospital but was declared brought dead. “Ansari was our former Chirkunda Nagar president. He was around 50 and had no known history of any serious ailment. He was associated with the party for the past two decades. A condolence meeting is being held today in Dhanbad,” said Jharkhand Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-congress-leader-dies-soon-after-hoisting-tricolour-in-dhanbad-101629088223686.html
16-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police gets new chief, PK Agrawal succeeds Yadava||Prashanta Kumar Agrawal is the new Haryana director general of police (DGP). He succeeds Manoj Yadava, who has sought repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau. The Haryana government announced the appointment of the 1988-batch Indian Police Service officer on Sunday. Agrawal will have a two-year tenure. Also read: Army chopper crash: Pilot’s body recovered, search on for co-pilotThe empanelment committee of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) had last week shortlisted a panel of three senior-most Haryana IPS officers for selection of the new DGP. Besides Agrawal, two 1989-batch officers, Mohammad Akil and RC Mishra, were shortlisted. Yadava sought repatriation to IB The state government had last month set in motion the process to appoint the new police chief after Yadava sought premature repatriation to the IB, citing career consideration and family requirements. Subsequently, a proposal containing the names of eight IPS officers was sent to the UPSC for shortlisting three senior-most officers. Seven IPS officers who have put in 30 years of service and were eligible for empanelment were in the zone of consideration. Besides Agrawal, Akil and Mishra, they included 1990-batch officers Shatrujeet Kapoor and Desh Raj Singh and 1991-batch officers Alok Roy and Sanjeev Kumar Jain. Minimum tenure of two yearsAccording to the directions of the Supreme Court, the state DGP shall be selected by the state government from among the three senior-most officers of the department who have been empanelled for promotion to that rank by the UPSC on the basis of their length of service, good record and range of experience for heading the police force. “Once selected, the DGP should have a minimum tenure of at least two years irrespective of his date of superannuation,” said the 2006 landmark Prakash Singh judgment of the apex court. The court had in March 2019 clarified that the recommendation for appointment to the post of DGP by the UPSC and preparation of panel should be purely on merit from officers who have at least six months of service prior to the retirement. Yadava had been the state police chief since February 21, 2019. His two-year tenure had ended but the Union home ministry on March 2 granted him an extension till February 20, 2022, or till further orders, whichever is earlier. Yadava, a 1988-batch IPS officer, is left with four years of service before he attains superannuation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-gets-new-chief-pk-agrawal-succeeds-yadava-101629086543342.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather today: No rainfall, expect only partly cloudy sky||Delhi is likely to continue with its dry spell on Monday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast for the day suggests that the city may only witness partly cloudy skies today. Earlier, IMD had forecast that rainfall would pick up in the capital later this week.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 26 degree Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 37°C. The maximum temperature was 37°C – 3°C above normal.After experiencing above average rains in July, Delhi has fallen back to recording a rainfall deficit of nearly 54% in the first half of August, IMD recordings showed. IMD officials and private weather forecasters, however, said that despite a dry start to the month, August is likely to cover its rainfall deficit in the last 10 days of the month and it is likely to be a “near normal” monsoon month.Also Read | In I-Day speech, CM salutes healthcare, frontline workersWeather officials also stressed that this was another example of erratic weather patterns Delhi has been recording over the last few years. On Friday, Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “There are no chances of rains till August 19. Revival of monsoon with only light rain is expected around August 19 and August 20.”Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 121. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 114, which is also in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI in in moderate category due inflow of dust from western part of India and re-suspension of dust from unpaved road. With persistence of similar condition, AQI will remain in moderate category for the next three days and the lead pollutant will remain as PM10 having coarser particle contribution of about 75% or more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-today-no-rainfall-expect-only-partly-cloudy-sky-101629082403216.html
16-08-2021||Bhopal||MP woman gives birth on muddy road as ambulance couldn’t enter village||A woman in Madhya Pradesh’s Satna district gave birth on a muddy pathway on Sunday after an ambulance couldn’t pick her up from home due to the poor condition of the unpaved and uneven road connecting her village, her husband said. 25 year old Neelam Adiwasi and the newborn were later rushed to a hospital at Kotor Tehsil, where their condition is said to be stable. “My wife was having labour pain on Sunday. I called Janani Express (an ambulance service for pregnant women). But when the ambulance driver reached the village, he said he couldn’t drive inside the village due to the poor condition of the road. We were left with no option but to cover around 2km by foot on the muddy road,” Neelam’s husband Pankaj Adivasi, a resident of Bihradongri village in Satna district, said.“Neelam couldn’t hold the baby in her womb [during the walk] and gave birth on the road,” Pankaj added.Pankaj said while he was fortunate that both his wife and child were saved, he felt his family was treated very badly by the “corrupt system” that he said was “apathetic” to common man’s woes. “In every rainy season we face this problem as the road becomes muddy and unmotorable. Many times, we have staged protests demanding a pucca (tarred) road, but nothing has happened,” he said.Block medical officer Dr Sarvesh Singh said the ambulance driver didn’t go inside the village after realising that there was a 100% chance of the vehicle getting stuck in the muddy road. “But after the delivery on the road, the ambulance driver and attendant safely brought the woman and her baby to the hospital. Now, they are absolutely fine.”Satna district collector Ajay Katesaria has ordered an inquiry in the matter.(With inputs from Amit Singh from Satna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-woman-gives-birth-on-muddy-road-as-ambulance-couldn-t-enter-village-101629081983564.html
16-08-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal to celebrate 'Khela Hobe Divas' today||West Bengal will celebrate ‘Khela Hobe Divas’ on Monday, as announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee last month. While addressing the TMC annual Martyrs Day rally on July 21, Banerjee announced that the state government would observe ‘Khela Hobe Divas’ on August 16 every year.While addressing a crowd at Kolkata's Netaji Indoor Stadium earlier this month, Mamata Banerjee announced a scheme under the same name. As part of the scheme, the West Bengal sports and youth affairs department will hand more than one lakh footballs to various sporting clubs. "The 303 clubs under IFA (Indian Football Association) are being given 10 balls each, and Mohun Bagan, Mohammedan, and East Bengal are being given 100 balls each as a token," she said.The term 'Khela Hobe' gained prominence during the West Bengal assembly elections this year. The Bengali words translate to ‘game on’ and Banerjee repeatedly used the slogan against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which was the main contender against the TMC during the polls.Banerjee renewed the battle cry she made during the state assembly elections in July, adding the fight will continue till BJP is ousted from power at the Centre. "Khela Divas, which will be marked by the distribution of footballs to needy children," she said on July 21, according to news agency PTI.TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh had said, “Khela Divas will be observed to promote sports among children and youth for character and nation-building. It is condemnable to see that BJP leaders have stopped to such a level that they are even politicizing it."The announcement prompted the BJP to equate it with the Muslim League's Direct Action Day, which began on that day in 1946. BJP Rajya Sabha lawmaker Swapan Dasgupta said that the Muslim League launched its Direct Action Day and began the Great Calcutta Killings in 1946 on August 16. "In today's West Bengal, Khela Hobe has come to symbolise a wave of terror attacks on opponents." he tweeted.Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari met Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar last week with several monks and urged him to request Banerjee to shift the date of Khela Hobe Divas as August 16 coincides with ‘Great Calcutta Killing’ of 1946. Following Adhikari’s request, Dhankhar had also appealed to the West Bengal chief minister to change the date."Expect righteous call @MamataOfficial over date of “Khela Hobe Diwas” Sanatan Sages apprehend that Aug 16’ also known as “1946 Calcutta Killings” as ‘Khela Hobe Diwas” would be grim reminder of worst communal killings of thousands on Jinnah call of ‘Direct Action Day’," Dhankhar tweeted. “Peace and harmony are vital to flourishing of democracy. All steps that have potential to generate divisiveness in society must be contained. Expect @MamataOfficial to rise over partisan stance and take urgent call as regards date #KhelaHobe with public interest in mind,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-to-celebrate-khela-hobe-divas-today-101629074430829.html
16-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet meeting today, new bill on SCs could be on agenda||The Punjab council of ministers will be meeting on Monday after a gap of nearly two months. This is the first cabinet meeting of the state after Navjot Singh Sidhu took over as the president of the Congress party's Punjab unit. Sidhu continues to be at loggerheads with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and the state government - the latest being the cricketer-turned politician’s criticism of the government’s delay in action on the special task force (STF) report on drugs. Amarinder Singh, meanwhile, met Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi on August 10 amid talks of a possible cabinet reshuffle in Punjab.As per an official order, the meeting, which will be chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, will be held at 3pm via video conferencing. The last meeting was held on June 18.Though the agenda of Monday’s cabinet meeting is yet to be revealed, news agency PTI reported last week that a new bill which seeks to earmark a part of Punjab’s annual budget for the welfare of Scheduled Castes (SCs) in proportion to their population in the state, is likely to be considered for approval.In July, chief minister Singh gave his approval for putting the ‘Punjab State Welfare and Development of Scheduled Castes (Planning, Earmarking and Utilization of Financial Resources) Sub-Allocation Bill, 2021’ before the state cabinet, to pave way for its enactment in the next session of the assembly, PTI further reported. The bill will enable the Punjab government to put in place an institutional mechanism to formulate and monitor the implementation of the Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) and issues related to it.Hindustan Times earlier reported that the cabinet meeting will also see a discussion on bringing an ordinance for the establishment and incorporation of a private university coming up in Mohali along with deciding the date for convening the monsoon session of the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-meeting-to-be-held-today-after-nearly-2-months-101629076050263.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||Police: Jatheri was diversifying gang’s operations||Says after arresting gangster Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri, the Delhi Police team interrogating the crime lord has learned that his gang, which was mostly involved in contract killings and extortions, was allegedly diversifying their illegal activities by teaming up with or taking over authorised and unauthorised liquor dealers and those involved in illegal mining in Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab to set up a bigger syndicate, which at present has nearly 200 members in north India and abroad.Jatheri’s female associate, Anuradha Chaudhary, who was arrested along with him from Saharanpur on July 30, was the alleged brains behind the gang’s diversification and was managing everything related to income, expenditures and investments, said Delhi Police special cell sleuths interrogating the two.Jatheri, who topped the list of the most wanted criminals of north India, was arrested on July 30 along with his female associate, Anuradha Chaudhary aka “Revolver Rani”, by the counter intelligence team of the special cell at a dhaba near Sarsawa toll plaza on the Saharanpur-Yamuna Nagar highway.He carried a reward of ₹7 lakh on his arrest, and was wanted in nearly 40 cases of dacoity, robbery, extortion and attempt to murder. A total of 15 of these cases were registered in Delhi, and the rest in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan.The two are currently in police custody and are being interrogated to establish the crimes they or their gang members have committed since February 2020, when Jatheri escaped from the Haryana Police’s custody in Faridabad, after seven of his associates stormed the prison van carrying the gangster to Bhondsi Jail from the Faridabad court.The police said they were aware that Jatheri’s syndicate were primarily involved in contract killings and extorting money from businessmen after firing “warning shots” at business establishments or homes, followed by extortion calls or leaving threats on paper slips.Though some of his associates arrested in the recent past had hinted that the gang members had also joined hands with people involved in liquor trade, illegal mining and betting to establish more sources of money, police did not have a full picture till now.“Interrogation of Jatheri and his female partner has revealed that they were working on ways to control these businesses in Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab either through intimidation or by securing consent of the key players of the businesses... The two disclosed the names of their gang members and their business partners, who may be asked to join the investigation,” said another special cell officer, requesting not to be named.Police said the income that the group has been earning through extortion and other illegal activities is also transferred to Kala Rana, Goldy Brar and Monty -- who are based in Bangkok, Canada and Dubai, respectively -- to invest in their narcotic drugs business. “Jatheri is not directly involved in drug dealing but the money sent is remuneration for their assistance to his gang from abroad,” added the second officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/policejatheri-was-diversifying-gang-s-operations-101629076491340.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: She’s out of the closet||How could any man be so mean? Could Kate really bear Adam long enough to discover the gentleness he apparently possessed? More urgently, did Rakhshanda Jalil really care?Turns out the highbrow Ms Jalil devoured Adam’s Law with unadulterated pleasure. Now, decades later, the acclaimed author of 30 books outs herself as a devotee of Mills & Boon paperbacks.“Millsies were my escape into romance, travel, and new places,” Ms Jalil, 58, gushes in a voice not at all hoarse with passion, totally unlike the slushy Mills & Boon heroines. Here she pauses, and murmurs more softly—“I haven’t read a Millsie for 30 years.”This afternoon the writing room in her central Delhi home is dignified with classics by Urdu and English literary giants. Poet Ghalib’s portrait hangs on the wall. The room’s heirloom bookrack originally belonged to her legendary grandfather—Professor Aley Ahmad Suroor, poet and Urdu scholar in Aligarh Muslim University.And then there’s the elephant in the room—a row of tatty MBs, each as slim as its female protagonist.“I began reading the Millsies in my final year at school and read them all through BA and MA,”Ms Jalil discloses this side of her past with a slight smile playing enigmatically on her lips. She stayed loyal to the “Millsie” girls even while wading through Chaucers and Spensers in Delhi University’s Miranda House. Living with parents in Nizamuddin East in the early 1980s, the young “Rakshi” would daily walk to the neighbourhood market to borrow a Mills & Boon from the Bawa Lending Library. They charged 60 paise for each novel, plus extra if not returned within 24 hours. “So I would read each book at a gallop!” Subsequently she built a private collection of these romances. Her present-day stack shows creased covers bearing pretty damsels in a variety of situations—receiving a french kiss on one, getting embraced by a shirtless dandy on another. In many homes, such novels were hidden from mummy-papa. In Ms Jalil’s case, the mother herself handed her the first of the Mills & Boon. “Mummy rescued me from being an awfully earnest person. She was a librarian and thought it was important to read all kinds of things.”In time Ms Jalil grew out of these pulpy escapades. But by then she had been affected enough to walk down the aisle with her own handpicked TDH—the romance novel speak for a tall, dark, handsome man.Recently, she culled her library collection by giving away 500 books, but kept the romance stash. “Out of pure sentimental attachment,” Ms Jalil declares in coy defiance, her gaze possessively turning to the Millsies in her hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-she-s-out-of-the-closet-101629076189083.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||In I-Day speech, CM salutes healthcare, frontline workers||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced the roll out of the Deshbhakti (patriotism) curriculum from September 27 in government-run schools in the city and Yoga programme at public parks and community halls on October 2. These programmes were mentioned in the Delhi budget 2021-22 presented by the Kejriwal government.In his Independence Day speech from the lawns of the Delhi Secretariat, Kejriwal further elaborated on Delhi’s experience with Covid-19 pandemic while appreciating the role of healthcare and frontline workers in fighting the pandemic. He also highlighted the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) efforts to enhance public welfare services and act as a role model for other states.“For the last 1.5 years, people are facing the brunt of the Covid-19 pandemic and a large number of doctors, paramedics and frontline workers have lost their lives. India has witnessed two waves of Covid-19. Delhi has witnessed four – in June 2020, September 2020, November 2020 and April 2021. The April wave in Delhi was the most dangerous. There will hardly be any family in Delhi which has not seen infection among relatives. So many of them lost their loved ones. It was an emotional phase for us. Our ministers, MLAs, officers worked 24x7 to save lives,” said Kejriwal in Sunday’s speech.At its peak, Delhi recorded more than 28,300 new Covid-19 cases in 24-hours on April 20 and a positivity rate of more than 36% on April 22. The Covid-19 surge left the city’s healthcare system overburdened, which was worsened by a severe crisis of oxygen, resulting in a high number of deaths.The chief minister further said, “I salute the doctors, nurses and paramedics who served us with utmost dedication. They are no less than a soldier. There was an existing Delhi government scheme to help martyred soldiers’ kin with ₹1 crore in financial assistance. We extended the same scheme to healthcare and frontline workers. Lives of people are priceless. This amount is the minimum token of gratitude for their service to the people of Delhi. Delhi government stands with the patients too.”“The children who have been orphaned are our children. We can’t abandon them. We have made a scheme for them too. We have also made a scheme for those who lost breadwinners,” said Kejriwal – referring to financial assistance schemes under which children orphaned by Covid-19 and households losing their primary breadwinners in Delhi are entitled to a monthly financial assistance of ₹2,500.Highlighting the AAP government’s role in the education sector, the chief minister said: “In 74 years, in schools of our country, we have taught physics, chemistry, maths, history but not patriotism. We assumed that students would learn that themselves. I am happy to announce such a curriculum in Delhi’s schools to encourage our students to take pride in the nation. This will be a completely activity-based programme to make children understand their roles and duties as a responsible citizen. Every child will be prepared to contribute to nation building and sacrifice everything for the nation. There is no better day to start the programme than Bhagat Singh’s birth anniversary. He had sacrificed his life for the nation at the age of 23. I also urge parents to discuss patriotism and responsibilities with children when they are home.” Bhagat Singh’s birth anniversary is on September 27.Kejriwal said he was happy to announce that the Delhi board of school education has signed a MoU (memorandum of agreement) with the international board to offer a much sought after and internationally recognised curriculum in the city schools.Kejriwal also claimed that Delhi had become a good governance laboratory under his party’s rule. He said his government recognised its responsibility to provide quality basic services including education, healthcare, water and electricity to residents and the AAP government’s model was now being adopted by other political outfits.“We are doing experiments on every aspect of governance. Recently we made the regional transport offices provide all services online—no queue, no crowd, no loss of working day, no touts. If one does not know how to use the internet, just call 1076. We started with the transport department. Slowly, we will provide all government services online. In recent years, we launched the doorstep delivery model – which has more than 150 services now. In schools we launched a happiness class aimed at meditation, positivity, encouragement. We launched entrepreneurship classes,” he said, naming a few initiatives of the government.Highlighting the importance of Yoga and meditation along with Gandhian values, Kejriwal said, “We have to make Yoga a part of people’s life. This year from October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, we will launch a programme of Yoga classes in parks and community centres. We are training a large number of yoga instructors for the programme. If groups of residents of any colony ask us about instructors, we will help them under the programme.”He further spoke of his ambitions to bring Delhi’s per capita income at par with Singapore’s and bidding for the Olympics in 2048, promises made during the budget session of the assembly earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-i-day-speech-cm-salutes-healthcare-frontline-workers-101629074997999.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||The uniform serves even after duty ends||When Major General Ashim Kohli retired from the Indian Army in 2019, he had stacks of different kinds of service uniforms. While he wanted to keep a couple of them as remembrance, he wasn’t quite sure how he could dispose of the rest with the dignity they deserved. He talked to several fellow army officers, who retired before him and most, he realized, had boxes full of old uniforms with no idea what to do with them.On Republic Day this year, Kohli set up a non-profit that collects uniforms from defence forces and upcycles them into a range of products.“Some soldiers like to keep the uniforms intact along with the medals. Others cut it or burn it with a heavy heart to avoid any misuse. Our organization now collects old uniforms from defence personnel and produces masks, aprons, school bags, blankets, and a range of other products from them, which are donated to various army welfare organizations, and to the underprivileged sections of the society,” says Kohli, founder of Sewaj Neesim Foundation, who runs a website named ‘Vardi Ka Samman’, the core cause it espouses. In the past two months, it has collected over 5,000 old uniforms mostly from the retired and serving defence personnel.‘Sepoi’ -- a name from the word ‘sipahi’ meaning soldier--- is another such initiative. Founded in 2019 by Mumbai-based couple Siddharth and Suchi Jaiswal, it turns old defence uniforms into products such as backpacks, tote bags, and laptop bags. Siddharth says the year 2016 marked a turning point in their lives when they read a news about how terrorists involved in the Pathankot attack disguised themselves in Army uniforms.“That is when we realised how old Army uniforms could fall into wrong hands and be used for illegal and even terrorist activities. When I did more research on the subject, I realized that a lot of old, worn-out uniforms end up in the scrap market,” says Siddharth. “I thought if we could repurpose them, we would not only prevent their illegal use but also reduce waste and provide employment to many while maintaining their dignity.”The Indian Army officers use about eight types of uniforms for different occasions during winter and summer, which include general duty uniforms, blue patrol, 6 Alpha/ 6 Bravo, combat uniform, dungarees, smocks. The veterans tell you how their uniforms—with their various insignia, accoutrements, badges of rank, and lanyards of their regiments—represent pride, honour and their very identity as soldiers.The question of the disposal of uniforms in a dignified manner, they say, has bothered them for decades. The Indian army spokesperson declined to comment on whether the Army has any internal mechanism for disposal of old uniforms.“I have 26 sets of uniforms, which were like my second skin, and I cannot express my emotional attachment to them. I cannot dispose them like other old clothes. I feel recycling them is a good solution,” said Lieutenant General R S Salaria, who retired from service in March last year.“Thousands of defence personnel retire every year and it is up to them to decide what they want to do with the uniforms. Even I had 24 uniforms, which I had to shred and dispose most of them. I felt bad but did not have a choice,” said Captain Anoop Vij, who retired from the Indian Navy in 2019.Kohli’s organisation outsources upcycling work to various NGOs. “We are distributing all the products made from these uniforms to army-welfare organizations, orphanages, old-age homes, among others. The idea is to give back to the army and the society,” said Kohli.Sepoi, Siddharth says, shares up to 15% of its profits with various NGOs working for the welfare of women. He sells handcrafted products, designed by professional designers, through Sepoi’s website and other e-commerce platforms. “When we started, we thought that most of our customers would be civilians. Today, 60% of our products are being purchased by those who are in the army or have their relatives in the army,” he said.Interestingly, the bags Sepoi makes has a card or a printed piece of paper with a story about the uniform and the soldier who wore it. “We do not collect old uniforms randomly, but ones whose wearer can tell his or her story. The idea is to educate people about the values, valour and selfless service by the veterans to our country and to enhance the civilian-military understanding,” said Jaiswal.Sepoi’s signature collection combines cloth from old army uniforms and fresh leather to produce fashionable bags. “ I add leather to ensure that our products look premium and competitive in the market. They are high on patriotism and style,” says Jaiswal.Sachin (who uses only his first name), a designer and production head at Swatric--a Delhi-based firm that is currently upcycling old defence uniforms for Sewaj Neesim Foundation--said the fabric used in the army uniform has a twill weave construction, which makes it very sturdy and suitable for making different products.“But making flat fabric from old defence uniform is quite a challenge as these have several tags, buttons, pockets on the base fabric. After making the flat fabric, we send it for washing,” said Sachin. “We can make one school bag or 15 masks from a uniform. I cannot explain the joy of turning these old army uniforms into other useful products. I feel I am doing my bit in helping save the environment and the dignity of the old army uniforms, ” said Sachin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-uniform-serves-even-after-duty-ends-101629073899390.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||Winged guests make an early entrance at Delhi zoo||This monsoon, the Delhi zoo has an early winged visitor which usually arrives from eastern parts of the country around mid-August.“This year, painted storks were spotted here as early as on August 6. The numbers have been growing since... Usually they are seen arriving from eastern parts of the country by mid or late August. The zoo is one of the few places in Delhi where painted storks nest and breed, which is one of the major factors for the zoo to be considered a birding spot,” said Ramesh Kumar Pandey, Delhi zoo director.Almost 140 painted storks have already arrived, zoo officials said, adding that the water bodies in the zoo are full of the winged creatures with long, yellow beaks. “By the end of August, the numbers may reach more than 500,” said Pandey.With the season for migratory birds just beginning, the zoo authorities plan to organise guided birdwatching tours for students and bird enthusiasts over the coming weeks.“We plan to organise the first guided trip over the coming week when there will be more number of birds. It will be organised on a day when the zoo is closed for visitors. Initially, we plan to have a group of 20 bird watchers. We will hand over a pair of binoculars to the participants and lead the tour,” said Pandey.According to zoo officials, August to October is the peak breeding season for the painted storks which stay here till March before flying away with their chicks.“A structured bird-watching tour can be good learning for bird enthusiasts as well as students. The zoo does have a good diversity of bird species and could emerge as one of the many birdwatching sites for birders in Delhi,” said Pankaj Gupta, a birder.The zoo has at least 50 kinds of free-ranging avian species most part of the year including herons, white-breasted kingfisher, cormorants, parakeets, yellow-footed green pigeon, brown-headed barbet, black ibis, grey hornbill, jungle babbler and spot-billed ducks.According to a research paper titled “Breeding patterns of painted storks at Delhi zoo” authored by Abdul J Urfi, from school of environmental sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, the Delhi zoo has been an important breeding site for the painted stork since 1960. “Most nesting occurred in mesquite trees (Prosopis juliflora) on islands in the ponds at the Zoo. The breeding season begins in late August. This zoo site may be the only nesting colony site for the painted stork in the Delhi region,” it stated.Birders said that though the painted stork, a wetland bird, is found in many marshes and green patches in Delhi, they have been found nesting only at the Delhi zoo.Close to Delhi’s border, the Sultanpur National Park, essentially a bird sanctuary on the Gurugram-Jhajjar highway, is also known for a huge nesting colony of painted storks. “The painted storks have been spotted there as well,” said Gupta.The Delhi zoo opened on August 1, more than two months after it was shut during the second wave of the pandemic.The Delhi zoo was shut for visitors on March 18 last year, a week before the nationwide lockdown was imposed, and was followed by the avian flu in January this year.The zoo had finally reopened on April 1 this year, only to be closed again on April 15, as the second wave of the pandemic struck the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/winged-guests-make-an-early-entrance-at-delhi-zoo-101629069170253.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||Paucity of land hits compensatory afforestation plan||With several large-scale development projects requiring “diversion of deemed forests”, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is finding it difficult to make available non-forest land for compensatory afforestation (CA) in the Capital and is currently exploring if such land can be provided in neighbouring states.DDA officials said that for diversion of deemed forests -- process by which the land is reclassified for non-forest purposes -- equivalent non-forest land has to be provided for CA.Of the requests for 136 hectares of non-forest land for CA in the past one year, DDA officials said they have only been able to provide nearly 116 hectares. “The green cover in Delhi is 23% and most of the spaces earmarked as green are saturated. It is difficult to find large land parcels for CA,” said Rajeev Kumar Tiwari, principal commissioner, DDA.Due to paucity of land, the land-owning agency is now exploring if such land can be provided in neighbouring states for proposed central government projects in Delhi.In May this year, the DDA wrote to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change seeking clarity on the issue, following which the ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC), which discussed the matter in June end, has asked Delhi authorities to provide additional information about their plan for the Capital’s green cover.“The FAC has been conscious that any relaxation in the compensatory afforestation norms will ultimately lead to reduction in forest cover of Delhi which is not desirable...,” as per the minutes of the meeting.DDA officials said that they are yet to get an official communication in this regard.“Delhi is largely urbanised. Most of the areas identified as recreational green under the Master Plan have already been used either as parks or for plantation. So, availability of Master plan green areas for the purpose of CA are now very limited,” said an official, who did not wish to be named. Another DDA official said the limited vacant land parcels available in Delhi also need to be reserved for planning public utilities.DDA’s plan has also been opposed by many. “This is an ecologically flawed idea. The move, if allowed, will defeat the purpose of compensatory afforestation,” said Vijay Dhasmana, ecologist and curator of Aravalli Biodiversity Park, Gurugram.A DDA official said that with Yamuna rejuvenation work going on at a fast pace, “most of the floodplain area has already been committed to the compensatory plantation requirement of various agencies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/paucity-of-land-hits-compensatory-afforestation-plan-101629068638201.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||Tales of settlement, displacement from village that came up in forest||In the early 1980s, Mohammad Saleem Khan migrated from Gaya in Bihar to the fledging edges of the national capital. A teenager, Khan found work at a bauxite mine in the forests of the Aravalli hills in Faridabad. For a few months, he commuted to the mining site from a local village but later asked his contractor, a local strongman, for a hut near the mine.“The contractor asked me to return the next day with every penny I had saved. When I brought the money, he pointed to a small cluster of huts and asked me to set up my hut next to it. He said I didn’t need to worry about any other permission or document,” said Khan, now in his early 60s.He remembers giving away some ₹500-700 at the time. Some of the other 2,000-odd labourers at the mine did the same. They had no electricity connection but three local wells served water to the residents there.As the mine grew, more labourers surrendered their life savings to contractors in return for tiny parcels of land and protection. The local strongmen, who were paid off, promised that they’d prevent eviction.Khan recalled how the contractors would demarcate land. “They would simply throw a stone and claim ownership of the land up to the point where the stone fell,” he said. At the time, most of these Aravalli foothills was forestland.Of course, without authorised papers, no one could sell property or land – not legally, anyway. “Till the end, most sale deeds remained primitive in nature and had no legal standing. Property dealers would make the sales on plain pieces of paper, in front of their own four local witnesses. The land sold would be mentioned as a garbage dump yard. People were getting land for cheap, and everyone was happy,” said a local resident who didn’t want to be identified.Over the next three decades, this tiny cluster of huts transformed into a large village comprising thousands of brick houses perched on the Aravalli hills on the southern fringes of Delhi.Khori, a village of dusty narrow streets, cramped houses in the middle of a forest clearing, vaulted into the news on June 7, when the Supreme Court ordered all illegal encroachment on forest land in the area to be cleared within six weeks.Days later, 3,000 policemen arrived at the village. By June 12, electricity connections were cut and water tankers stopped from entering the village. Demolitions began on July 17.In June, the government estimated around 5,100 houses and 10,000 residents lived in Khori. unofficial estimates put the number between 30,000 and 50,000. Today, only a handful of structures remain, and most residents have relocated.Prime locationBauxite mining was first banned in the Aravallis in 1992, according to locals and activists. By then, there were already around 200-300 huts in the mines, and more were on the way, courtesy the proximity of the location to Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.Mining continued sporadically till the Supreme Court issued a blanket ban in 2009, but the migrants – who were bringing their relatives from the hinterlands of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar – easily found other jobs.“By 1998 or so, there were some 600 houses in this colony. It had taken the shape of a proper kachchi (unauthorised) colony. No one bothered to take action and the strongmen and property dealers had patronage of the politicians,” said Jitender Bhadana, who runs an NGO, Save Aravalli Trust, and has been fighting to restore the Aravalli forests.In 1998, the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad moved to clear the encroachment – the first time since Khori came up in the early 1980s – but the demolitions stopped after a few dozen houses, said residents. “It was the first time I feared that there was something illegal in the land I had paid my life savings for,” said Khan, a former president of the Khori Residents Welfare Association.Months later, some residents of the village, who were surviving on stealing from power lines and water tankers, got limited electricity and water connections. “The municipal corporation provided legal electricity connection to some 300 houses and permitted the digging of six borewells”, said Veer Shankar Singh, a resident.Current MCF commissioner Yashpal Yadav did not respond to requests for a comment. His predecessor, Garima Mittal, who was in-charge during the demolition drive, refused to comment saying she has been transferred.Seema Trikha, Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Badhkal, under which Khori falls, blamed the “mafia of old times” who were “protected” by the (earlier) governments for allowing the illegal occupancy of the forest land.“We have neither been involved in inviting buyers to this land, nor in selling any land in the forest area,” said Trikha.Mahendra Pratap Singh, who served as the MLA of the area (it fell under Mewla Maharajpur constituency until 2004) five times between 1982 and 2014, said that it was wrong to blame any one party or government.“But for the Supreme Court order, the BJP too was allowing the encroachment to continue. It is just that the poor began living on that land and none of the governments bothered to evict them,” said the five-time MLA from the Congress.Rapid encroachmentBy the early 2000s, Khori was thriving and large chunks of the forest on the hillocks had given way to residential plots. Some families sold their ancestral properties to buy land.Mohammad Idris, a 65-year-old tailor, said nine members of his family moved to the village in 2001 after selling his property in UP’s Badaun. “Seven immediate and extended family members of mine followed me over the next decade to sell their ancestral properties and buy land here,” said Idris.Idris and others were told by local touts that Khori, which was technically in Haryana, fell on the Delhi side of the border.Adjacent to Khori is the Lal Kuan village, which falls on the Delhi side of the border. A rusting iron fence marks the border, but the demarcation is visible in only a few stretches. “The builders took advantage of this fact. They sold land to the people saying the Delhi government would eventually regularise the illegal colonies,” said Ishita Chatterjee, a PhD scholar studying the settlement. In the 2000s, the government in Delhi did regularise several low-income unauthorised colonies, giving hope to Khori residents.Sube Singh, the spokesperson of Faridabad Police, said property dealers lured buyers. “To those buying land near the Delhi border, they sold the land saying it fell in Delhi jurisdiction,” said Singh. “The property dealers had strong backing financially and politically, As for the residents, they just followed each other,” Singh added.Some residents who refuse to leave the now-demolished village continue to believe that they are Delhi residents. “I have been voting in Delhi all these years. My children are enrolled in a school in Delhi. What more evidence do you want?” asked Rama Devi, a woman who has set up a tent next to the rubble of her home.Buyers were assured that a property in Delhi meant better access to electricity and water. But on the ground, electricity and water connections were arranged by a network of local strongmen and touts who divided the village among themselves.“The mafia would get commercial electricity metres installed in private homes in Lal Kuan, and then pull illegal connections from there to our homes in Khori,” said Singh.Khori residents eventually ended up paying as much as ₹14 per unit of electricity – the rate in Delhi is between ₹2 and ₹8 and Haryana ₹2 and ₹7 --- and a few relied on stolen connections from Haryana side.Water was sold in tankers for ₹800-900 per 4,000 litres to those who didn’t have access to the six borewells, residents said.A large number of Khori residents got documents made to show they were residents of Delhi.The power of attorney was not only the preferred residential document, but also the only choice. “Residents did some ‘setting’. To execute a power of attorney deal, the property owner would find someone from the village itself to pass him off as the actual owner,” said Singh.Chatterjee said the power of attorney documents wouldn’t stand the scrutiny of courts.Similarly, many residents went on to procure voter identity, ration cards, gas connections and even Aadhaar cards -- most of them on Khori addresses.Chatterjee said this was facilitated by property dealers, which included local residents.Demolition worriesBetween 1998 and 2021, the municipal corporation moved at least five times to demolish houses but since 2010, the Khori Residents Welfare Association got judicial relief. Assisting the petitioners was Nirmal Gorana, general secretary of Bandhua Mukti Morcha. “We are not against the SC order. Our fight is for the rehabilitation of tens of thousands of people being displaced,” said Gorana.Residents believed that the government would never displace thousands of people. Thus, buying and selling of property continued unabated. Until the SC order, a single storey house constructed on a 50 square yard in Khori could cost as high as ₹20 lakh.When the court order came in June, it sparked immediate protests. The police booked over 550 known and unknown persons and arrested about 20 of them.Chetan Agarwal, an independent forest analyst, said the forest had a huge environmental value for the national capital region, but added that the human cost of the demolition was also too high.Many residents have been forced to opt for rented accommodation in the surrounding neighbourhoods – Lakkarpur in Faridabad being the closest.“I had to pay ₹4,000 as rent for a room which usually costs ₹2,000 in Lakkarpur village. Tenants are charging Khori residents double and triple of the usual rates and then treating us like beggars,” said Mohammad Saleem, a painter.A few have stayed back, pitching tents amid the rubble. “Who do we trust now? All these years, politicians and officials kept assuring us that our homes were safe. Now, we have lost everything,” said Gendo Devi, a resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tales-of-settlement-displacement-from-village-that-came-up-in-forest-101629067273651.html
16-08-2021||Lucknow||UP woman set afire by family of molestation accused, 1 detained||30-year-old woman has sustained 90% burn injuries after she was set on fire allegedly by the family members of a man she accused of molestation, in Uttar Pradesh’s Mahoba district, police said on Sunday. One person has been detained in connection with the case, an official added.According to the superintendent of police (Mahoba), Sudha Singh, the woman lodged an FIR of molestation against her neighbour on Saturday. “On Saturday, she (the victim) had registered a case against her neighbour for beating and molesting her. The accused was taken into custody.”Angry over the registration of the case against their son, the accused’s parents allegedly poured kerosene over the woman and set her afire, Singh added. “I spoke to the woman, she has informed us that the accused’s parents poured kerosene over her and set her afire after finding her alone in a field, where she went to relieve herself on Sunday morning.”Station House Officer of Kulpahad police station, Mahendra Pratap Singh, too, said that the woman has been taken to a medical college in the adjoining Jhansi district. An FIR has been filed in connection with the case and police have taken the accused’s mother into custody for questioning, while efforts are on to arrest his father, who is currently absconding, he added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upwoman-set-afire-by-family-of-molestation-accused-1-detained-101629059701242.html
16-08-2021||Other||Covid-19 surge continues to rage in Kerala, TPR at 15.11%||Kerala on Sunday reported 18,582 fresh Covid-19 cases with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 15.11% after 122, 970 samples were tested, said the state health ministry. Amid high cases the recovery rate however surpassed fresh cases in last five days. On Sunday, 20,089 people recovered. Experts said this is a good sign. “The government and people should be very careful during the Onam festivities. Another spike will land the state in a difficult situation,” warned internal medicine expert Dr NM Arun, who has been following the case trajectory closely. The state also reported 102 deaths and with this toll has gone up to 18,601. Four districts reported more than 2000 cases -- Malappuram 2681, Thrissur 2423, Kozhikode 2368 and Ernakulam 2161 cases. Active caseload is 1,78, 630, statistics show. The ICU occupancy in both private and government hospitals in the state is 2011 and the number of people on ventilators is 790. Hospitalisation of those who are with moderate or severe infections stands stabilised at 28,290. Among total hospitalisations, daily admission is between 10 and 15 per cent. Recovery is also stable so many hospitals are not flooded, health ministry records show. Meanwhile, the state administered around 500,000 vaccines for the second consecutive day. So far it administered 2,39,22,416 doses -- 1,72,66,344 people have govt first dose and 66,56,082 both doses till Saturday). The state has launched a campaign on Saturday to cover all people above 60 years at least one dose of the vaccine. According to the last sero survey, at least 45% of population are not exposed to antibodies and susceptible to infection. Union health minister M Mandaviya is reaching the state on Monday to review the situation. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said the state’s high caseload is a serious concern for the union government. “The state is paying price for ignoring repeated warnings of the union government. We have been insisting institutional quarantine from the beginning itself. But the government opted for home quarantine but records show it flopped,” said the minister. The state is reporting more than 60% of the daily cases of the country for almost a month. The central team which visited eight worst-affected districts in the first week of August also flagged the state over lax home quarantine. It found serious flaws in protocols in home isolation. In districts like Malappuram and Kozhikode family size is big and infected easily passes the virus to other inmates. Though home isolation calls for strict procedure like infected should have a separate washroom and nobody should be allowed to enter the quarantined room but the team found that these measures were never met. This led to increased transmission within homes and formation of small clusters. Fearing another spike the government has tightened restrictions during the ongoing Onam festivities; mass gatherings, public meeting, community feasts and other functions were banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-surge-continues-to-rage-in-kerala-tpr-at-1511-101629054021336.html
16-08-2021||Mumbai||5 held for killing youth, assaulting his friend in Mumbai||Dindoshi police have arrested five people for allegedly attacking two men with choppers, hockey sticks and sickle on Thursday. One of the youths succumbed to injuries on Sunday.According to Dindoshi police officers, Armaan Khan, 29, and his friend Asif Shaikh were sitting near their house at Gokuldham around 1.30am on Wednesday when one of the accused, Abhi Pawar, approached them and threatened that he would seek revenge from Khan over a previous enmity. The two men then left the spot. However, the next day, when the duo was near the Dambar Company compound at Malad (East), Pawar, his mother Nagubai, 47, and father Margappa, 48, reached the spot and began abusing Khan. When Khan confronted them, Pawar called his three friends who were nearby and started assaulting the victims. Pawar then picked up a sickle and attacked Shaikh on his head. Margappa, too, assaulted Shaikh with a bamboo stick, injuring his head. Pawar then attacked Khan in his stomach, shoulders and hands.The other accused – Akash Pawar, Hussain Khan and an unidentified person – also began assaulting Khan and Pawar stabbed him with a chopper. The six then fled the spot. Some locals rushed the two to a hospital and they were admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). On Sunday, after Khan died, Dindoshi police arrested Pawar, his parents, Akash and Hussain on murder and attempt to murder charges. “We are on the lookout for the sixth, who is absconding,” said an officer from Dindoshi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-held-for-killing-youth-assaulting-his-friend-in-mumbai-101629053601320.html
16-08-2021||Mumbai||Time to save young generation from power hungry people: Raj Thackeray in Mumbai||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Sunday said that the need of the hour is to “save” the young generation from “power hungry people” who are spreading hatred in the society. On Independence Day, Thackeray, in a post on Facebook, said that in the past seven decades, the country has seen progress, but it has not been uniform in all the states, leading to an unbalanced growth that has created other issues for the country.The MNS is known for its tirade and violence against North Indians that started in February 2008.In an indirect reference to the caste politics and unease over the demand for quotas for Marathas and Other Backward Classes (OBCs), Thackeray said that the dreams of the youth must not fall victims to such hatred. “The dreams of this young generation should not become victims of the hateful propaganda going on at all levels in the country and in our state. On the contrary, one must create an atmosphere that will empower them to stand against the rulers who spread social hatred and raise the slogan of ‘Satyamev Jayate’,” he said.Thackeray, in the social media post, said that since independence, the country has made “spectacular progress” in various fields. “[But] have all the states benefitted from this growth? Unfortunately, the answer is no. The unbalanced growth and development has created several issues for the country. Massive rise in population, challenges in the agriculture sector, stress on industries, service sector, lack of coordination between education and job opportunities and the issue of migration — for all these issues, we need solutions, by keeping the country first,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/time-to-save-young-generation-from-power-hungry-people-raj-thackeray-in-mumbai-101629053480700.html
16-08-2021||Mumbai||No illegality in husband having intercourse with his wife against her wish: Mumbai court||There is nothing illegal about husband having sexual intercourse with his wife against her wish, the sessions court said on Friday, while granting anticipatory bail to a Wadala resident booked on a complaint of ill-treatment by his wife.The woman in her complaint said she got married to the Wadala resident last November and her husband and in-laws started imposing restrictions on her immediately after the marriage. She alleged that they demanded money and ill-treated her for failing to meet the demand.The woman further alleged that a month after the marriage, her husband had intercourse with her against her wish. She said he again forced himself upon her when they went to Mahabaleshwar in January and thereafter, she fell ill. She added that on returning from Mahabaleshwar when she went to a doctor, she was informed that she had suffered paralysis below the waist.After her complaint, Wadala TT police booked the man, his brother and brother’s wife, sister and her husband under sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.All the accused had then moved the sessions court for anticipatory bail, claiming that there was no demand for money nor was any harassment meted out to the complainant and that they were falsely implicated.The accused also pointed out that his sister stayed at Ratnagiri and had visited his house for two days when his wife was around.Though the police opposed the bail pleas, additional sessions judge Sanjashree Gharat granted relief to the five accused on furnishing a personal bond of ₹15,000 each with one or two sureties of the same amount.With regards to the woman’s allegation of forcible intercourse, the court said that there was nothing illegal in a husband having intercourse with his wife against her wish. “Applicant no 1 (husband) cannot be said to have committed any illegal thing,” the court said about the allegation. “It is very unfortunate that the young girl suffered from paralysis. However, the applicants cannot be held responsible for the same,” the court added.The judge, on the allegation of dowry demand, said that the woman had claimed that she was ill-treated at her matrimonial home for non-payment of money demanded by her husband and in-laws, but nowhere specified as to how much money was demanded.When asked whether she agreed with the order passed by the sessions judge, advocate Kalpana Hiray, the additional public prosecutor who represented the police, said she would have to refer to the order before commenting on it.However, the sessions court order does not reflect the opinion of the Supreme Court (SC) which had observed that in a marriage a man and woman are equals and the woman has a right to privacy as well. In a judgment on the issue, SC observed, “Even a woman of easy virtue is entitled to privacy and no one can invade her privacy as and when he likes. So also, it is not open to any and every person to violate her person as and when he wishes. She is entitled to protect her person if there is an attempt to violate it against her wish. She is equally entitled to the protection of law.”Justice JB Pardiwala of Gujarat high court, while passing judgment in a case, had observed, “A woman is no longer the chattel-antiquated practices labelled her to be. A husband who has intercourse with his wife is not using a property, he’s fulfilling a marital consortium with a fellow human being with dignity equal to that he accords himself. He can’t be permitted to violate this dignity by coercing her to engage in a sexual act without her free consent.”While speaking on the issue of marital rape, advocate Aniket Nikam, said, “Today, section 375 (rape) of the IPC needs amendment to the exception which is already suggested by the justice JS Verma committee set up for providing sharper teeth to anti-rape laws. Every woman is a separate individual and the age-old reluctance (exception) can’t be applied every time. But this amendment needs to come up with safeguards to ensure that the new law won’t be misused.”Nikam said, “We’ve borrowed this [law] from the British Common law when women were considered as chattels who lacked decision-making powers. But today they need to be treated as an equal, and individual rights need to be considered. However, we also need to keep in mind that marriage as an institution should not suffer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-illegality-in-husband-having-intercourse-with-his-wife-against-her-wish-mumbai-court-101629053061774.html
16-08-2021||Mumbai||Faculty recruitment: Lack of clarity a hurdle in implementing social, economical quota in IITs, say experts||Lack of clarity on how to implement social and economical reservations in a flexible cadre system and disruption to natural career progression path are hurdles that Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) face in implementing social and economical reservations in their faculty positions. The Government of India mandates a reservation of 10% for candidates belonging to the economically weaker sections (EWS), 27% from other backward classes (OBC) category, 15% for Scheduled Caste (SC) category and 7.5% for Scheduled Tribe (ST) category and 5% for candidates with physical disabilities. However, data accessed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act shows that IITs have fared poorly in implementing these reservation norms in their faculty recruitment.Until 2019 these reservations were applicable at the entry-level — assistant professor— positions. Thereafter the rules were extended to all other positions— associate and full professor positions. Despite these policies, HT had earlier reported, 22 of all the 23 IITs don’t have more than six teachers from the ST community. Eighteen of them have 10 or less candidates from the SC category on their faculty rolls and seven IITs had 10 or fewer faculty from the OBC category. Data for IIT Mandi was unavailable. “It is a difficult task to implement reservations in the flexi cadre system where the total number of positions are not fixed. IITs have the liberty to promote or hire any world-class faculty,” said the director of an IIT, on the condition of anonymity. IITs follow a flexible cadre system for the appointment of faculty. The sanctioned strength of faculty at different grades such as professor, associate professor and an assistant professor is not fixed. Without a fixed strength, applying reservations is a concern.“IITs and other Centrally Funded Technical Institutes (CFTIs) are asking the Ministry of Education (MoE) for providing guidelines for making a reservation roster in a flexible cadre structure... The IITs are taking advantage of this flexible cadre for avoiding the faculty reservation,” said Rajesh Paswan, an associate professor and convener, Joint Forum for Academic and Social Justice. The director of a premier IIT, on the condition of anonymity, said that it will soon ask its board of governors to intervene and issue guidelines on how to apply reservations in a flexi cadre roster.“Another problem with economic reservations like EWS is that the criteria are that the gross annual family income should not exceed ₹8 lakh. While this can be implemented at the entry-level, for associates and professors the family’s income exceeds ₹8 lakh because the candidates have themselves been working. This is a problem while looking for candidates who fit the criteria,” said a senior official of another IIT.Another said that without clear guidance from the central government, implementing the reservation policies will deter the natural career progression path.“If followed to the letter, our current assistant/associate professors in general category will be denied promotion once the roster quota is full, and will have to wait for long periods, as opposed to the current system where promotion is based on merit, post completion of experience requirements,” he said.In April last year, an eight-member committee formed by the MoE to suggest measures to better implement reservations in admission and faculty selection, recommended that IITs should be exempted from caste reservations for faculty appointments as they are institutes of national importance. V Ramgopal Rao, director of IIT Delhi, who headed the committee, declined to comment.Apart from this, the committee had also highlighted the need to increase the talent pool in PhD so that they can be hired by IITs. It has recommended a one-year pre-PhD programme where aspirants get to spend a year with a researcher before getting admission to PhD.Paswan said, “It appears that the instructions issued by MoE to date are insufficient to ensure the effective implementation of faculty reservation in IITs and other CFTIs. Therefore, MoE should either immediately abolish the flexible faculty cadre structure in IITs and other CFTIs or should issue clear cut guidelines for making reservation rosters in the flexible faculty cadre structure. Since the teaching posts being currently filled by IITs are actually those which should be earmarked to SC/ST/OBC according to the Act and law, the ongoing faculty recruitment in IITs should also be stopped till such guidelines for the rosters are issued.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/faculty-recruitment-lack-of-clarity-a-hurdle-in-implementing-social-economical-quota-in-iits-say-experts-101629052461495.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||Jessica Lall's sister Sabrina dies battling liver cirrhosis||Sabrina Lall who had fought a long battle to bring the killers of her sister Jessica Lall to book passed away on Sunday evening, her brother said.Sabrina, in her early fifties, was ailing for long and was suffering from cirrhosis of the liver."She was not keeping well and had been in and out of hospital. Yesterday, her condition deteriorated at home and we took her to hospital. Today, in the evening, she passed away. She had cirrhosis of the liver and because of that, many complications arose and she had a multiple organ failure," her elder brother Ranjith Lall told PTI over phone.Her last rites will be performed on Monday.Last year, in an interview to PTI, Sabrina had spoken about her plans to start a foundation in memory of her sister to aid women in similar situations to get justice.She had said that she has forgiven her sister's killer, Manu Sharma, who walked out of jail last year after the Delhi Sentence Review Board recommended his premature release.Siddharth Vashisht, better known as Manu Sharma, was serving life sentence in Tihar Jail here for the 1999 murder."I really do not have anything to say. I am not feeling anything. I feel numb. The only thing I hope and pray to God is that he never thinks of repeating that mistake again," Sabrina had told PTI.She had in 2018 written to the jail authorities that she had no objection to Sharma's release.Jessica Lall was murdered in 1999 at a upscale restaurant in the national capital.Calling Jessica her closest friend, Sabrina had said she missed her sister's presence in her life every day."She was jovial and positive in life. It is not just birthdays and death anniversaries that I miss her, it is every day. I have lots of pictures of hers in my home and not that I need them to miss her, but they are there to remind me of her," Sabrina had told PTI.A film, 'No One Killed Jessica', was made on Sabrina's fight for getting justice for her sister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jessica-lall-s-sister-sabrina-dies-battling-liver-cirrhosis-101629051111414.html
16-08-2021||Other||Another year away from campus for DU’s second-year undergraduate students||New Delhi: When Satyajit Kumar, a resident of Bodh Gaya in Bihar, got admission to the undergraduate History course in Delhi University’s St. Stephen’s College last year, his happiness knew no bounds. One year later, the teenager is yet to visit the campus. His second-year lessons, like his first-year, are slated to begin Monday online.“When I got admitted to the college, I was looking forward to visit the campus because it is one of the best colleges in the country. I was expecting some exposure and development but nothing like that has happened. There has been no intellectual growth since graduating school. We have been hearing that classes might resume in offline mode soon in the university. If that doesn’t happen, another year will be wasted,” said Kumar, 18.Several other DU students that HT spoke to expressed similar concerns. Classes for second-year UG students are set to begin from Monday in online mode. Universities and colleges in the capital have been closed since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Several stakeholders, including teachers and educationists have expressed concerns over the learning deficits that will arise due to prolonged closure of colleges.Harjeet Kaur Bhatia, former head of department of educational studies at Jamia Millia Islamia’s Faculty of Education, said, “No doubt there will be learning deficits along with emotional and social gaps. Many students do not have access to online learning and access does not just mean devices but also the ability to understand the texts. Students may be able to access certain texts but may not necessarily understand it. A blended mode of learning can be considered for students under which a small number of students could be allowed to visit campus after consulting all stakeholders and connect with teachers and peers.”A few DU principals have also held meetings with their staff to discuss how to proceed this academic year. Bijayalaxmi Nanda, principal of Miranda House, said, “During an academic committee meeting with teachers, we decided that at least partially vaccinated students can come to college for assistance and access the library after taking due permission. We have also been conducting tutorials in open-air areas. If we have a sizeable number of vaccinated students ask for lab access, that too might be arranged. Focus will also be on peer mentoring, providing more detailed lesson plans for the semester so that students know where they are going in the courses, and even greater internet support for teachers on campus.”Several teachers said that adapting the second-year syllabus for the online module helped them prepare for this session as well. Ashok (first name), who teaches Physics at Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma college in south campus, said students faced issues last year while following science experiments in virtual laboratories.“We have been recording videos of teachers performing experiments in college laboratories and sharing with the students. We had adapted the second-year syllabus last year for the then second-year students and the same will be used this year. There is only so much we can do due to the limitation of the online mode. Classroom teaching cannot be replaced with online learning,” he said.Tanvir Aeijaz, who teaches Political Science in Ramjas College, and is also the general secretary of the college staff council, called for holding offline classes once or twice a week for those students who are not able to attend online classes. “During a staff council meeting, we came to a conclusion that there should be a concerted effort to include students who are being excluded from the online teaching-learning process. Even those who are able to attend online classes are facing obstructions due to issues like poor connectivity, lack of internet services, home-based study, and lack of access to university facilities like libraries. Online libraries require a lot of internet data which might not be feasible for all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-year-away-from-campus-for-du-s-second-year-undergraduate-students-101629051740706.html
16-08-2021||Other||Focus on civic literacy, social problems in Delhi govt’s deshbhakti curriculum||New Delhi: Love and respect for the country, tolerance for differences, contribution towards nation-building, and developing value system by introspection rather than coercion – these are among the topics addressed by the newly-launched deshbhakti curriculum which will be launched in government schools in the Capital next month.“Starting from September 27, the birth anniversary of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, Deshbhakti Curriculum will be taught daily for 45 minutes in government schools to students from nursery to class 8. We will instil a sense of pride and love towards the country in our children through the curriculum,” said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday.The curriculum, which has been developed into different stages for classes from nursery to class 8, saw the involvement of 41 mentor teachers, nine NGO partners and experts who played a significant role in the pilot run conducted between June and July.Anju Rohilla, former mentor teacher who was involved in the pilot project, said, “After the pilot run, my students gave me feedback that they had not thought about patriotism in so much detail before these classes. They knew that they love the country but through questions like what do they love about the country and its people, they delved deeper into the concept of patriotism. Through the course of conversation, children started introspecting why some people in the country were fighting or mocking each other if they indeed were patriotic and loved their people.”According to the curriculum framework released by the government on Saturday, a copy of which is with HT, the curriculum builds on interdisciplinary themes of civic literacy, environmental literacy, and global awareness. “Several successful education systems around the world, including countries like Singapore, Japan, Canada, and Australia, have adapted curricula aimed at instilling feelings of pride and responsibility towards the country, building an understanding of democratic values, civic education and citizen engagement and participation to resolve current and future challenges,” it stated.“Deshbhakti curriculum actively seeks to build a sense of belongingness, ownership and responsibility towards the nation amongst students, which would also inspire them to make necessary sacrifices for the country. These values are sought to be developed in students by facilitating critical and creative thinking skills rather than by coercion,” the document stated.The curriculum would cover three broad themes – knowledge of constitutional values, history of freedom struggle, Indian achievements, social problems and inequalities; values like honesty, loyalty, love for the country, sacrifice, and empathy; and behaviour involving scientific reasoning and mindset, standing up against injustice, respect for national symbols, and pluralism, among others.Like the previous two curricula – Happiness and Entrepreneurship Mindset – introduced by the Delhi government, there will be no textbooks or formal assessment system for the Deshbhakti Curriculum and teachers will be given a handbook comprising the different themes and a list of activities to be covered in the classes. The new curriculum also shares several learning outcomes – including problem-solving, self-awareness, self-confidence, and collaboration – like the previous two curricula.Arti Qanungo, who was involved in the curriculum’s content development team, said, “We have included true stories and incidents to help students understand that helping someone needy, avoiding wastage of water, not destroying monuments, planting trees, is also ‘deshbhakti’.”During the pilot runs, teachers said, they focused on instances like making videos of those injured in a road accident as prompts to initiate discussion in class. “After describing the incident, we asked students if they should help the injured or walk away after sharing the video on social media. This helps children introspect. While talking about wastage of food, we urge students to think about where the food comes from and think of farmers who grow them. This way we make them more mindful of the contribution of farmers towards nation-building,” Qanungo said.Poonam Batra, professor of Education at Delhi University, said, “Ideas of patriotism are embedded in our constitutional values of democracy, fraternity, liberty, equality and justice. These can be taught to children by ensuring that they have lived experiences of these values in schools and classrooms instead of teaching them through definitions and sermons. The current political climate encourages a rhetorical view of patriotism and nationalism that is not only narrow but one that glosses over core Constitutional commitments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/focus-on-civic-literacy-social-problems-in-delhi-government-s-deshbhakti-curriculum-101629051622197.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man on bike dies after banned manjha slits his throat||A 23-year-old man died after his throat was slit by the banned glass-coated kite string (manjha) when he was going to a relative’s house on his bike, police said on Sunday, adding that the incident took place when the victim was crossing the Mangolpuri-Sultanpuri flyover on Friday evening.A senior police officer identified the deceased as Saurabh Dahiya, a resident of Najafgarh area.According to the police, Dahiya was on his way to a relative’s house in Kanhaiya Nagar area of northwest Delhi when the incident took place. The officer said just as Dahiya climbed the flyover, a kite string got entangled in his throat, slitting it.Dahiya stopped the bike, and was bleeding profusely. Bystanders rushed him to the nearby Saroj Hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead.The officer said that a case has been registered against unknown persons and the police were trying to trace who was using the banned string that killed Dahiya.Like the past few years, this time too, ahead of the Independence Day, the Delhi Police issued an order under Section 144 of the CrPC, 1973, banning the sale, use, and purchase of Chinese kite string.The National Green Tribunal in 2017 imposed a nationwide ban on the use of Chinese glass-coated string (manjha) for flying kites, saying it poses a life risk to humans, animals, and birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhiman-on-bike-dies-after-banned-manjha-slits-his-throat-101629051441674.html
16-08-2021||Delhi||Staggered sessions as Delhi schools reopen for classes 10,12||A week after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed schools in the Capital to restart physical classes for students of classes 10 and 12, most public and private schools will begin in-person classes in a staggered manner for these students from this week -- for the first time since April when offline classes were suspended following the fourth wave of Covid-19 in Delhi.The education department had earlier directed schools to obtain written consent from the parents of all students who are willing to visit the school, even as it allowed continuation of online classes for those who opt out of physical classes.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini and a member of an action committee of over 400 private schools in the capital, said that only 40% of the parents have agreed to send their children to school.“We think that once classes begin, gradually attendance will pick up like it did earlier this year. We have decided to go for a blended mode of learning with our online classes continuing till noon in the first half. Our practicals will continue from 12.30pm to 2.30pm with each student coming to school only twice or thrice a week. At any given point, there won’t be more than 12-13 students in each lab,” she said.On August 9, the Directorate of Education issued guidelines to all schools, following DDMA directives allowing students of classes 10 to 12 to return to school for admissions and board exam-related activities.While a few schools, including Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh and ITL Public School in Dwarka, reopened last week, most private schools, like Springdales School in Pusa Road, Army Public School in Shankar Vihar, Birla Vidya Niketan, Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, Delhi Public School in Mathura Road and Ahlcon International School in Mayur Vihar are expected to reopen this week.With the Capital’s Covid-19 caseload at a nearly 16-month low, schools and parents had been asking the government if schools will reopen for senior students soon. Schools in Delhi have been closed since March last year and briefly opened in January and February this year only for classes 9 to 12. Offline classes were suspended in April due to the rise in Covid-19 cases.Many stakeholders had been calling for reopening schools mainly because of the two-term board examination, introduced by CBSE to prepare for an “unprecedented situation” arising due to the pandemic, next year. The first set of board examinations for classes 10 and 12, based on a bifurcated syllabus and in the MCQ format, is set to take place between November and December this year.Suman Aswal, who teaches Biology at The Indian School in Sheikh Sarai, said, “We will focus on practicals as other guidance can be given online as well... We will also discuss what kind of multiple choice questions students can expect.”Most government schools in the Capital will start classes on Monday and principals have been asked to ensure vaccination of staff on a priority basis.Sukhbir Singh Yadav, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Phase 3 and president of Vice and Principals’ Association of Delhi, said his school started practicals for Class 12 on Thursday and will begin the same for Class 10 students from Monday. “We will be addressing their queries related to theory and practical exams for a maximum of three hours per day. The paper pattern has also changed this year so we need to train our students accordingly. Students slated to appear for their compartment exams between August and September can also visit schools for guidance,” he said.Some schools will also focus on counselling students to ease their transition to offline classes.Rakesh Semalty, principal of a government school in West Jyoti Nagar, said, “Counselling sessions will be of one hour and in small batches of 15-20 students. All subject teachers have one session with each batch in which they will personally interact with students and resolve their issues related to online classes, time management, syllabus splits, examination methods of board, practical classes, record keeping, personal well-being and moving forward with caution, concept and confidence. Practicals and projects will begin next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-staggered-sessions-as-schools-reopen-for-classes-1012-101629050901681.html
16-08-2021||Pune||Section 144 in force at tourist spots in Pune||Even as weekend restrictions have been eased in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad with rural areas have been upgrated to Level 3 from Level 4 restrictions, Pune rural police have said that parts of Section 144 imposed at the tourists spots in Pune district are still in place. Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of police, Pune, said the police personnel would be deployed at the tourist spots to avoid crowding. Anticipating the crowding on weekends, nakabandi has been done by the police on the road to popular tourist destinations in Lonavla. “Our order of imposing Section 144 at the listed tourist spots in the district is a special order and it is still applicable. So, the locations listed in the order will continue to have the restrictions under Section 144. Police deployment would be at these spots for this weekend as well. In rural parts, Level 3 restrictions are in place and tourist spots continue to have curbs,” said Deshmukh. He, however, clarified that the movement of those going to hotels or resorts on pre-booking basis would be allowed. “Popular tourist destinations belong in seven tehsils. People can go to pre-booked hotels and resorts, but crowding at tourist spots is still prohibited,” said Deshmukh. Anticipating the arrival of a huge number of tourists to Lonavla, police put nakabandi at eight spots on Saturday and it would continue on Sunday as well. “On weekdays we don’t have to do nakabandi at so many places. In Lonavla, police bandobast has been put in place at Tiger Point, Lion’s Point, Ekvira Devi temple, Pawana nagar, Varsoli toll plaza, Neelsagar and Bhaje Karla caves. We have been requesting tourists to return,” said Tayuub Mujavar, police inspector Lonavla (rural). Haveli police have also deployed police force at Khadakwasla and Gholewadi chowk. ““Nobody would be allowed at tourist spots. For weekends, extra three officers and 22 police personnel have been appointed. The nakabandi would be at Khadakwasla and Gholewadi chowk,” said Sadashiv Shelar, police inspector Haveli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/section-144-in-force-at-tourist-spots-in-pune-101628965683841.html
16-08-2021||Pune||Samant visits Ranade institute, announces cancellation of merger with Pune varsity||In the wake of the controversy over the merger of the department of communication and journalism (DoCJ), popularly known as the Ranade institute, with media and communication studies inside the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) campus, Maharashtra higher and technical education minister Uday Samant visited the campus at Fergusson college road on Saturday, and assured that no such decision will be taken. Upon visiting the Ranade institute, the minister first met the SPPU vice-chancellor, university officials and student union- and journalists’ association- representatives.At a press conference held at the Ranade institute, Pune, on Saturday, Samant said, “Since the past few days, I have been receiving several letters from across the state regarding the Ranade institute merger. Hence, I came here today to discuss the matter with university officials, student representatives and even the journalists’ association. It was unanimously decided to cancel the decision to merge the Ranade institute department of communication and journalism at Fergusson college road with media and communication studies inside the university campus.”The minister also announced the formation of a committee to upgrade the academic and infrastructural development of the DoCJ aka Ranade institute. “At the same time, we have appointed a one-member committee of Vikas Chandra Rastogi, principal secretary of the higher and technical education department. The merger decision has been cancelled, and now the academic and infrastructural development of this institute will be carried out. Also the Ranade institute land issue is in court so the government legal team is ready to provide all necessary help for the same. The recommendations put forth by the committee will be considered and the report will be submitted within 90 days,” Samant further said.Asked about the reopening of colleges in the state, the minister said, “Our department is fully prepared for the reopening of colleges and accordingly, we are in talks with all district collectors in the state. At the same time, the task force has warned against reopening of colleges due to the risk of a third wave looming large. We will submit our report to the task force and a decision regarding reopening of colleges will be taken soon.”Soon after the meeting with Samant, SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar issued a new circular cancelling the decision to merge the Ranade institute with media and communication studies inside the SPPU campus. Established in 1964, the Ranade institute is counted among the most well-known journalism departments in the country and has produced several veteran journalists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/samant-visits-ranade-institute-announces-cancellation-of-merger-with-sppu-101628965025077.html
16-08-2021||Pune||Amidst shortage of vaccine for Pune rural, admin diverts new stock for second dose beneficiaries||Shortage of vaccine delivered to Pune rural has left over 0.221 million people pending for their second dose as of August 8. Hence, the district administration has decided to divert all the vaccine stock it got on Saturday for second dose beneficiaries, both Covishield and Covaxin. As of now, second dose vaccines could be given between 84-112 days after the first dose which was increased due to the short supply of vaccines, however, despite this increased gap many are not able to get the second dose as there is an acute shortage of vaccine supply. The rural administration has diverted its entire stock of 50,000 Covishield doses and 3,000 Covaxin doses for second doses beneficiaries. On Saturday, the district received 5,260 doses of Covaxin of which Pune rural received 3,000 doses, PMC 1,260 and PCMC 1,000 doses and also 1,15,000 total doses of Covishield of which Pune rural got 50,000 doses, PMC 40,000 and PCMC 25,000 doses. However, in view of over 0.221 million beneficiaries awaiting their second dose in rural Pune, the zilla parishad has decided to divert the entire fresh stock for only second dose beneficiaries which means that those wanting to get the first dose of their vaccine would have to wait longer. Dr Sachin Edake, district immunisation officer said, “As of August 8, Pune rural has 207,164 people awaiting their second dose of Covishield and 14,498 people awaiting their second dose of Covaxin. We have diverted this new stock of 50,000 doses of Covishield and 3,000 doses of Covaxin for only second dose beneficiaries because they need to get their second shot within the stipulated period after 84 days. It has been delayed already for some of them, but we do not want to delay it any further because it might affect their immunity through vaccines.” Earlier, the zilla parishad had appealed to private hospitals to exchange their existing stock with fresh stock for later in September as the ZP faced shortage of vaccines for second dose beneficiaries. However private hospitals did not respond positively to the appeal. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) too received its fresh stock on Saturday which would be used in its Monday vaccination drive. Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer said, “Earlier we had reserved 60-40 ratio for second and first dose which is now 70-30 of which 15% would be reserved for walk in first dose beneficiaries and 15% for online slot booking first dose beneficiaries and rest 70% if reserved for second dose beneficiaries. This has been done as per the guidelines set by the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/amidst-shortage-of-vaccine-for-pune-rural-admn-diverts-new-stock-for-second-dose-beneficiaries-101628964727066.html
16-08-2021||Pune||Belasar villagers in Pune turn volunteers, condoms distributed to check Zika virus spread||The central team has asked the Pune health administration to ensure that they continue the ongoing survey among symptomatic villagers in the five villages around Belasar for which the administration is training villagers to become volunteers. In view of the fact that the Zika virus could be sexually transmitted, the administration is also distributing condoms to young couples and potential mothers as the infection, although asymptomatic for mothers, could lead to microcephaly in foetuses. The survey may go on for months as the central team has asked to ensure zero new cases of dengue and chikunugunya and zero detection of larvae breeding for at least two weeks which means that the survey would go on for months till the monsoon season is over. To continue the survey, the administration is planning to train volunteers from the villages to visit every household regularly. Dr Ujjawala Jadhav, taluka health officer of Purandar taluka, which was ground zero for Zika virus in the state, said, “We are identifying volunteers who could survey households regularly. It would not be possible for only health officials and our staff to survey all the homes in these six villages regularly and so we are training volunteers from each of the villages and they would inspect 20 homes per volunteer and look for symptoms. They would also be responsible for larvae collection and detection. The volunteers would be trained for the same. In case anyone is found positive for any of the symptoms, then the volunteer would inform the nearest primary health centre and then their blood samples would be sent for further tests. The central team has asked us to continue the survey until not even one dengue or chikungunya case is reported or even aedes larvae are found in these villages consistently for two weeks.” The central team has asked to keep a tab on pregnant women. Even though the mortality due to Zika infection is much less and almost 80% of the cases are asymptomatic, they could be potential carriers. The virus also has a great impact on unborn children as it can cause microcephaly. The blood samples of pregnant women have been surveyed and all necessary precautions have been taken. Potential couples who could become pregnant have been asked to use contraception and the district administration has distributed condoms to the young couples. “We have given almost 10-15 condoms per couple which we will give in regular intervals, as per protocol until we can be sure that there is no infection prevalent,” said Dr Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/belasar-villagers-turn-volunteers-condoms-distributed-to-check-zika-virus-spread-101628964603659.html
16-08-2021||Pune||Pune Curtain Call: Marketing theatre in the new world, the social media way||The play “Amar Photo Studio” was ready to be shown to the world. Its journey from seed to the theatre piece it had transformed into has been witnessed in the articles of the previous weeks. “Amar Photo Studio” had enjoyed a wonderful social media marketing campaign. It was hailed as one of it’s USPs and I feel fortunate to have witnessed the start of social media trend. The actors in the play were extremely popular and were a household name because of the TV series they were a part of. The series had ended recently and the actors had decided to work on this play. While they were popular individually, the audience used to love them more as a unit. So, it was very smart of them to continue working together. While we were rehearsing, none of them put up anything about the play on their social media handles. So, the fact that the beloved unit is working on something was kept a secret from the audience, who were looking forward to seeing them again. Once the date of the opening show was finalised, we decided to start publicity. Traditionally, publicity of Marathi theatre is done through the medium of newspaper. A photoshoot is organised a few weeks before the show. And there are two or three advertising agencies who specialise in designing ads for plays. One of them gets a contract. An ad is put out around a week before the show, usually on the preceding Sunday, announcing that this particular play is coming soon. And then advertisement slots are booked in local dailies for two days before every show. Generally, as the cost of these advertisements kept rising year on year, it started becoming a burden to the producers. Especially for amateur theatre groups, advertisement cost takes up a massive part of the budget. But it has to be done! For the past few years, we started an experiment for our theatre group – Natak Company. We knew that most of our audience was young and on social media. We had generated a good amount of traffic on our online pages too. Two to three team members, led by Gandhaar Sangoram, started taking an interest in social media marketing. They started designing creative advertisements for social media and made full use of the current social media trends. We also shifted our ticketing online rather than the traditional ticket window. We noticed that most of our shows were getting sold out online and one day we decided to not put out an ad in the newspaper and see if it affects our sale in any way. It didn’t. And that just signalled the arrival of a different time in publicity for us. In the case of this particular play, almost all actors had a sizeable social media following and we were confident that word about this play will reach the audience once they upload an announcement. But we thought of doing something quirky before starting actual publicity. Since the play has a large element of time travel and revolves around a photo studio, one of the team members suggested putting up a passport size picture of their childhood with the hashtag of “Amar Photo Studio”. Nothing else will be mentioned. Just the picture and the hashtag. Everyone liked the idea and felt that it was a good teaser before the actual advertisement. It was decided that Amey Wagh will put up the first picture and then all other actors will follow suit in the coming days, which will pique the curiosity of the audience and we will have their attention. Just as Amey was about to upload his childhood passport size picture, I remember that Gandhaar suddenly stopped him. He gave a suggestion to tag three random people in the post, urging them to put up a childhood passport size picture of theirs. We all agreed and Amey posted his picture and tagged three others who had a sizeable social media following with the hashtag of our play. The three friends also put their pictures up graciously, along with the hashtag, and they tagged three of their friends. By evening, the trend had caught up and everyone was speaking about “Amar Photo Studio”, but no one knew what it was! Everyone we knew wanted to be tagged and wanted to be a part of it. Some who weren’t tagged just put up their pictures anyway! It was featured in the news and it was termed “Amar Photo Studio challenge”. When we made the actual announcement, the play was already hyped up because of the social media campaign. The fact that these actors were coming together was a bonus! Traditionally, a play usually starts drawing audience after twenty-five to thirty shows and once word spreads about it. We enjoyed an overwhelming response from the first show itself! Not only was the play a commercial hit, it also laid the foundation of a social media management company for Gandhaar! Whenever I used to visit the theatre, the ticket checkers and other theatre staff used to tell me that they were witnessing a change in the audience demography. Never had they seen young people in such large numbers who have come to watch a play. It felt wonderful to be able to achieve this! Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-marketing-theatre-in-the-new-world-101628944200433.html
