17-08-2021||Other||Income tax exemption on donation given to SGPC gurdwaras||Amritsar Pilgrims donating money to gurdwaras under the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will now be able to avail income tax exemption under Section 80-G of the Income Tax Act. The move comes after the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Amritsar, gave its verdict in a case and allowed registration and rebate to the SGPC under this section on Monday. SGPC chief secretary advocate Harjinder Singh Dhami said, “We started efforts to ensure the 80-G exemption in 2009. Finally, after 12 years we have had success. The sangat (community) will be able to get income tax exemption on the offering of Daswandh to the SGPC.”He thanked lawyers and experts who provided services during the case. “Advocate Prem Singh, advocate Gunjit Singh Sial, chartered accountant Gurcharan Singh Sial and TS Arora have provided their services for this task,” Dhami added. “Recognition will now great relief to the sangat. I appeal to the sangat to avail the benefits of exemption for assisting the SGPC in management of gurdwaras and for social welfare,” he added. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur has welcome the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/income-tax-exemption-on-donation-given-to-sgpc-gurdwaras-101629224979258.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body opens first public EV charging station, 25 more on cards||Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday inaugurated city’s first public electric vehicle (EV) charging station at Kohinoor Public Parking Lot (PPL) in Dadar, operated by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). According to BMC officials, another 25 such EV charging stations are expected to come up in the city.Thackeray on Tuesday tweeted, “This is very encouraging as we move in the direction of making Maharashtra electric vehicle-friendly. We had announced our state’s electric vehicle (EV) policy about a month ago. It is heartening to witness such efforts from all fronts. This is one of the many steps, over the next few months we want to ensure that every PPL has an electric charging station.”According to BMC officials, there are two types of EV chargers of which one is DC charger, that is known as a fast charger, which charges a vehicle in around 60 to 110 minutes, and the other is AC charger in which an EV is charged within six to seven hours. At the Kohinoor PPL, BMC has installed two DC chargers that will charge four vehicles at a time, and three slow chargers that will charge three vehicles at a time. The charging station will be available 24x7.A total of 72 EVs can be charged in a span of 24 hours at the facility and the cost of charging will be ₹15 per unit. In general, it takes around 20 to 30 units for an EV to be fully charged, so the total charging cost would be between ₹200 and ₹400. A fully-charged EV can be driven for around 140km to 170km.BMC has around 26 PPLs in the city and the civic body is planning to install such EV charging stations at all of them in the coming months. Apart from the 26 PPLs, BMC also operates several on-street parking lots in the city. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, said, “Not just for on-street parking lots, but we are also going to explore mobile EV charging station. By this, a charging station can be installed inside a vehicle and via that point any electric vehicle can be charged on the road. This is even done in European cities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-opens-first-public-ev-charging-station-25-more-on-cards-101629224802158.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||MPCB to install 15 mobile air quality monitors across Maharashtra||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) plans to install 15 mobile continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) at key locations across the state, including Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Pune and others. MPCB last week floated a request for proposal (RFP) inviting prospective concessionaires to bid for the project, which is expected to be rolled out in the first half of 2022, according to officials privy to the development.The 15 air quality monitors will be housed in Bharat Stage-IV compliant trucks which will be stationed outside various regional offices of MPCB in at least eight districts, according to tender documents reviewed by Hindustan Times. They will be fitted with continuous automatic monitoring devices for carbon monoxide (CO), sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NO,NO2, NOx), beta attenuation gauges to measure PM2.5 and PM10 pollution levels, and a BTX analyser to measure atmospheric concentrations of other pollutants including benzene, toluene ethyl benzene, and three isomers of xylene.They will also be fitted with instruments to measure meteorological parameters such as wind direction, wind speed, ambient temperature, relative humidity, rainfall and solar radiation.Once a year, at three days’ notice, the entire unit and its operations will be subject to audit by MPCB to ensure quality control. Other locations shortlisted for installation of mobile CAAQMS include Chandrapur, Amravati, Kolhapur, Nashik, Aurangabad and Nagpur. VM Motghare, director (air quality) at MPCB, did not comment when contacted on Tuesday. However, a regional officer with MPCB aware of the development said, “These mobile stations will be located primarily outside regional offices of MPCB, where they will operate on a routine basis and take air samples every 15 minutes or so. The data will also be relayed to the Central Pollution Control Board’s servers so that it can be used to generate a more accurate air quality index. At the discretion of regional officers, the units may be deployed elsewhere. For example, if there is a fire somewhere and we want to assess the air pollution, we can move the unit elsewhere temporarily.”The official also said that this is the second time in a year that tenders for the project are being invited. “The tenders for the same were first released in August 2020, and four bidders had come forward, but the commercials could not be worked out. Hence the tenders are now being re-invited and the bid should be awarded sometime in late September-early October. Once awarded, the concessionaire will have a timeline of 180 days to start operations,” the official said.Mumbai’s currently has 30 air quality monitoring stations — 15 under MPCB, 10 under the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), and five under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). In addition to these, MPCB has proposed to install three more stationary CAAQMS in Navi Mumbai, Kalamboli, Kharghar and Taloja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mpcb-to-install-15-mobile-air-quality-monitors-across-maharashtra-101629224500319.html
17-08-2021||Other||Tri-Services women mountaineering team scales Mt Manirang on I-Day||A team of women mountaineers, including one from Prayagraj, summited Mount Manirang to mark the 75th Independence Day.The Tri-Services all-women mountaineering expedition was organised by the Army Adventure Wing to mark the celebrations of “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”. The team was flagged off on August 1, 2021.Major Saumya Shukla of Red Eagle Division was one of the members of the expedition who have successfully summited Mount Manirang of Kinnaur (Himachal Pradesh), scaling a height of 21,625 ft on August 15, 2021 along with Wing Commander Bhavna, Wing Commander Nirupama and Wing Commander Lalita. “The team will return back on August 29, 2021,” said Shantanu Pratap Singh, regional PRO (defence), Prayagraj here on Tuesday. “Major Saumya Shukla has qualified the basic and advanced mountaineering course at Army Mountaineering Institute, Siachen base camp and has performed in an outstanding manner in all mountaineering courses and expeditions, thereby serving as a role model for all aspirants to the armed forces,” he added.Manirang is one of the highest mountains in Himachal Pradesh. It lies on the border between Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti district. Among the high altitude passes in the Himalayan region of Spiti valley, Manirang Pass is regarded as the most remote and hard even today. This pass is reckoned to be one of the least explored mountain passes in the Indian Himalaya. Mount Manirang (Altitude: 6593 mtr / 21625.04 ft) is known as the crown of the Spiti valley and is seen as an ultimate challenge for mountaineers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/triservices-women-mountaineering-team-scales-mt-manirang-on-iday-101629224499091.html
17-08-2021||Other||Goa tourism seeks restart of foreign arrivals from ‘safe’ countries||Goa’s tourism stakeholders have called on the Union and state governments to reopen the state’s tourism industry to foreign arrivals, especially from those countries that have welcomed people from India over the last year and a half.A delegation of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), a body of tourism industry business leaders, and the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry called on Goa chief minister on Tuesday to impress upon him to restart foreign arrivals - something that is seen as crucial for the state’s small and medium hotel industry to survive.“As Goa is one of the leading states for tourism we propose that charter flights be allowed to land in Goa especially from safe destinations that have allowed Indians to travel to their countries on tourist visas. International flights are already operating in between two countries like Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan. So we should reciprocate the same way,” TTAG president Nilesh Shah said after the meeting with the chief minister.The industry is facing “severe financial constraints” and even a limited reopening of the industry would go a long way in improving the health of the industry, the stakeholders said.They have sought that the Goa government should now announce a conditional reopening of the state for foreign tourists, subject to the coronavirus situation being under control in order that they can plan for the upcoming season.“We request an announcement to be made immediately for the opening of international tourist charters from October onwards so that foreign operators have time to market and prepare for the operations and this coming season is not lost. If by any chance there is any third wave of Covid-19 then the announcement of the cancellation of charter operations can be made by September or October,” the TTAG said.To encourage tourists to travel, the TTAG has suggested a special charter tourist package visa to be worked out which can be issued manually by the local embassies or temporary landing permits can be issued on arrival to tourists, as done in the past.According to industry estimates, the tourism sector employs over 40 million skilled and trained manpower and generates approximately US $29 billion foreign exchange per annum for the country.No new foreign tourists have set foot in Goa since March last year after the country shut its borders to leisure travel and stopped issuing tourist visas.Prior to the pandemic, the state witnessed close to 90-lakh tourists including around 9-lakh foreigners.Goa Tourism Development Corporation had conducted a state-wise survey through a consultant to understand the impact of Covid-19 on the state’s tourism industry. As per the survey, the overall loss of earnings in the tourism industry during lockdown has been estimated at ₹2,062 crores. Potential loss of earning for the 2020-21 season has been pegged at ₹7,239 crores and the potential job cuts were to the tune of 1.22 lakh (58%).Goa’s tourism sector is a big source of revenue for the state with the industry directly contributing 16.43% towards the state Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and also provides employment to nearly 35% of the state’s population that is dependent on the sector, according to official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-tourism-seeks-restart-of-foreign-arrivals-from-safe-countries-101629224320637.html
17-08-2021||Other||JNU academic council approves proposal to establish medical school, 500-bed super-speciality hospital||New Delhi: The Academic Council (AC) of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Tuesday approved the proposal of establishing a medical school and a 500-bed super-speciality hospital on the university campus, amid opposition by some council members who described it as an attempt to change the character of JNU and commercialisation of a public university. The JNU teachers’ association (JNUTA) also opposed the decision and wrote to the union education ministry to register its dissent. HT on Tuesday reported that the university has proposed to establish a medical school and hospital offering super speciality treatment, including critical services in cardiology, organ transplant, neurology, and pulmonology, along with “non-conventional departments” with 50% faculty posts reserved for scientists. The cost of the project is estimated at ₹900 crore.The matter will now be placed before the university’s top decision making body-- the executive council (EC)-- in its next meeting for the final approval, officials said.In a statement issued on Tuesday, JNU rector RP Singh, who is also a member of the committee that prepared the proposal, said, “The Academic Council unanimously approved, as per the provisions of JNU Act 1966, establishing a School of Medical Sciences and an attached hospital with broad and super speciality departments including supporting and non-conventional departments.”The school will offer courses at undergraduate, postgraduate and research levels with an “emphasis on modern medicine integrated with traditional medicine and knowledge systems from humanities and Social Sciences,” the statement added. However, some council members alleged that they were not allowed to register dissent over the matter during the meeting that was held virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I was not allowed to speak. In fact, they did not unmute me throughout the discussion over the proposal. This is nothing but another way of changing the character of JNU and commercialisation of a public university. At least two other members raised substantive issues regarding the resources and environmental impact that it might have on the campus. But their concerns were brushed aside,” said a member, who asked not to be named. Later on Tuesday, JNUTA also wrote to union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan raising concerns over the proposal. “The 158th academic council meeting saw the vice-chancellor seeking AC approval for the establishment of a medical school and a super specialty hospital within JNU, without any major prior discussion on the feasibility of such a programme among faculty belonging to the Centre for Social Medicine and Community Health and other related schools. On matters as important as the conduct of JNU Entrance Examinations 2021-22, the vice-chancellor chose to simply inform the AC about the decisions taken already instead of following the procedural norms laid out in the university statutes,” the teachers body said in the letter.The plan to set up a medical sciences school and the hospital involves hiring 259 faculty members and the total estimated budget of the project is ₹900 crore. The project will be completed in three years, officials said.The JNUTA also questioned the delay in appointment of a regular vice-chancellor in JNU. M Jagadesh Kumar’s tenure as JNU V-C was to end on January 26, but the education ministry on January 22 directed that Kumar be allowed to continue in his position ‘until further orders’. Despite several attempts, Kumar and JNU rector did not respond to calls and texts sent for a comment. An education ministry official said, “The recruitment process is going on. A decision is likely to be made soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jnu-academic-council-approves-proposal-to-establish-medical-school-500-bed-super-speciality-hospital-101629224198890.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||SP members create ruckus over ‘abba jaan’ comment||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) members on Tuesday created a ruckus in the Vidhan Parishad and trooped into the well, taking exception to chief minister Yogi Adityanath referring to former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s father (Mulayam Singh Yadav) as ‘abba jaan’. He did not name anyone, though. Giving reply to the pandemic related questions raised under Rule 105 in the Upper House, the CM said people who opposed the Covid vaccine calling it “the BJP’s vaccine” must be held accountable for many avoidable deaths of people who got infected and died because of not taking a jab believing the propaganda. “But the same persons, who opposed the vaccine, agreed to take the shot later, after their ‘abba jaan’ was vaccinated,” the CM quipped, evoking a sharp reaction from the SP members who accused Adityanath of using “unparliamnetary language in the Upper House.” Yogi Adityanath said he was surprised to see that the SP had objection to the use of the words ‘abba jaan’ even as the party was always desperate to get Muslim votes. Chairman Kumar Manvendra Singh, who was conducting the proceedings, said there was nothing unparliamentary about calling someone ‘abba jaan’ and succeeded in calming members down after 10 minutes of commotion. Resuming the speech, the CM said the SP members were preaching him on the use of parliamentary words here while one of their MPs (he did not name) was seen in the morning shamelessly defending the Taliban and their barbaric acts. “We are in a parliamentary democracy, but we are supporting acts that are a blot on humanity,” he regretted. Attacking the opposition, the CM said when the state and the Central governments were making arrangements to save lives of people during the second wave of Covid, politicians of opposition camp were busy spreading negativity through twitter. “When the country and the state were in crisis, these people were spreading fears, goading people and creating anarchy through twitter,” he alleged He admitted to problems during the second wave but said the government did its best to deal with the situation. Referring to the opposition’s allegations about bodies found flouting in the Ganga during the second wave, Adityanath said bodies were also found floating in the Ganga in Kanpur and Unnao during the SP regime. Dumping of bodies in the Ganga, he said, was, in fact, a part of the Sanatan culture and tradition. The CM said Covid was not an ordinary disease and people must accept this reality. He said coordinated efforts were needed to deal with this pandemic and advised the opposition to desist from using death statistics to further their political agenda. He claimed that Covid positivity rate in UP (0.01%) was the lowest in the world and recovery rate was as high as 98.6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-members-create-ruckus-over-abba-jaan-comment-101629223899281.html
17-08-2021||Other||Teachers on 2-day strike over salary delay at 12 Delhi University colleges||Teachers from the Delhi University (DU) boycotted online classes on Tuesday to protest against the delay in payment of salaries at 12 Delhi government colleges. The call for the two-day strike, that will continue till Wednesday, was given by Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) to protest against delayed salary disbursal and the government for not releasing funds. The issues of delayed payments and not releasing funds on time have been a point of contention among the colleges and Delhi government for a while now. Earlier in March this year, the Delhi government announced that it would release ₹28.24 crores for the salaries of the staff of the fully funded DU colleges. Despite the announcement, insufficient grants were released, that delayed disbursement of salaries and other dues, said the DUTA. President of DUTA Rajib Ray said though some principals had called to inform that funds had been sanctioned, this was a stop gap measure that would cover up expenses for a month or two at the most. “The budget sanctioned for colleges should have been increased, but it has not been done. Besides salaries of teachers, colleges have expenses to incur on infrastructure also,” said Ray. In a statement, DUTA said while grant-in-aid had been released earlier for some colleges, the strike will continue. “The second instalment of grants-in-aid released today (Tuesday) is highly insufficient. DUTA finds it is extremely unfortunate that it takes protests to get salaries. All dues of employees remain still pending including against medical bills and salaries of ad-hoc teachers. The grants released are insufficient for the implementation of recent promotions in terms of salary enhancement,” the statement said. Besides boycotting classes, teachers also held an online protest during which they shared their grievances and the challenges they are facing due to delay in payment of salaries. “Teachers shared how employees are forced to take loans because of these delays and are living in constant stress. They demanded that the 12 colleges should be taken over by the UGC to end this repeated crisis,” said DUTA. Hem Chand Jain, principal of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, said he did not receive any sanction letter or funds, due to which college teachers were going through trying times. The college last paid 80% salaries to teaching staff in May, whereas ad-hoc and contractual teachers were given no remuneration. “Colleges are in a bad shape. The livelihoods of around 2,500 families are at stake. People are unable to pay their EMIs. The college has not been able to pay the electricity and water bill. We are not in a position to pay for expenses incurred under different heads,” said Jain. The Delhi government did not respond to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-on-2-day-strike-over-salary-delay-at-12-delhi-university-colleges-101629223838688.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||Jharkhand cyber cheats: gang swindled 37 retd UP police, govt officials in past few months||In the first week of July, retired UP police sub-inspector Chote Lal Khan was fooled out of ₹ 11 lakh from his bank account, after he received a call from an unknown caller posing as a treasury officer, offering him different government schemes and retirement benefits. The callers managed to convince Khan to share his ATM password and bank account information. And within minutes, the money from his bank account vanished to different accounts.Retired sub-inspector, Udai Veer Singh, of Hardoi district, was duped of ₹10 lakh from his bank account. In his case, the callers again posed as treasury officers and managed to procure his ATM and bank account details.Similarly, serving sub-inspector Ram Lakhan Chowdhary and a retired woman constable were defrauded of ₹10 lakh and ₹ 9 lakh, respectively.A retired secretariat official in Lucknow was conned out of ₹53 lakh in the same manner.A senior police official of the UP police Cyber Crime Cell said a notorious cyber fraudster, Vijay Mandal alias Pramod Mandal, who along with his accomplice, Mantu Mandal, was arrested on Sunday, was the mastermind behind all these frauds. He was also behind the fraud with at least 37 retired government officials in the past few months.He said that all victims fell prey to the same trick of unknown callers posing as treasury officers, who offered them government schemes and retirement benefits, after which they shared their ATM and bank account details.The official said that Pramod Mandal and Mantu Mandal, both residents of Jharkhand, had formed a gang along with some relatives and friends after training them about cyber fraud tricks. He said five more members of the gang have been identified and efforts are on to nab them too.He said Pramod Mandal had assigned specific tasks to his gang members like opening false bank accounts for money transactions and obtaining fake SIM cards for making calls to victims. Some members were trained in making calls to victims while some were given know-how in withdrawing money from bank accounts. They were given a certain amount of money based on the importance of their task.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jharkhand-cyber-cheats-gang-swindled-37-retd-up-police-govt-officials-in-past-few-months-101629223599015.html
17-08-2021||Other||Delhi virtual model school to begin with 200 students in classes 9 and 11||New Delhi: The state government’s proposed Delhi Virtual Model School (DVMS), which aims to cater to students interested in studying from home, such as sportspersons, artists, or school dropouts, will begin with 200 students in classes 9 and 11 from within Delhi, and will later expand to the other parts of the country, HT has learned. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had had announced in his budget speech in March that the Delhi government will set up virtual schools “from next year” to facilitate easy learning for students from across the country who wanted to benefit from “Delhi model of education”.“Initially, the school will begin with about 200 students in classes 9 and 11, and later expand to other classes. Similarly, at the beginning, the focus will be on students residing within Delhi and it will progressively expand to the other parts of the country at a later stage,” said an official document from the education department on the project, which was reviewed by HT. The document doesn’t state by when the virtual school will be launched.“Teaching-learning in the virtual school will comprise of two elements- synchronous learning, in which students will connect with teachers through live online classes; and asynchronous learning, in which students will refer to audio-visual and textual content to enhance mastery over their subjects of choice,” it further stated.The schools will be governed by the Delhi Schools of Specialized Excellence Society and will be affiliated with the newly formed Delhi Board of Secondary Education (DBSE), which had recently signed a collaboration agreement with the International Baccalaureate board to develop its course curriculum.The education department has issued tenders inviting external partners to bid for the operationalisation process, which includes creating learning management system (LMS), teacher training modules, establishing and maintaining two high-quality production studios for recording or live streaming lectures, along with other logistics and operations. The bids will be closed later this month.Under DVMS, the document said, the evaluation of learning goals will be conducted through “technology assisted assessments, which will be conducted on the LMS and, if necessary, at designated assessment centres across the city”. Students will also be assessed through quizzes, assignments, live assessments, and proctored examinations.According to the plan, the education department will set up a scalable LMS platform which can be accessed on various devices, including phones, tablets and laptops.It will also host an array of teaching-learning functions, ranging from live-streaming sessions which will be saved in a virtual library along with other learning content; creating and sharing documents like worksheets, slides, and projects; assigning and evaluating paperless assignments; maintaining the class calendars; conducting virtual conversations; and creating an artificial intelligence-based interface to create a personalised flow based on the learning level of each student.The plan document said that all teachers and students will have a unique ID provided by the school administration which will be registered on the domain. “All student devices should have AI-enabled applications for online content. This application should have an LMS system to track the learning growth of students,” the document stated.The teacher training programme will include elements on the usage of online platforms and IT infrastructure; lesson planning, content and assignment creation; incorporation of multimedia content in teaching pedagogy; and soft skills for conducting online classes.A senior official of the education department said, “There will a combination of senior experienced teachers of the Delhi government schools as well as external experts who will be roped in to conduct classes for the students. While we will start with 200 students, it can go up to any number in later stages. Admission process will be finalised once we rope in our partner organisations.”Educationist Meeta Sengupta said the Delhi government will have to work on the credibility and acceptance of the school. “The idea behind virtual schools is to create a legitimate option for those students who cannot opt for mainstream education. However, the outcome from the virtual school has to be good enough to attract students who are looking for opportunities after school. The government should also focus on teachers’ training as teachers will have to shift their mindset and value the multi-lens approach of teaching-learning. The government could also link these schools to the new Skill University so that various choices can open up for students,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-virtual-model-school-to-begin-with-200-students-in-classes-9-and-11-101629223538675.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Missing man’s body found buried in female friend’s house||The body of a 19-year-old man who went missing on the night of August 11 was found buried in the house of his female friend under the jurisdiction of Muradnagar police station area on Tuesday, said police.Police said they cracked the case and found the body with the help of an ice-cream vendor to whom the friend, a girl who is suspected to be a minor, had given the victim’s SIM card in an alleged move to get rid of evidence.Police identified the victim as Mohammad Mursaleen whose family had lodged a missing person complaint on August 15 after they failed to trace him despite a thorough search.“As part of our investigation, we roped in our electronic surveillance teams and launched a trace on the victim’s SIM card. That led us to an ice-cream vendor near the girl’s house. When we questioned the vendor, he said he found that the SIM card in a ₹500 currency note that the girl had given him. He claimed that he didn’t suspect anything amiss and used the card. With his help, we traced the girl’s house and questioned her and her family and found out about the man’s decomposed body buried in the house,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).The police said that they the exact age of the girl was unknown.“We exhumed the body in presence of a magistrate and sent it for autopsy. Once we get that report, we will be able to establish the cause of death. The family of the victim has now lodged a murder complaint with us,” said the SP.Officials familiar with the development said that, according to their mobile phone records and statements from other residents of the locality, the victim and the girl knew each other for past two years.The victim’s uncle, Mohammad Babu, said they had no previous grudge against the family.“My nephew was having dinner when he received a call on the night of August 11. He excused himself suddenly and went out and never returned. We searched for him everywhere but to no avail. We knew that he had some connection with the girl, but we had never made an issue out of it. We suspect that her family may have called him through the girl and later murdered him,” said Mohammad Babu.The police said that based on the complaint given by victim’s family, they have launched investigation and were questioning the girl, her elder sister, mother and brother.According to officials familiar with case investigation, the girl told police that the man killed himself in the house and they buried his body out of fear. But the officials said that the manner in which she disposed of the SIM card seemed to have been a deliberate attempt to hide something.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-missing-man-s-body-found-buried-in-female-friend-s-house-101629223298523.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Mercury soars but respite soon: IMD||Gautam Budh Nagar and the adjoining regions recorded above average maximum temperature of 37.5°C on Tuesday even as the monsoon has shown some signs of returning to the National Capital Region (NCR), according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“The low pressure monsoon line of trough (that increases probability of rain) that had shifted to the Himalayan foothills earlier this month is now starting to move towards Delhi-NCR and we expect it reach the region within the next two days,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. “The mercury will remain well above season’s average (of around 35°C) for another two days. Thereafter, the region will receive moderate to light rain from Saturday.”The cool and humid easterly winds are likely to be stronger than the warm and dry westerly winds too. A “break monsoon” condition is when the monsoon trough settles over the Himalayan foothills depriving the plain regions of rain.So far, Noida suffered a 72% rainfall deficit since June 1 when the monsoon normally arrives over the region. According to the IMD, Gautam Budh Nagar has so far seen 97mm rainfall against the normal 347.1mm. On Tuesday, Noida recorded maximum and minimum temperatures of 37.5°C and 28.8°C, respectively, against 36.9°C and 29.2°C a day earlier.At Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 38°C, four degrees above the season’s average, and 28.1°C, a degree above season’s average, respectively. The humidity oscillated between 83 to 46 percent.“On Wednesday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 38 and 29 degrees Celsius,” said an official from IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-soars-but-respite-soon-imd-101629223297955.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Three members of vehicle lifters’ gang arrested, 12 motorcycles recovered||Police on Monday night arrested three members of a vehicle lifters’ gang and recovered 12 stolen motorcycles from their possession. Police said that the suspects had stolen around 100 motorcycles in the city in the last one year. The suspects were identified as Rupendra Kumar, 24, a native of Aligarh; Sumit Thakur, 25, a native of Purnia in Bihar; and Anup Mishra, 23, a native of Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh. They lived in a rented accommodation in Noida Phase 2, police said. Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer (SHO), Phase 2 police station, said that police had received a complaint of motorcycle theft two weeks ago. “We launched an investigation. On Monday night, three men riding a motorcycle near Sector 90 T-Point were stopped for checking by a police team. They failed to produce the vehicle’s registration papers,” Upadhyaya said. During interrogation, the suspects revealed that they had stolen the motorcycle from outside a power sub-station in Noida’s Sector 85 on August 4, 2021, police said. Amit Kumar, an official of the power department, had filed the complaint the same day at Phase 2 police station in this regard. Amit said that his motorcycle was stolen from outside the power sub-station. The SHO said that the suspects also revealed that they had hidden 11 other stolen motorcycles in the bushes in Sector 85. Later, the police team conducted a search and recovered these motorcycles. “The suspects had doctored the registration number plates of some of the motorcycles. In the last one year, they had stolen around 100 motorcycles from different places in the city. They used to steal motorcycles and hide them in buses for a few days. Later, they would sell them to people in Noida villages,” said the SHO. The three suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-members-of-vehicle-lifters-gang-arrested-12-motorcycles-recovered-101629223239280.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Soon, Noida to provide e-bikes for last mile connectivity||The Noida Authority has decided to procure 350 electric bikes (e-bikes) that commuters can rent at a cost of ₹2/minute for their last mile connectivity, and launch by next month. The authority has developed 62 parking sites for the vehicles in Sectors 6, 67, 14 and 16A and other sectors, said officials aware of the development. The authority will set up more parking sites once they observe a growing demand for electric bikes among commuters, said officials. “We are talking to firms that deal in e-bikes and have already helped other cities such as Delhi and Gurugram to run similar services. However, the date and other details are still being worked out,” said S P Singh, deputy general manager of the Noida traffic cell, a department of the Noida Authority.The authority will engage an agency that will develop a mobile application for users to engage these vehicles from the parking sites that will also serve as charging points. The authority is yet to decide on the number of e-bikes each station will serve.“The agency will prepare an application that will help commuters book an e-bike, charge rent and maintain records of users with ease,” said another official from Noida authority who was not authorised to speak to media.The official added that the will earn revenue through the renting model and also own the advertisement space at the 50-square feet stations.  “The agency can give the advertising space on rent to any firm to earn revenue and spend it on running the e-bike service,” said the official. The authority came up with the idea following a demand from the public for better last-mile connectivity in the city. Noida has both Metro and bus service to meet the city’s public transport needs, but covering short distances remains a challenge with commuters having to resort to sharing space on e-rickshaws, auto-rickshaws and cycle-rickshaws. What compounds their problem is the unforgiving traffic jams on the city roads. “A commuter can use the e-bike to reach his or her destination and park the bike at the nearest parking site. The hassle-free service will benefit those, who face difficulty in reaching destinations nearby Metro stations and other routes,” said Singh. Residents said they are glad that the authority has finally decided to move on the issue.“We were waiting for an e-bike service for a long time in the city because last mile connectivity is a big issue here. Travelling from Metro Station or arterial roads to internal destinations is a real trouble. The authority must start it at earliest,” said Swarnima Singh a resident of Sector 135.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/soon-noida-to-provide-e-bikes-for-last-mile-connectivity-101629223238590.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Noida woman loses ₹4 lakh in parcel delivery fraud||A woman allegedly lost ₹4 lakh after a fraudster, claiming to be a UK resident, whom she met on social media made her transfer the amount into two bank accounts for clearing a gift “seized” by the customs department.Complainant Akansha Soni is a resident of Noida Sector 15. In her complaint, Soni said she connected with a person who identified himself as Raymond Pedro on Instagram in June.“He said he is a resident of the United Kingdom. We chatted for some time. Later, he told me that he was sending a valuable gift to me. He also said that he was sending some foreign currency,” she said. After a few days, the woman claimed she got a call from a person who identified herself as an officer from India’s customs department and said they needed ₹4 lakh to clear the foreign shipment. According to police, the complainant transferred the money into two bank accounts, but she did not receive the parcel. The alleged customs officer demanded more money and that’s when Soni suspected fraud and filed a complaint with the Noida cyber cell on August 13. The cyber cell conducted a preliminary investigation and then directed the Noida Sector 20 police to register a case. Munish Chauhan, SHO of Sector 20 police station, said a case has been registered against the Instagram profile owner under Indian Penal Code Section 420 (cheating) and under Section 66-D of the IT Act on August 14. “The cyber cell and Noida police are investigating the matter. We are also tracing call details and the money trail,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-woman-loses-4-lakh-in-parcel-delivery-fraud-101629223237928.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad has only five active Covid-19 cases, all in home isolation||Nearly five months after the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that struck Ghaziabad in April, the district on Tuesday was left with just five active cases and all of the patients are in home isolation. Officials of the health department said the district registered no new cases in the past five days and the case positivity rate is at an all-time low. According to the official figures, the district till August 17 had a total of 55,625 cases with 461 deaths and five active cases. The figures also indicate that there have been only 14 cases in the month so far as against 65 in July and 324 in June. The district recorded zero new cases on 10 days out of 17 in the current month, shows the data.“With only five active cases and all in home isolation, we can say that the infection has decreased considerably but it is not finished. So, the Covid appropriate behaviour needs to continue. We also have very low case positivity which is about 0.02% in the current month so far,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. During the second wave, the district operated with 58 hospitals that provided more than 3,400 Covid beds. The official records show that all the 3,410 dedicated Covid beds, including 1,674 beds with oxygen supplies, 569 ICU beds and 229 ventilator beds, in the district are vacant. “The hospitals have resumed their normal operations. But we still have 20 reserved beds at Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital and several others at our L3 facility at Santosh Medical College. We have also started our preparations for dealing with any likely third wave. Several oxygen plants and paediatric ICU beds have also come up,” Dr Gupta added. The second wave of the pandemic started to spike from mid of April and the trend continued till May. It was on June 26 that Ghaziabad registered zero case for the first time since then. Experts said that no Covid patients are coming to hospitals nowadays. “But we have several cases of viral fever that also has Covid-like symptoms, and as a precautionary measure we are getting such patients tested for Covid-19. The infection has decreased considerably but people must observe all Covid protocols,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). “With the positivity rate at lower level, it is now of prime importance that the vaccination must be expedited and coverage should be increased to avoid a third wave,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-has-only-five-active-covid-19-cases-all-in-home-isolation-101629223178555.html
17-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar’s Child PGI helps find rare blood group of 2-year-old patient||Doctors at Gautam Budh Nagar’s Postgraduate Institute of Child Health, also known as Child PGI hospital, helped save the life of a two-year-old girl from Meerut who had a rare blood group — B+ but with antibodies against the M blood group .According to Dr Satyam Arora, an associate professor at the hospital, the transfusion medicine department received an emergency call from a private blood bank in Meerut late Friday evening. The patient was suffering from stomach infection with acute dehydration and severe anaemia.“Her haemoglobin count was down to dangerous levels and in order to run any primary treatment she required a blood transfusion. However, the blood bank was unable to finalise the patient’s blood group, nor they were able to find any compatible blood unit,” said Dr Arora.The transfusion medicine department’s advanced immunohematology lab that screens and checks rare blood groups is the only government facility available in western Uttar Pradesh, said officials. Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences and King George’s Medical College in Lucknow are the other two in the state that have a similar set up.The sample was brought to the Child PGI Hospital on Saturday afternoon. The department’s analysis showed that the patient had the rare blood group.There are more than 30 blood group systems, and most people have either A, B, AB or O blood group with a “+” or “-” appended to it denoting the presence or absence of antibodies against the Rhesus antigen in their blood plasma. Transfusion requires patient to receive blood only from those with a matching group or O-, which is known as a universal donor.But the girl had antibodies against the M blood group, which is rarely documented.“The condition has not been quantified in any medical literature hence it is difficult to say how rare it is. Patients receiving multiple transfusion like thalassemia patients, dialysis patients and cancer patients often develop these antibodies. Even mothers who have given multiple births also develops these antibodies. However, in this case, it has been found naturally in the patient, which is rare. It is not a disorder,” said Arora.The presence of the antibody, however, affected the ability of the private lab to figure out the blood group.“It took our team over three hours using rare blood group reagents and rare blood groups panels,” said Dr Arora.Dr Anshuman Sharma, in-charge of the blood bank at Nutema Hospital in Meerut where the girl was being treated, the results helped save her life.“She is from a very poor family and her father is a tailor in a small Meerut village. So far, we have only read such cases in books and medical literature but have never seen it in real life,” said Dr Sharma. “Fortunately, Dr Arora was able to identify the blood group and find a compatible blood unit as well. If the wrong blood unit would have been transfused, the girl would have faced even severe complications for life,” he said.Transfusion Medicine department at Child PGI has developed the advanced lab for GB Nagar and is also providing help (via telemedicine) to blood banks in other districts like Agra and Meerut.“The lab was established in 2019 and since then, over 20 rare blood group transfusion have been supported by the transfusion medicine department, with a majority of patients from GB Nagar and Meerut. The department provides regular training to blood banks in UP and gets many calls for such types of difficult cases,” said Dr Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-s-child-pgi-helps-find-rare-blood-group-of-2-year-old-patient-101629223177959.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||5 medical students at Lucknow’s RMLIMS suspended for ragging||LUCKNOW Five senior MBBS students, accused of ragging their juniors at the Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS), were suspended on Tuesday. Officials of the institute had constituted a committee to look into the matter after some medical students sent an e-mail to the RMLIMS administration complaining about “atrocities committed by the seniors”. The committee headed by dean Dr Nuzhat Hussain, CMS Dr Rajan Bhatnagar and Dr Navbeer Singh of the anatomy department presented its report, according to which, the complaint lodged by junior medical students was found to be true.Spokesperson of the institute Dr Shrikesh Singh said, “After the report of the inquiry committee, five senior medical students have been suspended from the institute. The hospital administration has banned any sort of students gathering in the form of cultural festival or function on the premises of the institute.”The student admitted to hospital after an alleged suicide bid on Monday was suspended from the institute for 15 days, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/5-medical-students-at-lucknow-s-rmlims-suspended-for-ragging-101629223060309.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CHB property owner, buyer can jointly seek inspection||The owner and prospective buyer of a Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) dwelling unit can jointly apply for its inspection to obtain a certificate about there being no violation at the time of property transfer.In a clarification issued on Tuesday, Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, said: “In cases where misuse/building violations are not reported as per available record, the information furnished by the applicant in the application form of transfer of dwelling units along with the affidavit of the transferor and transferee are relied upon. In all such cases, fresh inspection is not carried out by the CHB at the time of transfer of units.” However, the applicant/transferee are liable for concealment of facts in the affidavit with respect to misuse and violations, and necessary action can be taken as per law/act/rules accordingly. Further, the transferee continues to be liable for all the building violations either existing at the time of transfer or made subsequently. In cases where reports of violations are available in CHB records, the affidavits about non-violation are not accepted and fresh inspection is carried out by the officials.“It has been observed that in some cases transfer of the unit was allowed on the basis of affidavits, but subsequently certain misuse/building violations were observed. When action was initiated against such violations, the transferees felt cheated as such violations existed at the time of transfer. However, as per the CHB’s stand, the existing owner/occupant (transferee) is liable to remove the violations or bear the consequences, like cancellation of allotment,” said Garg.It is to overcome such a situation and protect the innocent buyers that the board has provided an optional mechanism wherein the transferor and transferee may jointly apply for an inspection by CHB and obtain a certificate about there being no violation at that point of time. “For this purpose, the joint application, along with a fee of ₹5,000, can be submitted by the transferor (existing owner) at the CHB reception,” said Garg.An order on relevant lines was earlier issued on August 27, 2019, and is available on the CHB website. In case any inspection is carried out in violation of these instructions, the board has also warned of strict action against the officials concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhchb-property-owner-buyer-can-jointly-seek-inspection-101629223058628.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||Probe ordered into death of two UP ‘vaccine recipients’: CMO||Chief Medical Officer, Gorakhpur, Dr Sudhakar Pandey said the district health department had ordered a probe into two suspected deaths in Pipraich and Shahjanwa areas of Gorakhpur after a Covid-19 vaccination.“The deceased—a 58-year-old woman and a 51-year-old man— had taken both the doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. The Covid-19 vaccine is safe and 15.48 lakh people in Gorakhpur district have been given vaccines. No serious adverse effects have been reported. Taking cognizance of the media reports that the deceased had been given both Covid-19 vaccine doses, the district health department has set a committee of doctors and medical experts to examine the matter. The report will be sent to the state government,” he added.The CMO further said the Covid-19 vaccine was safe. “it’s the only medium to break the Covid-19 infection chain. The large turnout at the vaccination centres indicates that people have faith in the vaccine. People should follow Covid-19 protocols after vaccination,” Dr Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/probe-ordered-into-death-of-two-up-vaccine-recipients-cmo-101629222938461.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Night curfew ends, eateries can open till midnight||The Chandigarh administration has ended night curfew while also allowing all restaurants and bars to remain open till midnight.The decision was taken during the Covid-19 review meeting on Tuesday in view of the decline in the pandemic. The neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana have also done away with night curfew.During the second wave, night curfew was first imposed from 10pm to 5am on April 6. It was subsequently curtailed to 11pm to 5am. Restaurants and bars were not allowed to remain open beyond 10:30pm.Now, these establishments can operate from 8am to 12am. However, the restriction on 50% seating capacity will continue. “We welcome the UT administration’s decision, which will bring much-needed relief to the beleaguered hospitality industry. We also request the administration to offer concessions to the industry, as since April last year, we remained shut for 40% period,” said Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association.Public transport to run at full capacityAmong other relaxations announced on Tuesday, the administration has allowed public transport to operate at full capacity instead of the existing 50% cap.People can visit government offices in connection with their work between 12pm and 1pm on all working days, except Wednesdays and Fridays. However, the visitors must have been vaccinated with at least the first dose or have a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours.For holding marriages or social gatherings, the organisers don’t need any permission, but have to submit an undertaking to the area subdivisional magistrate stating that Covid-19 protocol will be followed.Hockey, football and cricket academies of the sports department have also been allowed to function, by following all Covid-19 protocol and subject to the condition that all eligible players must have been vaccinated with at least the first dose. For players below the age of 18 years, consent of their parents is required.HC Bar Body wants physical hearingsThe Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association has demanded reopening of courts. In a letter to the registrar general, the Bar body said that it had conducted a survey, in which majority of the members was in favour of resumption of physical hearings. It said most of the Bar members and court staff are vaccinated now. Even schools have opened for children, and hence, physical hearings be resumed at the earliest, it said. Since the closure in March 2020, limited physical hearings were started on February 8 this year but were suspended indefinitely in April in view of the second wave.The second wave had peaked in May with 17,399 cases and 275 deaths in Chandigarh. The numbers kept falling in the subsequent months, with only 85 cases and no death reported in August so far. Even as the cumulative infection numbers in the tricity have seen an uptick in the past couple of weeks, the daily figures have been hovering around four to five in Chandigarh. The administration has also achieved 100% target for the first vaccine dose, while 34% people have completed the vaccination cycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-night-curfew-ends-eateries-can-open-till-midnight-101629222698591.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||Self-immolation outside SC: 2 cops suspended in UP||A day after a woman, who had accused Ghosi MP Atul Rai of sexual assault in May 2019, and a man set themselves on fire outside the Supreme Court, two cops, including Varanasi Cantt SHO Rakesh Singh and sub-inspector Girija Shankar Yadav, were suspended on Tuesday and departmental action initiated against them for not properly compiling evidence in another cheating case involving the woman.The case, which also involves forgery and concealing her age, was registered in November 2020 on the order of a court in Varanasi and was investigated by Yadav, said police.Another officer, Vedprakash Rai, who has been made the SHO of the station, will investigate the case now, said a police officer.Before attempting suicide, the woman, along with her associate, recorded a Facebook live video, in which she disclosed her identity and alleged that she had filed the sexual assault case against the BSP MP. She also said that some senior police officers and others were supporting the MP.Police suspect that she attempted suicide as she feared being farmed in fraud cases levelled against her.The MP was arrested and has been in judicial custody in the sexual assault case since the last two years. In December 2020, the woman had filed another complaint against the MP and his associate, Sudhir Singh, at Lanka police station in Varanasi, alleging that the two were defaming her and running a propaganda on social media. Thereafter, a case was registered at Lanka police station under sections of IT Act.Meanwhile, the MP’s brother, Pawan Singh, filed an application in a court, alleging that the woman forged her date of birth to conceal her age, and urged the court to order a police case against her.Thereafter, on the order of the court, a case was registered against the woman under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Cantt police station in November 2020.Later, a non-bailable warrant was issued against the woman in the first week of August this year, after the investigator informed the court that she couldn’t be located despite several visits to her house.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/selfimmolation-outside-sc-2-cops-suspended-in-up-101629222349872.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||Five new cases take Balua village Covid-19 tally to 22||The detection of five more Covid-19 cases in Balua village located in Campeerganj tehsil area of Gorakhpur district on Tuesday took the tally of the total positive cases in the village to 22.“Among the five fresh cases, the Gorakhpur district health department has not been able to trace the two people who have submitted wrong addresses and mobile numbers. The samples of the other three have been sent to the BRD Medical College laboratory for re-testing,” said Gorakhpur chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sudhakar Pandey.“The data of the positive cases, who are residents of Gorakhpur district, was forwarded by the Dhani community health centre located in Maharajganj district. In view of the increase in the positive cases, the health department has launched an intensive sample testing, contact tracing and vaccination drive in the villages located in Campeerganj tehsil area,” the CMO added.Meanwhile, additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad said 27 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state in last 24 hours taking the tally of active cases to 420. One death was reported at Prayagraj district that took the total death tally in the state to 22,786. In the last 24 hours, 24 patients also recovered which took the recovery tally to 16,85,785.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/five-new-cases-take-balua-village-covid-19-tally-to-22-101629222398443.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||HC turns down plea opposing full seating in buses, metro||The Delhi high court on Tuesday refused to entertain a plea challenging the Delhi government’s decision to allow 100% seating in Delhi Metro and buses, saying that it is a policy decision and authorities can take a call on regulation of public transport.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said if every user of public transport or citizen is permitted to raise such issues and challenge the government decision, then it would open the flood gates for such litigation.The court, while dismissing the plea by lawyer S B Tripathi, said it cannot interfere in such decisions.Tripathi challenged a July 24 order of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which permitted 100% seating capacity in Delhi Metro as well as Delhi Transport Corporation and cluster buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-turns-down-plea-opposing-full-seating-in-buses-metro-101629221886833.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||SP, Cong legislators ride bullock cart, rickshaw to protest price hike||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) MLAs and MLCs staged a protest against the BJP governments in the state and at the centre outside the UP Assembly shortly before the monsoon session of the legislature began on Tuesday morning. The protestors also had a showdown with the police on way to the Vidhan Sabha. Three SP legislators – Rajesh Yadav, Sangram Singh Yadav and Narendra Verma – rode a bullock cart to reach the Vidhan Sabha to protest over farm laws and fuel price hike. They waved the national flag and the SP flag, carried sugarcane and placards and raised slogans all along, till the police stopped them at Hazratganj and refused to let the bullock cart go any further. At Chaudhary Charan Singh’s statue on the Vidhan Sabha premises, nearly a 100 SP legislators gathered and staged a dharna protesting against “poor law and order, three new farm laws, crime against women, rising fuel prices, Covid deaths, Covid management and other issues like unemployment, reservations and caste census.” While a couple of SP legislators climbed the front gate of the Vidhan Bhawan and protested, two legislators wearing oxygen masks shouted slogans like “death due to lack of oxygen during Covid second wave.” SP national president Akhilesh Yadav, who had addressed the Samajwadi Party legislature party meeting on Monday where he said that party legislators will raise public issues both on the streets and in the legislature, was quick on Tuesday to tweet the picture of the SP legislators going to Vidhan Sabha on a bullock cart. He captioned it in Hindi: “Will tell BJP’s lies to all; will show the mirror to BJP people.”Simultaneously with the SP protest, Congress state president Ajay Kumar Lallu (MLA), along with others, reached the Vidhan Sabha on cycle rickshaws. “Congress legislators Ajay Kumar Lallu, Aradhana Mishra (Congress legislators party leader), Deepak Singh, Naseemuddin Siddiqui and Suhail Akhtar reached the Vidhan Sabha on cycle rickshaws. All Congress legislators protested over farmers’ issues, unemployment and price rise. They also had a showdown with the police when cops tried to stop a vegetable cart (to protest price rise) they were taking to the Vidhan Sabha. However, the Congress legislators managed to reach the Assembly on rickshaw,” said the UP Congress Committee in a statement. “We are protesting Covid mismanagement, corruption, price rise, law and order, unemployment, flood mismanagement and issues of cane farmers. To protest, we rode rickshaws and were pushing a vegetable cart from the Congress office. We will also raise the issues in the legislature,” said Ajay Lallu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-cong-legislators-ride-bullock-cart-rickshaw-to-protest-price-hike-101629221984044.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||UPPCL awaiting loan to clear NTPC’s dues||The Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) may partially clear the NTPC’s dues before the Friday deadline set by the latter to avoid it stopping electricity supply to the state for non-payment of arrears.“We expect to get more than ₹4,000 crore as loan from the Centre on Wednesday or Thursday. We will clear the NTPC’s dues using the same amount,” a senior UPPCL official said, requesting anonymity. He admitted to the NTPC having served a notice threatening stopping power supply if the UPPCL did not clear dues by Friday but said that it was a routine affair.“NTPC keeps sending notices and we go on paying dues and there is nothing serious about it,” he said.NTPC’s power bills against the UPPCL have soared to more than ₹10,500 crore and the Centre-owned power-generating company has threatened that it will snap power supply to UP if the bills are not paid by Friday. The NTPC’s cumulative dues against the UPPCL, pending for more than 60 days, currently stand at ₹1,160 crore and the UPPCL is expected to clear these dues to settle the issue for the time being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppcl-awaiting-loan-to-clear-ntpc-s-dues-101629221858765.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||Afghanistan’s Taliban takeover: jitters for LU’s Afghan students as fears for family, future rise||“I don’t know why God is so angry with my people and my homeland. What have we done to bear years of suffering, to inch towards normalcy before being plunged into darkness again and again,” said a visibly anguished Jawad Majeedy, a 27-year-old Afghan national, studying in Lucknow University.For over a month now, Majeedy was busy talking to his relatives in Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan that fell to the Taliban on Monday, completing the Taliban takeover of the war-ravaged country. Majeedy had cautioned and warned his brother and sister living in Kabul to take measures for their safety and had pleaded with them to leave, if possible, but in vain. Now, he has not been able to contact them since Saturday. “I don’t know about their whereabouts. I don’t know if they are hiding, or whether the worst has happened to them. The worst which we all have prayed to God to protect us from,” said Majeedy speaking about his fear of losing loved ones in the ongoing conflict.Close to 60 other Afghan students like Majeedy are enrolled in various courses at Lucknow University. The number of Afghan students at Lucknow University has risen in the last couple of years.“The Taliban are against education. We, who have left our country to get higher education, are not less than an enemy for the Taliban. They only understand the language of guns and will execute us if they come to know about us,” said another student from Afghanistan on condition of anonymity.The Afghan students, including Majeedy, frequent places in Delhi where people who have managed to escape the Taliban, have arrived in the last few weeks. “I know close to 300 people who have sold their belongings and fled Afghanistan with no hopes of returning. We try to get them places to stay in Delhi at cheaper rates and help them in getting assistance from the Indian government. We also hope to get some news about our relatives from them,” explained Majeedy.Apart from worrying about family members, their own future worries the students. “I will complete my degree in a few months. I don’t know where I will go then. We cannot call Afghanistan our home till it’s under the rule of the Taliban,” said another Afghan student of LU.The students have intimated the university administration about their concerns. The University administration has assured the students of all possible help while they stay here.Caption:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/afghanistans-taliban-takeover-jitters-for-lu-s-afghan-students-as-fears-for-family-future-rise-101629221558853.html
17-08-2021||Gurugram||Three stormwater outlets on NH-48 to be turned into animal underpasses||The district wildlife department has decided to convert three stormwater outlets on the busy national highway 48 (NH-48) into animal underpasses, officials said on Tuesday. This is the first such initiative being undertaken in the district to provide safe passage to wild animals and reduce man-animal conflict. Officials said that work will start after the monsoon and will be completed within two months. “There are three water outlet points on this highway, which, once cleared, can be used as wildlife underpasses. This road is a busy highway, due to which it becomes difficult for animals to cross and move freely. At present, the areas are choked with silt, boulders and rocks; these will be cleared after the monsoon,” an official of the wildlife department, who did not wish to be named, said. The decision was taken two weeks ago, during a meeting with the principal chief conservator of forests for wildlife, following an inspection of the area. Two of the underpasses are near Panchgaon and one is near the National Security Guard outpost in Manesar. Officials said that two passages are of one metre (m) diameter, and one is a boxed passage with dimensions of 1.5mX1.5m. Talks to use these culverts as animal underpasses have been underway since late 2019. Last year, the wildlife department had also sent a proposal to the state forest department to start developing these underpasses. MS Malik, the chief conservator of forests for Gurugram circle, said, “We are working to clear the underpasses and have decided to set up fences on both sides of the road so that animals do not go on the highway and use the underpass for movement. This will take some time as animals are used to crossing through the highway, but gradually, as the path will be blocked, they will find their way to the underpass.” Due to the fragmentation of wildlife habitat, several cases of leopard and other animal deaths have been reported from this stretch. In October 2019, a one-and-a-half-year-old female leopard was killed by a truck on NH-48 in Manesar. A May 2017 report by Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, titled ‘Mapping landuse/landcover patterns in Aravallis Haryana with reference to status of key wildlife species’, pointed out that the highways passing through the wildlife habitats have adversely impacted the fauna. An excerpt from the WII report read, “Highways passing through the wildlife habitats have adversely affected the fauna in these forests. Fast-moving vehicles kill these animals when they move across these road stretches.” Meanwhile, environmentalists who have been demanding safety measures for wildlife said they are wary of the decision. Vivek Kamboj, a city-based environmentalist, said that it is good that outlets will be converted into animal underpasses, but strict measures need to be adopted to ensure that animals do not go on to the roads. “If fences are to be installed, they should not be made of barbed wires as habitually, the animal will try to cross the fence and cross over through the road, during which it can get injured. Chain-linked fences should be installed as it takes time for their behaviour to change. Further, as these are water outlets, officials should check this area every monsoon to ensure that they do not get choked,” said Kamboj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-stormwater-outlets-on-nh-48-to-be-turned-into-animal-underpasses-101629221381739.html
17-08-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Health dept to collect samples from 75 clusters for third sero survey||For the third round of the statewide serological survey to detect the prevalence of Covid-19 infection, the district health department on Tuesday prepared a micro plan for Gurugram and submitted it to the state health department. The date for the survey is yet to be announced by the state but it can be expected to be held in the last week of August, officials said on Tuesday.“The plan is to conduct a survey for three days in 75 clusters. Since the sample size is 3,000, as fixed by the state health department, our teams will cover 25 clusters in a day across identified urban and rural areas. From each cluster, at least 40 samples will be collected,” Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer for Gurugram said, explaining the plan. According to Yadav, at least 45 samples will be collected from rural areas and 30 from urban areas.The areas shortlisted for the same are Jharsa, Islampur and Shivaji Nagar, among others, in urban pockets and Daulatabad, Wazirabad, Budhera and Manesar in rural pockets.“For every cluster, a team of three people will be assigned, which will include a medical officer, lab technician and Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM). Also, there will be 12 supervisors to handle 75 ground teams,” said Yadav. The age-wise population to be covered under the survey will be revealed during a training session for health workers that is likely to be conducted at the end of the week by the state team.In the serological survey, blood samples are collected to check the prevalence of antibodies developed against Covid-19 infection. In the last two serological surveys held in 2020, the samples were tested in Gurugram and the results were shared with the state health team. However, Yadav said that this time, the samples will be sent directly to the state in all likelihood.Across the state, the survey will be done among 36,520 participants. According to Yadav, it will be done next week and will be spread across two to three days. The highest number of samples will be collected from Gurugram, while only 800 samples will be taken from Palwal, which has the lowest case count in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-health-dept-to-collect-samples-from-75-clusters-for-third-sero-survey-101629221380472.html
17-08-2021||Gurugram||Four venomous snakes rescued in 24 hours from residential areas||Four venomous snakes were rescued from different parts of the city in the past 24 hours and released in forests by officials of the wildlife department. Two three-and-a-half-foot common krait snakes were rescued from a house in Surat Nagar Phase-2 on Monday evening, while two spectacled cobras, each six feet long, were rescued on Monday night and Tuesday morning. Anil Gandas, a wildlife expert who led the rescue operations, said that of the four highly venomous snakes that were rescued, three were rescued from residences and one from an akhara (training facility) in Daulatabad. “On Monday evening, I received a call from Surat Nagar that there was a snake on the bed in a house. After reaching there, we found that two snakes were hiding near the mattress of the bed where the children sleep. Fortunately, the snakes were rescued before anyone got injured. Two more venomous snakes were rescued and no one was injured in those incidents as well,” said Gandas. He said that as common krait snakes live near areas with moisture and water, they were released near the Najafgarh drain, while the spectacled cobras were released in the Aravallis near Manesar. Snake sightings in Gurugram’s residential areas during monsoon season, particularly inside houses, have become commonplace over the past few years, according to the district wildlife department. This monsoon, over 60 snakes were rescued in Gurugram district in July, according to the wildlife department records. Around 20 species of snakes are native to the Aravallis and four of those, the monocled cobra, spectacled cobra, black cobra and the common krait, are highly venomous. These four snakes are afforded the highest level of protection by law under the Scheduled II species of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-venomous-snakes-rescued-in-24-hours-from-residential-areas-101629221379453.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||ED tells apex court Unitech assets worth ₹600cr attached||Money-laundering probe against the promoters of Unitech group, accused of diverting ₹5,000 crore of homebuyers’ money, has led to provisional attachment of their assets worth ₹600 crore, the Directorate of Enforcement (ED) informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday.In a status report submitted to the top court on their investigation carried out so far, the ED represented by additional solicitor general (ASG) Madhavi Divan said the report has been filed in a sealed cover and will require consideration by the court.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah agreed to take up the ED report on Wednesday and asked ASG Divan on the details of property attached so far. ASG Divan said, “Property worth ₹600 crore has been provisionally attached while an amount of ₹1,400 crore was found to have been diverted.”The report came at a time when the court is considering a resolution plan submitted by the new board of Unitech group which intends to construct and deliver close to 5,000 of the 15,000 flats in the next two years.A short note prepared by the new board said, “Construction of 15,000 units has to be done by the New Management for delivery of possession to homebuyers. At current prices, estimated cost of construction is ₹5,500-6,000 crores. If construction is not done, the refund claims of homebuyers are approximately ₹11,100 crores.”Seeking urgent order, the new board represented by additional solicitor general (ASG) N Venkataraman sought orders from the court to expedite payments due from homebuyers worth ₹3,354 crore. The bench said, “The whole success of this mission will depend on homebuyers contributing the money. But they will prefer plucking the low-lying fruits. If you first begin with projects which are substantially advanced in terms of construction, there will be greater willingness on part of homebuyers to pay the money.”Venkatraman informed the court that this factor has been considered by the board and the 15,000 flats have been categorized into three grades. The first grade includes projects which are self-sustaining and require the aid of money from homebuyers. Under this, 2,500 dwelling units are proposed to be handed over within a year and another 2,500 units within the second year. The projects under the second grade will require fund resources in addition to the deposit from homebuyers and the third phase will include those projects where only 20%-30% work is complete.The erstwhile Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra deposited a sum of ₹377 crore with the Supreme Court registry. The new management also intends monetise unsold inventory (in the form of land parcels) in the name of Unitech group which could fetch roughly ₹5,641 crore. In addition, the sale of unsold flats across various Unitech housing projects is also expected to contribute a little over ₹3,500 crore, the note supplied by the board said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ed-tells-apex-court-unitech-assets-worth-600cr-attached-101629220746410.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||12 liquor zones’ auction from Aug 25, govt eyes ₹3,180 crore||The Delhi government has floated fresh tenders for auctioning licences for 12 liquor retail zones in the city, bidding for which will open on August 25 and close on September 2, according to documents HT has seen.The Delhi government has already earned ₹5,300 crore from auctioning alcohol licences for 20 of the city’s 32 zones on August 5 and 6, and looks set to double its excise revenue by netting a record ₹10,000 crore in the first few months of the new liberalised liquor policy.Auction of the 12 remaining zones could not take place because the bidders got disqualified in the last moment on technical grounds, forcing the government to issue fresh tenders.The annual reserve license fee for the zones range between ₹220 crore and ₹225 crore, according to the documents.The government estimates to earn ₹3,180 crore from the auction of licences in the 12 zones, and another ₹650 crore from excise duty, import fees, value added tax and other licence fees, the official added on condition of anonymity.Another ₹900 crore to ₹1,000 crore is expected to come from licensing of new brands, distributor licenses, etc, the official added.“The last auction was successful. In the upcoming auction too, the excise department estimates an average premium of 10% over reserve price of license set for each zone,” said a senior excise department official who asked not to be named.This will mark a new record for the Capital, and push annual earnings growth rate from the current 5-7% to over 30% -- highlighting that a new excise policy, which aims to reform the city’s liquor business by improving user experience, cleaning up the liquor mafia and eradicating pilferage, is making an impact within two months of being adopted.The average revenue of the city over the past three years stood at around ₹5,500 crore annually, according to government data. The new policy was implemented on June 11.The 12 zones to be put up for auction include localities such as Sarita Vihar, Shakarpur, Dakshinpuri, Anand Vihar, Tagore Garden, Vikaspuri, Trilokpuri-East, Badarpur, Timarpur, Nawada, Matiala, Rithala, Pitampura, Paschim Vihar, Lajpat Nagar, Jama Masjid, Paharganj, Najafgarh, Punjabi Bagh, Kasturba Nagar, Shastri Park, Mukherjee Nagar, Alipur, Narela, Ashok Vihar, IP Extension, Abul Fazl Enclave, Laxmi Nagar, Kalyanpuri, Sadar Bazar, Sriniwaspuri, Ballimaran, Deoli and Pratap Nagar.Under the new policy, retailers are free to decide the selling prices in a competitive environment, rather than an MRP being mandated by the government. Each zone will have at least 27 liquor vends — all of which will go to one successful bidder.When the first set of auction opened the reserve bidding price was set at ₹221 crore for each zone on an average but the licences were awarded at an average premium of 20% with the average bid price being ₹265 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/12-liquor-zones-auction-from-aug-25-govt-eyes-3-180-crore-101629220506206.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||UP assembly adjourned for the day after mourning Covid-19 deaths||The Uttar Pradesh assembly was adjourned for the day on Tuesday after mourning the death of six sitting BJP members, including minister of state Vijay Kumar Kashyap (56), who died fighting Covid-19, after the budget session of the state assembly that concluded on March 4. The assembly also mourned the deaths of Covid-19 warriors, doctors, nurses and all the citizens who lost their lives during the pandemic. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath moved a condolence resolution to mourn the deaths of six BJP MLAs, corona warriors, doctors and nurses and all the citizens who passed away due to the pandemic. However, the chief minister did not give the number of citizens who died due to the deadly virus.Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary, besides mourning the death of sitting members, also offered his condolences to all the health workers, doctors, sanitary workers, teachers, employees, officers and said about one crore people of the state had died amid the fight against Covid-19. Besides Kashyap, who was BJP MLA from Charthawal assembly constituency of Muzaffarnagar, others who died after the budget session of the state assembly included Suresh Kumar Srivastava (77) from Lucknow West, Ramesh Chandra Diwakar (58) from Auraiya, Kesar Singh (61) from Nawabganj, Bareilly, Dal Bahadur (64) from Salon, Rae Bareli and Devendra Pratap Singh (54) from Amapur, Kasganj.Bahujan Samaj Party leader Shah Alam alias Guddu Jamali, Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’, Apna Dal (Sonelal) leader Lina Tiwari and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party leader Om Prakash Raj Bhar also mourned the deaths. Later, Chaudhary read out names of three former members and said the House should condole the demise of all those who lost their lives due to Covid-19 on Tuesday. Speaker Hridaya Narain Dikshit and minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna, however, said the business advisory committee of the House had decided to take the obituary references of former members on another day. Later, the Speaker adjourned the House for the day after the members observed two-minute silence to mourn the deaths. Meanwhile, SP members staged a dharna inside the assembly against the government over its “mismanagement” of the Covid-19 situation, price rise and other issues. Wearing oxygen masks and carrying placards, Samajwadi Party MLAs and MLCs also raised slogans against the government. SP MLC Rajpal Kashyap said, “We are protesting against the government that is anti-people. The SP always stands by the people and raises their voices. Unemployment, woes of farmers, women’s security, price rise, corruption and mismanagement of the Covid situation are some of the issues that we are raising.” In a tweet in Hindi, SP president Akhilesh Yadav said, “We will tell everyone about the BJP’s lies and show the mirror to BJP workers.” (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-adjourned-for-the-day-after-mourning-covid-19-deaths-101629219999964.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||Don’t want to die on foreign soil...please help, says UP man stranded in Kabul||LUCKNOW\VARANASI: “We are all stranded in Kabul and don’t know what to do. We don’t want to die on foreign soil…want to return to India. Please help,” said Kanhaiyalal Sharma, 33, a native of Mubarakpur village in UP’s Ghazipur in an emotional appeal to the UP Government, seeking immediate evacuation from Aghanistan’s capital. Sharma and his 18 companions from east UP have locked themselves in a steel factory in Kabul where they used to work. One Suraj Chauhan, 26, of Amoghpur village in Chandauli district of UP too is stuck in Kabul. “Kabul is in a mess…gunshots and cries can be heard all around. And in such a situation, there is no other option but to lock ourselves,” said Sharma talking to HT on phone.Sharma, a father of three including a 24-month-old-daughter, had left for Kabul on July 16, 2021. “Kanhaiya is a loving soul and an ace mechanical fitter. He is just Class 10 pass, but has good 15 years’ work experience after having worked in cities like Bengaluru, Kolkata, Chennai, Mumbai and Chhatisgarh. Due to his fine work, he was approached by a steel factory in Kabul. We tried to stop him, but he said he is going there for only six months,” lamented Usha Devi, Sharma’s mother (a widow). Sharma’s younger brother Angad said the family wants the UP Government’s intervention in bringing his brother and others stranded in Afghanistan back. Mubarakpur village head Anita Devi said the village having a population of around 1,600 people is praying for the safety of Kanhaiyalal. “He is a humble person who helped his mother support the family after his father’s demise. I am sure our government will do something and bring him back safely,” she said. Similarly, Suraj Chauhan’s elder brother Omkar has urged the government to bring him back to India. “Suraj is married and has a two-year-old son Umang. He went to Kabul in January 2021 and worked in a company as a welder. He had spoken to me through Whatsapp messenger on Monday and Tuesday. He is living in a room in Kabul. The situation is very bad there,” said Omkar Chauhan. Suraj informed that the owner of the company was taking care of his expenses, he added. Chauhan said: “My father Buddhiram Chauhan, mother Amravati Devi, Suraj’s wife Rekha and all family members are concerned for his safety. We are praying for his safe return.” “We urge Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure safe return of Suraj from Kabul,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dont-want-to-die-on-foreign-soil-please-help-says-up-man-stranded-in-kabul-101629219818119.html
17-08-2021||Other||Karnal-based senior advocate dies by suicide||A senior advocate has allegedly committed suicide by shooting self in his chamber in Karnal court complex on Tuesday morning.The deceased was 50-year-old and was living in Sector 13, Karnal.Police said the incident took place at around 6am on Tuesday and his family members said he left for a morning walk but did not return.When they tried to connect him, he did not attend the calls and later they came to know about his death, police said.Soon after getting information in this regard, a police team along with forensic experts reached the spot and recovered the body.Police said they recovered a revolver and in the preliminary investigation, it seems to be a case of suicide. However, no suicide note was found on him.Karnal Civil Lines police station in-charge Roshan Lal said the lawyer was reportedly mentally upset.He said the body has been handed over to the deceased’s family members after conducting postmortem and investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnalbased-senior-advocate-dies-by-suicide-101629219758652.html
17-08-2021||Other||Farmers bringing more land under soybean cultivation||PUNE: With soybean giving better rates and profits than other Kharif crops, farmers in the Pune district are bringing more and more land under soybean cultivation. In Pune district alone, soybean was sowed on 32,952 hectare as against the allocated 17,481 hectare. Not only Pune but across Maharashtra while soybean used to be earlier sowed on around 28 lakh hectare of land, it is now sowed on approximately 43 lakh hectare of land.Dnyaneshwar Bote, district agriculture officer, said, “The soybean rate is increasing every day. It gives a very good rate to farmers as compared to other Kharif crops. However, good rain too has helped increase sowing activity in the district.”“In major parts of the state, farmers have started focusing on the soybean crop. More farmers have left investing in groundnuts or jawari. Once a major crop in the Pune district, the sowing of jawari has gone down because it does not generate rates like soybean,” Bote said.Apart from soybean reaping more profit, soybean oil too is bringing in greater cash flow for traders.According to the state agriculture department, Kharif crops have been sowed on 11.03 hectare land across Maharashtra in 2021. With adequate rainfall, the sowing activity has entered its last stage. But wherever farming land was washed away due to heavy rain, re-sowing activity has been completed. Rice has been the worst-hit crop.“At many places, farmers suffered greater losses. Fertile soil was washed away due to heavy rain which caused major trouble in terms of re-sowing activity,” Bote said.In the Pune district alone, 97% of sowing activity has been completed with Kharif crops sowed on 184,274 hectare and sowing activity completed on 177,831 hectare.An official who did not wish to be named said, “In a majority of farms, crops have started growing and farmers are focusing on spraying fertilisers and keeping insects and pests away.”Vilas Uike, a farmer from Maval said, “We should not receive very heavy rain now. Moderate rain is good for growing crops but heavy rain destroys them.”Soybean rate per quintal2019: ₹3,000 to ₹3,3002020: ₹4,0002021: ₹8,000Soybean sowing in hectare in the Pune districtTotal soybean allocated field: 17,4892021 sowing occurred on: 32,952||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-bringing-more-land-under-soybean-cultivation-101629219757354.html
17-08-2021||Other||Kurukshetra University launches portal for online admissions||The Kurukshetra University has got the IUMS (Integrated University Management System) portal to ensure online admissions for all undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD aspirants.The IUMS portal was launched by university vice-chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva.“It is a major step towards making the university completely digital. From now, admissions, preparation of marksheets of students, employee records, office-related data, hostel admissions, hostel room allotments, PR services, all necessary services of students, all finance-related services, and examination services will be fully digitised by March 2022,” he added.As per officials of the university, the online portal will play an important role to reach students. There will be transparency and accountability in the work along with saving of time and paper. The aim of the initiative is to make the admission process student-friendly and “digitisation is a step in that direction”.They said from Tuesday, the admission process of all departments will start on the IUMS portal and students can easily complete the process from their homes.Prof Manjula Chaudhary, nodal officer of RUSA, said work on the project is on since 2019. With the formation of this system, admission in UTD, IIHS, PhD and other courses being run by the university will be done on a single platform.With these facilities, students enrolling in the university will get all information online from their admission till completion of their studies, she added.Coordinator Dr Pradeep Kumar said admissions of 171 courses of 49 departments of the university have been integrated on a single platform.With this, student can apply for different courses by registering once on the portal, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kurukshetra-university-launches-portal-for-online-admissions-101629219578955.html
17-08-2021||Other||Golden boy Neeraj Chopra gets grand welcome at native village in Panipat||A convoy of hundreds of vehicles, people dancing to the beats of dhol and showering flowers – that’s how residents of Khandra village in Panipat welcomed their golden boy Neeraj Chopra.It took hours to cover 33km from Samalkha to Khandra village as people gave a grand reception to the Olympics gold medallist javelin thrower on his arrival here on Tuesday.“I have never seen such excitement among people on an athlete’s return. The entire country is in celebration mode,” said Neeraj. He urged the youth to work hard and believe in themselves to achieve their aims. However, Neeraj had to leave the welcome ceremony midway due to high fever.Panipat deputy commissioner Sushil Sarwan told HT that due long journey in the scorching sun and in the presence of thousands of people, Neeraj complained of uneasiness and left the stage. A doctor was called for check-up and his health is stated to be normal.He is likely to meet Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Chandigarh on Wednesday.Huge screens were installed and an arrangement for around 20,000 people was made by the residents of Khandra village.People welcomed him with a silver javelin, garlands of currency notes, flowers and sweets.Over 150 sweet-makers were called to prepare food and sweets for the visitors who reached here from different districts of Haryana.Neeraj was given a warm welcome in the village. Youths carrying Tricolours chased his vehicle on motorbikes and cars. The youths were seen struggling for handshakes and clicking selfies with Neeraj.The athlete’s father Satish Kumar said residents of their village were eagerly waiting for his return ever since he won the gold medal in Tokyo Olympics and finally their wait was over.He said thousands of people reached Khandra village to bless the star athlete for his historic win at the recently concluded Olympics.Yogesh Sharma, of Nauultha village, got a permanent tattoo of Neeraj on his chest. He said this tattoo is to remind him of Neeraj’s golden throw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/golden-boy-neeraj-chopra-gets-grand-welcome-at-native-village-in-panipat-101629219278260.html
17-08-2021||Other||Pune ward offices told not to give permission for sale of idols on roadsides||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation’s anti- encroachment department head, Madhav Jagtap, on Tuesday issued a circular that instructed ward offices not to give permissions for the sale of Ganesh idols in stalls, by the roadsides or in any other shops. Sale of idols is to take place in open spaces and/or on school grounds. Against the background of the Covid pandemic it has been decided to allot plots for stalls on open grounds. Usually, a month before the Ganesh festival, vendors erect stalls on city roads. Already at some places in the city, vendors have erected stalls on roads. Recently, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar met with Ganesh mandals to take the decision to have the stalls on open grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-ward-offices-told-not-to-give-permission-for-sale-of-idols-on-roadsides-101629218677063.html
17-08-2021||Other||BJP worker builds temple for Modi, draws criticism||PUNE A BJP worker from Pune constructed a temple for Narendra Modi, complete with the prime minister’s bust inside, drawing criticism from opposition and citizen activists. Mayur Munde, a party worker from Aundh, built the small temple inside his premises, saying it was his tribute to the prime minister who, “built Ram temple at Ayodhya”, among other things. The opposition said such deification will not be tolerated by citizens in Pune. “One can definitely have loyalty to any leader. But such deification of an individual, no matter who he is, will not be tolerated by a city like Pune,” said Prashant Jagtap, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president for Pune. Aundh resident Dinesh Deshpande said, “While Modi is revered by many, there is a limit to such things.” According to Munde, the prime minister’s bust as well as the red marble used in construction, were brought from Jaipur at a total expenditure of ₹1.6 lakh. A poem dedicated to Modi is also displayed next to the structure, he added “After becoming PM, Modi has done a lot of developmental work and dealt with issues such as the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir, Ram Mandir temple and triple talaq, successfully,” said Munde, who is a real estate agent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-worker-builds-temple-for-modi-draws-criticism-101629218017042.html
17-08-2021||Other||PMC begins offline process to facilitate local train travel||PUNE: The Pune Municipal corporation (PMC) has initiated the process to set up a help desk at Pune and Shivaji Nagar railway stations to issue passes for travel by local trains in the Pune region, for those who have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. It is an offline process that it will begin at railway stations from Wednesday, said officials. The move came on Tuesday when Pune District Collector Rajesh Deshmukh issued formal order allowing local trains for common citizens with double vaccination. Ravindra Binwade, additional municipal commissioner of the PMC, has issued an order and deputed two nodal officers – assistant municipal commissioner of the Dhole Patil road ward office, Dyndev Supe, at the Pune station; and assistant municipal commissioner of the Shivajinagar-Ghole road ward office, Rajendra Rengade, at the Shivajinagar station – as well as 16 primary teachers at the help desks for verification and issuing of passes to railway commuters. The help desks will be operational on all seven days of the week in two shifts namely, 7am to 1pm and 1pm to 7pm.The PMC on Tuesday rolled out standard operating procedures (SOPs) on how the offline system will operate.As per the SOPs, fully vaccinated commuters who have completed 14 days after the second dose and wish to avail a monthly pass can approach the help desks and show their vaccination certificates along with a government-issued photo id (preferably Aadhaar card). They also need to carry a photocopy of their photo id for stamping purposes. The staffers at the help desks will verify the authenticity of the vaccination certificates by scanning their QR codes and accordingly stamp “universal travel pass” on the certificates and photocopies of the photo id’s. Commuters can then use the same to procure monthly passes at the ticket counters. Commuters are required to carry all three – their ticket, vaccination certificate and id card – while travelling.Sunil Indulkar, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “As per state government SOPs, we will verify and approve vaccination certificates and photo id’s of commuters. We have spoken to the railway administration about the space for desks and other necessary facilities. We are providing training to primary teachers.”Rajendra Rengade, assistant muncipal commissioner of the Shivajinagar-Ghole road ward office said, “We are providing training to the staff on how to issue certificates to railway commuters as per the state government order. The offline system will be operational Wednesday onwards.”Indulkar said, “The PMC has also deployed two nodal officers at the two railway stations. Although passengers will get certificates online, they will have to take approval from PMC officials. Without the PMC stamp of approval, the railway administration will not issue tickets or monthly passes.”Manoj Jhawar, public relations’ officer (PRO), central railway - Pune division, said, “We will provide all the necessary facilities to the PMC staff help desk for issuing certificates of approval to railway commuters. We will also provide them with security to control crowding for passes. We will not allow passengers to travel in local trains without PMC certification.”Presently, the central railway’s Pune division is operating eight up and down local trains from Pune to Lonavala with around 4,000 commuters travelling daily, at least 50% of which are monthly pass holders.Jhawar said, “At present, there are eight up and down local trains from Pune to Lonavala and all these trains are operating for emergency services. In normal circumstances, there are 42 up and down local trains from Pune to Lonavala and around 70,000 to 80,000 commuters travelling daily on this route.”Earlier, the chief minister had announced that eligible citizens who have taken both doses against Covid-19 and completed 14 days after the second dose will be able to travel by local trains from August 15. Travel will be facilitated both online and offline however the process of creating a mobile application (app) and starting the online process may take a little more time which is why the offline process will begin from Wednesday, PMC officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-begins-offline-process-to-facilitate-local-train-travel-101629217837004.html
17-08-2021||Other||‘We don’t want to die on foreign soil, please help’||(Appeal to govt) UP man, others stranded in Kabul  “We are all stranded in Kabul and don’t know what to do. We don’t want to die on foreign soil…want to return to India. Please help,” said Kanhaiyalal Sharma, 33, a native of Mubarakpur village in UP’s Ghazipur in an emotional appeal to the UP Government, seeking immediate evacuation from Afghanistan’s capital. Sharma and his 18 companions from east UP have locked themselves in a steel factory in Kabul where they used to work. One Suraj Chauhan, 26, of Amoghpur village in Chandauli district of UP too is stuck in Kabul. “Kabul is in a mess…gunshots and cries can be heard all around. And in such a situation, there is no option but to lock ourselves,” said Sharma talking to HT on phone. Sharma, a father of three including a 2-year-old-daughter, had left for Kabul on July 16, 2021. “Kanhaiya is a loving soul and an ace mechanical fitter. He is just Class 10 pass but has good 15 years’ work experience after having worked in cities like Bengaluru, Kolkata, Chennai, Mumbai and Chhatisgarh. Due to his fine work, he was approached by a steel factory in Kabul. We tried to stop him, but he said he is going there for only six months,” lamented Usha Devi, Sharma’s mother (a widow). Sharma’s younger brother Angad said the family wants the UP government’s intervention in bringing his brother and others stranded in Afghanistan back. Village head Anita Devi said Mubarakpur having a population of around 1,600 people is praying for the safety of Kanhaiyalal. “He is a humble person who helped his mother support the family after his father’s demise. I am sure our government will do something and bring him back safely,” she said. Similarly, Suraj Chauhan’s elder brother Omkar has urged the government to bring him back to India. “Suraj is married and has a two-year-old son Umang. He went to Kabul in January 2021 and worked in a company as a welder. He had spoken to me through Whatsapp messenger on Monday and Tuesday. He is living in a room in Kabul. The situation is very bad there,” said Omkar Chauhan. Suraj informed that the owner of the company was taking care of his expenses, he added. Chauhan said: “My father Buddhiram Chauhan, mother Amravati Devi, Suraj’s wife Rekha and all family members are concerned for his safety. We are praying for his safe return.” “We urge Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure safe return of Suraj from Kabul,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-don-t-want-to-die-on-foreign-soil-please-help-101629217056886.html
17-08-2021||Ranchi||Man in Jharkhand nabbed for hacking EC's portal for issuing voter cards: Police||A 30-year-old man was arrested in Jharkhand's Palamu district on Tuesday for allegedly hacking the Election Commission's portal used for generating voter identity cards, police said.Mukesh Kumar was arrested from Karso village in Chaonpur police station area on a complaint from the EC, they said.He was interrogated by several officers, including Palamu's Deputy Commissioner Shashi Ranjan, officials said.A team of half dozen investigators, comprising police officers and civil officials, are probing the case, they added.The arrested is suspected to be part of a network that has links in several districts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, officials said.The EC had informed the Palamau district administration that the URL used for generating voter identity cards from a Customer Service Point (CSP) in Chaunpur's Karso area was hacked and fake voter identity cards were made, they said.The EC had given the responsibility of making voter ID cards to a private company, giving it a URL and the tampering was done with that URL, officials said.However, the police are yet to find any evidence of the CSP's involvement in the hacking, they said.The arrested man told the investigators that the URL was given to him by a person from Ranchi, and the URL was also given to someone in Hazaribagh, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/man-in-jharkhand-nabbed-for-hacking-ec-s-portal-for-issuing-voter-cards-police-101629215884427.html
17-08-2021||Other||Out of stock: No vax at PMC centres on Wed||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will shut down all its Covid-19 vaccination centres as the civic body has no vaccine stock. Neither Covishield nor Covaxin doses will be administered on the day. Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer said, “We do not have any stock left with us, of both the vaccines, and so all the PMC run Covid-19 vaccination centres will be shut. We have not got any message as to when the new stock will come.” Vaccination at private hospitals in the city would continue as per planned sessions. With 3,017,112 Covid-19 tests, Pune has topped the country as the city with highest number of Covid-19 tests in proportion to the population, as 94% of the city’s population has been tested for Covid-19. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Our Pune had topped the country in corona testing. The city of Pune has the highest number of corona tests in the country in terms of population. We adopted the method of testing, tracing and treatment to overcome corona, which was a great success. Pune has successfully come out both the waves of Covid19.”697 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths Pune district reported 697 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths in 24 hours on Tuesday. This takes the progressive count to 1.105 million, of which 1.071 million have recovered, there are 19,098 deaths and 14,325 active cases, currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 50,000 vaccinations on Tuesday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 359 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 337,531 and 11 more deaths were reported which takes the toll to 6,387. Pune city reported 193 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 507,803 and death toll stands at 8,932. PCMC reported 145 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 260,075; with one more death the toll went up to 3,444. Pune also saw 50,846 vaccinations on Tuesday as per the CoWin dashboard and totally 7,041,500 vaccines have been administered, including 5,215,542 first doses and 1,825,958 second doses. A total of 480 vaccination sites conducted vaccination, of which 269 were government and 211 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/out-of-stock-no-vax-at-pmc-centres-on-wed-101629215916624.html
17-08-2021||Ranchi||Member of fake voter ID racket held in Palamu||Police on Tuesday arrested a computer shop owner for his alleged involvement in a ‘fake voter ID’ racket from the Chainpur police station area in Palamu. Palamu superintendent of police (SP) Chandan Kumar Sinha said the police lodged a case with the cyber crime police station and further investigation is on. “The complaint has been filed by the district election officer. During the initial probe, it came to light that the accused Mukesh Kumar used to print fake voter IDs through a link to the ECI website and password,” said Sinha. “He has named one Vikash Kumar Singh who used to send him links and passwords. He claimed to have never met the person. We are investigating it further,” said the SP.The SP said that Mukesh seems to be a part of a wide network. Palamu deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan said they proceeded with the matter after receiving an alert from the election commission. “We are also investigating the modus operandi and transactions done by the accused and the network. We would inform the commission with a detailed report once the investigation is complete,” said Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/member-of-fake-voter-id-racket-held-in-palamu-101629215858436.html
17-08-2021||Patna||Admission process begins at CUSB, last date to apply is Sept 1||The Central University of South Bihar (CUSB), Gaya, has started accepting online applications for admission to various undergraduate (UG), postgraduate (PG) and diploma programmes for academic session 2021-22 from Monday. The last date for filling online application is September 1. The university has invited applications for 30 courses — three in UG, 25 in PG and two in PG diploma. The university has launched a new course named as PG diploma in petroleum geosciences in addition to existing diploma course in yoga. CUSB’s controller of examinations Rashmi Tripathi said the varsity invited applications through central universities — common entrance test (CUCET) 2021 in which 12 central universities would participate this year. Sharing details, she said, “Interested candidates may find details of programmes, eligibility criteria and programme structure at www.cusb.ac.in or www.cucet.nta.nic.in. Those candidates who are appearing in the final examination of any degree/certificate course are also eligible to apply.” “CUCET-2021 has been scheduled from September 15 to 24. Candidates will have to answer objective type questions in computer-based test mode”, she said. CUSB’s public relation officer Mudassir Alam shared that candidates will get a chance to select multiple courses after online registration this year. He said applicants belonging to general, OBC and EWS category have to pay application fees of ₹800 for UG and PG level programmes while those belonging to SC, ST and transgender category have to pay ₹350 for the same programmes. There is no application charge for candidates belonging to persons with disability (PwD) category. “Applicants can select three programmes for taking entrance exam by paying application fees. Besides, they can further apply for additional programmes by paying extra fees”, he said. Apart from CUSB, others participating central universities in CUCET include Assam University (Silchar), Central University of Andhra Pradesh, Central University of Gujarat, Central University of Haryana, Central University of Jammu, Central University of Jharkhand, Central University of Karnataka, Central University of Kerala, Central University of Punjab, Central University of Rajasthan and Central University of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/admission-process-begins-at-cusb-last-date-to-apply-is-sept-1-101629215857202.html
17-08-2021||Bangalore||Waterlogging areas in Bengaluru identified, will be fixed soon: K'taka minister||Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka on Tuesday said water logging areas in Bengaluru have been identified and will be fixed soon. "I have instructed the officials to construct shoulder drains wherever necessary so that we can prevent water logging on Bengaluru streets," Ashoka said. Noting that many roads witness traffic jams during rains due to waterlogging, he said it has been decided to remove all such bottlenecks so that the water flows into the drain and there is no water logging. "We will not tolerate any sub-standard work. I recently inspected Commercial Street and ordered the contractor to relay the tiles. The road will get a new look within two months. I have asked officials to regularly inspect the works and take action against sub-standard works," he added. The Minister further warned that if any official is found to be negligent, action will take action against the erring official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/waterlogging-areas-in-bengaluru-identified-will-be-fixed-soon-k-taka-minister-101629215273590.html
17-08-2021||Other||40 -year-old’s body found in Purnia||Police on Tuesday morning recovered the body of a 40-year-old labourer from a bamboo bush at Lalganj under Maranga police station here. The deceased has been identified as Sahdev Rishi. Sahdev’s younger brother Mahadev Rishi said, “My brother had left home with co-villagers identified as Sheetal Das and Pinku Das. The injury marks on his body suggest that he was beaten to death.”The station house officer of Maranga police station, Mithilesh Kumar, said, “We are waiting for the autopsy report to know the exact reason for death.” An FIR has been lodged against two persons on the written complaint of Mahadev. Both the accused have been absconding since the incident.Meanwhile, locals alleged that the incident took place due to the impact of liquor. “Sheetal Das and Pinku Das are alcoholics and they have also been involved in eve-teasing,” one of the locals said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40-year-old-s-body-found-in-purnia-101629215617050.html
17-08-2021||Other||FIR against operators of three temples in Bihar for violating Covid norms||Darbhanga police filed FIRs against operators of three Shiva temples for flouting Covid norms while celebrating the last Monday of Shravan month on August 16, an official said on Tuesday.The FIRs have been lodged against temple operators and a priest under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently doing an act), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Panel Code (IPC). Besides, cases have also been lodged under Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Section 9 of the Loudspeaker Control Act as well as Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. Earlier, SSP (in charge) and incumbent City SP Ashok Prasad had issued instructions to all SHOs to conduct patrolling under the jurisdiction of their respective police stations to keep a check on temples violating Covid protocols effective till August 25 as per government orders.In Laheriasarai, KM Tank Shiva temple and Lord Shiva temple at Neem Chouk were found open with a gathering of at least 30-35 people on August 16, said SHO of Laheriasari police station. An FIR was lodged against KM Tank’s temple administrator-cum-priest Baba Bharti and the administrator of Neem Chouk temple Suresh Mahto.Likewise, an FIR was lodged against the administrator of Pradhan Pokhar Shiva temple situated in Rajkumar Ganj.Meanwhile, addressing a virtual meeting of government officials regarding Muharram and other upcoming festivals, additional chief secretary, home department, Chaitanya Prasad on Tuesday said that the guidelines issued by the department on August 4 clearly state that all religious places shall remain closed and all kinds of religious, social, cultural and entertainment events shall be prohibited till August 25..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-operators-of-three-temples-in-bihar-for-violating-covid-norms-101629215377116.html
17-08-2021||Other||Exorcist held on charges of raping woman||Motihari’s Mufassil police Tuesday arrested an exorcist for allegedly raping a woman at a cremation ground in a village located in East Champaran last week. The station house officer (SHO) of Mufassil police station, Vinay Kumar, said the accused Indal Sahani was arrested after the victim filed a complaint. “The woman’s medical examination reports are awaited,” the SHO said. Quoting the woman’s statement, police said the incident occurred when the victim approached the exorcist to seek a cure for her ailment. “The exorcist took the woman to a cremation ground on the pretext of performing some prayer to free her from power she was being possessed by subjected her to the sexual assault,” said SHO Vinay Kumar. The man took ₹10,000 to hold the special prayer that, according to him, would cure her ailment, said a policeman.The woman told the police the exorcist suddenly started getting physical with her while performing prayer. Hearing her distress call, her relatives, who were waiting at some distance on the man’s instructions, rushed to her rescue. The exorcist fled from the spot, police said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exorcist-held-on-charges-of-raping-woman-101629215197350.html
17-08-2021||Patna||Panchayat polls in Bihar from Sept 24; 28% DA for govt staff||Bihar cabinet on Tuesday gave its nod for the long-awaited panchayat elections in the state, which will be held in 11 phases beginning September 24 and ending on December 12, officials said.The cabinet, at its meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar also approved 28% dearness allowance (DA) to its employees and pensioners with effect from July 1 on the lines of the Centre. Currently, the DA was 17%, which means an additional annual bill of ₹2256 crore for the state government.Briefing media persons after the meeting through virtual mode, additional chief secretary, cabinet secretariat department, Sanjay Kumar, said a formal notification for the panchayat elections would be issued on August 24 and the polling would be conducted first in the areas not or less impacted by floods.The cabinet also okayed a proposal by the urban development department (UDD) to levy water user charges from residents in urban areas based on property tax of the premises and nature of use of water. Different charges has been fixed for user charges for different users, like domestic, commercial, industrial, etc. The cabinet also cleared the CM Narishakti stipend to help girls and women prepare for the mains examination for civil services after they pass the preliminary test for the state and union civil services commissions. Those who clear the BPSC prelims would be entitled for one time stipend of ₹50,000 and those clearing the UPSC would be getting ₹1l akh.The agriculture department’s proposal to set up three technical colleges in the farm sector was also approved by the cabinet. Agriculture Business Management College, Agriculture Bio-technology College and Agriculture Engineering College would be opened in Patna, Bhagalpur and Ara, respectively. The posts of teaching and non-teaching staff have also been sanctioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/panchayat-polls-in-bihar-from-sept-24-28-da-for-govt-staff-101629214897228.html
17-08-2021||Other||Aundh’s Gaikwad family booked under MCOCA||PUNE: The Pune city police have invoked the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against eight persons booked for attempted murder and extortion including a man known in the Chaturshringi, Aundh locality as “Aundh cha bhau”.A case under MCOCA has been registered against eight persons, including Nanasaheb Shankarrao Gaikwad, Nanda Nanasaheb Gaikwad alias bhau, Ganesh alias Kedar Nanasaheb Gaikwad and all residents of the NSG house in Aundh, Pune, Sonali Feepak Gaware, Deepak Nivrutti Gaware, Rajudada Ankush alias Rajabhau, Sachin Govind Walke and Sandeep Govind Walke, according to the police.A police statement read, “The main accused in this case, Nanasaheb Gaikwad, is the head of this gang and has committed crimes along with his family members and other people as well. They have forged ties with well-known and important people while illegally lending money to needy people either to draw huge sums in the form of interest or confiscate their properties and assets.”The complainant in the MCOCA case submitted that the accused lent him money only to extract huge sums in the form of interest. To collect even more money from him, the accused fired a weapon in the air and forced him into giving his thumb imprint on stamp paper to grab his land and also took his signatures on blank papers.Assistant commissioner of police Bajrang Desai will be investigating the case. Along with sections 307 (attempted murder), 386 (extortion), 341 and 506(2) (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code and section 39 of the Maharashtra Money Lending Act; section 3(25) of the Arms Act and section 37(1)(3) with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act; the police have invoked sections 3(1)(ii), 3(2), 3(4), and 3(4) of the MCOCA.There are multiple cases registered against the Gaikwad father-son for kidnapping, attempted murder, extortion, domestic violence, wrongful restrain, cheating and causing grievous hurt using weapon/s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aundhs-gaikwad-family-booked-under-mcoca-101629214416359.html
17-08-2021||Other||Fully vaccinated person cannot be re-vaccinated, Centre tells Kerala HC||The central government on Tuesday stated in the Kerala High Court that those who have received two doses of Covid-19 vaccine cannot be re-vaccinated.This statement was made during the hearing of a petition by a Kannur native who had received two doses of Covaxin but wanted to be revaccinated with Covishield now, as Covaxin was not approved in Saudi Arabia where he had his job.The central government further stated that a person who receives "more than two vaccines is more likely to have health problems. There is currently no provision for giving more than two doses of the vaccine per person. There is no international guideline for administering the third dose vaccine. Taking an overdose of the vaccine can lead to health problems. No other studies have been conducted in this regard. The petitioner's claim cannot be considered in this case. If we consider this demand, more people are likely to approach the court with a similar demand."Girikumar, 50, submitted a petition stating that Covaxin is not recognised in Saudi Arabia and as per his visa stipulation, he has to return to Saudi Arabia before August 30, or he would lose his job.Also Read | Indian expat files plea to get re-vaccinated with Covishield as Saudi Arabia doesn’t recognise CovaxinAccording to the petition, he returned to India due to the Covid-19 second wave in Saudi Arabia in January and when the Centre provided vaccines for people aged above 45, he registered on the Cowin portal using his passport details."He got the first Covaxin dose on April 17, and the second a month later. It was only after receiving Covaxin that he came to know that it is not approved by the Saudi government. Had the authorities informed the public about the non-recognition of Covaxin earlier, he would not have taken it. He never knew his decision would put his job abroad in jeopardy," read the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fully-vaccinated-person-cannot-be-re-vaccinated-centre-tells-kerala-hc-101629212684319.html
17-08-2021||Other||55,000 students registered for Class 11 admissions; merit list out on Aug 27||PUNE A total of 55,169 students have registered for the Class 11 standard centralised online admission process in Pune region as of Tuesday. The first merit list will be declared on August 27. After the Bombay HC cancelled the Common Entrance Test (CET) for Class 11 admissions, to be conducted on August 21, the education department is geared up for its admission process.“The admission process registration of students is going on smoothly for this academic year and till now 50,000 students have registered for the centralised admission process. Students need to fill up the first part of the form between August 14 and 22 and the second part between August 17 and 22,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune, who is in-charge of the admission process. For this year a total of 105,665 seats are available in Pune region across 299 colleges. As the class 10 examinations were cancelled due to the pandemic, the passing percentage of Class 10 students was 99.95 per cent, 4.65 per cent more than 2020. The cut-offs at prominent colleges will be higher.“On August 15 we conducted an online session for students to help them with the form. Questions and issues of students were addressed in this session and it would certainly help if more students registered in the coming days. Along with the state board, even students from other boards are registering in large numbers and students are asking queries related to bifocal and management quota admissions,” added Shendkar. The entire admission process will be online this year and on August 27 education department will declare the first general merit list of Round 1 admissions for eligible candidates. Students can object or seek a correction till August 24. On August 30, the junior colleges will upload the status of admitted students on their website and further admission rounds will happen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50000-students-registered-for-class-11-admissions-merit-list-out-on-aug-27-101629213636117.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||UP ATS to set up commando units at Deoband, 4 other places||LUCKNOW The UP government has decided to set up new training and operational centres for Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) commandos in Saharanpur’s Deoband – known for its Islamic seminary Darul Uloom, and four other places in UP. The government has allotted 2,000 sq m land for the purpose, said Prashant Kumar, ADG (law and order), here on Tuesday. The decision comes after the arrest of two suspected al-Qaeda operatives in Lucknow on July 11, 13 and the arrest of eight terror suspects and ISI agents from Saharanpur recently. The ADG said Deoband is strategically important for the UP Police as it is located on the border of Uttarakhand and Haryana. The commando training centres will be set up where the state government provides land while at other places a trained commando unit will be deployed for operational purpose. The other strategic places where the commando operational centres will be set up include Jewar (Gautam Buddh Nagar), where new international airport is coming up and Meerut district in west UP. Similar centres will come up in Bahraich and Shravasti districts on the Indian-Nepal border. “Setting up these training centres and units will help carry out effective anti-terror operations in UP,” he said. Another senior official said over 20 police officers will be instantly posted in Deoband to carry out operational activities till the commando training centre is raised there. Earlier in the day, Shalabh Mani Tripathi, media advisor to the chief minister, in a tweet, said: “Work to raise the ATS commando training centre in Deoband is already started on a war footing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ats-to-set-up-commando-units-at-deoband-4-other-places-101629213517189.html
17-08-2021||Pune||Against MVA’s stand, PMC approves offline JICA tendering process||PUNE: The BJP-ruled Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday approved to float the tender for the river rejuvenation project, funded by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), offline. The Maha Vikas Agadhi (MVA) government had suggested global tendering online as a cost-saving measure. While the Centre will provide ₹1,000 crore for the project, the estimated cost of the plan has touched ₹1,700 crore and PMC has to bear the remaining expenditure. The opposition parties have criticised BJP’s decision. Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “The Centre that promotes transparency and ‘Digital India’ has given nod to PMC to float tender offline. It even agreed to purchase machinery running on old technology for sewage treatment. We asked the BJP to go for online tendering as it will save money because PMC has to cover the additional cost.” PMC had to cancel the previous tendering process as bidders quoted inflated cost. Meanwhile, a civic official on condition of anonymity, said that as JICA is funding the project, it is mandatory to hire their technology.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/against-mva-s-stand-pmc-approves-offline-jica-tendering-process-101629213276117.html
17-08-2021||Other||SPPU to host Chair of Excellence in Military History of India||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) department of Defence and Strategic Studies has been invited to host the Chair of Excellence in Military History of India, with a particular focus on communication and awareness creation about the Indian gallantry.The Ministry of Defence had invited expressions of interest from top 100 universities as per the NIRF ranking to set up of this chair of excellence. Proposals were received from 25 universities and institutions across the country. The proposals were examined by the Institute Selection Review Committee (ISRC) which unanimously recommended the awarding of the chair to SPPU. A memorandum of understanding will be signed with the university shortly. The chair will be supported through an endowment fund of ₹2 crore.The department of Defence and Strategic Studies has a strong footprint with Indian Armed Forces and collaborative work with all three services is going well. While the department has unique courses such as the Scholars in Residence programme, under which several officers from the Indian Army join as visiting scholars. The scope of the chair, inter-alia, includes publishing of monographs, conducting seminars, webinars and propagating and enhancing the understanding of the military history of India, to create a platform for faculty/researchers to undertake research work; also to develop strategies for communication and awareness of the Indian military and to provide advice on any other matter related to the subject from time to time.“The Department of Defence and Strategic Studies is the only department in the country in which the Chair of Excellence has been established in coordination with the Army, Air Force and the Ministry of Defence. We intend to set up a ‘Chair of Excellence’ with the Indian Navy in the near future and a proposal for this has been sent to the Navy Headquarters,” said Vijay Khare, HOD of SPPU’s Department of Defence and Strategic studies. SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “We are very happy to receive the Chair of Excellence from the Ministry of Defence. This has created an opportunity for students to do research in these subjects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-to-host-chair-of-excellence-in-military-history-of-india-101629212676151.html
17-08-2021||Other||19-year-old aspiring policewoman found dead in well in Kalamb||PUNE A 19-year-old aspiring policewoman was found dead in a well in Kalamb, Pune, on Tuesday.According to police sub inspector Sagar Khabale of Manchar police station who is investigating the case, the woman was found in a community well in Ganeshwadi, Kalamb, close to her house, around 3pm on Tuesday.“Her parents had gone for a funeral while she had gone to a training centre where she generally went to train and study for the police recruitment exam. She left around 10am. Her parents called their relatives in the academy to check if she had reached and the relative told them that she had not. Upon reaching home, they found that she had not returned at her usual time. The villagers launched a search party and found the body in the well,” said PSI Khabale.The woman was taken to Sassoon General Hospital for postmortem while an accidental death report has en registered at Manchar police station.Mobile phone retailer from Pimpri-Chinchwad duped of ₹20 lakh PUNE: A mobile phone retailer from Pimpri-Chinchwad was duped of ₹20 lakh by a man who claimed to be a mobile phone dealer.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 35-year-old retailer who lives in Pimpri and owns a mobile phone shop.The accused man had allegedly identified himself as Yogesh Prabhakarrao Shejul, a resident of Auragabad and a distributor of a major mobile company, according to the police.The man took ₹20,35,000 from the complainant through multiple payment modes, including cash, multiple UPI platforms, credit card, and direct bank transfers, starting from December 2020. However, in July, the complainant decided to lodge a complaint as the man had failed to deliver the products.A case under Sections 406 (Criminal breach of trust) and 420 (Cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Pimpri police station. Police inspector Bhojraj Misal of Pimpri police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/19yearold-aspiring-policewoman-found-dead-in-well-in-kalamb-101629212255949.html
17-08-2021||Other||High Court grants bail to Hemanti Kulkarni||PUNE The Bombay High Court (HC), on Tuesday, granted bail to Hemanti Deepak Kulkarni, co-accused in the investor fraud case worth multiple thousands of crores of rupees.Her husband, Deepak Sakharam Kulkarni, the real estate mogul, is currently in jail with her, according to their lawyer advocate Aashutosh Srivastava.The decision was taken by Justice Prakash Deu Naik, with special public prosecutor Praveen Chavan and defence lawyer advocate Aashutosh Srivastava present on Tuesday.“They were arrested February 17, 2018 and today is August 17, 2021; it is 3.5 years exactly and no charges have been framed by the trial court. As per the chargesheet, considering all immovable property, LIC policies, and bank balances, the value is around ₹904 crore. Those properties have already been attached. These are all old values which are very low. To get the current value, a forensic audit report is required, and no such audit has taken place and therefore, there is no report. The actual value will be 3-4 times higher. There is a discrepancy in the figure quoted by the enforcement directorate and the state police. While the economic offence wing says it is worth ₹2,090 crore, the ED says it is ₹290 crore. The court took this discrepancy into consideration,” said advocate Srivastava.Bail for Hemanti Kulkarni was rejected by the lower court in 2019 along with DS Kulkarni’s bail application; they had cited multiple reasons including medical grounds for seeking bail. There are other members of the family and their company, DS Kulkarini group, in jail in the same case registered at Shivajinagar police station. Some of the cars confiscated by the police were auctioned, but could not fetch more than a few lakhs.Multiple witness statements have been recorded in the case which is ongoing at a special court in Pune. The couple was arrested from a hotel in Delhi in 2018.A group of investors, who invested a good percentage of their life-savings in DSK’s “fixed deposits”, throng the courts in Pune on every hearing. The investment scheme bore fruit for all its investors for over a decade, before the 2008 recession hit DSK’s investment in a SEZ project signed with a foreign company. After a few years, investors started reporting a failure in receipts of their monthly payment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-court-grants-bail-to-hemanti-kulkarni-101629211595810.html
17-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan woman drugs abusive husband to give electric shocks||A 25-year-old woman, troubled by her husband’s abusive behaviour, allegedly drugged him to give electric shocks. The husband is being treated at a government hospital in Bikaner, officials said. According to sub-inspector Manak Lal of Churu’s Sardar Sahar police station, Mahendra Dan (32), who is being treated at PBM hospital, Bikaner, said in his complaint that his wife tried to kill him on August 12. According to Lal, Dan said that at around 9 pm when he returned from work, his wife came with food. After eating, he lost consciousness and woke up late at night due to electric shocks. His wife covered her hands with polythene bags and tied electricity wires to his legs to give him shocks. Due to shocks, Dan went unconscious again. On gaining consciousness the next day, he said his father and brother informed that his wife had called them late at night at around 2 am and told them that he got an electric shock. His legs were burnt and he was tied to the bed, he told police. In the preliminary investigation, the wife told police that his husband is an alcoholic and used to beat her. She said her brother recently visited them and her husband got into a heated argument with her brother after both consumed some alcohol. She said she was miffed with the daily torture and thus planned on giving electric shocks to the husband. The police said no arrest has been made in the case and probe is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-woman-drugs-abusive-husband-to-give-electric-shocks-101629210516051.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Mother of 11-month-old girl from Noida found dead in hotel room in Nainital||A woman from Uttar Pradesh's Noida was found dead under mysterious circumstances in her hotel room here, police said on Tuesday.The incident came to light after the woman, Diksha Mishra (30), a divorcee and the mother of an 11-month-old girl, did not respond to repeated calls from the hotel staff and did not answer the door on Monday morning, they said.Mishra had come here with her live-in partner, who is on the run, and two friends to celebrate her birthday, Superintendent of Police (crime) Devendra Pincha said.After there was no response from her, the door of her room was broken and she was found dead, frothing at the mouth. Her body had turned blue, he said.Mishra's live-in partner had checked in under the name of Rishabh. However, an ID card recovered from the victim's room revealed that he is Emraan, a scrap dealer from Noida, the SP said.The hotel staff said they heard some noise coming from Mishra's room late on Sunday night, Pincha said.Efforts are being made to nab Emraan. A forensic team is collecting evidence from the crime scene and the body has been sent for a post-mortem examination, he said.Mishra's brother has been informed about the incident, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mother-of-11-month-old-girl-from-noida-found-dead-in-hotel-room-in-nainital-101629208798368.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||‘Better turnout of students expected in coming days’||School managements in the state capital are all hopeful that in days to come the attendance rate of students will gradually go up. A day after the schools opened their gates for the students of Class XI to XII, as per the state government mandates, the schools reported a limited improvement in the numbers. On Monday, the schools opened with thin attendance but with a lot of enthusiasm. Mala Mehra, secretary, Unaided Private Schools Association says, “Slowly and gradually student attendance will surely increase.” Mehra also happens to be principal of Hoerner College. Many students have not given the permission letter that was made mandatory by school to rejoin offline classes. Anil Agarwal, president of Unaided Private School Association adds, “About 62% students turned up in schools and hopefully the number will go up in times to come.” Students are the happiest lot. Nav Sri Saxena, student of Class X, Delhi Public School, had to go for a haircut before resuming offline classes but he has no qualms as he is happy to back with his peer group. “I am more comfortable attending offline classes. More than that, I am very happy to meet my friends face-to-face after so many months. Now, I hope we get to hit the ground and get to play my favourite game — football,” he says. The educationists too are equally excited having students back on campus. “With children attending school our premises has become lively once again. There was excitement around- amongst students and teachers. Students did not mind the no recess policy as at least they got to meet their friends,” says Abha Anant, principal City Montessori School, Gomti Nagar. The government has asked schools to strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocol in allowing students into the classrooms. The government has also directed secondary schools to operate two sessions a day with a cap of 50 per cent students in each half. While the first session will be held between 8am and 12noon, the second session will start at 12.30 and conclude at 4.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/better-turnout-of-students-expected-in-coming-days-101629207155472.html
17-08-2021||Pune||With patrons back at Pune restaurants, sale of veggies goes up||Pune: The wholesale market of vegetables, fruits and grains has reported a rise of 10%-20% in orders following a fresh set of Covid relaxations announced for restaurants and eateries. The latest Covid eases allows shops, malls and restaurants to operate till 10pm and private offices can operate 24X7 with staggered shift hours. Employees at shops, establishments and offices, however, will have to be fully vaccinated. “Restaurants and eateries have increased staff strength and expanded their list of orders. No price rise is expected. The brighter side of the relaxations is no wastage of vegetables and fruits,” said Vilas Bhujbal, head of traders and commission agents at Market Yard wholesale market. “As an essential service our shops were open during lockdowns as well, however, bulk intake of grains or vegetables which gives more profit was not happening as eateries were closed. Inquiries and placing of orders have now increased by 10%,” said Vishal Piprani, grain wholesaler from Market Yard. “It will take 15 days to see the business impact of new relaxations,” said Kapil Rege, vegetable retailer from Singhad road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/with-patrons-back-at-pune-restaurants-sale-of-veggies-goes-up-101629203614093.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt allots land for NDRF permanent station at Mahad||To ensure a speedier response during calamities such as floods in coastal areas of the state, the Maharashtra government has allocated a five-acre land parcel to set up a permanent base camp of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) at Mahad in Raigad district. This will help tackle disasters and emergencies like floods and cyclones that have been recurring on the Konkan coastline, causing loss of life and property. The rescuers are also trained to handle calamities like building and bridge collapses and chemical disasters.At present, in case of any disasters in Konkan, rescuers have to be dispatched from the NDRF facility at Talegaon near Pune, or from the Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF) which falls under the purview of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). The distance between these facilities and the site of the tragedy leads to an increase in the response time. After the devastation caused by the recent floods in Konkan, the state government is working on a brownfield expansion of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) by stationing these teams in State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) camps.“We have allocated a two-hectare (five-acre) land parcel at Mahad for a permanent base camp of NDRF or SDRF. Currently, in case of a calamity, rescue teams have to come from either Pune or Thane which takes around 10 to 12 hours to reach the spot. This camp will ensure that these personnel will be able to respond to the crisis in the golden hour,’” said Aditi Tatkare, minister of state for industries and guardian minister of Raigad district. The land, which belonged to the dairy development department, was handed over for the purpose last week.“Developing a NDRF or SDRF permanent base camp there will cut down the response time by around five to six hours. The location of this facility in Mahad will ensure that rescuers can reach many places in Raigad in around two hours,” she said.Tatkare added that they had approached the Union government in November last year for a permanent base camp of NDRF in Raigad. However, if necessary, the state was also ready to station SDRF there for rescue operations. The camp will also function as a training centre for locals, who are usually the first responders in case of any calamities like the collapse of Tariq Gardens building in Mahad last year. These local volunteers will be trained once every six months.The camp will also cover the northern part of Ratnagiri in talukas like Khed and Chiplun. The industrial belt in Mahad, Roha and Chiplun has a number of chemical industries, and NDRF or SDRF units stationed at Mahad can tackle any unforeseen emergencies in these areas.Tatkare said they had also sent a proposal to the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) to start hospitals on Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) lands at Taloja, Roha and Pen in Raigad.BOX:NDRF has a battalion consisting around 1,149 people stationed at Sudumbare at Talegaon near Pune to cover Maharashtra and Goa.It has stationed three teams consisting of 45 men each, including engineers, technicians, and medical staff, and two sniffer dogs at Andheri sports complex in Mumbai.Modelled on the lines of NDRF, which is a specialised force to respond to natural and man-made disasters, SDRF has two companies at Nagpur and Dhule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-allots-land-for-ndrf-permanent-station-at-mahad-101629203074020.html
17-08-2021||Other||Centre keen on resolving Naga issues: Minister||Union minister of state for external affairs and education RK Ranjan Singh said on Tuesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is keen on resolving long standing political issues of Nagaland.The minister was addressing a press conference in Kohima a day after he arrived on Jan Ashirwad Yatra, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) outreach programme for ministers recently inducted into the Cabinet. He said the PM’s commitment towards the Naga peace process was evident from the signing of the Framework Agreement in 2015 after the National Democratic Alliance came to power.The minister said in his interactions with Naga civil society leaders, he learnt that they also wanted an early settlement of the Naga issue. “I will convey this message to the Centre,” he said.Also Read | Nagaland set for all-party government to push peace process forwardOn the newly formed Opposition-less government in Nagaland with the object to facilitate the Naga peace process, Singh said by tradition, there should be an Opposition in a democratic government to strike a balance in governance but if the state’s Opposition decided to join the government to expedite the peace process, it was a positive development.Following the press conference, Nagaland BJP president and minister Temjen Imna Along and several party leaders accompanied the Union Minister to the Kohima Cathedral Church before he proceeded for Imphal by road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-keen-on-resolving-naga-issues-minister-101629202474503.html
17-08-2021||Pune||MSRDC begins land survey for eastern part of Pune ring road, aims to complete it in 3 months||Pune: With the land measurement process for the western part of the ring road constructed by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) nearing completion, the officials began a joint measurement survey (JMS) for the eastern side of the stretch from Tuesday. The survey started from Garade village in Purandar tehsil. The Pune ring road is a proposed circular outer road for the Pune metropolitan region. The land measurement of western part of the road is 95% complete with only three villages in Maval tehsil remaining to be surveyed, according to MSRDC officials. The eastern part of the ring road will pass through 46 villages and officials plan to complete the land measurement procedure in three months. “We have started the land measurement procedure for eastern part of the ring road from Garade village and are meeting locals to finish the survey within three months,” said Sandeep Patil, sub-divisional engineer, MSRDC. Officials had faced resistance from villagers during the land measurement process for the western part of the project. “In the eastern part, there is resistance mostly from villages near Rajgurunagar in Khed tehsil. We are holding meetings with villagers to seek their cooperation,” said Pati. MSRDC received a formal nod for land acquisition process of the eastern side of the ring road on May 19 this year. The eastern ring road will pass through 46 villages in five tehsils, namely Maval, Khed, Purandar, Bhor and Haveli in Pune district. The western side of the road covers 38 villages and land survey of three villages is remaining. “The three villages are Kelwade, Chandkhed and Bebdohol and it will be completed by the end of this month,” said Patil. The state government had approved land acquisition for the 173.70-km ring road project to be implemented by MSRDC. The project would require acquisition of almost 1,600 hectares of land with estimated cost of road being ₹26,000 crore and ₹5,000 crore for land acquisition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrdc-begins-land-survey-for-eastern-part-of-pune-ring-road-aims-to-complete-it-in-3-months-101629202293972.html
17-08-2021||Patna||Bihar’s organ and tissue transplant body alleges state govt’s neglect towards its functioning||Bihar’s State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO), responsible for coordination in procurement and distribution of organs and tissues and their registry at state level, says it has become a victim of government neglect. Established in 2016 by the directorate general of health services (DGHS) and ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW), Bihar’s SOTTO has not received the Centre’s nod this year for revalidation of funds. As a result, it is unable to spend funds despite having around ₹34 lakh remaining in its kitty, HT has learnt. Experts at SOTTO say this has hampered the organisation’s activities. “We have raised the issue with the health ministry on delay in revalidation of funds for SOTTO. The ministry convened two meetings, one in July when it said the issue will be resolved in 15-20 days. Another meeting was held last week wherein we have been communicated that we will get the nod for utilisation of unspent funds in 10 days,” said SOTTO-Bihar chairman Dr Manish Mandal, who is also the medical superintendent of the IGIMS.So far, the SOTTO has collected only 250 pledges for organ donation in Bihar. This speaks volumes of its information education and counselling activities. Its registry of organ donation and transplant is primarily confined to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna, where its office is located. Barring the IGIMS, an autonomous institute under the state government, and the Paras-HMRI hospital in the private sector, the three other facilities in Bihar, registered for organ transplant under SOTTO do not share their data regularly. The organisation’s efforts to prod the state health department into persuading the facilities eligible for transplant to enrol under SOTTO and share their data on transplants have also gone in vain. According to SOTTO officials, they have not been paid for the last four months. The joint director’s post, which is among the four positions sanctioned, is vacant after the previous incumbent resigned on March 31, 2020, allegedly due to unattractive remuneration. Against this backdrop, the SOTTO, together with its national and regional units — the NOTTO and the ROTTO — is expected to contribute to generating 75,000 pledges for organ donation across the country this year. The Centre had initially released ₹116 lakh under its National Organ and Transplant Programme for SOTTO Bihar in 2019. The funds reached in December and the SOTTO could spend only a fraction, about ₹3 lakh as staff salary, before the funds lapsed on March 31, 2020. The SOTTO spent another ₹79 lakh against infrastructure development and salary after revalidation of funds for 2020-21. Almost five months into the next fiscal, it now awaits the Centre’s nod for funds. Efforts to reach Dr Anil Kumar, additional deputy director-general, DGHS, proved futile, as he did not respond to calls and text messages on his cellphone. Hindustan Times also sent him an e-mail on Tuesday and was awaiting his response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-organ-and-tissue-transplant-body-alleges-state-govt-s-neglect-towards-its-functioning-101629201756185.html
17-08-2021||Other||Tripura Police to seek remand of 10 arrested for lynching man last week||Tripura police would be seeking remand of the 10 people arrested for the alleged lynching of a 40-year-old man last week. The incident occurred on August 13 at Manu Valley of Unakoti district over 100 kilometres away from Agartala. Police said the locals suspected that two people fell ill because of the black magic practised by the deceased, Bhuru Orang. Following this, a group of people allegedly attacked Orang, killing him nearly four kilometres from his residence at Samrucherra village. Also Read | If CPM can’t protest against BJP, then let workers join TMC: Bratya Basu in TripuraOn his wife’s complaint, police registered a case under Section 120 (B) ( criminal conspiracy), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 302 (murder), 201(causing disappearance of evidence), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and 7 (offence of lynching) /8 (conspiracy or abetment to lynch) of Protection from the Lynching Act, 2017.“ We arrested 10 persons on the day of the incident. They were in judicial custody. We will take them to court seeking police remand,” said Kailasahar sub divisional police officer Chandan Saha. This report will be updated once the court order is out.Similar incidents were reported from two separate places of Khowai district in June this year where three persons, suspected to be cattle smugglers, were allegedly lynched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-police-to-seek-remand-of-10-arrested-for-lynching-man-last-week-101629201454316.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh Police transfers: 8 SPs among 21 IPS officers shifted||In a major reshuffle, the Himachal Pradesh government on Tuesday transferred 21 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, including eight superintendents of police (SPs), and three state police service (HPPS) officers besides giving posting to five probationer IPS officers. Vimukt Ranjan, the superintendent of police, Kangra, the biggest district in terms of population, has been posted as the commandant, 1st Indian Reserve Battalion, Bangarh in Una district. Ranjan will be replaced by Khushal Chand Sharma, the Sirmaur SP at present. Also read: Taliban takeover: Afghan students in Himachal seek visa extensionShimla SP Mohit Chawla has been transferred as the SP, Baddi, in Solan district, while Virender Singh Tomar, who was awaiting posting will be joining as commandant, 5th Indian Reserve Battalion, Bassi in Bilaspur district. Monika Bhutunguru, who is posted as assistant inspector general of police (AIGP) police headquarters (PHQ), Shimla, will be the new Shimla SP. Ranjana Chauhan, SP (leave reserve), police headquarters, Shimla will be the SP, Lokayukta, Shimla, while commandant, HP Armed Police, Junga, Anjum Ara has been posted as SP, State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau, (SV-ACB), southern range, Shimla. SP, special investigation unit (SIU) of SV-ACB, Shimla, Omapati Jamwal has been transferred as the SP, Sirmaur, while Baddi SP Rohit Malpani will be the SP (cyber crime), CID, Shimla. Bilaspur SP Diwakar Sharma has shifted as the SP at Police Training College (PTC), Daroh, in place of Ramesh Chander Chhajta, whose posting orders will be issued separately. Gaurav Singh, who was involved in the Kullu slapgate incident and was awaiting posting, will be the SP (economic offences wing), CID, Shimla, and Sakshi Verma, at present commandant, 4th Indian Reserve Battalion, Jangalberi in Hamirpur, will be the AIGP, PHQ, Shimla. Hamirpur SP Karthikeyan Gokulachandran has been transferred as SP SIU (SV-ACB), Shimla, and Solan SP Abhishek Yadav as commandant, HP Armed Police, Junga. Commandant, 1st Indian Reserve Battalion, Bangarh, Akriti will be the Hamirpur SP and Ashok Rattan, at present posted as sub divisional police officer, Nurpur, will be the new Kinnaur SP, replacing incumbent SR Rana, who goes as the Bilaspur SP. Virender Sharma, SP, SV-ACB, southern range, Shimla, has been shifted as the Solan SP and Padam Chand, who is as AIGP tourism, traffic and railways (TTR), Shimla, has been transferred as SP (crime), CID, Shimla. Shristi Pandey, SDPO, Amb, has been shifted as ASP, Kangra, and Vivek Kumar, the SDPO at Nalagarh goes as the Mandi ASP. Probationer Charu Sharma has been posted as SDPO Rajgarh in Sirmaur, Ilma Afroz as SDPO, Amb, Mayank Chaudhar as SDPO, Salooni, Abhishek as SDPO, Nurpur, and Amit Yadav as SDPO, Nalagarh. HPPS officer Sandeep Kumar Dhawal, at present SP (cyber crime), CID, Shimla, goes as AIGP (TTR), Shimla, while Rajgarh SDPO Bhisham Thakur will be the DSP (leave reserve) at PHQ, Shimla. Salooni SDPO Sher Singh has been shifted as DSP, 4th Indian Reserve Battalion, Jangalberi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-pradesh-police-transfers-8-sps-among-21-ips-officers-shifted-101629200074194.html
17-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Police arrest man making obscene videos of tourists||Jaipur police caught a voyeur red-handed while filming women in short dresses at Amber fort on Sunday and found over 200 such video clips on his phone. 34-year-old Suresh Kumar Yadav, a resident of Shrimadhopur town of Sikar district, said he was doing this for nearly two and a half months. “The accused used to sit next to his victims and pretend to tie his shoelaces while filming girls on his mobile phone, without letting them know,” additional commissioner of Jaipur police, Rahul Prakash, said.He was caught after a female cop in plain clothes checked his mobile phone after finding his activities suspicious. Prakash said police constable Premlata of state police’s Nirbhaya Squad (an all women unit) was especially deployed at the spot to keep an eye on anti-social elements. “Over 200 objectionable video clips were found in his phone and it was found that many of these were shot in tourist spots, temples, World Trade Park, etc. The accused confessed that he often used to travel to Jaipur to record such videos,” the police officer said. The accused told police that he was making such videos for the last two and a half months ever since his Mount Abu visit, where he was influenced by a group engaged in filming obscene videos. Police said they are now trying to identify and nab the people he met in Mount Abu. A case has been registered under Section 354 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 66 of the IT Act. The police are also probing if the accused was uploading or selling these videos, said Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-police-arrest-a-man-making-obscene-videos-of-tourists-101629199414926.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Old soldiers ride into the sunset like a ‘sheh sawar’||“Girtey hain sheh sawar hi maidaney jung mein, woh tifl kya girey, jo ghutno ke bal chaley (It’s only the brave horseman who can fall in the battlefield, not the child who crawls).” That was the opening line of our equitation officer, Major Prithi Singh, as he addressed the morning parade of the cadets at the National Defence Academy (NDA). That was a pretty apt proverb to use, because every day several cadets bit the dust as they were thrown off their steeds. This is pretty true in most walks of life. If you don’t venture, then you will neither fail nor succeed. However, it is most applicable to the military way of life where you must not falter when the day of reckoning arrives. Over the three years of training in the NDA and one year after that in the respective training institutions of the three services, this aspect is inculcated in the young minds of the cadets by various means. You read about the mighty brave men by reading military history. You also get to meet some of the war-decorated officers who are posted in these training institutions. All this has a positive effect on the young cadets. The real deal starts after you are commissioned as officers in your respective service. It is a highly competitive profession. An officer has to attend a number of training courses and it is essential that you get a good grading to add some shine to your profile. Promotion to the rank of colonel and above, are based on a selection process. In a pyramid rank structure, just about 10% of a batch goes up to the rank of major general. Compare this with the IAS/ IPS, where almost everyone makes it to the rank of joint secretary or inspector general, which is equivalent to a major general. This may sound grim but actually it is not. Life in the armed forces is one full of excitement as you move across the country every three years. Opportunity for adventure is immense. You can be a flyer, paratrooper, commando, mountaineer, diver and even an astronaut! Name the sport and the facility is available. Even in a place like Leh, you will find a golf course of sorts. It’s the best environment to nourish your progeny and give them a well-rounded personality. As and when one gets passed over for promotion, one is mentally trained to accept it and move on. A few call it quits to start a successful second career in the civvy street, but a majority stick it out till retirement. The important point is that you must remain a ‘sheh sawar’ through the thick and thin of life. The best that a soldier gets from all this is the great feeling of comradeship. Fauji friendships are lifelong even if you don’t meet each other. There can never be this kind of a relationship in the civil services because their structure is very different. Finally, the day comes when we have to say a farewell to arms. For most, it is a sad moment but there is also the feeling of a life well lived. You become a member of multiple WhatsApp groups of the forces and share your thoughts as also banter around a bit. There are course and regimental get-togethers on a regular basis. But like for everyone, life has to end one day. They say old soldiers never die, they just fade away. I would like it to be different. I would like the old soldier to ride into the sunset like a ‘sheh sawar’. Sit firmly in the saddle, chest out, shoulders back, head high, chin in, knees into the flanks, toes up, heels down, elbows tucked in, and hands together held low over the front arch of the saddle. Now give aid to your steed and walk slowly into the sunset. I think that in the heavens above, Major Prithi Singh would be pleased to see one of his ‘sheh sawars’ ride into the sunset. bullysangha@gmail.com The writer is a Gurugram-based Vir Chakra awardee||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/old-soldiers-ride-into-the-sunset-like-a-sheh-sawar-101629198274027.html
17-08-2021||Jaipur||4 charred to death in fire after massive collision in Rajasthan’s Ajmer||Four people were charred to death after two trucks involved in a collision on Ajmer-Beawar national highway on Tuesday morning caught fire, police said.The accident took place under Adarsh Nagar police station area of Rajasthan’s Ajmer district when a truck rammed into another coming from opposite direction after jumping over the divider. Both the trucks caught fire after the crash and drivers and cleaners of both the trucks were charred to death since they were stuck inside the mangled trucks, police said. However, one minor, who was travelling in one of the trucks, escaped with minor injuries.Adarsh Nagar police station sub inspector Kanhaiya Lal said one of the trucks was heading to Beawar from Jaipur, and the second truck was on way to Jaipur from Beawar. He said the first truck lost control and jumped the divider before ramming into the second one, leading to fuel spillage, which is likely to have triggered a fire.It took two hours for fire tenders to douse the fire and the police had to divert traffic to the other side of the highway till the accident site was cleared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/4-charred-to-death-in-fire-after-massive-collision-in-rajasthan-s-ajmer-101629197614025.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||No signs of short circuit in water cooler: Delhi Police counters claims by rape accused||Delhi Police officials familiar with the investigation into the rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl at a crematorium in Nangal area told news agency ANI that contrary to what the suspects told the victim’s parents, there was no sign of a short circuit in the water cooler. The official said that all the four accused would be charge-sheeted by the end of August."No sign of a short circuit in the water cooler. All the four accused will be charge-sheeted by the end of this month," ANI said quoting the person familiar with the police investigation.The four accused—Kuldeep Singh, Laxmi Narayan, Radhey Shyam and Salim Ahmad — all of whom worked at the crematorium in Purani Nangal village, near Delhi Cantonment, told the parents the nine-year-old that she died of electrocution when she was fetching water from an electric water cooler installed on the premises on August 1. The four also forcibly cremated the child and allegedly threatened her parents from going to the police.The four men were arrested after the victim’s parents alleged rape before she was killed. Police booked the four on charges of murder, rape and criminal intimidation, in a case registered under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 302, 376 and 506, in addition to relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and the SC/ST Act.The mother of the victim had asked her to fetch water from the cooler on the premises of the crematorium, as she often did. The victim’s family, who belong to the impoverished Valmiki community, were acquainted with the accused and they did not suspect any trouble.When the victim didn’t return home for about half-an-hour, her mother went to the crematorium where one of the accused, Radhe Shyam, told her that her daughter died of electrocution from touching the water cooler. “I saw my daughter lying still on a bench. Her hands and feet were stretched out. Her eyes were closed, her lips were blackish, her nose was bleeding and water was oozing out of her mouth. But there was no mud or dirt on her clothes,” the mother told Hindustan Times.The victim’s parents moved the Delhi high court and sought a court monitored special investigation team to probe into their child’s death. They also alleged delay in the filing of the FIR and sought a judicial enquiry into administrative lapses.Taking cognisance of the plea, the high court asked the Delhi Police crime branch to file a status report and listed the matter for further hearing on November 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-signs-of-short-circuit-in-water-cooler-delhi-police-counters-claims-by-rape-accused-101629191499235.html
17-08-2021||Other||UP Police arrest Chennai resident over comments on Covid-19 management||The Uttar Pradesh Police have arrested Chennai resident Manmohan Mishra in connection with a case filed against him for some “objectionable comments” against Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Until they (Uttar Pradesh Police) informed us, we did not know anything about him (Mishra) and neither are we collecting details because all due procedures have been followed for his arrest and transit in this case,” said a police officer in Chennai, who did not want to be named. “No one has filed a complaint against his arrest and his family has not approached us either. He has made some objectionable comments against the Prime Minister and recently in the context of Covid-19.”Mishra has been booked under five sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 505 (public mischief), and the Epidemic Diseases Act, according to the First Information Report (FIR) filed in the case. HT has seen a copy of the FIR.“The police came (last week) saying they needed to ask him some questions at the station and that they would send him back in two hours. We did not imagine that it would escalate like this,” said a relative of Mishra, who did not wish to be named.Also Read | India records lowest daily Covid-19 cases in 154 days; Delta variant continues to worryMishra, 62, is from Uttar Pradesh but has been living with his family in Chennai for over three decades. He has been posting videos in Hindi on YouTube, which are critical of Modi as well as chief minister Yogi Adityanath. In a recent video that led to his arrest, he asked Modi to resign over severe oxygen shortage during the second Covid-19 wave and warned of a similar scenario anticipating the third wave.The relative cited above said Mishra, who wears saffron clothes and spots a tilak in his videos, is not politically inclined to anyone and he has no influence or backing as some have been saying. “His only intention was to relay his opinions to the public,” the relative said. “He speaks online just like he speaks at home. Sometimes we would interrupt him while recording a video... he has hypertension and would get so angry while raising these issues.”Mishra’s family said he started with Facebook lives before shifting to YouTube. “All his videos have also been posted by YouTube channel, Loktantra TV with 1.1 million subscribers,” the relative said.The relative said they tried to convince him to stop posting videos when he began receiving nasty comments and threats. “If everyone keeps quiet minding their own business, what will happen to this country?” the relative quoted Mishra as saying.His family called Mishra’s arrest abuse of power. “He is just a man who is angry about some of the issues in the country and he wants to speak about it publicly. Is not it his right to question an elected government?” the relative asked.The Uttar Pradesh Police said Mishra was arrested on Friday last after a complaint was filed against him in Jaunpur. Mishra’s son and son-in-law are in Uttar Pradesh trying to get him out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uppolice-arrest-chennai-resident-over-comments-on-covid-19-management-101629195394124.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Taliban takeover: Afghan students in Himachal seek visa extension||The chaos and uncertainty in Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover has left Afghan students in Himachal Pradesh a worried lot as most of them are not able to speak to their families back home and are seeking extension of their visas to prolong their stay in India till stability returns.Also read: AI to operate flights till Kabul airport remains functional: Indian envoyThere are nearly 125 such students studying on scholarship at Shimla-based Himachal Pradesh University, which happens to be the alma mater of former Afghan president Hamid Karzai. Keeping a close watch “It’s a critical situation there. Things changed so swiftly. Even the Taliban must not have anticipated this,” said Wahid Zaheer, a student of mass communication. “The Taliban may have taken over, but they are not fully in command to handle the chaos. So far, they have taken over peacefully, but we are keeping a close watch on the situation,” said Zaheer, who has been calling up his family every hour since the Kabul takeover. Situation changing swiftly Misabahuddin Yousufzai, a student of political science, said, “It’s not about Afghanistan alone, but the entire world is affected. Hopefully, the Taliban sticks to what it announced on forming a welfare government. I’m worried about my family. Things are changing so swiftly. We went to bed when one government was in power and woke up to another ruler in the chair,” he said. Yousufzai said it was not clear if the India will recognise the new regime in his country. “The government should extend the visa of students otherwise we are heading for a bigger problem,” he said. A majority of Afghan students opt to study political science at HPU. Even Karzai did post-graduation in political science from HPU in 1983. He last visited Shimla in 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/taliban-takeover-afghan-students-in-himachal-seek-visa-extension-101629195033692.html
17-08-2021||Dehradun||Mother-daughter duo murdered near their house in Uttarakhand’s Jaspur||A mother and her daughter were murdered near their house in Jaspur area of Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district by unidentified assailants on Tuesday morning using sharp-edged weapons, police said.“Some family dispute is said to be behind the incident and it is a matter of investigation. Police are waiting for a complaint to be registered in the matter,” said Pramod Kumar, additional superintendent of police, Kashipur, US Nagar.Kumar said they rushed to the spot after learning that two bodies were lying on Badiyowala road at Bhogpur village, 6 km from Jaspur police station. They were later identified as Jeet Kaur, 70 and Parmjeet Kaur, 35 of Bhogpur village. According to police, they were attacked by sharp-edged weapons by three men. Paramjeet’s eight-year-old daughter, who was also accompanying them, ran back to her house and informed family members about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/motherdaughter-duo-murdered-near-their-house-in-uttarakhand-s-jaspur-101629194673857.html
17-08-2021||Patna||5 dozen villages in Bhagalpur flooded as Ganga sets new flood level mark||Dozens of villages in Naugachia town of Bhagalpur got flooded on Tuesday after the swollen Ganga, which set a new highest flood level (HFL) there, breached a ring bund between Ismailpur and Bind Toli.Local officials of the water resources department (WRD) said that over five dozen villages of two blocks, Ismailpur and Kharik, were submerged with floodwaters flattening kuchha houses and standing crops following the breach in the ring embankment. Around 250-feet of the bund has been washed away in strong currents of the river Ganga.The river, which has been at its highest level at Hathidah in Mokama of Patna district for the past one week, crossed the highest flood level of 34.72m, registered in 2016, at Bhagalpur and was flowing 3cm above the HFL at 3pm on Monday and was on a rising trend. Ganga waters were at a new HFL of 43.54m at Hathidah.In Patna, the river was flowing at 50.34m against the highest flood level of 50.52m registered in 2016 at Gandhi Ghat and 51.68m at Digha against the 1975 HFL of 52.52m. Other tributaries of Ganga like Sone, Gandak, Kosi, Bagmati, Ghaghra and Burhi Gandak were also reported to be flowing above the danger levels at different stretches of their course.Meanwhile, four persons, including a woman and three children, drowned and two others went missing after a boat carrying them capsized in river Gandak near Kuchaikot of Gopalganj.Enraged by absence of relief, hundreds of villagers, who have been sheltered on an embankment in Khagaria following the flooding from Kosi, blocked vehicular traffic on the nearby national highway 31 for many hours and shouted slogans against the district authorities. Villagers alleged that they were denied relief materials and animal fodder for the last one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/5-dozen-villages-in-bhagalpur-flooded-as-ganga-sets-new-flood-level-mark-101629189512976.html
17-08-2021||Patna||Bihar govt to work on action plan to deal with climate crisis||The Bihar government is gearing up to prepare a comprehensive action plan to mitigate the impact of the climate crisis on different sectors.Bihar’s environment, forest and climate change department has decided to prepare a new action plan to deal with the climate crisis after its previous plan, prepared in 2014, was rejected by the Central government, citing the absence of a strategy to curb carbon emissions.According to environment experts, floods are the major manifestation of climate change in Bihar, making it suffer an annual loss of hundreds of crores of rupees. Bihar incurred a loss of nearly ₹500 crore, besides heavy casualties, due to floods in 2019. The Central government has already identified as many as 14 districts vulnerable to extreme weather conditions.Also Read | Woman in Bihar’s Gopalganj brings mushroom cultivation homeChief conservator of forests (CCF) and nodal officer of climate change AK Dwivedi said that the department would start drafting a comprehensive action plan to fight the climate crisis once the United National Environment Programme (UNEP), a voluntary organisation, submitted an action plan to reduce carbon emissions by 2040. The Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) signed an agreement with UNEP to frame a strategy to develop a low carbon emission pathway in February this year.Dwivedi said that the UNEP is supposed to study the impact of the climate crisis on sectors such as education, floods, health, ground water, etc. “Besides, the department will also survey various sectors on its own so that a comprehensive action plan can be prepared this time,” he added.The water resources department (WRD), which is currently grappling with minimising the devastation due to floods, is also working on plans to interlink rivers so that excessive water from swollen rivers can be diverted to less flooded rivers. Around 20 districts out of 38 are facing floods right now. The department has already undertaken an intensive plantation drive and revival of water bodies so that the groundwater depletion can be checked effectively.Officials of the environment and climate change department said that the state will receive monetary help from the Central government to work on mitigation strategies if its action plan is approved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-to-work-on-action-plan-to-deal-with-climate-crisis-101629187292657.html
17-08-2021||Other||PIL in Gauhati HC against Nagaland govt for not appointing HIV, AIDS ombudsman||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Kohima bench of Gauhati high court against the Nagaland government for failing to appoint an ombudsman mandated by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (Prevention and Control) Act 2017 and the Nagaland HIV and AIDS (Ombudsman and Legal Proceeding) Rule 2019.The PIL was filed on Tuesday by Network of Nagaland Drugs and AIDS Organizations (NNagaDAO) and Network of Naga People Living with HIV and AIDS (NNP+) with support from Nagaland Human Rights Law Network.Also Read | Nagaland set for all-party government to push peace process forward“The statutory mandate is to appoint Ombudsman within one hundred and eighty days after the commencement of the Act, however this has not been complied with by the respondents as even after the lapse of 2 years and 10 months, the state of Nagaland do not have even a single ombudsman appointed. Hence, the respondents had not only violated the statutory mandates but also denied the protected persons their rights to seek protection and redress their grievances through the mechanism which has been designed to suit their needs,” the petition said.NNagaDAO president Abou Mere and NNP+ president Lanu Aier said their organisations have made several written appeals to concerned departments for an HIV and AIDS ombudsman in the state, while 53 NGOs have served a representation to state governor to direct his government to do the needful at the earliest, but to no avail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pilin-gauhati-hc-against-nagaland-govt-for-not-appointing-hiv-aids-ombudsman-101629186692911.html
17-08-2021||Jaipur||Excessive rain in eastern Rajasthan, deficit in western||While parts of eastern Rajasthan faced floods at the end of July and the first week of August, all of western Rajasthan is staring at a drought situation, with rain deficiency up to 40% in certain districts.Officials said the lack of enough rain this monsoon has badly affected Kharif crops and said would impact Rabi crops, if the deficit is not made up in the remainder of the monsoon. India Meteorological Department (IMD), Rajasthan, director Radhey Shyam Sharma said the amount of rainfall will increase around August 20 in eastern Rajasthan, and western Rajasthan will continue to witness light rain. “There was less rainfall this monsoon due to the 20-day break monsoon conditions in June. The monsoon has taken a break again,” he said. Sharma said the uneven distribution of rains is a usual phenomenon and happens every year. “Rainfall in some districts in western Rajasthan is likely to remain below normal because no significant rainfall is expected there now,” he said. Also Read | 4 killed in road accident in Hanumangarh district of RajasthanHowever, the amount of rainfall could increase after a couple of days with the possibility of light to moderate rain in the eastern parts of the state with the possibility of heavy rain at isolated areas, he said. He did not rule out another flood-like situation in eastern Rajasthan, where another round of good rainfall is expected. Kisan mahapanchayat president Rampal Jat expressed concern over the weak monsoon, especially in western Rajasthan. He said districts such as Banswara and Dungarpur generally receive excessive rain, but this time the less rainfall is a surprise.“The crops are totally dependent on good monsoon. Already, the Kharif crops (jwar, corn, maize, millet, soybean, pulses) were weak as sowing was affected by the delay in the onset of monsoon. Now, Rabi crops (wheat, gram and millet), which, too, are dependent on rains will get adversely impacted,” he said.The total land under agriculture in Rajasthan is around 18.2 million hectares. The government had set the sowing target of 16.38 million hectares, of which 13.86 million hectares (85%) is achieved. Around 7.5 million hectares of land is part of western Rajasthan, where some districts have received deficient rainfall.Jat said only 20% of the agricultural land in the state is irrigated by canals, the remaining land is dependent on groundwater for irrigation, the level of which is low because of the lack of rain.According to the state water resources department, of the 727 dams in Rajasthan, 118 are completely filled, 308 are partially filled and 279 are empty. The department also said that 11 of the 33 districts in the state faced a deficit in rainfall, 14 saw normal rainfall and four districts received excessive rain from June 1 to August 16. Four districts recorded abnormal rain in the same period. Kota division, which saw floods, recorded abnormal rains with 71.7% more rain than the average for past 10 years. The Bharatpur division recorded excess rain while the Jodhpur division is under the deficit rainfall category. Bikaner, Ajmer and Jaipur are under the normal category. Districts with deficit rain (-20% to -59%) are Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Dungarpur, Ganganagar, Jalore, Jodhpur, Pali, Rajsamand, Sirohi and Udaipur; while Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dholpur, Hanumangarh, Jaipur, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pratapgarh and Sikar recorded normal rain (19% to -19%). Districts such as Jaisalmer, Jhalawar, Karauli and Tonk are under the excess rainfall (20% to 59%) category whereas Baran, Bundi, Kota and Sawai Madhopur recorded abnormal rain (60% or more). A senior official of the agriculture department said the assessment of Rabi crops could be made once the rain resumes, till now the monsoon was useful for the Kharif crops. “The sowing for Kharif crops was affected because of poor monsoon in Jodhpur, Bikaner, and Jalore divisions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/excessive-rain-in-eastern-rajasthan-deficit-in-western-101629186452767.html
17-08-2021||Other||Jalandhar court dismisses bail plea of Bank of Baroda loan fraud accused||The Jalandhar district and sessions court has dismissed the bail plea of prime accused Vikram Seth in the 2015 Bank of Baroda loan fraud case. District and sessions judge Rupinderjit Chahal said on Monday that the allegations against the accused-applicant are serious in nature, so he is not entitled to bail. Also read: Kinnaur landslide: 3 more bodies located, toll mounts to 28Enforcement directorate (ED) special public prosecutor APS Pathania argued that there is every possibility that Seth will try to transfer the properties and divert the proceeds of crime to frustrate efforts to confiscate them. He said the accused was trying to win over witnesses and if released at this stage, it could hamper investigation. On July 26, the ED arrested Seth from Phagwara in the multi-crore fraud case registered in Chandigarh. The district and sessions court, Jalandhar, sent him to four-day ED custody on August 2. The case is being investigated by ED assistant director Jagwinderpal Singh. Web of transactions The ED took over the probe after the CBI registered an FIR against Seth and his family members under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) at its zonal office in Jalandhar. The ED said the CBI found that Seth, in connivance with other accused and officials of Bank of Baroda, fraudulently got 19 loans amounting to ₹21.31 crore sanctioned and the money was routed through accounts of associated firms in a web of transactions. “Investigation as revealed that Seth invested the loan amount in acquiring immovable assets in the name of his family members, including wife, son, brother and brother’s wife,” the ED said. In May 2020, the ED attached 42 immovable and seven movable properties worth ₹18.5 crore belonging to Seth and his family members in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jalandhar-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-bank-of-baroda-loan-fraud-accused-101629185313817.html
17-08-2021||Other||Kinnaur landslide: 3 more bodies located, toll mounts to 28||The toll from the landslide in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district rose to 28 as rescuers located three more bodies from the rubble on the seventh day of the search and rescue operation on Tuesday, officials said.“Three more bodies have been traced in the rubble and it would take three to four hours to retrieve them,” said Kinnaur deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq.State Disaster Management Authority director Sudesh Mokta said rescuers were unable to trace one of the vehicles, a car, which went missing after the landslide. The number of passengers in it also remains unknown.Army, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, and National Disaster Response Force as well as sniffer dogs have been involved in the rescue work.Rescuers have had a tough time because of shooting stones that have hampered rescue efforts.A three-member team of experts from the Geological Survey of India visited the landslide site on Sunday to survey the hilltop and suggested ways to deal with the challenge.A Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus on its way from Kinnaur to Haridwar was among the vehicles buried under the landslide on August 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kinnaur-landslide-3-more-bodies-located-toll-mounts-to-28-101629184352687.html
17-08-2021||Patna||Orchestra owner and bouncer among 3 arrested for jawan’s murder in Bihar||With the arrest of three persons, Bihar Police claimed to have solved the case of murder of a Bihar Special Armed Police (BSAP) jawan, who was stabbed to death near Thave Temple in Gopalganj on August 11. On Tuesday, all three accused were sent to 14-days in judicial custody. Police recovered a knife used in the crime, the deceased jawan’s shoes and two mobile phones from Mohammad Fahim alias Raza, a resident of Siliguri in West Bengal, Amit Kumar Yadav and Chhotu Pandey alias Vikash Upadhyay, residents of Rasoolpur in Saran district. Police said Chhotu Pandey owned a local music band named Royal Orchestra and Raza was a bouncer working for him. The third, Amit, was their friend and an active member of Yaduvansi Sena (a political group of Yadav community). 38 year old Arjun Dayal alias Arjun Thapa, a native of Chitwan in Nepal, was found murdered near Gopalganj’s famous Thawe temple, where he was deployed. He served in the elite Gorkha Vahini’s 1st battalion of the erstwhile Bihar Military Police (BMP), now known as BSAP. This battalion is deployed only on special duty like security of the CM, governor and chief justice and anti-Maoist operations. A company of the battalion has been deployed in Gopalganj since March this year. A special investigation team (SIT) constituted led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Naresh Paswan first caught Raza, who told police that he had stabbed Dayal with a knife and also revealed names of two of his associates involved in the crime.Gopalganj police chief Annad Kumar told HT that Raza has a criminal record in West Bengal and he killed Dayal due to personal enmity over a money dispute. Raza got into an argument with Dayal, who had come to listen to the orchestra after finishing his duty, at around midnight on August 11 and stabbed him to death with help from his associates. Later, all three tried to bury his body to destroy the evidence, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/orchestra-owner-and-bouncer-among-3-arrested-for-jawan-s-murder-in-bihar-101629182432386.html
17-08-2021||Patna||Separate cadre for school heads in Bihar through competition to improve quality||Bihar government will create separate cadres for head teachers in primary schools and headmasters in higher secondary schools who will have to qualify through a competitive examination, possibly resulting in an improvement in the quality of education in schools, chief minister Nitish Kumar said in his Independence Day speech in Patna on Sunday.Implementing the new process will require amending the regulations for school teachers that were announced just ahead of the assembly elections last year and provided for appointment of headmasters and head teachers through promotion of teachers fulfilling the required qualifications.Principal secretary of the department of education Sanjay Kumar said it was a major policy decision.“The guidelines for the appointment of headmasters will be framed first and later we will change the regulations announced last year. Last year’s regulations were for teachers appointed through panchayati raj institutions since 2006, while the cadre of headmasters and head teachers will now be of the state level. All teachers could participate in the competition, subject to qualification. The details will be published soon,” he added.At present, a large number of schools are without headmasters and the matter has been raised in the Bihar legislature time and again.The principal secretary said that the cadre of headmasters for secondary schools will be at the divisional level, while that for head teachers for primary schools will be at the district level. “For high schools, those with requisite qualification could participate in the competition even from outside the government school system. Those working with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) or Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CICSE) schools could also participate. The basic objective is to bring in quality people for quality leadership in schools so that the system improves,” he added.The move is in keeping with the Union ministry of Human Resource development’s suggestion last year to the states to consider filling 50% posts of headmasters in primary and upper primary schools through direct recruitment.The lack of quality education in government schools has often caused a lot of embarrassment despite growing enrolment, incentives and expenditure and even drawn flak from the Patna High Court.With the new move, the government, said a senior official, will provide a platform to meritorious teachers to excel and join the government cadre. The school teachers appointed in the last 15 years have been demanding old prescribed pay-scale and they also fought a long legal battle with the government, but lost.“Now, the government wants to give opportunity to the deserving ones through an open competition, which would require them to compete with the best, even from outside the government system. The modalities are being worked out and it could soon be placed before the cabinet,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/separate-cadre-for-school-heads-in-bihar-through-competition-to-improve-quality-101629179492066.html
17-08-2021||Kolkata||Forced to live in isolation, white-bellied heron inches closer to extinction||Loss of habitat is forcing the white-bellied heron to lead an isolated lifestyle deep inside forests, which in turn is pushing this critically endangered bird more towards extinction, scientists have found in a new study. It is estimated that less than 10 of these water birds are presently living in Arunachal Pradesh, which is its only habitat in India, while around there could be 70 – 400 in the world. The population is critically endangered, meaning that it is just one step away from going extinct. “Due to loss of habitat, primarily wetlands, this bird seems to have changed its lifestyle over years. Unlike most other water birds, which are usually group foragers, the white-bellied heron has been living in remote jungles without much interaction with other water birds. This is pushing it further towards extinction. It is like a viscous trap,” said G Maheshwaran, a scientist from the Zoological Survey of India who led the study. Also Read | Rare orchid species found in India for the first timeThe isolation prevented these birds from gaining experience from fellow foragers about new sites and food sources which could have enhanced their survival. “Earlier studies have shown that water birds, which are mostly colonial foragers, enhance their survival skills by sharing experiences and information about food and suitable habitats. But as these herons lost their original habitats and got isolated inside undisturbed forests inside the Namdhapa Tiger Reserve, they depended on fishes found in fast flowing streams and rivers, which hardly support any water bird community. With no interaction with other foraging birds, they failed to gather experience about new habitats and food sources and are now facing extinction threat,” said Himadri Sekhar Mondol, an expert with the Bombay Natural History Society, who was also a part of the study team. The scientists said that this is the first such study on the white–bellied heron to find out the reasons behind its depleting population. The findings have been published in the peer-reviewed journal Ecological Informatics published by Elsevier. Scientists of the ZSI in Kolkata and BNHS unless efforts are made to conserve the population in northeast India, the birds may move to Myanmar and Bhutan. “There is a need to enhance protection measures in the existing protected areas where the birds are found. More extensive Environment Impact Assessments should be undertaken before large scale developmental activities, including constructing a dam, are given permission in the area. Models have projected that the birds may also prefer riverine habitats along the Kamlang and Lohit rivers. If human activities like mining, garbage dumping and dams impact these ecosystems then it may threaten long term viability of the species,” said Lalit Sharma, a wildlife ecologist with the ZSI specialising in geospatial modelling. Experts said that just like the great Indian bustard has a species recovery plan prepared by the centre for its conservation, such plans should also be made for the white-bellied heron. “It is very shy and critically endangered. We do not have a proper survey for these birds in the river basin where they are found in Arunachal Pradesh and there are no detailed studies as they are rarely spotted. If proper conservation measures are not adopted, they might go extinct. We have such long-term dedicated monitoring programs such as the GIB. Ecologically and evolutionarily, they have adapted to such ecosystems along fast flowing rivers in deep forests. If the river’s flow is disrupted it may take an effect of the toll on the bird’s population,” said GV Gopi, a senior scientist at WII working on water birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/forced-to-live-in-isolation-white-bellied-heron-inches-closer-to-extinction-101629172651159.html
17-08-2021||Patna||Woman in Bihar’s Gopalganj brings mushroom cultivation home||A woman in Bihar’s Gopalganj has taken to mushroom farming, and inspired the women of the region to follow suit. Fifty-year-old Rekha Kumari cultivates three variants of mushroom in her farmhouse, and trains other women as well.“We have information that Rekha Kumari has trained more than 500 people, mainly women. Inspired by her, at least 50 people have engaged in mushroom cultivation,” said Ved Narayan Singh, district agriculture officer (DAO), Gopalganj. A resident of Hathuwa in Gopalganj district, Kumari started with just ₹1,000 in 2013 and cultivates Button, Oyster and Milky mushrooms in six rooms (about 1,500 square feet), learning nuances from Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University Pusa at Samastipur. Today, she says she earns between ₹3-4 lakh. “There was a slump in the earning during the first two phases of the pandemic but it has not slipped below the five figure yet,” said Kumari from Samastipur where she is undergoing further training for seed generation. She is also focusing on Hericium, Shiitake and Paddy Straw, three other species of mushroom, besides producing seed. “The cultivation mushroom requires a lot of adjustment, judgement, calculation and monitoring of a moisture level, cross-ventilation, and screening the produce from light for good result. It is all about discipline and it does not involve strenuous work,” Kumari said, a graduate in economics from JP university, Chhapra.Over the year, Kumari has learnt to make samosa, pickles, biscuits, namkeen , Gulab Jamun and laddoo with mushrooms to stretch the shelf life of her produce and has employed six women as well.A mother of two daughters and a son, Kumari’s husband Avinash Prasad encouraged her to engage in mushroom cultivation after their children were grown up. Meanwhile, many women have trained under Kumari. Md. Neyaz Ahmad, assistant director, horticulture, Gopalganj said, “We are encouraging her to register her firm and impart formal training.”Chanda Devi, a resident of Haziyapur, who has trained with Kumari, said, “After picking up the basic tips, we have started cultivation in January this year.” Officials put the total number of farmers engaged in mushroom cultivation between 80 and 90 in Gopalganj district alone. “The total production of Oyster mushroom alone is around 320 quintal per annum,” said Md. Neyaz Ahmad, assistant director horticulture. Gopalganj district magistrate Dr Naval Kishor Choudhary said, “In our bid to promote such cultivation by farmers, we are doing everything to ensure assistance to Rekha Kumari, which includes a tie-up with bank and linkage with NABARD. These apart, we are assisting her to develop a project to facilitate her production on commercial scale,” said the district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/woman-in-bihar-s-gopalganj-brings-mushroom-cultivation-home-101629171150975.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: IMD predicts cloudy sky today||Delhi is likely to witness a cloudy sky on Tuesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The weather office has predicted revival of rainfall from August 19 onwards. Monsoon entered a break phase in Delhi on August 9, and the city has not received any rainfall since. Delhi last received rain on August 8.The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 26 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 38°C. The minimum temperature on Monday was 27.3°C and the maximum temperature was 37.4°C.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 134. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 121 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “With continued dry condition with no rain, and moderate ventilation, dust from western part of India and re-suspension of dust from unpaved road is causing Delhi’s AQI is in the moderate category with PM10 as main pollutant. With persistence of similar condition, AQI will remain in moderate category for next 2 days and after that with a shift in direction of incoming air AQI may improve.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-imd-predicts-cloudy-sky-today-101629168990902.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||UP assembly monsoon session to start from today, key bills to be tabled||The monsoon session of the Uttar Pradesh assembly will begin on Tuesday and according to the state government, this will be the second session of the legislative assembly and legislative council this year. The previous session of the legislature was held from February 18 to March 4.The decision to hold the monsoon session from August 17 was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Amid the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, both Houses of the legislature will have to adhere to virus-related norms during the session.Several important bills and ordinances are expected to be tabled and passed by the legislature. However, this time, the state government might also present the first supplementary demand for grants in the session as CM Adityanath announced important schemes in the past few months, Hindustan Times reported on August 2.Some of the above schemes included those approved for upbringing children who lost their parents due to Covid-19 and for women who lost their spouses to the viral disease.Also Read| UP legislature’s monsoon session: Opposition wants more sittings to discuss key issuesRecently, the cabinet approved draft bills for setting up two separate pilgrimage development boards for conserving cultural heritage along with approving the draft of the Uttar Pradesh Repeal Ordinance 2021.As the session begins, opposition parties in UP have demanded more sittings to discuss important issues including the Covid-19 pandemic, inflation, law and order situation and unemployment.“We will raise the issues concerning rising inflation, rising unemployment, farmers, law and order situation and the state government’s mishandling of Covid-19 that led to a large number of deaths,” leader of opposition (LoP) Ram Govind Chaudhary told Hindustan Times on Monday.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government might also convene the winter session in the upcoming months before the state goes for elections in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-monsoon-session-to-start-from-today-key-bills-to-be-tabled-101629163994381.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A vanished Afghanistan||You are so wrong if you believe that Delhi’s Sunday book bazaar is dispensable. That place is like a gigantic public library whose used books are oftentimes precious souvenirs of our vanished worlds. Recently, a paperback of Lonely Planet Afghanistan was unearthed from the bazaar. It was a rare copy, the first and the only edition published by the guidebook series. Days later, Afghanistan entered into a new history with the dramatic comeback of the Taliban. Here’s a review of the outdated but historically significant book, as a homage to what Afghanistan could have been (complete with its Lonely Planet-carrying tourists), and also as a pean to Delhi’s irreplaceable book bazaar.Afghanistan for touristsHere’s your chance to finally drive through Afghanistan’s highways, stroll through its cities, enjoy afternoon naps in its mosques, kill time in its chaikhanas, pluck pomegranates from its orchards, and hopefully return home—alive. Just pick up Lonely Planet Afghanistan, published in 2007.Like a poetry anthology that spares you the nonessential prose, the guidebook goes straight to the land’s haunting beauty—the Ka Faroshi Bird Market of Kabul with its narrow lane lined with stalls selling birds, the minaret of Jam looming up high in the mountains, the 800-year-old tile-mosaic mosque of Herat, the orchards of Panjshir valley, the blue domes of Hazrat Ali’s shrine at Mazar-e-Sharif, and the dilapidated cafes of Kandahar decked with posters of Indian film stars. There are also snappy, succulent accounts of Afghanistan as experienced by authors like Christina Lamb and Tamim Ansary.A most poignant destination, other than the ruins of Bamiyan Buddhas, must be Kabul’s OMAR Landmine museum. Exhibiting more than 60 types of landmines that litter the Afghan countryside, the museum gives the tourist a direct understanding of the nation’s enduring tragedy and also explains the presence of very many amputees walking in its wounded cities.The travel naturally entails risk. The person helping you with directions could be a militant; the road barrier could be the work of bandits; the next step while hiking in the Nuristan mountains could trigger a landmine blast. Life is severely uncertain in Afghanistan.This book warns: “Only you are responsible for your safety, so it’s absolutely essential that before considering a visit you assess the security situation from reliable, up-to-date sources.”Perhaps you may want to use the guidebook only for armchair travelling.Until Afghanistan—a mere two hours flying time away from Delhi—becomes a more normal country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-vanished-afghanistan-101629164522939.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||Vax drive picks up pace in the Capital||mmunisation against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi has picked up pace over the last 10 days, with over 100,000 shots being administered on all days except Sundays. In comparison, over 100,000 doses were administered only on six days during the first half of July, with officials blaming tapering supplies by the end of the month.Even as the number of shots administered dropped to 4,046 on Independence Day, a Sunday, on an average, over 97,000 doses have been administered each day in August so far. In comparison, over 68,800 doses were administered each day on an average during July.The number of people receiving the first dose of the vaccine has also increased from August 2, with the government gradually increasing the use of Covishield stock for the first stock.The number of second doses administered became higher than first doses since the third week of July.With 18-45-year-olds who were immunised in May when the vaccination drive opened for them becoming eligible for their second dose after the 84-day window between jabs, and vaccines in short supply, the government had to stop using Covishield for first dose-takers on July 22.“In the beginning of August, the government had directed that only 20% of the doses be used for first shot. This was increased to 40% the next week, and last week it was further increased up to 50% as the supplies stabilised. The districts, however, have the freedom to decide whether or not to use fewer vaccines for first dose, like we are utilising 40% at the moment,” said an official from south-west district.The official added, “There is huge demand for the first dose, whereas the demand for the second dose is low at the moment because fewer people received their first dose in May and have now completed the waiting gap of 84 days.”So far, 8.3 million of Delhi’s 20 million population have received at least one dose of the vaccine, and 3.3 million are fully vaccinated.Another official added that the number of vaccines administered in Delhi is likely to remain high for the month.“Although we come to know about the vaccine supply only around a week in advance, this month the supply has been stable and we are hoping that it will continue the same way. Last month, there were frequent shortages with the state rationing the number of doses given to the districts,” said an official from Shahadara district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vax-drive-picks-up-pace-in-the-capital-101629164016622.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||Despite issues, city’s free Wi-Fi scheme is still a hit||Minutes after the clock struck ten, 11-year-old Anamika Mahato finished an online mathematics class with her school teacher on the mobile phone of her father, Akhilesh Mahato. She fiddled with the phone for a while, scrolling through few applications she said she downloaded on her own, played Candy Crush for a few minutes, and then handed over the phone to Akhilesh, as he finished his breakfast and left for his shop – a makeshift set-up in east Delhi’s Kondli neighbourhood where he sells hand bags.The next class would be history, scheduled at 11am. Anamika borrowed her mother’s phone, and quickly opened a WiFi log-in page. By now, she said, she has learnt her mother’s Aadhaar number by heart – a mandatory requirement for logging in to the page that enables usage of internet service under the Delhi government’s free Wi-Fi scheme, which was rolled out in December 2019. The Wi-Fi device is installed right outside the Mahato’s one-room residence at a slum cluster in Patparganj.“Mobile internet packages are easily available these days. We get 1 GB free data every day with the prepaid mobile plan we subscribe to. But with schools switching to online classes because of Covid-19, the 1 GB data lasts for a maximum of two online classes. The days she (Anamika) has more than two classes, we have to use the government’s Wi-Fi facility,” said Mithila Mahato, Anamika’s mother.So far, the government has set up 10,561 Wi-Fi hotspots across the city – of which 2,208 are in bus stands that witness high foot fall, and the rest are located in markets and residential areas, including large numbers of slums and unauthorised colonies that are densely populated. The service was launched in December 2019, around the same time when the central government too cleared a proposal to set up public Wi-Fi access network interfaces throughout the country. The pan-India project is yet to materialise though. By March 2020, Delhi turned out to be the first city in India to have such wide public Wi-Fi network, said officials in the chief minister’s office.However, there are a large number of complaints regarding failure to connect to the hotspots despite being located close to it and poor speed even if one manages to connect.Mukesh Kumar, who owns a roadside eatery in south Delhi’s Khirki Extension locality, is not as lucky as Mahato in terms of equal access to the free internet service. Kumar’s 13-year-old son, Ankit, and nine-year-old daughter, Aarshi, are both students of a government school in Hauz Rani. The two have been attending online classes for around a year now but Mukesh’s attempts to connect to the Wi-Fi device near his home at a slum cluster in Shekh Sarai locality yielded no results.“I finally gave up and purchased three SIM cards. Now I get 1.5 GB free data in each which helps my children attend online classes. But that costs me more than ₹750 per month, which is difficult in such times when business is poor. The Wi-Fi often did not connect, and when it did, at times, the quality was so poor that the line got disconnected in the middle of the class,” said Kumar.A senior government official explained, “When the initiative was launched, people doubted if it would be of any use in the age of cheap mobile data. We were the first city to have such a system functional. Till then, there were public WiFi systems available in airports, railway stations, etc but not in slums, markets and residential areas. In the last two years, several cities have launched such projects, which include Bengaluru and Hyderabad. In Delhi, user traffic for the public Wi-Fi system has immensely increased during the Covid-19 pandemic. Most hotspots are more often operating in full capacity now. That is why many often fail to connect and even if they do, they face speed issues.”Each individual Aadhaar number registered under the initiative is entitled to 15 GB internet data per month. In a single day, they can use upto 1 GB. The system works through a network of hotspots. Each of them operates well in a 50m radius. The government has capped the maximum number of users at a point at 200 for each hotspot, said the official.“When too many people are registered at the same time, the speed drops to 1 Mbps. Web pages are too heavy these days and 1 Mbps services do not work at all. It is hardly any different from no connectivity at all,” said Aneesh Yadav, a 22-year-old frequent commuter on the 623 DTC bus route who tries connecting to the free Wi-Fi system at the ITO bus stand.HT reached out to several government officials but they did not share numbers of total complaints received since the launch of the service in December 2019.Despite its shortcomings in terms of accessibility, the system is helping several families, especially in the age of the pandemic.Vinod Jha, 45, was a factory worker who lost his left arm in an accident 12 years ago, and for a decade, his family’s primary sources of income are a makeshift shop he runs near the railway tracks in west Delhi’s Mayapuri, close to the industrial area where he once worked, and the salary of his wife who works as a domestic worker in neighbouring colonies. The family resides in the slum cluster along the railway track which has a Wi-Fi hotspot and their 15-year-old son, Sachin, who is a student in a government school, uses it for online classes.Over the last one week, HT interviewed several users of the service. Most of them have smartphones with data packs for internet service and they often use the government’s Wi-Fi over and above the service they pay for.Most of them said that their usage of the free Wi-Fi service has increased with the Covid-19 pandemic. What they do with the free internet service includes online classes of their children, surfing social media, reading news in vernacular languages, watching news capsules on YouTube, job searches, and connecting with their relatives in villages over WhatsApp calls.Deepak Kumar, a resident of the slum cluster close to the industrial area in West Delhi’s Naraina neighbourhood, said his mobile internet gets exhausted with WhatsApp calls throughout the day with his family who were forced to move to their village in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur because of the pandemic. “In the village, people sleep early. So, in the late evening hours, I feel lonely. I am used to living with my family in this house. Then I often connect to the Wi-Fi device in the next block and watch a movie on YouTube,” said 40-year-old Kumar, who likes watching Hindi-dubbed versions of Telugu and Tamil movies on YouTube.However, his neighbour, Mantoo Jha, who too is a factory worker, often gets irked when movies get stuck mid-way. “There is no point living close to a Wi-Fi device. The service is poor. I cannot even do a video call with my family back home (in Bihar’s East Champaran district). I had to get an additional SIM,” said Jha.Earlier this month, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal chaired a review meeting and directed officials in the public works department to continue with the scheme, giving it a fresh push to improve the service.The public works department is currently preparing a detailed action plan, regarding identification of areas where new hotspots should be installed and the scale of the second phase of the drive which is likely to be launched in another few months, to improve connectivity issues, said the senior government official.Experts highlighted the importance of the scheme in bridging the digital divide, especially in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic, but they also stressed that the government has to focus on improving the quality of the service.“Bridging the digital divide through free or affordable access to connectivity in urban slums and rural spaces is key to deliver social impact delivery systems at scale. But governments need to also be very invested in building last mile awareness on online safety mechanisms because many users are first generation learners or marginalised children with no support or adult supervision. Free internet shouldn’t lead to an increase in cyber crime cases against children or other vulnerable groups. Immense care has to be taken to balance these two outcomes,” said Sonal Kapoor, founder CEO, Protsahan India Foundation, a leading child rights NGO in India.Debolina Kundu, professor at the National Institute of Urban Affairs, said: “This initiative would help the government localise sustainable development goals which aim to substantially increase the number of youth and adults with relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills needed for employment, decent jobs, and entrepreneurship. Importantly, the proportion of households in Delhi with computer facility was 34.7% and those with internet facility was 55.8% as compared to 23.4% and 42% respectively for urban India (average) as per the 75th round of the National Sample Survey (NSS) data (2017-18) … Interestingly, 28.6% of the very poor households in Delhi had internet facilities, as per the sample survey. The pandemic induced closure of schools since early 2020 has shifted education to the online mode. Accessibility to computers and smart phones with uninterrupted internet facility has become the sine qua non for imparting education to the children. The poor households living in slums and informal settlements are likely to benefit immensely from this scheme.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/despite-issues-city-s-free-wi-fi-scheme-is-still-a-hit-101629163720075.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||UP BJP playing ‘dirty politics’ over floods, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), alleging that saffron brigade was playing “dirty politics” over floods which was shameful and should be condemned as well. She was reacting to BJP Uttar Pradesh’s Twitter post on Sunday, wherein it was stated that while BJP government and chief minister Yogi Adityanath was busy organising relief and rescue operation in the flood hit areas, the BSP was holding caste conferences instead of helping the flood victims. “Instead of launching ‘Jan ashirvad yatra’ the BJP should have organised ‘flood victims assistance yatra’ to help the flood victims in Uttar Pradesh,” she said. Mayawati said that the success of the Prabudh class conference as well as the large turnout in the meetings were giving sleepless nights to the BJP leaders. “The leaders of the saffron brigade are using all tricks to ensure failure of the conferences organised by the BSP. The people are aware of the tactics of the BJP leadership, they will give befitting reply to the ruling party in the elections next year,” she said. “The BJP leaders are jittery with the response of the conferences organised by the BSP across the state. To hide its failure, the BJP government is indulged in shameful act. It is adopting various ploys to stop the BSP conferences. The BJP is not going to get any political gain by stopping the opposition parties’ programmes, rather it gives an indication that BJP is losing ground fast in Uttar Pradesh,” she said. Mayawati said, in the Monsoon session of the legislative assembly commencing from Tuesday, the BSP MLAs would raise the public issues on the floor of the house. “The BSP will also raise its voice against the three farm laws and ensure that farms laws are not implemented in UP. The BSP will raise the issue of the deteriorating law and order and neglect of the patients during the Covid pandemic,” she added. Third phase of Brahmin conference begins The third phase of the Brahmin conference organised by the BSP commenced at Barabanki on Monday. The conference will be organised at Varanasi on Tuesday. Later, the conferences chaired by party national general secretary, Satish Chandra Mishra, will be held in several districts of Central and East UP till August 24.Addressing conferences at Barabanki and Jaunpur districts, Mishra claimed, “The misrule by the BJP is leading the country to destruction. The people belonging to Brahmin and Dalit communities are being harassed by the BJP government.” Mishra said, the BSP has appointed Dharamvir Chaudhary, Dr MH Khan and Faizan Khan as the spokespersons of the party’s state unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-playing-dirty-politics-over-floods-says-mayawati-101629145168137.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: HC passes interim restraining order on cutting of trees on panchayat land||A division bench of the high court comprising Chief Justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli passed an interim restraining order on Monday on the cutting of trees on panchayat land of Bharthala Randhawa village in Payal tehsil.The order has been passed in a PIL filed by Jagdish Singh, a resident of the village. The petitioner stated that the gram panchayat had put an auction notice for 150 trees in a local newspaper, which was to be held on July 26. But, it was postponed, and before a fresh auction notice could be given, he filed the instant PIL. It stated that cutting the 150 trees will adversely affect the environment and only 3% of the area in Punjab is under forest cover, whereas the national goal is 35%.Advocate Sunaina, who was arguing the case on behalf of advocate HC Arora, stated that sarpanches of various gram panchayats, in connivance with the BDPOs, are auctioning off trees on the gram panchayat land.She further prayed that power to permit cutting of trees not be conferred to an official below the rank of administrator secretary of the department.While issuing notice of motion to the state government; director, rural development and panchayats, deputy commissioner and gram panchayat concerned, the HC Bench restrained them from cutting trees on the gram panchayat land till the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-hc-passes-interim-restraining-order-on-cutting-of-trees-on-panchayat-land-101629144929756.html
17-08-2021||Other||UP HC seeks govt reply on PIL seeking ban on online gambling||The Allahabad high court on Monday directed the central and the UP governments to file a counter affidavit (reply) on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition seeking a ban on online gambling sites allegedly duping the public by manipulating results. The court also issued notices to executives of such websites allegedly owned by Chinese nationals and involved in online gambling. The bench comprising acting chief justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and justice Rajendra Kumar passed the order while hearing a petition filed by Shimla Shri Tripathi, a social worker. The court fixed September 15 as the next date of hearing in the case.According to the petitioner, more than 500 such websites are operating in India which offer gambling games like colour predicting game wherein a player has to place a certain amount to win an amount greater than the bet placed, guessing the outcome of the colour or the combination of numbers, within the window which opens every 3 minutes and freezes 30 seconds before the declaration of colour.It was alleged in the petition that first such websites let players win easily to lure more players but later on when players in large numbers start putting larger bets, website owners start manipulating the results thereby ultimately most of the players lose in the game while website owners illegally gain from the games.Appearing for the petitioner, advocate Shashank Shri Tripathi argued, “These websites also deduct huge amounts of money from winners in the name of tax on gambling claiming that the same will be paid to the government. Some digital payment apps are facilitating illegal gambling on gambling sites. Therefore, the government must take action against such apps.”“Chinese citizens are owning such gambling websites. Websites are usually controlled from Chinese servers and are a planned scheme of fraud,” advocate Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-pil-seeking-ban-on-online-gambling-101629144628114.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Murder case solved in J&K’s Rajouri, victim’s sister among 3 held||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Monday claimed to have solved a blind murder case of a youth in Rajouri district last week with the arrest of three suspects, including his younger sister.Ankit Bakshi (24) was found murdered at his house in Chakli village in the early hours of August 11.“A special investigation team was constituted to crack the case. Based on its investigation, three suspects, including Bakshi’s sister Priya (21) and her boyfriend Rajan Sharma were arrested,” senior superintendent of police, Rajouri, Sheema Nabi Qasba told reporters.She said sustained questioning of the accused revealed that Sharma and Priya were in a relationship for the past one year and the deceased had objected to them being together.“Due to this, a criminal conspiracy was hatched to eliminate Bakshi,” the SSP said, withholding the name of the third accused, believed to be a juvenile and whose age is being ascertained.The SSP said the accused have admitted their involvement in the commission of the crime and some more arrests are expected during further investigation.She said attempts were made to mislead the public and the investigation team and “we are looking into this angle minutely.” The investigation team suspected the involvement of someone from within the family as the culprits gained easy access into the house to commit the crime, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-case-solved-in-j-k-s-rajouri-victim-s-sister-among-3-held-101629144509440.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||CRPF jawan injured in grenade attack in J&K’s Kupwara||A CRPF jawan was injured in a grenade attack by militants in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Monday, officials said here.The ultras hurled the grenade targeting a CRPF party at the Government Middle School Langate in the north Kashmir district around 9.40 pm, they said.In another attack, militants lobbed a grenade at a police party in Azad Gunj near the bus stop in Baramulla town, the officials said, adding that it exploded at the roadside.No loss of life or injury was reported but a vehicle was damaged, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/crpf-jawan-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-j-k-s-kupwara-101629144508382.html
17-08-2021||Other||Afghan students in Prayagraj fear for safety of their families in home country||Afghan students studying in Prayagraj–based higher educational institutions are worried for the security and well-being of their loved ones in Afghanistan, their home land, where Taliban seized power. Afghan students pursuing courses like MTech, MBA and PhD at Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences (SHUATS) at Naini are offering prayers for the safety of their family members in Afghanistan and making desperate efforts to contact them. “These are tough times for all Afghans. We are offering prayers that our family members remain safe during this transition and we all get to see them in a peaceful environment,” said Zakir Ullah Fazli,a PhD student. With him were other students from Afghanistan including Faruk Ullah (pursuing MTech course), Nawazis Razaye (MSc), Ziaullhaq Zia (MBA), Shafiullah Stankzai (MTech), all of whom hail from different cities of Afghanistan including Kabul, Kunar, Ahmad Aba and Kunduz among others. “We are praying to Allah for better days for our country which has a rich history. I hope everything is peaceful again and we all can visit our homes. I was able to speak to my family members two days back and things were bad there with Taliban heading towards Kabul. I am very worried,” said Zakir Ullah. SHUATS international division’s liaison officer Mohammad Majid said efforts were being made to ensure that all Afghan students of SHUATS get to talk to their family members using the helpline number now made functional. We are extending all support to them, he added. Mohammad Majid shared that till outbreak of Covid-19, 120 students from Afghanistan were enrolled at SHUATS but left. “Presently we have nine students from Afghanistan admitted enrolled with us and out whom four are already in their home country while five are here,” he added. Similarly, two dozen Afghan students enrolled in different courses at Allahabad University are also worried over the safety of their family members and their own future. Malik Mohhammad, a student of MA Hindi at AU and hailing from Kabul shared, “I was able to speak to my family three days back and I am unable to connect to them since Sunday. I somehow managed to talk to one of my relatives who informed me that my parents were safe,” he added. Malik said, “Future of many students like me, who are studying here on fellowship, hangs in balance till the new regime extends the financial support, otherwise we will not be able to continue our studies”. Abdul Rehman, a BCom final year students at AU hails from Laghman province of Afghanistan said “I was able to talk to my family members. All of them are staying at home and scared. I am very worried for their safety as Taliban now controls the entire area where my family lives,” he said. Senior faculty member and International Students Advisor of AU Prof AR Siddiqui said that out of 31 foreign students enrolled at AU, 26 were from Afghanistan. “We would soon be holding counseling sessions for our students from Afghanistan and extend all help that we can in these tough times,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/afghan-students-in-prayagraj-fear-for-safety-in-home-country-101629144448740.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Bikram Majithia slams Navjot Sidhu for misleading Punjab’s people||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Sunday hit out at Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Navjot Sidhu for misleading the people of the state by making false promises. Addressing a gathering to pay his tributes to martyr Karnail Singh Isru on his death anniversary, senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said Punjabis were surprised at Sidhu’s latest announcement promising to provide power at ₹3 per unit for domestic use. He asked Sidhu to explain who was stopping him from implementing this promise now when the state is being run by his party government. He said the truth was that Sidhu had refused to become power minister of the state two years ago despite having the opportunity to provide relief to people in that capacity.Majithia alleged that Sidhu was never serious about resolving the problems of the people and would never be. The SAD leader also asked the PPCC president why promises made to people by Congress on the eve of 2017 assembly elections were not kept when he was a minister for two and a half years which comprised half of the government’s tenure. “Where is ‘Ghar Ghar Naukri’ and full loan waiver for farmers?,” he asked. He said Sidhu was now again trying to befool people.He also announced that Khanna will be made a district after formation of the SAD-BSP government in 2022 as a tribute to Issru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bikram-majithia-slams-navjot-sidhu-for-misleading-punjab-s-people-101629144268059.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||On Independence Day, Punjab food minister says youth key to more vaccination||Punjab food, civil supplies, and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu hoisted the national flag during a district-level function organised at Guru Nanak Stadium to commemorate the 75th Independence Day.On the occasion, Ashu said that special emphasis is being laid on urban infrastructure development in the city. He said that work of ₹650-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project, Halwara international airport, three bus stands, Dhanansu cycle valley, surface drinking water supply project, Pakhowal ROB and RUB, up-gradation of Mother and Child Hospital from 100 to 200 beds, is underway on a war-footing.He also urged the youth to come forward and encourage eligible persons to get vaccinated against Covid-19 at the earliest to avoid the anticipated third wave of the disease.The minister said to tackle the third wave, the state government has strengthened the health infrastructure by setting up ICUs, oxygen plants, new medical colleges, and recruiting new doctors and paramedics.Ashu also disclosed that from 2017-2018 to 2021-22, Punjab procured 1,259.80 lakh MT wheat and paddy; besides, it has made payments worth ₹2,54,898 crore to the farmers. He added that 1.51 crore beneficiaries are receiving subsidized ration under the Smart Ration Card scheme and his department has launched the one nation one ration card scheme.The minister also paid homage to national leaders like Lala Lajpat Rai, Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Shaheed Sukhdev, Shaheed Udham Singh, Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha, Madan Lal Dhingra, and others.Meanwhile, Ashu took a salute during a march past by seven contingents of Punjab police (women and men), home guards, air wing, NCC (boys and girls), led by the parade commander assistant commissioner of police Randhir Singh.Ashu also honoured around 36 prominent officers, doctors, NGOs, and persons from various walks of life for their contribution towards society amid the Covid-19 war. He lauded the civil, police administration, MLAs, municipal councillors, industrialists, NGOs, social and religious organisations for their collective untiring efforts in vaccinating around 17 lakh eligible beneficiaries to date.He also distributed sewing machines and wheelchairs among needy people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/on-independence-day-punjab-food-minister-says-youth-key-to-more-vaccination-101629144211389.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Solitary transfer of Mullanpur Dakha SHO raises eyebrows||The abrupt transfer of Mullanpur Dakha station house officer (SHO), a day after he made elaborate security arrangements for an event held by a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA, has raised eyebrows.Inspector Jagjit Singh, through a solitary transfer order by Ludhiana Rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sohal, was shifted to police lines on Monday.Dakha MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali alleged that the transfer came after police arrangements made at an Independence Day function organised by him left local Congress leaders displeased.While the MLA’s event was held at Dr BR Ambedkar Bhawan, the Mullanpur Dakha municipal council, led by the Congress, also organised a function at the MC office.Captain Sandeep Sandhu, political secretary to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who unsuccessfully contested the Dakha bypolls in October 2019, was also present on the occasion, where MC chief Telu Ram Bansal hoisted the national flag.Through a written request, Ayali had requested the police to make security and other arrangements at his event’s venue as per protocol, after which senior officials told the local SHO to do the needful. Following the instructions, SHO Jagjit Singh deputed security, traffic police and a special team to perform the guard of honour for the national flag.This didn’t sit well with the Congress leaders, Ayali alleged, and the SSP was pressured to transfer the SHO.When contacted, SSP Sohal, while refusing to go into specifics, said it was an internal matter. “The SHO has been transferred on administrative grounds,” he said.Congress leaders belonging to the area refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/solitary-transfer-of-mullanpur-dakha-sho-raises-eyebrows-101629144088661.html
17-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana Improvement Trust rakes in ₹130 crore from auction of 29 properties||As many as 29 residential and commercial plots, besides booths were sold in Ludhiana Improvement Trust’s latest e-auction on Monday, fetching the authority ₹131 crore.A total of 71 properties were up for grabs, but 33 among these did not find the mandatory three bidders, following which 38 properties were put up for sale. Bidding opened at 9am and closed at 3pm with 29 properties being successfully auctioned.Bids for the remaining nine properties were rejected as trust officials were not satisfied with the bid amount, citing it was much lower than the anticipated revenue.The residential plots carved out of a school site in SBS Nagar were also sold after the trust got a local court’s stay vacated. Residents had previously moved court against the local bodies department’s move to sell land allotted for a school.LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam said the entire e-auction process was conducted with videography in the presence of a revenue department employee. “The auction of properties is subject to approval of the state government and local bodies department,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-improvement-trust-rakes-in-130-crore-from-auction-of-29-properties-101629143968254.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||19-year-old washing clothes slips into Ludhiana canal, drowns||A 19-year-old woman drowned after accidentally slipping into Sidhwan Canal near Punjab Agricultural University on Sunday.Suraj Pandey, husband of the deceased, Priya Pandey, told the police that his wife was washing clothes on the bank of Sidhwan Canal. He was standing nearby when he saw her fall into the canal after losing balance. A labourer, Suraj screamed for help as he did not know swimming. But even onlookers were not adept at it and called the police to help rescue the woman.“Police pressed in divers to save the woman as soon as information was received. However, she could not be traced due to the swift flow of the canal water. She was found dead after an eight-hour search and her body was fished out,” said ASI Ram Pal, the investigating officer in the case.The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statement of the deceased’s husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/19yearold-washing-clothes-slips-into-ludhiana-canal-drowns-101629143668123.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Change in people’s thinking visible in Kashmir: Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Monday said there is a visible change in the thinking of people in Jammu and Kashmir and terrorism in its “last phase” in Kashmir, which witnessed large-scale Independence Day celebrations Sunday. The minister of state was in Kathua, part of his Udhampur parliamentary constituency, to inaugurate a high-efficiency oxygen generation plant at Government Medical College, established through the PM-Cares Fund.“There is a change in the thinking of the people (in Kashmir). The residents of Srinagar who are moving around in lanes and bylanes want a change and be part of (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi’s New India like the people in other parts of the country,” Singh told reporters after dedicating the oxygen plant to the public.However, he said there is a “veil of fear” which is stopping the public from expressing themselves openly. “I feel it is the last phase of terrorism there,” the minister said, responding to a question about the large scale Independence Day celebrations in the valley.Flag hoisting ceremonies were held at many places in the valley Sunday.Referring to the setting up of the fourth oxygen plant at GMC Kathua within a short span during the coronavirus pandemic, the minister said the prime minister has a special concern for Jammu and Kashmir, especially the gateway district of Kathua.“The prime minister in his independence day speech of 90 minutes from the Red Fort deliberated in detail about J&K and northeastern states. He talked about the delimitation commission in J&K and assembly elections in the coming months,” Singh said.The BJP government set up District Development Councils (DDC) for the first time and completed the elections to Panchayats in the past two years despite “hurdles”, the minister said without elaborating, but referring apparently to regional parties including National Conference and PDP which boycotted the panch and sarpanch elections besides the local bodies polls. Asked about the developments in Afghanistan, the union minister said the “External Affairs Ministry is taking note of such things”.“I am not supposed to comment on the issue but the concerned ministry has taken note of the happenings there,” he said.The minister reached Kathua, which falls in his home constituency of Udhampur, and attended several functions in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/change-in-people-s-thinking-visible-in-kashmir-jitendra-singh-101629143608205.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab minister Anil Joshi, other BJP leaders to join SAD on August 20||Former Punjab cabinet minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Anil Joshi along with other saffron party leaders is all set to join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Chandigarh on August 20. Joshi will be inducted into the SAD fold by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, it is learnt. Former Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha state chief Mohit Gupta, who hails from Bathinda, a former ex-MLA from Hoshiarpur district, a former Ludhiana deputy mayor and a party leader who contested the previous assembly polls from Ludhiana district are among others likely to switch over to SAD. “We found that only SAD can serve the interests of all Punjabis. We have already worked closely with the Akali Dal both at the government and the organisations levels,” said Joshi, confirming his joining schedule. The BJP in July had expelled Joshi for six years after he criticised state and the central leadership for mishandling the farm agitation. Interestingly, Joshi’s relationship with the SAD was not so cordial when he was local bodies minister during the Parkash Singh Badal-led previous government in Punjab. In 2015, Joshi as minister had compared the then SAD-led state government’s rule with that of Aurangzeb’s after his brother was attacked allegedly by Akali workers in Tarn Taran. “These are things of the past now. When you run a coalition government such things happen sometimes,” said Joshi. Also, he will be fielded by SAD from the Amritsar North assembly segment, which he has represented twice, in the 2022 Punjab elections. According to the Akali Dal-Bahujan Samaj Party coalition agreement, the latter is to field its candidate from the Amritsar North constituency but the seat is likely to be taken back by replacing it. Joshi’s switchover to the SAD is seen as a major shot in the arm for the SAD which has dearth of firebrand Hindu faces, especially in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-punjab-minister-anil-joshi-other-bjp-leaders-to-join-sad-on-august-20-101629143489658.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Worried over safety, 120 Sikh, Hindu families huddle up in Kabul gurdwara||Concerned over their safety in Afghanistan, particularly after the fall of Kabul to the Taliban, nearly 120 Sikh and Hindu families have taken refuge at Gurdwara Karte Parwan in the national capital, making desperate efforts to be evacuated from the war-torn country. Once a sizeable minority community having historic shrines in the country, the number of Sikhs has been reduced to a few hundred due to back-to-back attacks by the extremists. The fresh situation has triggered fears of their complete exit from the country. Narinder Pal Singh, a member of parliament in Afghanistan, said over phone, “Approximately 100 Sikh families are staying at the gurdwara. Though we are feeling safer here, we cannot say anything as the situation is uncertain. There are no flights for us to be evacuated out of the country but we are trying to make arrangements.” Singh is son of Avtar Singh Khalsa, a member of parliament, who along with other Afghan Sikh leaders and activists was killed in a suicide bomb attack in 2018 at Jalalabad.In a video, the Sikhs staying in the Kabul gurdwara on Monday said, “The situation in Afghanistan is quite critical. We don’t know what will happen next. We urge the Sikhs in the US and Canada to evacuate us and take us to their countries.”Hira Singh, a leader of Afghan Sikhs who migrated to India and now lives in Delhi, said, “I am in touch with our fellow community members in Afghanistan but they are not speaking to us for last two days. I tried calling them twice since today morning, but they are declining my calls. We are also worried.” “As per my information, the Sikhs are safe at the Afghan gurdwara. Fortunately, no untoward incident has happened with them yet,” he said. He said, “The Sikhs left Jalalabad and travelled 150 km to the Kabul gurdwara. They are also carrying saroops of Guru Granth Sahib and sacred gutkas (handy books of gurbani) and pothis (gurbani scriptures) from historic Guru Nanak Darbar gurdwara and another Sikh shrine at Jalalabad.” The sangat staying at the Kabul gurdwara includes about 50 Hindus. The men are guarding the foundry wall of the gurdwara, it is learnt. On the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, some mischievous elements tried to open the gurdwara gate, but those guarding the shrine are learnt to have foiled the attempt.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said, “I am in constant touch with the head of the Kabul gurdwara committee. We have been informed that more than 320 members of minority communities (nearly 50 Hindus and 270 Sikhs) are living in Ghazni and Jalalabad have taken refuge in Karte Parwan Gurdwara Sahib in Kabul in wake of recent developments”, said He said, “The Taliban leaders have met them and assured them of their safety. We are hopeful that Hindus and Sikhs would be able to live a safe life despite political churning in Afghanistan.” “I assured them to take measures to ensure their safety and evacuation”, added Sirsa.Former DSGMC chief Manjit Singh GK also met Delhi-based Afghan Sikh leaders. “We shall do our best to help our brethren there,” he said.“Though the Taliban have assured them of their safety, their evacuation is paramount in such a situation. We are establishing contact with the Centre as well as representatives of the Canada and UK governments to carry them to safety,” said Ravi Singh, founder head of the Khalsa Aid, a humanitarian organisation.Puneet Singh Chandok, president, Indian World Forum, said, “We are in constant touch with ministry of external affairs (MEA), Air India and some international agencies for early evacuation of Indians and Indian-origin people from Afghanistan.” Hira Singh said, “There are a little more than 60 gurdwaras in Afghanistan. Sikh families were earlier staying at seven gurdwaras of Kabul, two in Jalalabad, two in Ghazni among others. But now, most of them are camping at Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/taliban-onslaught-worried-over-safety-120-sikh-hindu-families-huddle-up-in-kabul-gurdwara-101629143489149.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder urges MEA to arrange evacuation of Indians stuck in Afghan gurdwara||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday urged the ministry of external affairs (MEA)to arrange evacuation of all Indians, including Sikhs who were stuck in a gurdwara in Afghanistan, and said his government was willing to extend any help needed for the same.Afghanistan stares at an uncertain future as President Ashraf Ghani left the country just before Kabul fell into the hands of the Taliban on Sunday.In a tweet, Singh said, “Urge @DrSJaishankar, MEA, GoI, to arrange for immediate evacuation of all Indians, including around 200 Sikhs, stuck in a Gurudwara in Afghanistan after the #Taliban takeover. My govt is willing to extend any help needed to ensure their safe evacuation”.The CM on Sunday had said that there was a need to reman extra vigilant at all borders of the country, saying Afghanistan’s “fall” to the Taliban “does not augur well” for India.“Afghanistan’s fall to #Taliban doesn’t augur well for our country. It’ll strengthen the Sino-Pak nexus against India (China has already sought militia’s help on Uyghur). The signs are not at all good, we need to be extra vigilant now at all our borders,” Singh had said in a tweet on Sunday.On Saturday, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, an apex gurdwara body, had urged the Union government to ensure the safety of Sikhs living in Afghanistan and make unconditional arrangements to bring those Sikhs who want to come to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-urges-mea-to-arrange-evacuation-of-indians-stuck-in-afghan-gurdwara-101629143487837.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Fashion designer Sabyasachi under fire for recent collection||Fashion designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee and Swedish fast-fashion brand H&M have been under fire since August 12 on two counts: that their newly launched collaboration, a collection called Wanderlust, is a work of cultural appropriation, and that it was supposed to be accessible to a larger audience but the pricing of the items is out of the reach of even the average H&M buyer (a cotton sari is priced at ₹9,999).The cultural appropriation issue stems from the fact that the H&M website states that “a key highlight of this collection is Indian textile and print traditions brought to life by the Sabyasachi Art Foundation, meticulously crafted embroidery and multicultural silhouettes”. But the prints have been rendered digitally. Some, like the Sanganeri print which is GI tagged to a specific community of artisans, have been altered slightly, but remain reminiscent of the original.The designer has now received an open letter signed by 15 Indian crafts associations and collectives, including Crafts Council of India, Crafts Council of Karnataka, and the All India Artisans & Craftworkers Welfare Association. The signatories are concerned that the collection draws heavily from traditional craftsmanship, but it is unclear if artisans were involved in any way or are benefiting from the collection.Incidentally, the collection has sold out. (And Mukherjee issued an apology on August 16, for the fact that the site was unable to cope with traffic, and there was not enough stock to meet demand.)“Given Mukherjee’s long association with traditional craftsmanship and slow fashion, a digitally printed sari costing a large sum could also be mistaken by consumers for the real handcrafted thing and this becomes a concern adding to the crisis of authenticity,” said Meera Goradia, co-founder of Creative Dignity, which is a network of artisans, craft associations and stakeholders, and a signatory to the letter.“This was an incredible opportunity to position India’s design and craftsmanship on the global map,” the open letter states. It goes on to say… “imagine the sheer potential of this story had it only said, ‘Handmade in India’, supporting millions of jobs… in communities that need it the most. Even if half the collection had been made by artisans, it would have made such an impact at a time of economic crisis like this pandemic…”The letters additionally asks: “Have the artisan communities that have the proprietary rights to these designs been credited or compensated in any way? In the case of some of the designs used in ‘Wanderlust’, the Sanganeri print artisans have a Geographical Indication registration.”“We do not have any issue with design collaborations. As a nationwide, multi-stakeholder movement, we do however want to highlight the many gaps in the Sabyasachi x H&M effort as it directly impacts India’s artisan communities and their future,” said Goradia. Approached for comment, Mukherjee told HT that he and his team were framing a response to the letter, but declined to offer any immediate response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fashion-designer-sabyasachi-under-fire-for-recent-collection-101629143372420.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Four held with ₹11 lakh in counterfeit currency in Patiala||Police on Monday claimed to have busted a gang involved in making fake currency and arrested four persons with ₹10.7 lakh in counterfeit notes in Patiala. Those arrested were identified as Harpal Kaur, Amandeep Singh, Kala Soni and Gurdeep Singh, all residents of the district.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sourav Jindal said they also recovered colour printers, laptops, computers and laminators from their possession. “Acting on a tip-off, the police conducted a raid and nabbed the suspects who were operating from different locations in Patiala. During interrogation, it came to fore that they had formed a gang and used to exchange ₹1 lakh in fake currency with ₹30,000 of original bills,” the DSP said. The confiscated fake currency bills are that of ₹500 and ₹200 denominations.“The fake currency seems to have been prepared using high-quality equipment. There is little difference between the notes they have made and the genuine ones. Shopkeepers are liable to fall prey to such currency,” the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-held-with-rs-11-lakh-in-counterfeit-currency-in-patiala-101629143369231.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Out for a dip, two minor sisters drown in Sutlej in Ludhiana||Two minor sisters drowned while they were taking a dip in Sutlej river near Mand Jhadondi village in Machhiwara on Monday. The victims, Lalita, 12, and Shivani, 8, lived in the hutments near the river.Their father, Sunil Kumar, a labourer, said he and his wife were away at work on Monday when their daughters, along with some more children, left for Sutlej river to take a dip in the hot weather. As the sisters stepped inside the river, the heavy flow of the water swept them away. The children accompanying them raised the alarm and informed nearby villagers. However, the girls had drowned before they could be rescued.The family performed last rites of the siblings without informing the police. Villagers sounded the police, following which a team initiated investigation.Three months ago, on May 14, five children, including four siblings and a labourer, had drowned in a pond in Manngarh village of Koomkalan. The labourer had jumped into the pond to rescue the children but also lost his life in the attempt. Later, police, with the help of divers, fished out the victims’ bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/out-for-a-dip-two-minor-sisters-drown-in-sutlej-in-ludhiana-101629143367877.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Keeping a close watch on situation in Afghanistan: BSF DG||BSF Director General (DG) SS Deswal on Monday said they are keeping a close watch on the situation in Afghanistan and are fully ready for all possible consequences.He, however, described the developments in Afghanistan as that country’s internal matter.Deswal, who was on a visit here to flag off the “freedom rally” of 100 cyclists of the Border Security Force (BSF) from Jammu to Gujarat as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations, was replying to a reporter’s question on the fallout of the Taliban’s near-total takeover in Afghanistan on the Indo-Pak border in Jammu and Kashmir.“What is happening in the neighbouring country is its internal matter, but we are keeping a close watch on the situation,” he told reporters in the RS Pura sector.“We are ready for all possible consequences,” he added.Replying to another question on infiltration and the increased use of drones from across the border to ferry weapons, the BSF DG said as a responsible country, India is acting in accordance with the ceasefire agreement with Pakistan.“We have not violated the ceasefire,” he added.Referring to the use of drones, Deswal said security forces have thwarted most of the attempts to airdrop and smuggle narcotics and weapons.“The drone threat is a challenge and we are handling it. In the coming days, technologically, we will be dealing with the issue more efficiently. Systems are being put in place,” he said.On cross-border infiltration, Deswal said these incidents have been taking place for long and the security forces have foiled such attempts in the past.He said matters between the two sides are resolved peacefully at flag meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/keeping-a-close-watch-on-situation-in-afghanistan-bsf-dg-101629143310212.html
17-08-2021||Other||Punjab reports 32 fresh cases, 1 death||ChandigarhPunjab on Monday reported 32 new Covid cases pushing the infection tally to 5,99,972, according to a medical bulletin.One Covid-related fatality reported from Hoshiarpur took the death toll to 16,344, it said. The toll also includes one death that was not reported earlier.The number of active cases dipped to 557 from 577 on Sunday, it said.Bathinda and Gurdaspur reported four cases each, followed by three each in Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Moga.Forty-eight people recovered from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 5,83,071, according to the bulletin.A total of 33,567 Covid tests were conducted on Monday, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-reports-32-fresh-cases-1-death-101629143308852.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Four more held in constable paper leak case from Haryana’s Kaithal||The crime investigation agency arrested four more people in the paper leak case for the recruitment of male constables of the Haryana Police.The accused are Baljit Singh of Hisar; Aman Kumar of Hisar; and Naresh Kumar and Sushil Kumar of Kaithal. Cops said the accused had taken the answer keys from the main accused, Narender of Hisar, who has already been arrested. Police also recovered a soft copy of the answer keys from their mobile phones.So far, 21 people have been arrested in the case, including Jammu and Kashmir resident Nazir Ahmad Khande.Police officials associated with the investigation claimed that Narender Singh had purchased the answer keys for ₹1 crore and sold them to several aspirants with the help of Ramesh Kumar, the owner of a private coaching centre for ₹12 lakh to ₹18 lakh per candidate.Police, however, are yet to figure out how Narender got the answers to 98 questions, of which 82 were found to be correct.“Nazir and Raj Kumar allegedly helped Narender to get the answer keys,” said an official associated with the investigation.On why the police had not been able to find the source of the answer keys, Kaithal superintendent of police Lokender Singh said it is possible that those monitoring the examination may be involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-more-held-in-constable-paper-leak-case-from-haryana-s-kaithal-101629143069194.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Vegetable vendor’s decomposing body found hanging in Ludhiana house||Upset over his wife abandoning him, a 45-year-old vegetable vendor hanged himself to death at his house in MJK Colony, Daba. The matter came to light after nearby residents noticed foul smell emitting from the house and called the police on Sunday.When police arrived, they walked in on the vendor’s decomposing body, which they estimated was at least five days old. “He used a cycle chain to hang himself from a window grille in the house. Following a probe, we found that he had an argument with his wife a week ago after which she left the house,” said ASI Meet Ram.He said no suicide note was found on the body or in the house. Police have called the kin of the deceased to record their statements for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vegetable-vendor-s-decomposing-body-found-hanging-in-ludhiana-house-101629143068020.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||SAD cancels political conference on Longowal death anniversary fearing backlash by farmers||Keeping in view the farmer unions’ call to oppose political rallies amid the agitation against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has decided to cancel its conference on the 36th death anniversary of former party president Harchand Singh Longowal on August 20. Party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal was scheduled to address the conference. However, a religious event will be held at Gurdwara Kambowal Sahib in the town where SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal will pay tributes to Longowal who was assassinated on August 20, 1985. Party leader and former Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Gobind Singh Longowal said, “Since some farmer organisations are opposed to the conference, we decided to hold a religious event at the gurdwara.”SAD leader Winnerjit Goldy said the political conference was cancelled to support the farmers’ agitation and the party did not want any controversy with farmers who have been fighting against the Centre’s laws. SAD (Sanykat) leader and Lehra MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa also announced not to hold any political rally on the death anniversary. The party will pay tributes to Longowal at Gurdwara Bhai Mani Singh in the town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-cancels-political-conference-on-longowal-death-anniversary-fearing-backlash-by-farmers-101629142955880.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Assess vaccination status of students, staff, J&K edu institutes told||Covid containment measures in force in Jammu and Kashmir such as night curfew and no on-site classes at educational institutions will continue for the coming week as well, officials said after a review of the pandemic situation.The review of the Covid situation was conducted under the chairmanship of chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta on August 13.In an order on August 15, Mehta said there was a need to continue with the existing containment measures in all the districts “in view of the uneven trend in daily Covid cases”.“The maximum number of people permitted to attend any indoor or outdoor gathering will be restricted to 25,” said Mehta, who is also chairman of the state executive committee. The government on Sunday had temporarily relaxed the 25-person cap on indoor or outdoor gatherings for August 15 to allow Independence Day celebrations.The order said that there will be no weekend curfew in any district. “The night curfew will continue to remain in force in all the districts from 8pm to 7am,” it said. The daily Covid cases in J&K continue to remain low and have mostly remained below 150 cases per day this month.Jammu and Kashmir administration had on July 25 lifted the weekend curfew in all districts of the Union Territory as the Covid cases had registered a drop. The order stated that while all schools, colleges and coaching centres will continue to remain closed for on-site and in-person teaching, the educational institutions are permitted to seek attendance of vaccinated staff for administrative purposes.“Further, all heads of higher educational institutions will in a fortnight assess dose-wise vaccination status of the students and staff of their respective institutions, enabling the state executive committee to take a considered view on the reopening of these institutions for on-site learning,” the order said. All deputy commissioners (DCs) have been asked to focus on the positivity rate in their respective medical blocks and intensify management and restrictions of activities. “There will be renewed focus on panchayat-level mapping of cases and effective micro-containment zones will be constituted wherever unusual spikes of cases are noticed,” it said.The officials have been asked to also focus on second dose of vaccines. “Intensive vaccination drives will be taken up in all districts to ensure timely administration of second dose, besides administering first dose to vulnerable groups,” the order stated.Jammu and Kashmir recorded 77 fresh Covid cases on Monday, taking the infection tally to 3,23,499, while a single fatality pushed the death toll to 4,398 in the union territory, officials said.Out of the fresh cases, 23 were from Jammu division and 54 from Kashmir division, they said.The officials said Srinagar district recorded the highest number of 14 new cases followed by Baramulla with 12.The number of active cases now stands at 1,229 in the union territory, and 3,17,872 patients have recovered from the disease so far, they added.The officials said there were 42 confirmed cases of Mucormycosis (black fungus) in the union territory currently. HP logs 276 fresh virus casesHimachal Pradesh recorded 276 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the state’s tally to 2,10,419 while the death toll mounted to 3,535 after three more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, highest 77 were reported in Mandi, 56 in Kangra, 33 in Chamba, 29 in Hamirpur, 25 each in Bilaspur and Shimla, 12 each in Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti, three in Kinnaur, two in Una and one each in Sirmaur and Solan. Active cases have come down to 2,695 after the state recorded more recoveries than the new cases on second consecutive day. Recoveries reached 2,04,167 after 334 recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/assess-vaccination-status-of-students-staff-j-k-edu-institutes-told-101629142951886.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||3 of family among six dead in Himachal road accidents||Six people died in Himachal in separate road accidents, police said on Monday. Three persons were killed when the car they were travelling in skidded off the road and plunged into a 150-metre-deep gorge at Dharech in Theog subdivision. The deceased have been identified as Rama Nand, 65, and his daughter Sheela Devi, 44, and son-in-law Ram Gopal, 51, who was behind the wheel. Rama Nand and Sheela died on the spot, while Gopal was shifted to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College in Shimla where he succumbed to his injuries. Prima facie, it appears that the driver lost control while negotiating a curve, the police said. A case has been registered and further investigations are on. Bodies of the victims have been handed over to their family after autopsy. Three people died at Bhanera near Mangla village in Chamba in a similar manner. A rescued team was rushed to the spot soon after the incident. However, all the three victims had died on the spot.The identity of the deceased was yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-of-family-among-six-dead-in-himachal-road-accidents-101629142950777.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Degree college 1st list today in Mumbai; 538K applications received||A day before the University of Mumbai (MU) is scheduled to release the first general merit list for undergraduate (UG) degree courses, data revealed that over 350,000 students have submitted 538,000 applications for various courses (one student can apply to more than one course). The first general merit list for UG courses in MU-affiliated colleges will be released at 11am on Tuesday.“Students whose names appear in the first general merit list will have time between 18 and 25 August to pay the fees and confirm their seats at the allotted college,” said a statement released by the university late on Monday. Figures shared by the university shows that once again Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) course has attracted the maximum applications (144,000), followed by Bachelor in Management Studies (BMS) with 115,000 applications. BCom in Accounting and Finance (BAF) has received 71,243 applications, while Bachelor in Arts (BA) has received 44,008 applications. Increasing Covid-19 cases forced most education boards to scrap their Class 12 exams this year and instead assess students on the basis of their performance in Classes 10, 11 and 12. The final result brought forward an explosion of students joining the 90% bandwagon. While the Indian School Certificate Examinations (ICSE) and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools boasted of nearly 50% or more of their Class 12 students scoring above 90-95% this year. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) announced Class 12 results this week and the number of 90% scorers across the state jumped 12-folds compared to last year. For the first time ever, 46 Class 12 students also managed to score a perfect 100% this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/degree-college-1st-list-today-in-mumbai-538k-applications-received-101629142949238.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man shoots himself dead with licensed revolver||A 40-year-old spare parts trader ended his life by shooting himself twice with his licensed revolver at his house in Durgapuri, Haibowal, on Monday.A suicide note was recovered from the house in which the deceased blamed two men for driving him to suicide.Named as Rajan Jain of Karol Bagh and Harish Sabharwal of 33 Futta Road in the note, the duo has been booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. “The deceased’s wife and children were away at Rajasthan to pay obeisance at a shrine, but his elderly parents were present on the ground floor of the house when he took the extreme step on the first floor,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 3) Sameer Verma.“He shot himself in the chest with his .32-bore licensed revolver and died on the spot. His elderly parents mistook the gunshots for something falling on the roof. They went upstairs to check and found his room bolted from inside. When he didn’t respond despite persistent knocking, the couple summoned their younger son, who was out for some work,” the ADCP said.When the brother came in and forced the door open, the family was shocked to find the trader lying dead in a pool of blood and immediately called the police.The ADCP, assistant commissioner of police (ACP, West) Gurpreet Singh, along with Haibowal police reached the spot and recovered a suicide note, accusing Rajan Jain and Harish Sabharwal of forcing him to end his life. The deceased also sought forgiveness from his family.“As per preliminary investigation, Rajan and Harish had been harassing the trader over some money that he owed them. He owned a spare parts shop on Gill Road. According to his family, he was stressed for the past few days,” the ADCP said, adding that teams had been despatched to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-shoots-himself-dead-with-licensed-revolver-101629142947855.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 10 more Delta Plus cases, tally now 76||Ten more Delta Plus cases have been identified in Maharashtra taking the tally to 76. Of the new cases, six are from Kolhapur, three from Ratnagiri and one from Sindhudurg. All the 10 patients have recovered completely. The Delta variant is now a variant of concern globally and is currently the predominant strain in the United States. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Delta variant is more than two times contagious than the previous variants. The Delta has further mutated to B.1.617.2.1 or AY.1 which is known as Delta Plus. There are now a total of 13 sub-lineages identified globally from AY.1 to AY.12 and AY.3.1. “In Maharashtra, we have found at least five sub-lineages including AY.1. AY.2, AY.3 and AY.12,” state’s surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate told Hindustan Times. Of the 76 patients with Delta Plus identified so far, 39 have required hospitalisation, while the rest recuperated at home. Five of the patients have succumbed to the infection. As of July 31, a total of 11,968 samples have been sent for genome sequencing from Maharashtra. Of these, 8,089 were detected with the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) of the novel coronavirus. The state has at least 20 cases are of the AY.3 sub-lineage that has been on the rise in the US for the past few weeks. The state’s samples also have 31 cases of the AY.1 sub-lineage and 10 cases of AY.2 sub-lineage. Medical experts said that it is difficult to analyse the impact of these sub-lineages as the number of samples are few. According to Awate, the sub-lineages- AY.1, AY.2, AY.3, AY.12- found in Maharashtra have all been clubbed under the Delta Plus category owing to the lack of nomenclature attached to these newer mutations. “Data from the UK suggests that the Delta Plus variant is more virulent and can have immune escape response to vaccines and monoclonal antibodies,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid-19 task force of Maharashtra. “But it is too early to comment on its behaviour as we have few identified cases,” he said. In June, the Union health ministry declared that Delta Plus was a variant of concern for the country as it had characteristics like increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and a potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response. A recent study carried out by researchers based in Boston that is yet to be peer-reviewed observed that transmission of the Delta variant sub-lineage AY.3 may occur among vaccinated persons even in the more controlled environment of an inpatient medical-surgical ward. “It remains to be determined whether the Delta variant AY.3 lineage is more transmissible than the Delta Variant B.1.617.2,” the researchers said in the paper. “Our findings do raise concern that without stricter risk mitigation, nosocomial (originating in a hospital) transmission of the Delta variant and Delta sub-lineages will occur more frequently than with prior, less transmissible variants, even in vaccinated persons,” researchers said. A state health official said that aggressive contact tracing has been carried out in the identified Delta Plus cases. A few cluster infections have been found linked to the Delta Plus cases. Of the 76 patients identified so far, 10 were fully vaccinated while 12 were partially vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-10-more-delta-plus-cases-tally-now-76-101629142771503.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Fearing Taliban regime, Afghan students seek visa extension||With the Taliban taking over Kabul, several Afghan students studying at Rohtak’s Maharshi Dayanand University are scrambling to apply for visa extension. Fifty-two Afghan students were enrolled in the 2019-20 academic session and 12 in 2020-21, says MDU centre of international academic affairs dean Ajay Rajan. The Visas of most will expire by November-end. “We have extended the visa of one student and will look into other students’ cases as and when they approach us,” Rajan said.Abdul Rahim Wardak, who is pursuing a masters in public administration, said, “My visa expires in a couple of days. All of us are hoping to get a visa extension as the situation in Afghanistan has turned violent. I have been trying to contact my family for a month, but to no avail. We are also facing financial problems as we are unable to contact our families. On Tuesday, a delegation of Afghan students will approach MDU officials and request them to extend our visas for a year.” Wardak has just appeared for the final semester exams and is waiting for the result. “ I want to continue to study at MDU, and will look for a job to meet my expenses,” he added. Around nine Afghan students are still in Rohtak, while many are stuck in Afghanistan. A student of public administration, who is in Afghanistan, said the situation in Mazar-i-Sharif, the fourth largest Afghan city is volatile with people not being allowed to venture out of their homes.“ My family has been asking me to approach MDU authorities to get a visa to travel to India. My visa expired last month. After the Taliban takes charge, it will not be possible to go to the Kabul airport. I urge the Indian government to evacuate all Afghan students who are studying in India,” he said, his voice cracking with emotion during the telephonic conversation. Another Afghan student stuck in Kabul said he will travel to India once the situation improves. “My visa expires in September. I have contacted officials at MDU and they assured me that they will extend my visa for a year. The Indian government is our only hope. Other countries have fled, leaving us in a war-like situation,” the student said over the phone.Indian National Student Organisation (INSO) national president Pradeep Deswal, said they will meet the vice-chancellors of different universities in the northern region and request them to extend the study visa of Afghan students for a year.“ We will also provide financial support to Afghan students, if needed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fearing-taliban-regime-afghan-students-seek-visa-extension-101629142770326.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: Faridkot court initiates process to declare 3 dera members as POs||A Faridkot district court on Monday started proceedings to declare three members of the Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s national committee as proclaimed offenders (PO) in connection with 2015 Bargari sacrilege cases as the special investigation team (SIT) failed to nab them. The court of judicial magistrate Tarjani initiated PO proceedings against three Haryana residents — Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kaler and Harsh Dhuri — after three arrest warrants against them in two sacrilege cases wherein torn pages of a “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) were found scattered in Bargari and three derogatory posters were put up near gurdwaras at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages in 2015, returned unexecuted. “Non-bailable warrants issued against the accused since July 23 have remained unexecuted. They are evading the service or concealing themselves from the execution of non-bailable warrants. Now, proclamation under Section 82 of the CrPC be issued against them for September 20,” the judicial magistrate said. Naming the three as conspirators in the Bargari sacrilege and derogatory posters cases, the SIT had filed a challan in the court last month. They have already been declared POs in three other sacrilege cases as police have failed to nab them since 2018 when they were first named in cases connected to sacrilege incidents in Moga and Bathinda districts in 2015. Bareta, Kler and Dhuri were also named as accused in the Malke and Gurusar cases. Torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib were found at Malke village in Moga district in November 2015 and Gurusar (Bhagta) village in Bathinda district in October 2015. Last year, they were named as accused in the “bir” theft case. The SIT probing the case claims that Bareta, Kler and Dhuri are the key link in Punjab’s five sacrilege incidents that sparked state-wide protests in 2015. “The instructions to execute sacrilege at Bargari, Moga and Gurusar were given by Bareta, Kler and Dhuri to the district dera committee members,” say the SIT.The SIT also claims that derogatory posters were pasted near the Bargari gurdwara on the intervening night of September 24 and 25, 2015, by dera followers on Bareta, Kler and Dhuri’s directions. “Later, on their directions, pages of the bir, which was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1, 2015, were scattered at Bargari on October 12, 2015. They directed dera’s state committee member Mohinder Pal Bittu to steal a bir from gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village,” claims the SIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-faridkot-court-initiates-process-to-declare-3-dera-members-as-pos-101629142768119.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||BMC to raze, rebuild part of Mumbai’s 1st skywalk at Bandra; traffic to BKC to be hit||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to demolish and rebuild a part of the city’s first skywalk in Bandra. BMC has taken the decision owing to the structural defects pointed out by a third-party auditor. Owing to the demolition and reconstruction, traffic on the station road leading to Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) is likely to be hit.The skywalk starts from SV Road in Bandra (West) up to the BKC junction. According to BMC officials, the stretch of the skywalk between the eastern side of Bandra station and the Western Express Highway will be rebuilt at the cost of around ₹16.2 crore. BMC has already floated bids for the work, and the last date for submitting bids is September 13. The civic body has set a target of 18 months, including the monsoon period, for the demolition and reconstruction of the skywalk. The civic body plans to reconstruct the skywalk as the difference in expenditure between carrying out major repairs and rebuilding it is narrow. “For now, we are taking a particular stretch of the Bandra East skywalk [for reconstruction]. A decision on the remaining such structures will be taken in the coming days. We plan to carry out demolition and reconstruction according to the traffic movement on the station road as it is not feasible to shut the road below,” said Satish Thosar, chief engineer of BMC’s bridges department. The skywalk was constructed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and later handed over to BMC for maintenance in 2015.During the 2019 monsoon season, a portion of the skywalk at Bandra (East) collapsed, injuring a woman. Following the incident, an audit was ordered into the stability of several skywalks. In August 2019, HT had reported that BMC was considering the demolition of a portion of the skywalk to make it structurally stable, but the execution of the plan was delayed owing to the Covid-induced lockdown.Apart from the Bandra skywalk, 23 more skywalks are due to undergo major repairs or reconstruction. Following the Himalaya Bridge collapse at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus in March 2019, BMC had appointed the Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) to suggest major repairs for 24 skywalks, including the one at Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-raze-rebuild-part-of-mumbai-s-1st-skywalk-at-bandra-traffic-to-bkc-to-be-hit-101629142708516.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man discovers wife’s affair with nephew, bludgeons him to death||Enraged over his nephew’s affair with his wife, a 45-year-old man bludgeoned him to death at their house in Raj Enclave on Jagirpur Road on Saturday night.The accused, Sarwan Kumar, knew of his wife’s illicit relationship since March and had been planning to murder his nephew, Sapan Kumar Shah, 30, since. He has been arrested and has confessed to the crime, the police said.The cold-blooded murder came to light on Sunday morning after Sidhu Kumar, a labourer, visited the house to check on Sapan, who has not been answering his phone calls. Shocked to find Sapan lying dead on his bed, he immediately called the police. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, Rural) Sachin Gupta said the victim, who hailed from Madhepura, Bihar, was a labour contractor and also ran a printing unit on the ground floor of the house. He used to sleep in the printing unit, while his maternal uncle, Sarwan, a labourer, lived on the first floor with his wife and children.When police reached the house on being alerted about the murder, Sarwan initially claimed that an intruder killed his nephew, but kept changing his statements continuously raising police’s suspicion.When cops picked holes in his theory, he confessed that he had bludgeoned Sapan to death with an iron rod while he was asleep. The rod was recovered from the house.Found out about affair getting bail in drug case“Sarwan was serving two years in jail in a drug peddling case. He came out on bail in March this year. At home, he overheard a conversation between his wife and Sapan, and found out about their affair. Furious over his wife’s infidelity behind his back, he decided to murder Sapan,” the JCP said.“But Sapan left for Bihar in April to get married. He came back to Ludhiana in May and again left for Bihar within a week. Since his return to the city on July 27, Sarwan had been lying in wait for an appropriate time to execute the murder. He also confessed that he planned to throw his nephew’s body in a canal, but failed to drag the body,” he added.The victim’s parents and wife were alerted about the incident. The body was handed over to them after their arrival from Bihar on Monday.The accused is facing a murder case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. He will be produced in court on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-discovers-wife-s-affair-with-nephew-bludgeons-him-to-death-101629142588028.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Demand for IVF treatment on rise in second Covid wave||Fertility clinics in the city that had witnessed a temporary halt in In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) treatments during the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic last year, saw couples starting or resuming their plan of conceiving, despite the second wave. With no end to the pandemic in sight, doctors said the couples who had postponed their fertility treatment in the first wave, are now queuing up at fertility clinics.“We couldn’t wait any longer for the IVF treatment since we realised that Covid-19 is here to stay,” said a 38-year-old Bhandup resident, who is an engineer. She got married in 2015 at the age of 32. The couple delayed their plans to have children since her husband, now 40, who works in the Hindi film industry as an animator, had to go to Chicago for his masters in animation in 2017. When they decided to start a family after his return in 2019, she was diagnosed with abnormalities in her ovulation (the monthly release of an egg from the ovaries). Doctors suggested she undergo ovulation induction (OI) that uses hormonal therapy to stimulate egg development and release for fertility.“In May 2019, I started my treatment. But it wasn’t helpful. So, doctors recommended intrauterine insemination (IUI),” she said. IUI is a procedure for treating infertility in which a small catheter is used to directly inject the sperm into the uterus around the time the ovary releases one or more eggs to be fertilised.The couple was scheduled for the first procedure on April 12, 2020, however, by then Covid-19 had already hit Mumbai city. “The virus was new. Since there were so many rumours that Covid-19 could even infect the foetus, we decided to stop the procedures till the pandemic gets over,” she said. But even after a year, in March, the pandemic showed no sign of receding across the globe with the mutation of the virus.After waiting for almost 13 months, they decided to undergo the procedure in May. To their surprise, she got pregnant on the first cycle. “There is only a 20% success rate in the first cycle for IUI procedure. After waiting for 13 months, I am finally pregnant,” she said. “Compared to the first wave, we were more confident in the second wave for fertility treatment. We were ready to take the risk,” she added.This is not an isolated case where couples postponed their IVF treatment amid the pandemic. Data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows that around 8,000 women underwent IVF treatment in the city in 2016, which shot up to over 12,000 in 2019. However, following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year, a health official from the civic body said there was a 50% drop in the number of couples opting for IVF treatment.“All fertility clinics were closed. Due to the national lockdown, people couldn’t travel for their regular IVF treatment and follow-up examination. Prospective parents were also scared of the possibility of the virus getting transmitted to the foetus. As a result, IVF treatment hit a roadblock,” said Dr Richa Jagtap, clinical director, consultant reproductive medicine, Nova IVF fertility, Mumbai.IVF treatment is a long-term process that requires multiple visits to the fertility clinic, involving scans, medications, and injections. “In the beginning, there were no clear guidelines and the research on Sars-Cov-2, a new virus, was limited. So, we had to stop procedures for 1-2 months. But now, the union health ministry has issued guidelines. All IVF centres are taking all precautionary measures for the safety of the mothers and babies,” said DrJagtap.Medical experts said couples who had put their plans to conceive a child on hold due to the Covid-19 don’t want to wait for long for IVF treatment since it’s now widely known that the virus will stay longer than anticipated.As per the IVF clinics, they are witnessing over 200% rise in IVF cycles compared to the first wave. For instance, Indira IVF recorded only 107 IVF cycles in April last year. This year in April, they conducted 2,780 cycles.“All patients who had postponed their IVF treatment are coming to clinics for fertility treatment. We are also getting a large number of new patients including single women who are opting for IVF treatment. Their fear about the virus has changed,” said Dr Kshitiz Murdia, chief executive officer and co-founder of Indira IVF.Murdia added, “In the last 18 months of the pandemic, citizens have adapted to it (existence of Covid-19). They know that with proper precautionary measures, the virus can’t infect the mother or the baby.:Dr Smita Mahale, former director, Indian Council of Medical Research- National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR-NIRRH), Parel said couples over the past year have been able to spend more time together due to lockdown triggered work-from-home life that put a stop to an hour-long daily commute to workplaces for a significant number. This, she said, has resulted in many couples wanting to have a child.“Lifestyles of couples has changed. They are eating more at home and exercising. They are more relaxed at home in the lockdown. Couples who were having problems conceiving are also now getting pregnant naturally, without IVF intervention,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaidemand-for-ivf-treatment-on-rise-in-second-covid-wave-101629142471510.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||Dhannipur mosque construction to begin in Ayodhya from November||LUCKNOW The construction of mosque on five-acre land in Dhannipur village of Ayodhya is all set to begin by November, stated officials of the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) — a trust formed by the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board. Initially, work on the project was supposed to start from Republic Day this year, but following technicalities and departmental hiccups, construction of mosque and other public utilities did not begin. The project is named after noted freedom fighter and revolutionary Maulvi Ahmadullah Shah Faizabadi. Prof SM Akhtar, consultant architect overseeing the project, said the IICF now had all the relevant clearances to take donations, which are also exempted from income tax within India. The foundation had opened bank account for FCRA to take foreign donations. FCRA clearance from MoHA was awaited. The work would start once the map was cleared by the Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA). IICF spokesperson Athar Hussain said the construction of the project was expected to begin from November.The site encompassing the mosque would also include a museum, library and a publication in the name of 1857 brave heart Ahmadullah Shah. The Museum will be curated by Prof Pushpesh Pant. Other projects on the complex would include a 300-bed multi-specialty hospital with a community kitchen serving 2,000 meals daily to the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dhannipur-mosque-construction-to-begin-in-ayodhya-from-november-101629142470267.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||2 men linked to UK terror group held, grenades, pistols recovered||AMRITSARPolice on Monday busted a terror module allegedly being operated by an UK-based entity with the arrest of two of its members at a checkpoint near Gharinda village in Amritsar. Police have also recovered two hand grenades and as many fully-loaded pistols of .9mm. The arrest of the accused, identified as Amritpal Singh and Sammy of Amritsar, has averted a possible terrorist attack on or around Independence Day, said police in a statement.This comes days after the recovery of an improvised explosive device (IED) concealed in a tiffin box along with five hand grenades and 100 rounds of 9 mm pistol from a village in Amritsar. Senior superintendent of police (SSP-Amritsar rural) Gulneet Singh Khurana said: “A barricade was set up near Gharinda on Sunday night. During the midnight, the accused, who were on a motorcycle, were questioned and searched on the basis of suspicion. Following this, a pistol was recovered from one of the two accused. On quizzing, the accused told us that they were on their way to collect some arms and ammunition from near the border.”He said: “At the instance of the accused, a pistol and two hand grenades were recovered from Rajatal village situated along the barbed wire fence. The consignment was concealed underground.” “It is most likely that the consignment was smuggled from across the border. We are yet to investigate if the consignment was dropped by a drone or smuggled by using other methods,” the SSP said. Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said the duo was operating on the directions of UK-based terrorist Gurpreet Singh Khalsa, who was also an accused in Ludhiana Shingar Cinema bomb blast case. Khalsa was, however, acquitted in the blast case by a Ludhiana court in 2014. Police sources said Khalsa flew to the UK in 2017.A senior police official, who didn’t wish to be named, said: “Khalsa and Amritpal Singh used to meet in Ludhiana during a movement of Bapu Surat Singh Khalsa in 2015. Khalsa come to limelight for his hunger strike as a form of peaceful protest against illegal and prolonged detention of political prisoners.”Police said Gurpreet had been working as a property dealer while Sammy works as a supervisor in a private company.A case under relevant sections of the Arms Act, and the Explosive Substance (Amendment) Act 2001, has been registered at Gharinda Police Station in Amritsar, said an official spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-men-linked-to-uk-terror-group-held-grenades-pistols-recovered-101629142469046.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Covid numbers continue to be on the slide||Chandigarh Coronavirus infections in Haryana remained in a slump for the 14th successive week with the state reporting a record low of 129 infections between August 9 and 15. The cumulative positivity rate also dropped to 6.84% from 6.95% and the active cases remained below 700. Only five fatalities were reported last week. Health officials, however, have warned that the decline in infection rate will not continue for long with the easing of lockdown restrictions and the festival season in the offing. “There is no room for complacency. There are chances of the numbers climbing up by September-end,’’ said a health official. On Sunday, the state had ordered crèche and anganwadi centres run by the women and child development department to stay closed till August 31 as a precautionary and preventive measure. The deadly second wave of virus had caused around 4.21 lakh infections and 4,200 fatalities over six weeks in April and May. The infections finally started declining in the second week of May. Hisar is the only district with over 100 active cases. Seventeen districts have less than 50 active cases, of which seven have less than 10 active cases. Two more deaths, 22 new cases in Haryana Haryana on Monday recorded two more Covid-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 9,660, while 22 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 7,70,230.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the latest deaths were reported from Bhiwani and Fatehabad districts.Of the new cases, five were from Gurgaon while two each were from Panchkula, Karnal, Yamunanagar, Fatehabad and Palwal districts, it said.The state has 666 active cases. The overall recoveries have reached 7,59,904, while the recovery rate is 98.66%, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-covid-numbers-continue-to-be-on-the-slide-101629142347788.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||HC raps Maharashtra government for keeping crucial MPCB posts vacant for 14 years||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently rapped the state government for keeping the posts of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) vacant and not filling them up to the optimum level with expert members for 14 years. The court held that the presence of the expert members was very important to help MPCB maintain ecology and environment and hence, the state should inform within a month as to how much time would it take to fill up the posts. The division bench of justice SV Gangapurwala and justice RN Laddha, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) by non-governmental organisation (NGO) Lokjagar Foundation through its president Pandharinath Sable, was informed by senior advocate VD Sapkal that the state had not constituted MPCB as per law and many posts of expert members had remained vacant for more than 14 years. Elaborating on the vacant posts, Sakpal submitted that five members of the local authority and three non-officials representing the fields of agriculture, fishery and industry or trader were vacant. He added that though the posts of experts – which are honorary and would not cause any financial burden on the government – had also remained vacant, causing loss to the environment and ecology. The state had filed an affidavit admitting that the board was not constituted to its full strength of 17 members. The bench had observed that the affidavit had not mentioned on the steps being taken by the state to make the board functional to its optimum. The bench had then asked the government to provide steps to be taken for appointment of non-official members and the period within which the same could be done.In its order passed on August 5, the bench noted, “The MPCB has an important role to play in maintenance of ecology and environment. The expert members would always be an asset to the board...14 years is too long a period for the board not being constituted to its optimum.” The court then sought a positive response from the government over the time in which it would be constituting the board to its optimum level and inform it in the next hearing on September 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-raps-maharashtra-government-for-keeping-crucial-mpcb-posts-vacant-for-14-years-101629142287871.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||UP inches closer to 6-cr Covid vaccine doses mark||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh inched closer to the 6-crore Covid vaccine doses mark with 22,57,773 beneficiaries inoculated on Monday. The total number of doses administered in the state now had reached 5,96,28,820. “In Lucknow, 51,326 doses were administered during the day, including 31,308 male and 20,018 female beneficiaries,” said Dr MK Singh, in-charge of vaccination in Lucknow. This was the second highest after 80,410 administered on August 3. Till now, 23,12,423 doses have been administered in Lucknow, including 17,51,616 first and 5,60,807 second doses. Across UP, 22,57,773 doses were administered during the day, which was the second highest after 29,52,435 doses on August 3. “A special vaccination campaign was conducted during the day. The aim is to reach 6-crore dose mark at the earliest. UP will be the first state in the country to achieve this figure in vaccination,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, information. “Mega vaccination camps conducted recently have been instrumental in giving a push to vaccination. A large number of people are now coming to take the jabs,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-inches-closer-to-6-cr-covid-vaccine-doses-mark-101629142228649.html
17-08-2021||Pune||Local trains to open for vaccinated people in Pune||Soon, the Pune to Lonavla local trains are about to open for people who have got both doses of Covid vaccination. The Pune district administration and Pune railway division are working over the issue to resume the service.Last week, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh and even both the civic bodies (Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation) had allowed people who have been vaccinated with both doses to commute by local trains, but the decision has not been implemented yet.On the other hand, railways have asked the local governing bodies to issue identity cards to people who have been vaccinated with both doses and accordingly railways will issue monthly season tickets for Pune-Lonavala local train passengers.“As the state government has issued new guidelines about local train transportation, we have requested the Pune district administration to issue identity cards to passengers who have taken both the doses of Covid vaccination.Also, 14 days should be completed after the second dose, and only then Railways will issue monthly tickets to such passengers,” said Pune divisional railway manager (DRM) Renu Sharma.Since the countrywide lockdown began on March 23 last year, all the train operations in the Pune railway division were stopped.While in October 2020, the local trains resumed back in Pune which is a major transport mode for working people between Pune and Lonavla stretch. But again in March 2021 the train operations for the common public were stopped due to a surge in Covid-19 cases.Talking about the issue, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “Instructions have been given to both the civic bodies to issue necessary identity cards, and the local train service would start for common public too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/local-trains-to-open-for-vaccinated-people-in-pune-101629142227286.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Missing vials in Kausa: Doctor suspended; TMC files complaint||A day after 40 vaccine doses went missing from the Kausa Stadium vaccination centre in Mumbra, the Thane Municipal Corporation has suspended Dr. Sharmin Dinga, who was in-charge of the centre.The civic body has also given a written complaint to the Mumbra Police Station to investigate the hair transplant clinic, where the vaccine vials were found and also against the concerned doctor of the centre.Maruti Khodke, TMC PRO, said, “Dr. Sharmin Dinga, who was in-charge of the Kausa Stadium vaccination centre, is suspended till further orders. We have found that she was responsible for sending the 40 missing doses from the centre to the hair transplant clinic. The reason for the same is not yet clear. We have also submitted a complaint to the police station to investigate the entire matter.”A senior police officer from Mumbra Police Station said, “We have received a written complaint from the TMC to investigate the case. However, they have not registered an FIR.”Forty vaccine doses that allegedly went missing from a vaccination centre in Mumbra were found in a hair transplant clinic by TMC on Sunday. Local residents had complained on Saturday that the doses were missing from the vaccination centre at Kausa, Mumbra. The corporation has sealed the clinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/missing-vials-in-kausa-doctor-suspended-tmc-files-complaint-101629142169699.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Khandra village prepares to receive the golden boy of Tokyo Olympics||With Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra expected to return home after his historic win on Tuesday, the residents of Khandra village in Panipat are preparing a hero’s welcome for the sports star.  A convoy will bring him home from Panipat to Khandra, where he is expected to arrive around 11am. Special sweets are being prepared with confectioners being called from Jind and a few other districts to cater to a gathering of 20,000, including politicians. What is a party without music? So, DJs, tents and vehicles have been arranged and a rostrum has been setup to honour the Olympian. Chopra’s family has invited all well-wishers to the village to bless the 23-year-old. His uncle, Bhim Chopra said, “Neeraj will reach the village on Tuesday. I request all friends, relatives and well-wishers to reach the village and bless him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khandra-village-prepares-to-receive-the-golden-boy-of-tokyo-olympics-101629142048470.html
17-08-2021||Pune||Man beaten to death over suspicion of shoplifting in Pune||Four men were arrested for beating a man to death over suspicion of stealing products from a cosmetic store on Saturday night.The deceased was identified as Vicky Ganpat Bhosale while the assailants were identified as Ganesh Pandurang Borhade, Santosh Sukhdev Jadhav, Sarthak Sanjay Valse, Ravindra alias Pintya Daulat Thorat, according to the police.“He had stolen some cosmetics from the shop, according to their information. They had noticed items missing and rumors had flown that he had stolen and sold those items,” said Police inspector Arjun Shinde of Manchar police station.The four men attacked him with wooden sticks, cricket bat, leather belt on his legs, back, face, and head, causing grievous injuries leading to his death.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased man’s brother Martand alias Yogesh Ganpat Bhosale (27) a folk dancer by profession living in Patilwada area of Manchar in Ambegaon taluka of Pune.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Manchar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-beaten-to-death-over-suspicion-of-shoplifting-in-pune-101629142047178.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||SAD an outdated, ideologically bankrupt party, says Manpreet||Chandigarh Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Monday said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is like a bankrupt and failed bank that has already mortgaged its ideology and is now issuing bounced cheques. Reacting to SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal’s comments, Manpreet said he (Sukhbir) was uttering gibberish remarks of ideological differences between them, but he had to introspect first before pointing out others. The SAD had failed the two key constituents that it always proclaimed to champion, he said in a statement, adding that it failed the farmers in passing the three farm bills and it was in cahoots with the BJP in destroying the backbone of Indian agriculture. Manpreet said that secondly, the SAD always claimed to be a champion for the cause of the Sikhs, but actually the party had let the community down time and again – be it the 1979 incident in Amritsar that triggered the Punjab crisis, or sacrilege incidents at Bargari and other places in 2015. “So, while I wish good luck to the Akali Dal, people are fully aware that it is an outdated and ideologically bankrupt party and like a failed bank, the cheques issued from their boastful coffers are bouncing and will always be,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-an-outdated-ideologically-bankrupt-party-says-manpreet-101629141987799.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt approves seed funding for 4 startups||Chandigarh In a move to give a push to boost to entrepreneurship, the Punjab government has approved seed funding of ₹3 lakh each to four startups for the first time in the state. The startups – M/s Grainpad Private Limited from Mohali, M/s Ygeiax Sciences Private Limited from Ludhiana, M/s Earth Naturals from Sangrur and M/s Black Eye Technologies Private Limited from Ludhiana – have been cleared for seed funding after due evaluation process by the state-level committee. Industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora handed over sanction letters and cheques of seed funding to the four startups at a ceremony held by Startup Punjab at Udyog Bhawan here. While Grainpad has developed an AI-driven medical diagnostic chatbot that can run a thorough patient interview, evaluate symptoms and guide patients according to their inputs and symptoms, Ygeiax makes organic, plant-based products which are made in symphony with ayurveda and permaculture principles, according to a statement issued by industries department. Earth Naturals is promoting organic food and fabric products produced by a group of small certified organic farmers whereas Black Eye Technologies Private Limited has developed an IOT device, which is being used by farmers to control and monitor the water supply according to the crop sown in the field. Principal secretary, industries, Hussan Lal said 29 startups have registered with the “Startup Punjab” from various sectors such as agritech, cleantech, food processing, IT/ITeS, waste management, etc. Director, industries, Sibin C, who is also startup nodal officer, said that a 500-seater startup Punjab hub (Neuron) in Mohali, for which the state government was giving ₹10 crore, would offer plug-n-play space to startups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-approves-seed-funding-for-4-startups-101629141929958.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects compassionate appointment plea 26 yrs after death of rly staffer||The Bombay high court (HC), while dismissing the appeal of a woman against an order of the administrative tribunal – which had rejected her 2017 plea for compassionate appointment of her 27-year-old daughter in place of her husband – held that it would be a “mockery of the scheme” if an order contrary of the tribunals order was passed. HC stated that appointment on compassionate grounds scheme was to ensure that the family of the deceased government employee did not suffer poverty and was bound by a period of limitation and hence, the tribunal was right in rejecting the application of the woman who sought appointment under the scheme 26 years after her husband had passed away. The woman’s husband, a railway employee, had died while on duty in 1991. Though the railways had sought to know if she wanted a job after her husband’s death soon after his demise, she had not responded to the offer then. It was only when her daughter turned 26 years old, did she seek the benefit. Hence, HC deemed that as the woman and her daughter had managed to survive all these years without needing a job with the railways, it would be a mockery of the scheme if her appeal was allowed and the daughter was appointed on compassionate grounds after the passage of 26 years. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the appeal filed by Alka Govind Kumbhar, was informed by her lawyer that in December 2016, the woman had come to know about the appointment on compassionate ground scheme after her brother-in-law applied to the railways for the same. In February 2017, she had applied for the appointment under the scheme for her daughter. The advocate submitted that though his client had submitted all the documents sought by the railway officer concerned, in May 2018, she came to know that the application for appointing her daughter on compassionate grounds was rejected. However, the letter rejecting the application, dated March 2018, had not been conveyed to Kumbhar. Hence, she approached the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) in 2019 against the railways’ decision. After hearing all the sides, CAT had dismissed her plea in August 2019. Hence, she had appealed against CAT’s order in HC. Advocate TJ Pandian for the railways, however, opposed the appeal and submitted an affidavit which stated that there was no merit in the appeal and it should be rejected. Pandian submitted that the railways had closed the issue of appointment on compassionate grounds for the deceased, Govind Kumbhar, in 1992 after his wife had failed to respond to a letter issued by them. Pandian further submitted that even if the argument that the daughter was only 11 months old when Govind expired and hence she could not take up the job, she should have approached the railways on attaining the age of 18 years and not when she turned 27 years old. Pandian urged the court to reject the appeal, stating that the scheme was intended to help the family of the employee whose sudden death would have plunged the members in financial difficulties. But as the mother and daughter had survived all these years and the daughter also got married, she was no more in need of the job, HC rejected the appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-compassionate-appointment-plea-26-yrs-after-death-of-rly-staffer-101629141928583.html
17-08-2021||Pune||Chinese national among 4 booked for cheating engineer of ₹14.96 lakh in pyramid scheme||Pune: A Chinese national is among four suspects in a case of using a pyramid scheme for online cheating of a group of 8 people, including an IT engineer, from Pimpri Chinchwad. A complaint in the case was lodged by a 30-year-old IT engineer who works in a company in Hinjewadi and lives Vijaynagar, Kalewadi, according to the police. “There are four suspects, one is a Chinese national who is yet to be arrested, and three others were arrested in February by Cyberabad police in a similar case where funds worth ₹200 crore have been frozen as a part of the investigation,” said assistant inspector Sambhaji Jadhav of Wakad police station who registered the case. The three others were identified as Uday Pratap and Rajesh Sharma of Gurugram and Nileshkumar Kothari of Dwarka in national capital region. The engineer from Kalewadi contacted the accused after seeing a video on YouTube created by them. “Initially, the men promised a return of ₹35 on every ₹100 investment. They even gave those returns so the investors started investing more money. The complainant roped in his family members, friends and relatives,” said API Jadhav. The group was collectively duped of ₹14,96,588, according to the police. They were promised a return of ₹5,85,000 in the form of bonus for bringing new referrals to join the scheme, according to the complainant. A case under Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chinese-national-among-4-booked-for-cheating-engineer-of-14-96-lakh-in-pyramid-scheme-101629141927230.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Viral fever cases in Mumbai on rise amid monsoon: Doctors||Although the number of Covid-19 infections has plunged, cases of viral fever have increased in the city. Doctors have warned against ignoring the symptoms and self-medication.Every year, during the monsoon season, the city records hundreds of viral fever cases. Last year, due to the national lockdown, the number of cases was limited. But this year, with the relaxation of Covid-19 related lockdown restrictions, the movement of people outside has increased, which has led to a rise in the cases of viral fever with cold and cough.“Monsoon provides a suitable environment for the viruses to thrive. After intermittent rain, we have recorded a rise of around 25% cases of viral fever in our outpatient department (OPD). Every year, the number of patients are recorded between the months of July and August,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital.As viral fever shares similar symptoms with Covid-19, all patients have to undergo a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test to avoid any misdiagnosis.“Flu fever and Covid-19 is difficult to distinguish clinically. We, therefore, recommend RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests for all suspected flu patients,” said Dr Manjusha Agarwal, senior consultant-internal medicine at Global Hospital, Parel.“A blood test is the best way to identify these viruses. There is one more provision of a test called BioFire for respiratory infections, which can give results very quickly and can differentiate between various viral respiratory infections and helps us decide the line of treatment,” Dr Sanjith Saseedharan, consultant and head of the Critical Care, SL Raheja Hospital, Mahim.Doctors in fever clinics have been instructed to check the medical history of patients with flu along with their domestic and international travel history and if they were in close contact with Covid-19 positive patients.“We should not be complacent and lower our testing threshold thinking Covid-19 is regressing. We need to be more careful and vigilant of all fever cases coming to us now, given the reopening of train travel, restaurants and with festivals around the corner, ” said Dr Agarwal.Doctors have warned against ignoring symptoms and opting for self-medication amid the pandemic. “Though Covid-19 positivity rate has gone below 1%, the pandemic isn’t over yet. The virus is still present. Those with flu-like symptoms should get tested or consult a doctor immediately,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/viral-fever-cases-in-mumbai-on-rise-amid-monsoon-doctors-101629141867980.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||Controversy after BJP leader hoists national flag at Agra’s Jama Masjid||AGRA Independence Day celebrations at the Jama Masjid in Agra led to a controversy after Shahar Mufti Abdul Khubaib Roomi and a local Congress leader Haji Jamiluddin condemned UP Minority Commission chairman and BJP leader Ashfaq Saifi for flag hoisting and singing nation anthem at a madarsa on the premises. The event was hosted by Local Islamia Agency, which manages the affairs of the Jama Masjid. In an audio that went viral on social media, the Shahar Mufti condemned such events at the Jama Masjid, saying they were “against Islamic values and the offenders should fear the Almighty.” But the chairman of UP Minority Commission, who was present there as chief guest, justified the flag hoisting and singing of national anthem on the premises. “This was one of the many events organised on the occasion of Independence Day. I was present as chief guest at the Jama Masjid, where the programme was hosted by a madarsa, which is recognized by the government,” stated Ashfaq Saifi on Monday. “As usual on I-Day, the national anthem was sung, the national flag was hoisted and ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ was chanted. India got independence after contribution from all communities and as such there cannot be a religious divide in it. A controversy is unnecessarily being created over an I-Day event organized at Jama Masjid in Agra,” stated Saifi. Local Congress leader and national vice president of All India Jamaitul Quresh, Haji Jamilluddin Qureshi, stood in support of the Shahar Mufti and condemned the event organized at Jama Masjid. “There was no logic in using the premises of Jama Masjid for holding an Independence Day event. It could have been organized anywhere near Jama Masjid, in the open. The Jama Masjid premises has its own sanctity and has been dragged into controversy needlessly by organizing such an event,” he said. However, chairman of Local Islamia Agency, Haji Aslam Qureshi, the host of the event and the one who invited the UP Minority Commission chairman for it, justified holding the Independence Day event on Jama Masjid compound. He demanded security for himself alleging that he was receiving threats after organizing the event. “Shahar Mufti is not justified in opposing the Independence Day event at Jama Masjid and has used harsh words against us. We would file an FIR and seek security for ourselves in wake of threats being issued for hosting Independence Day event at Jama Masjid,” said Qureshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/controversy-after-bjp-leader-hoists-national-flag-at-agra-s-jama-masjid-101629141808809.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Direct selling industry crosses ₹500-crore mark in Punjab||The direct selling industry in Punjab has crossed the ₹500-crore mark for the first time, registering a year-on-year growth of around 6%, according to the annual survey report released by the Indian Direct Selling Association (IDSA) here on Monday. The IDSA report pegged the gross turnover in Punjab at ₹523 crore in 2019-20, making it one of the largest direct selling markets in the northern region. About 1.5 lakh people participated in direct selling in the state, said the report released at a press conference. IDSA treasurer Vivek Katoch thanked the Punjab government and food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for notifying the direct selling guidelines last year. The guidelines brought about regulatory clarity for the business model in the state,” he said, adding that the industry also contributed over ₹60 crore by way of taxes to the state exchequer. The department of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs had notified the direct selling guidelines in November 2020 to further strengthen the regulatory mechanism in the state. The Punjab guidelines have mandated forming a state monitoring authority, comprising of senior officials of different departments of the state government and a subject matter expert nominated by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/direct-selling-industry-crosses-rs-500-crore-mark-in-punjab-101629141807704.html
17-08-2021||Pune||67-year-old pedestrian killed in hit-and-run in Pune||A 67-year-old pedestrian was killed by a speeding truck in a hit-and-run in Hadapsar on Saturday afternoon. The deceased man was identified as Hanumant Audumbar Rakshe (67) a resident of Nandini Taklenagar in Manjri Budrukh area of Pune. Rakshe was walking on the road in Shewalewadi chowk which connects traffic from Solapur with Pune city when he the mishap took place. The suspect was driving truck towards Pune from Solapur. “The deceased was crossing the Pune-Solapur lane to cross over to the Solapur-Pune lane and then took a right turn (turning his back to the truck). We are tracking the truck to arrest the driver,” said sub-inspector SS Gadekar of Hadapsar police station. Rakshe was a labourer and survived by his wife, Jyoti Rakshe (44) who is the complainant in the case. A case under IPC was registered at Hadapsar police station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/67yearold-pedestrian-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-pune-101629141748814.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh yoga college principal honoured on I-Day||Government College Of Yoga Education and Health, Chandigarh, principal Sapna Nanda was felicitated by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore for meritorious services and initiatives on Sunday.To encourage students, staff and yoga enthusiasts to contribute to yoga literature, Nanda launched an annual college magazine Kalash in 2020 and a half-yearly newsletter Yogvritant. On the seventh international day of yoga, she launched an online journal The Yogic Insight.To sensitise students and faculty about the importance of environment, a Yog Eco Club was started in the college. Moreover, Chandigarh’s first-ever project on solid waste management was inaugurated in the college campus under the clean and green campaign.Around 120 videos have been uploaded on YouTube and Facebook to spread awareness on yoga and health.The 7th International Day of Yoga was organised virtually in collaboration with Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, Sowa-Rigpa and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) amid all the challenges of Covid pandemic and various initiatives were undertaken during the challenging times of the pandemic the sole purpose to contribute to the well-being of society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-yoga-college-principal-honoured-on-iday-101629141748271.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar wants Congress leaders on Pegasus probe committee||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and former Union defence minister Sharad Pawar on Monday said that issues such as the alleged Pegasus snooping case are dealt with by the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), the home ministry or the security advisor and not by the defence ministry, which had given a clarification on it. Pawar also called for the inclusion of one of three senior Congress leaders in the committee being constituted to probe the alleged Pegasus snooping, so that the investigation gets credibility.While addressing a press conference in NCP’s Mumbai office, Pawar said that if a committee is being constituted under the observation of the Apex court, one of the members should be from among senior Congress leaders P Chidambaram, Abhishek Manu Singhvi or Kapil Sibal. “I cannot interfere in the Supreme Court’s matter, but the inclusion of one of these leaders will help in making the probe credible as they have thoroughly studied the entire issue. I have been told that such a committee is being constituted to probe the snooping,” he said.Pawar said that the though the Centre has been claiming that it had no role to play in alleged Pegasus snooping episode and though the defence minister has said that they did not deal with any Israeli agency in this issue, such types of deals are done by other agencies. “Such deals are not done by the defence ministry, but RAW, ministry of home affairs or security advisors generally handle such things. I am not suggesting they have done it,” he added.He was referring to the alleged surveillance against politicians, activists and journalist using spyware Pegasus, disruption in the Parliament during the recent monsoon session over the issue and the latest developments in the Apex court during hearing over the case.Pawar also termed the disruption in the Parliament and the treatment meted out to the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha as “unprecedented”. “The Opposition, during its meeting with the government ahead of the monsoon session, had clearly said that it wanted to debate on the Pegasus issue, farm laws and the rising fuel prices. The government was non-committal over the timing of debate on these issues, which led to disruption of the houses. What happened on August 11 was unprecedented, which I had never witnessed in 54 years of my life as a parliamentarian. Force was used by security personnel against parliamentarians in an attempt to indirectly attack them inside Rajya Sabha,” he said.Pawar rubbished reports that stated that he had tried to avoid West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee during the latter’s New Delhi visit during the monsoon session of the Parliament. “I had to rush back to Mumbai on the day Mamatadidi asked for an appointment. I told her that I will meet her in Kolkata. It is true that Opposition parties are trying to come together against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), but nothing concrete has happened yet,” he said.Pawar slammed the Narendra Modi government for the 127th constitutional amendment saying it was just hogwash and the Centre has cheated people in the guise of giving powers to state to give reservation to backward classes. “Ninety percent of the states have crossed the limit of 50% in reservation imposed by 1992-SC ruling in Indra Sawhney case. All the states are facing the difficulty of maintaining the reservations given to the backward classes. Instead of doing away with the ceiling on the percentage of reservation, the Centre brought the amendment to give powers to the states. It is not going help any of the states, including Maharashtra, due to ceiling on the reservation. Had Centre’s intend been to give reservation to communities such as the Marathas, it should have done away with the ceiling in the same constitutional amendment,” Pawar said.He also stated that there was a need to build consensus to build pressure on the Centre for the constitutional amendment to remove the cap of 50%. “Even many leaders from NDA (National Democratic Alliance) want caste-based census and the empirical data to be released as it’s necessary for reservation to backward classes. Union minister Anupriya Patel said this in the Parliament. I am sure more leaders will start pushing for it. The Modi government is scared to release the data as it does not want the real picture on the backwardness of people to come to fore,” he said.Reacting to Pawar’s remarks related to the 127th amendment, Maharashtra BJP said that he was misleading the people to cover up the state government’s failure to protect the Maratha reservation. The party said that they will organise meetings to expose NCP on its “attempts to spread lies”. “Pawar has been batting for the removal of the 50% cap on reservations. Our question is why did he not try for it during his tenure as Union minister even after the Nachiappan Committee report in 2005. Maratha reservation was struck down after raising questions over the Gaikwad Commission report, which was on the backwardness of the Maratha community. This means even if the ceiling is removed, it would be difficult to restore the Maratha reservation unless a new report is prepared by the backward commission. The state government is doing nothing for it,” said Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil, adding that his party leaders were ready to openly debate on the reasons over which the Maratha reservation was struck down by SC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-wants-congress-leaders-on-pegasus-probe-committee-101629141630749.html
17-08-2021||Pune||Parents and schools unhappy over state GR on fee reduction||After the State Government issued notification on Thursday reducing 15 per cent fees in schools for academic year 2021-2022, many parents and activists have expressed unhappiness regarding the same. At the same time, private school association are also unhappy with the decision and intend to object it in the court of law.Mukund Kirdat, education activist and spokesperson of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Pune unit said that the Maharashtra government should have given a 50 per cent concession after considering the savings and profitability of schools in Maharashtra.“Maharashtra English School Trustee Association (MESTA), the school association, had already announced a 25 per cent discount on its own. The government also reduced the amount by 50 percent while giving RTE refunds, citing the reduction in expenditure.” said Kirdat.Various schools have also expressed displeasure about the order stating that the fee reduction will again affect schools who are struggling financially due to the pandemic. Rajendra Singh, president of Federation of School Association of Maharashtra, said the order is not legally binding and has not considered the interest of schools which haven’t received fee from last two years.“Fee reduction is not legal and does not follow the fee regulation act of Maharashtra. The order also does not consider the schools which have not received payments from the last two years. The order also does not consider education as its prime goal. It also does not have a legal stand and hence we will be objecting the order in the High Court,” said Singh.Deputy director of education, Audumbar Ukirde said that there are multiple ways in which the concession in fee will be granted.“We will be issuing a detailed order by August 17 for each school in Pune division regarding how the fee concession is to be carried out. Under this order, all schools are expected to implement fee reduction for this academic year,” said Ukirde.According to the order, school management will have to either adjust the excess fee for the next month or quarter for those parents who have already paid the full fee for this year. The school management can take a call about refunding the fee or adjusting the academic fee, said the GR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-and-schools-unhappy-over-state-gr-on-fee-reduction-101629141627259.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC makes filing of cancellation reports time-bound; issues slew of directions||The Punjab and Haryana high court has come down heavily on prosecution agencies for dillydallying over the filing of cancellation and untraced reports in criminal cases. Now, the high court has made the disposal process time-bound for investigators as well as courts. “The legitimate expectation that cancellation/untraced reports will be filed by the police and disposed of by the courts/magistrates without any undue delay is frustrated not by any shortage of infrastructure or men power but by causes attributable to apathy, neglect, lack of coordination and proper management, and giving of due attention with requisite determination of serving the cause of justice for all. The cause of justice suffers by delay in filing of cancellation/untraced reports by the police and disposal of the same by courts/magistrates,” the bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi observed, issuing a slew of directions to police and judicial officers. The directions came in a criminal case registered in 2016, where proceedings were held up even as the cancellation report had been filed, but the complainant party had gone abroad. From data submitted in the high court, it had come to light that till January 1, 2021 as many as 25,677 cases were pending for investigation for a period of more than one year in Punjab, 7,598 cases in Haryana and 508 cases in Chandigarh. The data also revealed that till January 1, 2021, there were 13,872 cancellation/untraced reports prepared but not approved by the superior officers in Punjab; 21,621 cancellation reports and 44,371 untraced reports pending before officers in Haryana and 97 cancellation reports and 265 untraced reports pending before officers in Chandigarh for their approval for submission before court. There were 10,386 cases in Punjab, where officers had given the go-ahead to submit reports in court, but the needful had not been done; in Haryana’s case 41,147 cancellation reports and 82,856 untraced reports were found such where officers had cleared the reports, but not filed. In Chandigarh, 312 such cancellation and 1,390 untraced reports were found. In Punjab, reports had been filed in 8,669 cases, but were pending consideration of the judicial officer. In Haryana’s case 221 cancellation and 152 untraced reports were pending before judicial officers and Chandigarh had 74 cancellation reports and 483 untraced reports pending before courts. Some cases were found pending since 2009, before police or courts. Now, the DGPs of both the states and Chandigarh have been asked to issue instructions for timely filing of these reports. A copy has been ordered to be sent to prosecutors, judicial offices in both the states and UT, and also to Chandigarh Judicial Academy to sensitise officers during training programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-makes-filing-of-cancellation-reports-time-bound-issues-slew-of-directions-101629141569550.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet gives nod to OTS for regularisation of water, sewerage connections||The Punjab cabinet on Monday approved one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for regularisation of unauthorised water supply and sewerage connections and recovery of arrears, months ahead of the state assembly polls.The move would lead to regularisation of at least 93,000 connections leading to increase in revenue of urban local bodies (ULBs). The decision was taken at the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh through a virtual mode.The meeting, held after two months, was the first since the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress chief, preceded by a tussle during which some cabinet ministers and MLAs were critical of the chief minister in public. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office (CMO) said under the domestic category, ₹200 per connection ( ₹100 each for water supply and sewerage) would be charged as a one-time fee for regularisation of water supply and sewerage connection for a plot measuring up to 125 square yards, ₹500 per connection for plot size between 125 to 250 square yards and ₹1,000 per connection for over 250 square yards plot.In the commercial and institutional category, ₹1,000 per connection ( ₹500 each for water supply and sewerage) would be charged for plot measuring up to 250 square yard and Rs. 2,000 per connection ( ₹1,000 each for water supply and sewerage) for plot above 25 square yard. No penalty would be charged if the fee is deposited within three months from the date of notification. For users who do not get their connection regularised in this period, 100% penalty would be charged. Nod to private self-financed university The cabinet also approved the establishment of a private, self-financed Plaksha University in Mohali’s IT city, to be functional from the upcoming session. The university will come up over 50.12 acre campus with a total investment of ₹1,145 crore. New rules for ‘lal lakir’ properties The cabinet also approved “The Abadi Deh (Record of Right) Rules, 2021,” to compile the record of rights of properties in “Lal Lakir” villages, said the spokesperson. The rules will also facilitate villagers’ monetise property rights and avail various benefits provided by the government departments. ‘Lal Lakir’ refers to land that is part of the village ‘’abadi’’ (habitation) and is used for non-agriculture purposes only.For setting up retail outlets (petrol, diesel and CNG) in 12 locations at various prisons in the state under Punjab Prison Development Board (PPDB), the council of ministers approved waiver of (Change of Land Use). ₹48.77 lakh would be waived to set up the retail outlets at central jails in Patiala, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur, besides district jails of Sangrur and Ropar, new district jail and district jail of Nabha and sub jail and Fazilka. Subsistence allowance for kin of Mosul victims The cabinet approved subsistence allowance of ₹10,000 from October 2019 for family members of eight of the 27 people from the state who were killed by the terrorist outfit ISIS in Mosul in Iraq in 2014.The allowance will be given to the parents of seven deceased. The wife of one deceased will also get the allowance. In cases of these eight men, their kin were not eligible for jobs on compassionate grounds under the state policy.The cabinet cleared merger of Punjab Agro Juices Limited (PAJL) with Punjab agri export corporation limited (PAGREXCO). The new entity would be called ‘Punjab Agri Export Corporation Limited’. Besides amendments to the service rules of five state government departments, including home, animal husbandry, fisheries, school education and rural development & panchayats were allowed to fast-track the process of recruitment. The cabinet also gave its nod to amend the rules concerning recruitment of pre-primary school teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-gives-nod-to-ots-for-regularisation-of-water-sewerage-connections-101629141567930.html
17-08-2021||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad to get 925 autorickshaw stands||PUNE: In a bid to bring irregular auto rickshaw parking under control, the civic chief of the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) Rajesh Patil has decided to allot space for 925 auto rickshaw stands in eight zones of the twin cities. The complete industrial town is divided into eight zones.The PCMC issued a public notice which stated that crowded areas in the city have been witnessing irregular traffic in places such as vegetable-, grocery- and clothes- markets. Along with two-wheelers, standing auto rickshaws, too, are causing big problems. Due to irregular traffic, ambulances and the fire brigade are also facing parking issues. The same goes with residents and customers who come for shopping but cannot find space to park their vehicles. The public notice says that under Article 253 (A) 1 of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act 1949 which permits the civic chief to bring out an order for the regularisation of traffic, space will be allocated to 925 auto rickshaw stands beginning August 13 for the regularisation of traffic.Welcoming the decision, Baba Kamble, president, Maharashtra Auto Panchayat, said, “This is a very good move. Earlier, we had 500 auto rickshaws in Pimpri and Chinchwad but now we have a total 20,000 auto rickshaws so this will regularise the traffic.”Ayub Shaikh, an auto driver, said, “We too don’t want to impede traffic. The PCMC civic body has taken a wise decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprichinchwad-to-get-925-autorickshaw-stands-101629141507134.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Senior citizens’ tribunal can’t outright evict children, relatives: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has held that the Tribunal for Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens cannot outrightly order the eviction of children and other relatives from common residence without first determining a competing set of claims as regards ownership rights in the residential premises.The division bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Madhav Jamdar said in S Vanitha’s case, the Supreme Court (SC) has taken the view that the Senior Citizens Tribunal may have the authority to order an eviction if it is necessary and expedient to ensure maintenance and protection of the senior citizen or parent.“Eviction, in other words, would be incidental to the enforcement of the right to maintenance and protection,” said the bench. “However, this relief can be granted only after adverting to the competing claims in the dispute.”The court was hearing the petition filed by a Malabar Hill resident challenging December 15, 2020 order passed by the Mumbai City Senior Citizen Tribunal ordering her, her husband to vacate their residence on Gibbs Road along with their minor daughter.The order had come on a complaint filed by the petitioner’s widowed mother-in-law in April 2019, complaining of ill-treatment and torture at the hands of her son and daughter-in-law, which had forced her to leave the Gibbs Road residence.The petitioner woman, on the other hand, claimed before HC that her husband was suffering from mental illness and was unable to earn anything and that she alone had to maintain him and her daughter. Apart from refuting the allegations, the petitioner claimed that her mother-in-law intended to dispose of the Gibbs Road flat and therefore wanted them to vacate the premises.It was also argued on behalf of the petitioner that the Tribunal did not take into consideration her husband’s 20℅ shares in the flat and her right to reside in the shared household, under provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence (DV) Act, 2005.HC accepted her contentions and struck down the Tribunal order and remanded the matter back for fresh adjudication. The court said it was essential for the Tribunal to first arrive at a conclusion, as to whether the flat in question was an ancestral property or exclusively owned by the mother-in-law.“Though the procedure contemplated under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 is summary in nature nonetheless the Tribunal is required to find out as to whether the flat in question belongs exclusively to respondent No. 1 (mother-in-law) or it is an ancestral property where the petitioner also has a right to ownership and/or residence through her husband,” court said.HC felt that the tribunal was also required to deal with the contention of the petitioner woman that the flat in question is her shared household wherefrom she cannot be evicted. “It is in the backdrop of the above that the claims of the contesting parties would have to be decided which unfortunately does not appear to be the case in the instant proceeding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/senior-citizens-tribunal-can-t-outright-evict-children-relatives-bombay-hc-101629141387728.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Pay panel report: Punjab govt to decide on rectification in next cabinet meeting||On the sidelines of Monday’s cabinet meeting, Punjab ministers raised concerns over mass strike by the employees of various state government departments, seeking rectification in the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations. It was resolved that by the next cabinet meeting, the state government will take a decision on the issue and come out with a plan. Top officials of the state finance department, who were also part of the meeting, gave a presentation about financial load on the state exchequer on its implementation. “The finance department says even it 15% hike is given, it will put additional burden of ₹1,500-2,000 crore on the state exchequer in the form of salary and pension bill. We have asked the government to resolve the issues with the employees as state elections are scheduled early next year. Employees are protesting against the government and the trend could cost our party dear,” said a minister requesting anonymity. A three-member sub-committee led by local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra is holding talks with the employees for a resolution. Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and education minister Vijay Inder Singla are also part of the committee. Reportedly, all the ministers raised their concerns over the current situation. The state government facing an acute financial crunch and is not in a position to go as per the demand of employees. During a meeting last week, the sub-committee offered a hike of 15% over Fifth Pay Commission recommendations to the employees. But the employees demanded arrears to the tune of 28% and a hike of 20%. The sub-committee gave a fact sheet to the employee union leaders that salaries in state are already higher than most of the states and the central government. Going by the employees demand, the finance department says the state had to bear an additional load of ₹4,000 crore over and above the annual salary and pension bill of ₹27,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pay-panel-report-punjab-govt-to-decide-on-rectification-in-next-cabinet-meeting-101629141328492.html
17-08-2021||Other||Capt announces development projects worth ₹12,000 cr||Amritsar To mark the 75th Independence Day of the country, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced ₹12,000 crore projects for link roads, along with a slew of Scheduled Caste (SC) welfare programmes. Amarinder announced that a law mandating budgetary spending on dalit welfare equal to the percentage of SC population in the state would be implemented soon. “The 85th Constitutional Amendment would also be implemented in line with the judgements of the Supreme Court,” the CM added.He also announced a new set of 1,150 reforms for Medium and Small Enterprises (MSMEs), details of which would be separately shared by the department of investment promotion. He also announced that certain expensive medical procedures and tests like dialysis, X-Rays etc would be made free at government hospitals. He also said that a Universal Health Insurance would be launched shortly.Regularisation of all Safai Karamcharis working for the past 10 years and increase in the monthly honorarium of anganwadi workers, mini anganwadi worker and helpers by ₹600, ₹500 and ₹300, respectively. “Over ₹1,170 crore would be spent under the Punjab Nirman Programme for infrastructure development, according to need,” the CM added. He added that the state government would pay ₹520 crore to 2.85 lakh landless farmers under the Debt Relief scheme on August 20, the birth anniversary of late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. “Debt relief of up to ₹50,000 would be shortly given to about 16,000 beneficiaries of SC and BC Corporation at a cost of ₹62 crore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/capt-announces-development-projects-worth-rs-12-000-cr-101629141268082.html
17-08-2021||Pune||Katraj-Dehu road bypass highway work going on at snail’s pace, citizens furious||PUNE: Due to the slow pace of work on the service road of the Katraj-Dehu road bypass highway near Navale bridge chowk, commuters are facing a lot of difficulties since the past one-and-a-half year. The service road along the Katraj-Navale bridge chowk stretch is coming up at a snail’s pace with plenty of bottlenecks such as mud, huge rocks and construction material posing a risk to people’s lives.Sumedh Vanarase who stays near the Navale bridge chowk said, “The bypass highway near the Navale bridge chowk towards Katraj is in a terrible condition and affects the daily commute of thousands of citizens. I travel daily along the bypass highway and many a time, we have to slow down the vehicle as service road construction material comes in the way.”Another resident Priyanka Khente said, “The service road work is going on very slowly and there is no other alternative road through the bypass highway. Many a time, vehicles come in opposite directions causing more traffic jams during peak hours. There are always bottlenecks at a couple of spots and we have to wait for long till the jam clears.”Atul Namekar, secretary of the Sinhagad road- Warje residents’ association, said, “This bypass highway is a major road which connects several parts of Pune and the Pimpri-Chinchwad area. Hence, there is round-the-clock traffic movement along this bypass road. Earlier too, there have been many fatal accidents due to construction and repair works underway. There needs to be a permanent solution, and service road work should be completed fast with proper safety measures.”Meanwhile, public works department (PWD) executive engineer Dhananjay Deshpande said, “The work on the service road of the bypass highway is going on in full swing and we will complete it soon.”The Katraj-Dehu road bypass highway was opened in 1989 especially to facilitate the movement of heavy vehicles from outside the city limits. So, trucks and trolleys headed towards Mumbai and Gujarat from Bangalore and Kolhapur pass through this bypass highway. Along its 40km stretch though, it connects to several residential parts of the city starting from Katraj, Sinhagad road, Warje, Kothrud, Baner, Balewadi, Hinjewadi, Chinchwad and Dehu road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/katrajdehu-road-bypass-highway-work-going-on-at-snail-s-pace-citizens-furious-101629141208627.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra defers decision on restart of schools; Mumbai sees a dip in cases||The state government on Monday deferred its decision on reopening schools. After earlier announcing that schools will restart from today, the government had a rethink on whether to resume physical classes for students between classes five and eight in rural areas and for classes eight to 12 in urban areas, owing to opposition from the Covid-19 task forces. Officials are not in favour of a restart as the under-18 population is not yet vaccinated.State chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said, “The decision [on the reopening of schools] has been deferred. We will review the situation in the coming days and decide on it.” Education minister Varsha Gaikwad had earlier announced that schools will reopen from August 17. Later, a detailed SOP was issued. However, in view of opposition from a few cabinet ministers and the task forces, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray convened a meeting of education and health department officials on August 11 to discuss the opening of schools and junior colleges.Meanwhile, Mumbai on Monday recorded a significant decrease in the number of new Covid-19 cases after it dropped to less than 200 (195 fresh infections). Also, the state insisted that employees as well as visitors to malls need to be fully vaccinated, barring those below 18 years of age as they are not vaccinated yet. The state has issued a circular that both mall customers as well as staff must be fully vaccinated. However, there was no such order for restaurants and shopkeepers, who have been protesting against the compulsory two-doses requirement, saying that they will not be able to function.The Monday circular on malls, however, clarified that those citizens below 18 years would be allowed in malls upon showing proof of their age.“I will not be able to operate any outlet in the malls as most employees are not yet fully vaccinated. Most of my staff have just taken a single dose and very few have both the doses,” rued Aji Nair, COO – food and beverages division, Mirah Hospitality, which runs 10 hotels in Mumbai and has five outlets in malls. “Apart from the staff, even the mandate for two doses for customers will hurt business,” he added.Maharashtra on Monday recorded 4,145 new cases and 100 deaths. There were 152,165 tests done on Monday, while the number of recoveries clocked 5,811. There are currently 62,452 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 14,610 patients, followed by Thane with 6,938 and Satara with 6,909.There were 625,414 vaccine doses administered on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-defers-decision-on-restart-of-schools-mumbai-sees-a-dip-in-cases-101629141207967.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu appoints Capt-baiter Pargat as Punjab Cong general secretary||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday appointed Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh as PPCC general secretary, organisation. “With the approval of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary, organisation, KC Venugopal and Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat, I hereby appoint Pargat Singh as the PPCC (Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee) general secretary, organisation, with immediate effect,” Sidhu tweeted. Considered close to Sidhu, Pargat Singh, a two-time MLA, has been critical of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for the past more than two years, raising questioning the state government’s failure to fulfil key poll promises in the 2017 assembly elections. His appointment came on a day Jagbir Brar, a senior party leader and former MLA from Jalandhar Cantonment that Pargat represents in the state assembly now, left the Congress to rejoin the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Brar has been named by the SAD as its candidate from the seat in next year’s assembly polls, which the party is contesting in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). A former India hockey captain, Pargat had won the 2012 assembly elections from Jalandhar Cantonment on a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) ticket. He joined the Congress with Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur, then a BJP MLA, in November 2016 ahead of the state elections. Sidhu had also joined the party a few days later. Last week, Sidhu, who took charge as the state Congress chief on July 23, appointed Lok Sabha member Dr Amar Singh, retired IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa, Dr Pyare Lal Garg and Malwinder Singh Mali as his advisers to seek their “wise counsel” on party affairs. While Mustafa declined the role, Mali got into a controversy for his strident comments on social media against Capt Amarinder Singh and the Hindu community with several party leaders disapproving of his statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-appoints-capt-baiter-pargat-as-punjab-cong-general-secretary-101629141087708.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||One held for trying to run over ASI in Patiala||Police on Monday arrested 26-year-old man booked in an attempt to murder case for allegedly trying to run over a Punjab police ASI in Patiala. Accused Gurbaaz Singh is a resident of Datta Singhwala village in Haryana. Superintendent of police Varun Kumar said the accused will be taken on police remand to ascertain exact reason behind him fleeing from the spot after hitting police officer. “The accused tried to run over ASI Suba Singh when he asked him to show his driver’s licence and vehicle documents,” he said. Instead of showing documents, the car driver steered the vehicle towards the ASI. The ASI received multiple fractures in his leg. The video of the incident went viral on the social media in which a car bearing a Haryana registration number and a farmer union flag was stopped for checking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-held-for-trying-to-run-over-asi-in-patiala-101629140910713.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses rain target despite deficit in August||As of 8.30am on Monday morning, Mumbai had recorded a total of 2,218mm of rainfall this monsoon season (since June 1). This exceeds the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast of normal rainfall of 2,205mm, with six weeks of the monsoon still to go. The monsoon in Mumbai this year has been marked by alternating phases of heavy and widespread rainfall, interspersed with long, subdued dry spells, as opposed to the rainfall uniformly spread out over the season. Between July 16 and 19, for instance, the city saw two back to back high-rainfall events that killed over 30 people and dumped a whopping 30% of the total seasonal rainfall over Mumbai in just three days. The previous month, Mumbai got 43.6% of June’s average rain in just nine hours. This pattern, experts, officials, and even the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report on climate change warn, bears not only a climate change signature but is likely to get pronounced in coming years. Officials also cautioned that the chances of heavy rains in Mumbai will increase within the next 48 hours, and IMD has placed the city under a ‘yellow’ category storm alert for Wednesday, indicating that heavy rainfall in isolated locations is “very likely”. However, Mumbai’s rainfall deficit for the month of August so far stands at minus 59%, with just 134.2mm of rain being recorded at IMD’s observatory in Santacruz, as opposed to the normal rainfall of 330mm. Officials said that rains over the next few days are unlikely to make up for the deficit in Mumbai and the rest of the Konkan coast. Parts of Marathwada and Vidarbha – where eight districts are still seeing below normal rains this season – will benefit significantly more than parts of the Konkan during the next few days rains, according to officials and independent experts, who attributed the rains to the formation of a monsoon low pressure system over the Bay of Bengal, which typically strengthens the influence of rain bearing westerly winds. “IMD has issued heavy rainfall warnings for Maharashtra for the coming three days, especially for Marathwada. It will be good for farmers in that region and around, who are waiting for a good spell of rain for their crops,” KS Hosalikar, head of IMD’s surface instrument division in Pune, said. “On August 17, most of Vidarbha, Parbhani, Hingoli, Jalna, Nanded, Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Dhule, Nashik and Nandurbar districts will receive light to moderate rain, which is expected to continue on 18 August, except for regions in east Vidarbha,” Tweeted Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, England. “This low-pressure system is not expected to benefit Mumbai, Konkan, Pune district, most of Madhya Maharashtra and southern Marathwada. From 19 August, rainfall activities in many parts of Maharashtra will once again decrease substantially until the month end,” Deoras added, explaining that the monsoon as a whole remains subdued over the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-rain-target-despite-deficit-in-august-101629140909757.html
17-08-2021||Pune||With new Bengal tiger couple, Katraj zoo’s pride touches 8||PUNE: Following some relaxation in covid norms, the plan to get two Bengal tigers to the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre at Katraj which was pending since the last few months, has finally seen the light of day with the duo namely Bhakti and Arjun being transported from Aurangabad to the Katraj zoo on Saturday. With this, the total count of tigers at the zoo has gone up to eight, including four tigers and four tigresses. Of the four tigresses, one is a white tigress.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has got the pair of big cats from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation-run Siddharth Zoo in exchange for two Nilgai (Boselahus tragocamelus). Siddharth Zoo currently has 14 tigers, including five cubs.Rajkumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre, said, “We have got the pair of tigers from the Aurangabad zoo under the exchange programme. Bhakti, 5, and Arjun, 7, have been quarantined as part of our protocol.”Dyneshwar Molak, additional muncipal commissioner, said, “Due to the covid-19 pandemic, the plan to get the tigers was pending for a few months now. Finally, they have arrived here.”Unlike gardens in the city however, the Katraj zoo hasn’t still been opened by the PMC in the absence of permission from the Central Zoo Authority and the state government. “The pair of tigers will help us in the process of mating with our existing tigers as we want tigers of a different bloodline. At present, we have six tigers including three male, of which two are old. We have a capacity to keep 10 tigers in the zoo. The normal quarantine period of the animal is 21 days. We are keeping the new pair separately from the existing tiger cages. After the quarantine period is over, we will get them to mix with the other tigers,” said Jadhav.The Katraj zoo is spread across 130 acre and is divided into three areas namely, an animal orphanage, a snake park and a zoo overlooking a lake spanning 42 acre. The zoo houses a total 440 animals and gets financial aid from the Central Zoo Authority. The zoo is planned so as to offer a natural habitat to 16 animal species with indigenous natural enclosures created for tigers, white tigers, monkeys, sambar, bears, leopards and an assortment of wild cats, sloth, barking deer, black bucks, crocodiles and the Indian tortoise. At least 2,500 to 3,000 people visit the zoo daily with the number reaching 10,000 to 15,000 people on weekends and holidays. A member of the ISIS (International Species Information System) and a non-profit organisation, the Katraj zoo shares a world-class zoological data collection and software with more than 800 member- zoos, aquariums and related organisations across 80 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/with-new-bengal-tiger-couple-katraj-zoo-s-pride-touches-8-101629140908302.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||UP health dept to hire 900 more doctors on contract, pay more for serving in remote districts||The Uttar Pradesh health department has started the process to deploy 900 more doctors on contractual posts for a year to strengthen medical care in view of the possible third wave of Covid-19.“We have received applications from 1500 doctors and interviews have begun to select the best ones from among them for our hospitals across the state,” said Dr Kalpana Singh, director general training who also holds charge of director general medical health.The officials in the health department said they plan to finish interviews by September 1 and, thereafter, the appointment letters will be issued in the first week of September.“Being contractual jobs, the selected doctors will be given the option to work in their home district if there are vacancies,” said a senior health official.“Our focus as well as the vacancies are more in the district hospitals and community health centres in the periphery (remote) districts such as Chitrakoot, Deoria, Banda, Balrampur, Shamli and Hamirpur, where the number of doctors is less. So, doctors joining in these districts, will get more salary compared to metro cities,” said the official.“Increasing the number of doctors in periphery districts will ensure patients do not have to rush to the state capital for treatment. This eventually will reduce the load on health facilities in King George’s Medical University in Lucknow or the Medical College in Prayagraj,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors.The state has less than 14,000 government doctors working on permanent posts in 157 hospitals, 855 community health centres and about 3000 primary health centres, apart from other smaller health facilities. The sanctioned posts of government doctors in Uttar Pradesh is over 18,000.“We expected at least 500 applicants will be specialists, but we got 251 such applications. We hope a good number of them pass the screening and join service,” said Dr Singh.A specialist joining in a “periphery district” will get ₹1.10 lakh as salary per month while the same specialist joins service in a metro city, he or she will get about ₹80,000 as salary. Similarly, if an MBBS doctor joins service in a periphery district, he or she will get ₹60,000 per month and if they join in bigger cities, the pay could be ₹40,000 per month.According to officials, the posts being offered are contractual and hence those joining service will be allowed to work in their home district, which is not the case in permanent posts.“The appointment will, however, be for districts in the periphery or those far off from metros and doctors joining services in such districts will get more pay,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-health-dept-to-hire-900-more-doctors-on-contract-pay-more-for-serving-in-remote-districts-101629140907748.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Air purification tower coming up in Sector 26||The air purification tower at the Transport area in Sector 26 will be operational by the end of this month, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) officials said on Monday. The 24-metre high tower is the tallest outdoor air purifier in the country, they added.Member secretary of the CPCC, Debendra Dalai, said, “We are putting finishing touches to the tower. It will purify the air in a 500-metre radius around it. Air will be pulled in through an inlet and filters inside will filter particulate matter (PM) along with various oxides of sulphur and nitrogen.”Dalai added that it would have been ready about a month back, but due to rains, the painting got delayed. He said a screen will be put on the tower to show the air quality index (AQI) in real time.The tower has been built by Delhi-based Pious Air Private Limited without any cost to the administration. Five places were shortlisted before its location was finalised. “Vehicular emissions are a big source of pollution in the city. It was found that the highest volume of traffic is present at this intersection, so it was chosen,” Dalai said.Officials added this will be treated as a pilot project and If it brings a noticeable difference to the air quality, then the administration will consider setting up more such outdoor air purifiers.Two AQI monitoring stations in city so farThe CPCC also recently inaugurated the second continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS) in Sector 22. The AQI in Sector 22, as per the CAAQMS , is usually over 100, which is classified as moderate and causes breathing discomfort to people with lung and heart diseases and asthma. The AQI as per the one installed in Sector 25 has remained around 60-70, which is classified as satisfactory and causes minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people.The CPCC will be inaugurating a third CAAQMS in September in Sector 53, to check for emissions close to the Sector 43 Inter State Bus terminal (ISBT). The Central Pollution Control Board plans to install total five such monitoring stations in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhair-purification-tower-coming-up-in-sector-26-101629140849619.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chaos marks second Ambala MC House meeting||The second House meeting of the Ambala municipal corporation on Monday concluded without any productive discussions amid constant disruptions. The meeting that took place after almost six months began at 9am and was marred by confrontation between BJP and Congress councillors. Guards had to be called as BJP members protested and called for the expulsion of Congress councillor Mithun Verma for allegedly “insulting women” after he had a face-off with the saffron party’s Monika Mal. Even as mayor Shakti Rani Sharma intervened and the House was set in order, it failed to discuss any of the nine new agendas and 90 additional agendas. The meeting was finally called off around 2pm as BJP’s Hitesh Jain complained of low sugar level due to a prolonged proceesings, a concern endorsed by his fellow party members. Later, talking to media, the mayor, who belongs to Haryana Jan Chetna Party, condemned such behaviour. Earlier, during the meeting, most councillors objected to the action taken report on agendas of the first meeting presented by an executive officer. The members, mostly from the mayor’s party, also demanded action against an executive engineer for no progress on proposals passed by the House in the previous meeting that was held in February. MC commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata gave the officials two-week ultimatum to take up the pending proposals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chaos-marks-second-ambala-mc-house-meeting-101629140790277.html
17-08-2021||Pune||Measles-rubella suspected cases: Pune City records 74 expected negative, 9 negative cases||Pune: The central government had instructed state governments to increase surveys to detect more cases of measles and rubella as the former has redefined the suspected cases to any age person who has fever and the signature red rashes mark, which was earlier restricted to only those aged under 15 years. This means more people could be monitored for fever and rashes. However, the state has pointed out that all districts and municipal corporations in Akola health division have poor reporting and must ramp up screening. Measles and rubella are contagious viral infection preventable by vaccine and best known by its distinctive red rashes. The disease can spread through direct contact with the saliva or mucus of an infected person or through the air by respiratory droplets produced from coughing or sneezing. Pune district has reported 49 expected negative cases in rural PCMC, 110 in Pune rural and 74 in Pune city and has reported 3, 4 and 9 negative cases respectively. Dr Abhay Tidke, district surveillance officer said, “The higher the expected cases indicates that the surveillance is stronger. The expected number is given based on population estimates for 2021. While earlier only those under 15 years of age were surveyed for measles and rubella symptoms, now this had been redefined to include those above 15 as well which means more number of people would be surveyed. Pune district has performed much better just second in line after Mumbai with expected count at 260 negative cases and 78 confirmed negative cases in the last seven months.” In a letter to the authorities in Akola division and the municipal corporation, deputy director Dr Rajkumar Chauhan wrote to the health officials stating, “Indian government has changed the definition of suspected rubella and measles patients as to anyone who has fever and rashes. Anyone found with such symptoms has to be monitored and samples must be sent for testing in a laboratory. The negative samples must be informed to the government.” He wrote that the fact that the survey is going aptly could be defined for every two negative cases for every one lakh population. “From the data received between January 1 and July 31, it is found that Akola division has a very poor reporting of cases. The areas underperforming are Akola, Akola municipal corporation, Amravati, Amaravati municipal corporation, Wardha, Washim and Yavatamal where the expected non-rubella, non-measles (negative) cases per year are much lower than the population estimates in these regions.” Pune district has reported 49 expected negative cases in rural PCMC, 110 in Pune rural and 74 in Pune city and has reported cases 3, 4 and 9 negative cases respectively. Dr Abhay Tidke, district surveillance officer said, “The higher the expected cases indicates that the surveillance is stronger. The expected number is given based on population estimates for 2021. While earlier only those under 15 years of age were surveyed for measles and rubella symptoms, now this had been redefined to include those above 15 as well which means more number of people would be surveyed.” Pune district has performed much better just second in line after Mumbai with expected count at 260 negative cases and 78 confirmed negative cases in the last seven months, according to a state health report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/measlesrubella-suspected-cases-pune-city-records-74-expected-negative-9-negative-cases-101629140727014.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Soon, register vehicle theft FIR through mobile app||Soon, residents will be able to lodge FIRs about stolen vehicles through a mobile application without having to visit the police station.The UT administrator, VP Singh Badnore, in his speech on August 15, announced that the Chandigarh Police was in the process of developing a mobile app for registration and investigation of e-FIRs for motor vehicle theft. Sources within the police force said that on an average, 5-6 vehicles were stolen in the city everyday, but because the complainants were required to visit the police station, FIRs would many times get delayed.With the new app, however, complaints can be lodged anytime from anywhere. As per protocol, soon after a complaint is lodged, the investigating officer will visit the complainant once.Superintendent of police (SP, city) Ketan Bansal said, “The residents will also be able to check the status of their complaints. After a stipulated period of 30 days, if the vehicle is not found, an untraced report will be updated on the app, which the complainant can use for insurance claim.”Sources said the police department was now coordinating with the judiciary for integration and once that was done, the app would be launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhsoon-register-vehicle-theft-fir-through-mobile-app-101629140667762.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Jan Ashirwad Yatra: 4 Maharashtra mins join BJP’s nationwide rally||Four union ministers from Maharashtra joined the Bharatiya Janata Party’s nation-wide Jan Ashirwad Yatra across 22 states, which began on Monday. Ahead of the forthcoming local body elections, the Maharashtra unit of the party is looking at it as an opportunity to take the central schemes to people and “expose” the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government, led by Uddhav Thackeray, over its “failures on various fronts”. Elections to 22 municipal corporations, 24 district councils and several tehsil level bodies in Maharashtra are due in the next six months. With more than two-third local bodies gearing up for the polls, which are considered to be the mini assembly polls, the power battle in Maharashtra is expected to heat up in the next few months. The BJP is facing a staunch political opposition after three parties – the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress – joined hands against it in 2019 to form the government. The ruling parties are likely to pose a strong challenge before the BJP, which controls the highest number of local bodies in urban as well rural parts. Of the 36 new faces inducted in the Modi government as part of cabinet reshuffle on July 7, four were from Maharashtra. Besides former Maharashtra chief minister Narayan Rane, who was inducted as MSME minister, Rajya Sabha MP Dr Bhagwat Karad and MPs Kapil Patil and Dr Bharti Pawar were inducted as ministers of state. The ministers of state began their yatra on Monday, while Rane will join on August 19 as per the programme chalked out by party’s central leadership. Dr Karad, minister of state for finance, kicked off his yatra by visiting Vaidyanath temple in Parli in Beed, followed by the flagging of the yatra at Gopinath Gad in the presence of party’s national secretary Pankaja Munde. The presence of Munde is assumed to be significant, as Mundes were said to be upset about PM Narendra Modi’s decision of picking Karad over Pritam Munde, Beed MP and Pankaja’s younger sister, in the cabinet. Karad is seen as a prominent OBC leader. The discontent among the Munde supporters was witnessed during the inaugural function of the yatra. Pankaja’s supporters raised slogans praising her, indirectly indicating that they do not accept any other (Karad’s) leadership. Munde had to intervene and stopped them from doing so. Karad will visit six districts of Marathwada during his yatra till August 21. Kapil Patil, minister of state for Panchayati Raj, is scheduled to hold meetings, get-togethers with party workers and visit Covid centres in parts of Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai and rural parts, including Shahad, Titwala of the districts by concluding in Bhiwandi city. Party MLAs and former ministers, including Sanjay Kelkar, Ravindra Chavan, Niranjan Davkhare, are accompanying him. Dr Bharti Pawar, union minister of state for public health and a tribal leader, has been asked to focus on the tribal-dominated areas of Palghar and Nashik. Dr Pawar took a dig at the state over poor health care services in Palghar. “The Central government released ₹70 crore and number of ventilators for Maharashtra, but it is surprising not a single equipment has reached Palghar. The Centre gave ₹23,000 crore to various states to fight against Covid-19 pandemic. We are taking stock of the implementation of the central schemes in the state, but the approach of the state machinery is indifferent,” she said, during the yatra. Rane, who is considered an ardent critic of the Shiv Sena and its leadership, will begin his yatra in Mumbai on August 19 and conclude it in Sindhudurg on August 26. After first two days in Mumbai, Rane will visit, Vasai-Virar on Saturday and parts of Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. According to a senior BJP leader, the yatra could be an opportunity to strengthen the base in the districts these ministers are travelling in, keeping the local body elections in mind. “Rane will visit parts of Konkan, while Kapil Patil is in Thane where we are eyeing the corporation and district council elections. Similarly, key Marathwada leaders, including Pankaja, of the party are participating in the yatra,” said a Marathwada leader, requesting anonymity. Maharashtra BJP’s vice-president Madhav Bhandari said the main focus of the yatra was to take the Central government’s programmes and schemes to common man. “The yatra is an outreach programme to take the Centre’s schemes to the people. We will not talk about the state government’s functioning or its failures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jan-ashirwad-yatra-4-maharashtra-mins-join-bjp-s-nationwide-rally-101629140550070.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two women fall prey to fraudsters in Chandigarh||Two women fell prey to fraud in different parts of the city, the police said on Monday.One Sushila Devi, 40, of Dadumajra colony told the police that on August 13, she had gone to an ATM to withdraw money where she saw three youths already present. As she was struggling to withdraw cash, the trio offered to help and she handed them her ATM card.The accused told her that the machine was not working and returned the card after which she left. Later she came to know that the accused had withdrawn ₹12,800 from her account the same day. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.Credit card fraud reported in Sec 18In the second case, a resident of Sector 18, Mehar Gill, 24, told the police that she received a call on her mobile on August 13 by a person posing as a bank employee calling for a card upgrade. The accused asked for details like her CVV number and card number. Soon, an amount of ₹1.25 lakh was withdrawn using her credit card in two transactions. A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-women-fall-prey-to-fraudsters-in-chandigarh-101629140547721.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||53% parents want schools to reopen, staff vaccinated: Survey||Several states in the country, including Maharashtra, recently decided to reopen schools. While parents and students are still anxious about this move, a survey of over 24,000 parents from around the country has highlighted how 53% of participating parents are willing to send their children to school. The survey also reveals that 74% of these parents feel that local administration should ensure the staff and teachers are vaccinated and rapid antigen test kits are made available at schools.“In states where schools have opened in the last 30 days, the response has been mixed. In many private schools, physical attendance has been 50% at best. New Covid cases have been reported from Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Haryana, which has some parents worried,” said a report made public by LocalCircles, a community social media platform enabling citizens and small businesses to escalate issues for policy enforcement and interventions. The survey received over 47,000 responses from 24,000 parents residing in 378 districts of India. “While 53% parents are in favour of re-opening of schools in August-September, 44% respondents also still maintain that schools should be conducted online until Covid cases are down to zero. Parents who are unwilling to send children to school for in-person classes cite the risk of festivals (Rakhshabandhan, Onam, Ganesh Chaturthi, etc) which could lead to a rise in Covid cases,” adds the survey report.State school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on August announced that offline classes will restart for batches 5 to 8 in rural areas and batches 8 to 12 in urban cities following Covid-19 protocols starting August 17. This, however, is not the first time that such a move has been implemented by the state government. In November last year, the school education department had released a similar circular announcing the reopening of schools for Classes 9 to 12 in a phased manner. By January 2021, another circular was released directing students from Classes 5 to 8 to be brought back to school in groups, and maintain Covid appropriate behaviour on campus. Both these circulars, however, were revoked once Covid cases started rising again and the state government called for another complete lockdown starting mid-April.Parent groups have been actively opposing the idea of physical classes, especially in cities where Covid-19 numbers are still being recorded. “International schools work with 40-50 students in one batch, whereas state board schools have anywhere between 60-70 students per division and in some cases, each grade has three to five divisions. Even if schools divide their batches into smaller groups and spread them across different classrooms, how will the teacher manage to teach all students?” asked Arundhati Chavan, president of Parent-Teachers Association United Forum. She added that before announcing a blanket decision, the state government should first try pilot batches and understand how physical schools could pose difficulties to schools as well as students. “Who will be responsible if one or more students contracts the virus? The state government has taken this decision on an impulse without even discussing the same with school-heads,” she added.Previously, LocalCircles had also conducted another survey of 19,000 parents where 76% of respondents said they are not ready to send their children to school unless Covid-19 cases in their districts go down to zero, or all children are vaccinated first. In the same survey, over 65% of respondents had also approved that their children receive the Covid vaccine if it is made available by September 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/53-parents-want-schools-to-reopen-staff-vaccinated-survey-101629140490962.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate: Multi-cornered contest in two constituencies||The election of the two constituencies of affiliated arts colleges in Panjab University (PU) senate is throwing up prospects of a multi-cornered contest with candidates being fielded by different groups.The polling for the constituencies of both heads and teachers of affiliated arts colleges will be held on August 18 (Wednesday) across Chandigarh and Punjab. Eight members will be elected to the senate from each of these constituencies.While 11 candidates are in fray from the constituency of heads of arts colleges, 15 candidates are contesting from the constituency of teachers. Different groups have fielded their candidates and from both the constituencies and some are contesting independently.The constituency has a total of 2,423 voters. In the constituency of teachers, Harpreet Singh Dua, Jagdeep Kumar, KK Sharma, SS Gill, Shaminder Singh Sandhu and Surinder Kaur have been fileded from the Goyal group. Independent candidates include Inderpal Singh Sidhu, Jagtar Singh, Madhu Sharma, Manoj Kumar, Mukhtar Singh, Raj Kumar and Tarun Ghai.While Bindu Dogra is from DAV group, Jagdish Chander is associated with the BJP group.Inderpal Singh Sidhu said, “I will work for the reimplementation of Service Security Act for unaided staff and I will get contractual services of 1,925 teachers regularised and try to stop their exploitation at the hands of management.”11 in fray from constituency of headsA multi-cornered contest is also expected in this constituency that has eleven candidates in fray and 58 voters. While Balwant Singh Sandhu is from Sangha group, Gurjinder Singh Brar, Iqbal Singh Sandhu and Kirandeep Kaur belong to Goyal group.NR Sharma and RS Jhanji are from BJP group, and Nisha Bhargava and Rajesh Kumar Mahajan are contesting from DAV group. Jatinder Kaur and Rupinder Kaur are contesting independently, and Kuldeep Kaur Dhaliwal has been fielded by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC).Schools available on Sundays for setting up polling boothsThe State Council of Educational Research and Training, Punjab, has informed PU that schools can be made available for setting up of booths for senate polls on Sundays.However, they have said that this would exclude August 29 (Sunday), as an examination of the department of corporation is scheduled that day.The development comes after PU postponed polling for the registered graduates’ constituency citing non-availability of booths in Punjab and Haryana.In an earlier communication sent to PU, the council had asked the varsity to either choose alternative locations for setting up of booths or reschedule elections on a holiday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-multi-cornered-contest-in-two-constituencies-101629140488769.html
17-08-2021||Pune||Shop timings in Pune rural areas extended till 10 pm||Pune: After the urban parts, Covid relaxations have been announced in rural areas of Pune district. Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune district collector, issued an order on Sunday stating that the relaxations, of shop timings extended till 10 pm, announced by the state government on August 11 would be applicable to rural parts, including gram panchayats and municipal councils. It is the first set of official relaxations in rural parts from Covid-induced curbs during the second wave. As the positivity rate in rural areas was higher than Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), curbs were not eased in rural areas. “The relaxation guidelines by the state government are applicable to rural areas from August 16. This order will be in effect until further orders,” stated Deshmukh. Since last few weeks, rural parts recorded a declining trend in positivity rate. During the week August 9 to August 14, it recorded the lowest positivity rate during the second wave at 3.95%. For the same duration, PMC recorded positivity rate at 2.5% and PCMC recorded 3.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shop-timings-in-pune-rural-areas-extended-till-10-pm-101629140428197.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mother and child care centre project delayed||It has genesis in the Chandigarh Master Plan and its architectural plans are in place since 2018, but still the new mother and child care centre to come up at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 (GMSH-16) has failed to see the light of day.In his Independence Day speech, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had assured, “We will have a mother and child care centre in GMSH-16 soon.” But the reality is, the proposed project is still restricted to the planning board.“The project and the plot for it, approved in the Chandigarh Master Plan, remains in the planning stage even though the urban planning department had finalised the first draft in 2018. The plan was also submitted with the UT health department, but since then little progress has been made,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity.Tallest building on premisesThe 404-bed state-of-the-art centre is planned to come up in the existing building that houses the gynaecology and paediatric facilities. The project entails a seven-storey building, which will be the tallest in the hospital compound.“As per the plans, the building will be ground plus six storeys with two basements. The total covered area on the ground floor will be around 30,000 sq ft. The total covered area will be 5.42 lakh sq ft. It will be a green building. There would be a number of operating rooms, labour rooms, and other related facilities,” said the official.Why the delayThe project was first delayed because there were some issues between the gynaecology and paediatric departments. “As the existing building has to be demolished, there was a question as to where to shift the operational departments from the site. It was decided that these would be shifted to Sector 22. But then came the pandemic and some facilities that are to be demolished are currently being used for Covid management,” said the official.No feasibility study has been done so far and the cost estimates are yet to be finalised, and another obstacle is likely to hit the project delaying it further: “As per rough cost estimates, the project is likely to cost more than ₹100 crore. This would necessitate approval of the Union government, which generally takes a long time,” said the official.There have been several meetings on the subject between the health and the urban planning departments, but the final nod on the plan hasn’t come through. “The plans are still fluid. The health department is unclear about the details of their requirement. There are issues like requirement of beds, number of operation theatres, labour rooms, patient wards and other related wings,” said the official.Another similar project hanging fireAnother mother and child care centre, planned to come up at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, is also languishing at the planning stage. This is the case, even though it was conceptualised long back, approved in 2019 and ₹38 crore allocated for it.The 334-bed centre will come up in the K block area of the hospital. As per the architectural plan approved, it will spread over 1.11 sq ft area having seven floors plus basement. The administrator in his I-Day speech had also assured that this would also come up “soon”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhmother-and-child-care-centre-project-delayed-101629140427651.html
17-08-2021||Other||Aid of ₹4 lakh for labourers given to ineligible beneficiaries in Moga: CAG||Moga Punjab’s deputy secretary, labour, has written to assistant labour commissioner, Moga, asking for an explanation on disbursal of ₹4 lakh to ineligible beneficiaries under ex gratia scheme of the Building and Other Construction Workers’ (BOCW) Welfare Board.Overall, over 2,100 ineligible beneficiaries have been given financial benefits under the ex gratia scheme; financial assistance for education to wards and the stipend scheme. These include cycles being given to 1,994 ineligible beneficiaries. HT has a copy of the deputy secretary’s letter dated August 3.The matter came to light when the state labour department raised concern over irregularities that the state Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) highlighted in its audit report for 2017-18. According to the CAG, financial assistance of lakhs of rupees were given to around 135 children of registered workers for education in the same class in different years, violating the provisions of the stipend scheme. “Besides, the Moga labour department has also given the benefit of this scheme to nine children of workers, who had not met the requirement of minimum 90-day of construction work over the past year,” the CAG report adds. Under the stipend scheme, children of registered workers are entitled to get financial assistance between ₹3,000 and ₹80,000 depending on class or education type. Likewise, cycles were distributed to 1,994 students of Classes 9 and 10, without ensuring that their parents had completed the key requirement of minimum 90-day construction work, the CAG report adds. The cycle scheme was launched in 2014, but is now discontinued. CAG had also pointed out that the district labour department had given ₹4 lakh to a beneficiary under the ex gratia scheme, who was covered under then Bhagat Puran Singh Sehat Bima Yojna (BPSSBY). A labour department official said, “Under the stipend scheme, financial assistance can be given to students of every grade, from Class-1 to postgraduation level only once. Workers are also required to be engaged in construction work for a minimum 90 days over the last year to get benefit of any scheme of the BOCW.” Moga assistant labour commissioner Baljeet Singh said, “I have joined here just recently. We have submitted a reply to the department’s letter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aid-of-rs-4-lakh-for-labourers-given-to-ineligible-beneficiaries-in-moga-cag-101629140367755.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Need-based changes: CHB considering more relaxations||Pressed by more than 65,000 allottees, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is once again considering to revise its policy for need-based changes in the dwelling units. Officials say more relaxations could be allowed in addition to those previously announced.“We will table the issue in the meeting of board of directors later this month to decide the future course of action,” said CHB chief executive officer Yashpal Garg, while not divulging any details.CHB residents’ welfare federation has been demanding implementation of the “Delhi model” for resolving the contentious issue that affects more than 4 lakh city residents.Earlier this year, in a letter to the federation, the board reiterated that it had already allowed need-based changes, and not more relaxations were being planned. The letter had come in response to a memorandum submitted by the federation to the UT administrator, who had then asked CHB officials to examine the issue of allowing one-time settlement policy as requested by the allottees. Delhi model v/s 2019 policyCHB in 2019 issued a policy allowing residents to regularise many of the unauthorised constructions in their flats. Originally, the regularisation policy was announced in 2017, but only 40 applications were received, even as the board’s survey last year revealed that 90% of its 65,000-odd dwelling units had massive structural violations.The nature of violations include excess construction within the dwelling unit, unauthorised floors and encroachments on public land.The 2019 policy is applicable only for additions or alterations within CHB dwelling units and not encroachments. In case violations are not removed, at the allottee’s own cost, allotment may be cancelled and possession resumed. CHB had also directed that a certificate of structural stability of the building has to be submitted. In its April 2021 order, the CHB stated action against additional constructions or alterations will be kept pending till December 21, 2021. However, the allottees who do not deposit the penal charge on the basis of self-certified area may be issued notices of demolition or cancellation thereafter.CHB allottees complain that the need-based changes allowed didn’t resolve their problems. The federation has been demanding that as per the Delhi Model, the covered area should be relaxed. “One-time charges should be taken for this coverage without regularising additional coverage, so that people could get relief. Charges could also be taken to regularise the construction on public land stipulating that the user will have no legal right over these projections,” said Nirmal Dutt, chairman of the federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/needbased-changes-chb-considering-more-relaxations-101629140247690.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Ruling party must ensure new seeds of division are not sown: Shiv Sena||Days after Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi declared that August 14 would now be observed as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’, the Shiv Sena targeted the PM saying the ruling party must ensure that new seeds of division should not be sown. The Sena on Monday said that mere symbolism will not remove the pain of the Partition of India on August 14, 1947. In a stinging criticism, an editorial in Sena mouthpiece, Saamana, further said like the pain of partition, displacement of Kashmiri Pandits was equally painful, but they have not returned to the valley.It further added, “The pain of Partition will not go away by mere symbolism, but a definite action is needed... If displaced Kashmiri Pandits would have got their rights and homes in the Kashmir Valley, a lot could be achieved... Many Congress and Left leaders, who were involved in the freedom struggle and even staunch pro-Hindutva leader Veer Savarkar was in favour of a two-nation theory. So was Hindu Mahasabha. BJP and Jana Sangh hadn’t seen its dawn then.” The Sena, which shares power with the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Maharashtra, through the editorial said only former prime minister Indira Gandhi managed to take “revenge” of the pain of partition by dividing Pakistan and destroying the “two-nation concept” on the basis on which Pakistan was formed. As a policy of Maharashtra BJP, its spokesperson said they do not comment on Saamana editorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ruling-party-must-ensure-new-seeds-of-division-are-not-sown-shiv-sena-101629140194357.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 25,124 season tickets issued on CR, 8,216 on WR||With local trains resuming for general public from Sunday, Monday saw a rise in the number of monthly season passes issued. A total of 25,124 monthly season passes were issued to passengers on the Central Railway (CR) until 7pm, the highest since the registration began, and 8,216 were issued on the Western Railway (WR). Overall, till Sunday, 146,425 suburban railway passes were issued to passengers – 92,324 on the CR and 54,101 on the WR. The highest number of passes were issued at Dombivli and Borivli railway stations. On Sunday, 13,327 passes were issued on the CR and 7,399 on the WR. On Saturday, 16,439 passes were issued on the CR and 7,121 on the WR. General commuters were allowed to travel by local train after four months on Sunday. Train services were suspended for the general public on April 15, due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in the city. The eligibility criterion for travelling is completion of 14 days since receiving the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine. A universal pass is being made available to commuters offline and online. On Monday, no incident of crowding was reported on the suburban railway stations and inside local train compartments. Railway authorities, however, said Tuesday could be a challenge. “Due to public holidays on Sunday and Monday, there was not a huge increase in the number of passengers travelling by local trains. We are expecting an increase on Tuesday when both government and private offices will be functional,” said a senior CR official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai25124-season-tickets-issued-on-cr-8-216-on-wr-101629139887802.html
17-08-2021||Mumbai||Amid Afghanistan crisis, 2,200 students in India stare at an uncertain future||Over 2,200 students of Afghan-origin studying in India on scholarship stare at an uncertain future with the Taliban seizing control of Afghanistan that has forced thousands to either flee or seek evacuation from the country. The Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), a nodal agency for international students that promotes cultural exchange with other countries by formulating and implementing policies and programmes, will take care of the Afghan students “as usual”, its top official told Hindustan Times on Monday. “The students who are currently in India on ICCR scholarship will be taken care of by ICCR as usual. They will receive their stipends on time and can reside in the hostels in their universities,” said Dinesh Patnaik, director general, ICCR. However, for those students whose scholarship is coming to an end with the close of the academic year, the ICCR did not have the mandate to help them extend their stay, Patnaik said. The ICCR has also been receiving requests from students in Afghanistan for expediting their visas to permit entry into India. “For students, whose scholarships will come to an end soon and wish to stay in India after finishing their course, the ICCR doesn’t have the mandate to decide on whether they can be allowed. Only upon direction from higher authorities can we process such requests for extension of student visa,” he said. “The scholarship offered to foreign students is made to the country they belong to. Now that the government has changed, we don’t know if the new administration will accept the offer. So the visas of students can’t be processed until there’s clarity from the new Afghanistan administration,” Patnaik added. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Monday that there were a number of Afghans who have been India’s partners in the promotion of mutual developmental, educational and people-to-people endeavours and India will stand by them. The MEA has not issued any statement pertaining to students or visas as yet. Visas remain one of the biggest concerns of Afghan students in India, said Nasir Khuehami, the national spokesperson of the Jammu & Kashmir Students’ Association, who launched a helpline for distressed Afghan students in India. “The major problems that students are facing are related to hostel accommodation and visa because their visa tenure is about to expire in the coming months,” said Khuehami, who has been fielding hundreds of calls from students across India in the past week. A 27-year-old Afghan student pursuing his Masters in Public Administration in Chandigarh stayed back in India even as his friends left for Afghanistan earlier this year. “I completed my course a couple of months ago but decided to stay back for my results and degree. I was lucky,” said the student who hasn’t been able to contact his family in Kabul for a week. “The last time I spoke to my family, they were terrified. They said I should stay back in India for as long as possible,” said the student whose visa expires in January 2022. The ICCR, an autonomous agency under the Central government keeps details of students who are on scholarship in the country. “We are in the process of getting details of self-finance students from [various] universities. Our first priority is to take care of the students who are here in India already,” said Patnaik. “Ever since we’ve heard of the upheaval in Afghanistan, we have been trying to connect with our students who have been attending classes online. Sadly we only have their Indian phone numbers and with internet connection down in Afghanistan at present, there’s no way of contacting them,” said Sunil Patil, director of Student’s Welfare, University of Mumbai. According to information shared by the varsity, 42 students from Afghanistan had confirmed admissions in MU in 2019-20. However not a single student from the country has confirmed their admission in this academic session. “There are more than 2,000 students from Afghanistan in India and nearly 50% of them went back home once lockdown was implemented in India last year. Those still in India, are worried because many have not managed to reach out to their respective families. Even our student representative for students from Afghanistan is stuck in Kabul and we have no way of reaching out to him. Students are fearing for their own lives and the lives of their near and dear ones,” said Sanjay Nahar, founder of Sarhad, a Pune-based non-government organisation working with international students. In a stunning rout, the Taliban seized nearly all of Afghanistan in just over a week, despite the billions of dollars spent by the US and NATO over nearly two decades to build up Afghan security forces. Just days earlier, an American military assessment estimated it would be a month before the capital would come under insurgent pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-afghanistan-crisis-2-200-students-in-india-stare-at-an-uncertain-future-101629139707631.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Citing CPCB affidavit, Ghaziabad residents say it’ll take 94 years to clear waste at Ghazipur landfill||The Kaushambi Apartments Residents Welfare Association (Karwa) on Monday said that the bioremediation/biomining of the legacy waste at the Ghazipur landfill site is going on at a very slow pace and that the residential body will soon bring this fact to notice of the Supreme Court. Office bearers of the association claimed that it will take 94 years to clear the 140 lakh tonnes of waste from the site if the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) maintains its current pace of bioremediation work.Karwa moved the apex court in September last year over the issue of pollution from the landfill site, contending that it is one of the major sources of pollution affecting the residents. The association first filed a petition with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) over the issue in September 2015. Later, it moved the apex court in September last year and notices were issued to respondent agencies of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in October last year. “In response to our petition, we recently received an affidavit filed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). They have stated that bioremediation work is going on at Ghazipur landfill, but only 1.5 lakh metric tonnes of waste has been bioremediated/biomined in the past one year out of 140 lakh tonnes of waste dumped at the site. We calculated that with this rate, it will take about 94 years to complete the entire process,” said VK Mittal, president of Karwa. He said that the affidavit was submitted before the apex court by CPCB in January and the association recently got an access to the affidavit. “We will now file a counter affidavit that the court must intervene at the lax rate of bioremediation/biomining at the landfill site. This will lead to polluted air surroundings with which residents of Kaushambi are already suffering and will also affect the groundwater of the area,” Mittal added. HT has a copy of the affidavit filed by the CPCB. “I will have to check the documents before making any comment over the issue,” said a senior officer from CPCB.A senior EDMC official, who did not wish to be named, said, “We cannot comment on the affidavit filed by another agency. However, greening efforts are being made to reduce the height of the landfill as well as process the waste.”The Karwa moved the Supreme Court with contention for stoppage of different sources of pollution affecting the township that has about 22 high-rises with an estimated population of about 20,000. Pollution levels are already high in Kaushambi due to its close proximity to Anand Vihar and Kaushambi inter-state bus terminals, Ghazipur landfill site and Sahibabad industrial area. The residential area is also affected by heavy vehicular traffic throughout the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/citing-cpcb-affidavit-ghaziabad-residents-say-it-ll-take-94-years-to-clear-waste-at-ghazipur-landfill-101629139286942.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Punjabi singer, friend booked for firing in air||The Mohali police on Monday booked Punjabi singer Manpreet Singh ‘Singga’ and his friend for allegedly firing gunshots in the air outside a housing society in Sector 70. The action came after a video of the incident was shared on social media. It showed Manpreet sitting next to his friend, who could be seen firing in the air while driving a car in Mohali. The video was reportedly shot a couple of days back. The incident comes days after a Youth Akali Dal leader was shot dead in broad daylight in Mohali. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has also marked a magisterial inquiry into the incident and said that “exemplary legal action” will be taken against the guilty. While the singer belongs to Hoshiarpur, his friend has been identified as Jagpreet Singh, aka Jaggi, of Sangrur. They have been booked under Sections 336 (any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalipunjabi-singer-friend-booked-for-firing-in-air-101629139235712.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Recovery notice issued against builders over illegal advertisements||The Greater Noida Authority on Monday said that it has started issuing recovery notices against real estate developers and educational institutes that failed to pay the penalty imposed on them for putting up illegal boards, posters and unipoles across the city. The authority said putting up such advertisements on public spaces required its permission and came with a fee. “We have issued recovery notices against 70 agencies including the developers and educational institutions, which were found to be advertising without permission causing revenue loss. Now we will recover the lost revenue by selling their assets as per the rules,” said Salil Yadav, deputy general manager of the Greater Noida authority that has started the process.The official said the authority had issued the penalties against the violators since May 2018. The total penalties add up to around ₹3 crore, he added.“We had issued many notices, but the offenders failed to comply. The recovery notices will now enable the government to sell assets and recover revenue,” said Yadav.The authority had started acting against violators in 2018 following complaints from residents.“Illegal unipoles are not only an eyesore, but also a public safety risk. The authority must act sternly,” said Anita Prajapati, a resident of Gaur City, Greater Noida West.According to the advertisement policy, such hoardings are not allowed on roads less than 80 metres wide, on religious places, monuments, wetlands, forest reserves and bridges. It, however, does not specify the exact penalty or legal action to be taken against violators, but empowers the chief executive officer (CEO) to levy a penalty and remove such hoardings without notice. The CEO may even act against officials who fail to act against illegal hoardings.For advertisements on public land, a committee formed by the authority will first inspect the site for safety before giving its permit, followed by charging the applicable fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-recovery-notice-issued-against-builders-over-illegal-advertisements-101629139234530.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Two children dead, three others injured in Noida fire||Two sisters, aged 12 and 9 years, died while their parents and younger brother suffered burns in a fire that broke out in the ground floor of a five-storey building in Gadhi Chaukhandi village under Phase 3 police station limits on Monday.The family was sleeping in their flat when the fire started at around 5.50am. The fire department suspects that a short-circuit in an air-conditioner sparked it.Fire department officials said that they arrived at the scene at around 6.05am and the blaze was controlled in 20 minutes. Around 20 people, including those living on other floors, were rescued, they added.The department said Rudrakshi (12) and Kritika (9) were charred to death.Their father Dinesh Solanki (40) suffered serious burn injuries while mother Mamta Solanki (38) and four-year-old brother Shivay suffered minor burns. The injured were admitted to a private hospital in Noida where their condition is stable, police said.Ankur Agarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said, “The police and fire department teams rushed to the spot after getting the information.”NK Singh, fire safety officer, Noida Phase 3, said three fire tenders were pressed into service. “It appears that the fire was sparked due to a short circuit in the air conditioner. Rudrakshi, who was sleeping near the air conditioner, was charred to death. Her sister Kritika too died the same way,” he said.Local resident H P Chaudhury said that people gathered at the spot immediately after they heard the building residents’ cry for help.“We immediately informed the police and also tried to douse the fire ourselves with water from pipes. There is only one entry and exit for each floor through the lobby of the ground floor and the fire had blocked it. Out of fear, an elderly woman jumped from the first floor and was caught by the people on the ground,” he said.Vivek Trivedi, station house officer, Phase 3 police station, said that Dinesh has received serious burn injuries.“His wife and son are recovering at the hospital. We have not received any complaint in this case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-children-dead-three-others-injured-in-noida-fire-101629139233771.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||Safe for now but Afghans in Delhi lament a ‘future destroyed’||New Delhi: Since the past few days, Nazifa Stanikzai has barely slept. The Afghan national who reached Delhi 10 days ago is overwhelmed by fears for the safety of her relatives in strife-torn Kabul. Stanikzai and her family -- her husband and three children -- are among several Afghan nationals who arrived in Delhi in the last few days as Taliban continued their rapid advance across the country.Stanikzai, who came for medical treatment for herself and her son, never anticipated that the Taliban would take over the capital city of Kabul so swiftly. “It’s difficult to process what has happened. Never did we think that the Taliban would capture power so easily and everyone will abandon us. It feels like we are living through a nightmare and at some point, someone will wake us up,” said Stanikzai, as she sat along with her family on the steps of her rented one-room flat in Afghan Colony in Lajpat Nagar-2.A senior government official with the municipal body in Afghanistan, Stanikzai said that returning to Afghanistan is no longer an option as fear looms over the fate of those who worked with the government. “I was a government official with deputy director rank. My husband also worked with the government. All our biometrics and other details must have been accessed by now,” said Stanikzai, whose family lives in Kabul.She said that though she is grateful for being alive, she feared for the safety of her two sisters who were not married and had jobs. “Two of my sisters have jobs but their employers don’t want them to return. They are cooped up inside the house and cannot step out. If they stop working, there will be no one to support our extended family. Since the Taliban doesn’t allow unmarried women to step out, I am filled with dread for the fate of our girls,” she said, pointing to her daughters. “Their future has been destroyed. The future of our kids is destroyed.”Her 16-year-old daughter Misbah Zainab, a Class 11 student, has been receiving worrying updates from her friends since yesterday. Her phone is filled with pictures and videos from from their homeland. “My friend shared this picture last night. You can see the Taliban flag outside her house,” she said, showing one of the pictures.With the rapidly changing situation in Afghanistan, she seems uncertain about her future. “I wanted to become a pilot, but my mother says that I will not be able to become one in the prevailing circumstances,” said Zainab. Among other Afghan nationals who arrived in Delhi in the last few days is a 60-year-old who said that he will return shortly. “Since my family is in Afghanistan, I’ll have to return. Until then, I can only pray for them,” he said, requesting anonymity.Another man, who came to Delhi nearly 40 days ago on a medical visa, said that he is helpless. “People back home cannot step out. They are worried. We are here but worried for them. I have not eaten a morsel of food since yesterday (Sunday) morning,” said the Afghan national, who owns a transport and energy drink company in his country.He said that the future looked bleak, especially for those who had worked with the government and the US army: “I used to work with the American army and help them with transportation. Members of the Taliban came to know about my business and have been harassing my family, seeking my details. They have issued threats and seek donations. Going back will be akin to walking into a death trap but I have no choice. I will be happy even with meagre earning as long as I am with my family.”Abdul Salaam, 35, has been living in Lajpat Nagar-2 for the past three years due to a court case in Delhi and now runs a salon in the area. A native of Herat, he plans to request the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and other agencies to help him procure a visa for his wife and children. “My wife runs a ladies salon in Herat. With the Taliban coming back, she cannot work anymore. She told me that all pictures of women were removed from the salon. Everything is shut. My two children are with her. There is no certainty about what comes next,” said Salaam.Besides Afghans on a medical visa, long-time refugees in the country too are distressed as the Taliban’s rapid ascent to power has extinguished whatever little hopes they had of returning to their homeland. Yaar Mohammad, 40, came to India along with his wife in 2010 as they were compelled to leave Afghanistan in the face of Taliban attacks on his wife, a radio journalist. Since then, Mohammad and his wife are working as translators in the country. “Life in Afghanistan is suspended. There is no work, no hope, nothing to look forward to now. We never thought that the Taliban will return after decades. My family back home is uncertain and fear-stricken. No one knows what to expect anymore,” said Mohammad.Pointing to the ripple effect of the Taliban’s takeover, he said that this will result in more challenges for refugees in India.Translators such as Mohammad were already having a tough time since tourist visas were suspended last year owing to Covid-19 and in the absence of work, many such families are struggling to survive.“With the Taliban coming to power, all our hopes of going back are now over. People from Afghanistan will stop coming here since flights and diplomatic relations will be suspended. We have not earned a rupee since last year. Since we don’t get jobs, it is becoming increasingly difficult to feed our children,” said Mohammad.With moist eyes, he said that it was crucial for India to provide support for Afghan nationals. “India has invested so much in Afghanistan but everything has collapsed now. For the sake of humanity, it should allow Afghan Muslims to get citizenship in the county. If people of other faiths can get citizenship, what crime have we committed? The world has abandoned us,” said Mohammad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/safe-for-now-but-afghans-in-delhi-lament-a-future-destroyed-101629139229720.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Schools reopen for in-person classes, only 20% students turn up in GB Nagar||Government and private schools in Gautam Budh Nagar reopened for in-person classes for students of classes 9 to 12 on Monday for the first time since April when they were shut following the second wave of Covid-19 infections. Dharmveer Singh, district inspector of schools, said only 15%-20% of the total student strength turned up for their first day. “We inspected eight schools for Covid safety precautions and found that the strength of classes in many of them were very low, between 15% and 20%. Today was the first day which is probably why there were fewer students and the numbers may increase over the week. The schools that were inspected were found following instructions of the government on health protocols, such as the use of sanitisers, masks and social distancing, and were conducting classes in two shifts,” said Singh.He said that there are 150 Uttar Pradesh Secondary Board schools, and 200 CBSE schools in the district in which more than 100,000 children study in classes 9 to 12.Students were cheerful of going to the school after many months. Schools had first shut in March last year when the nation went into a lockdown in the face of the first wave of infections. In October last year, there was a gradual opening from October 2020 to March 2021 with many restrictions.This time too many of those restrictions were still in place - a cap on the student strength, in-person attendance only with the consent of the ward’s parent or guardian and online classes should go on.“I was anxious of coming to school but also excited. It feel good to be in a classroom again and be able to meet my classmates and teachers rather than seeing them through a small screen on my mobile,” said Ruchika Joshi, a student of class 12 at the Government Primary School, Sadarpur, Noida.“Out of 350 students, around 20% students came to school on Monday. The classes were held in two shifts- 8 am to noon then 12.30pm to 4.30 pm,” said Indu Sharma, principal of the school.At DPS Noida, practical classes for science subjects were held for students of class 12 from 7.45 am to 11.05 am. “A total of 30 students of class 12 came to school on Monday as we will be holding practical classes for the students till August 20 in batches of 30 students. Tomorrow, the next 30 students of class 12 will be coming. Online classes are resuming for the other classes,” said Kamini Bhasin, principal at the school.At Amity International School, Noida, only 2% of their students in classes 9 to 12 attended in-person.“We have followed all Covid protocols and have informed all 3,500 students in these classes of our schedule for conducting practical classes. Unfortunately, we received a poor response,” said Renu Singh, Principal of the school.Meanwhile, Manoj Kataria from Gautam Budh Nagar Parents Welfare Society said that while parents wanted to send their kids to attend in-person classes, they were scared due to Covid as well.“I had conducted a survey of 155 parents of students studying in classes 9-12 across GB Nagar asking them whether they are comfortable sending their children to school and 87.2% said no. I feel parents will be more comfortable once the government allows vaccines for children,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/schools-reopen-for-in-person-classes-only-20-students-turn-up-in-gb-nagar-101629139230158.html
17-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar vaccinates over 29K people in one-day drive||Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday vaccinated 29,183 people as against its target of 27,500 during the mega vaccination drive against Covid-19 on Monday. The drive was carried out at 105 Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) that had facilities to vaccinate those who had booked their slots online as well as those who preferred on-spot registrations. Eight-one of these centres were temporary ones created by the health department for the drive in remote rural areas where most people preferred on-spot registrations.“We had set up these walk-in booths in schools, wedding halls and community centres even in rural remote areas so that people who had internet connectivity issues and so could not book their slots, could get their vaccination,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer.According to official data, the district so far administered 1.8 million doses, of only 367,000 were two-dose vaccinations.For the vaccination drive, the district got over 30,000 doses from the state government on Monday morning, said officials.Dr Neeraj Tyagi, the Gautam Budh Nagar district immunization officer, said the district-wise ranking in terms of vaccinations administered will be released Tuesday morning. “We are just short of 2,000 vaccinations to reach the target. If we include vaccinations done at private CVCs, we will be exceeding the target. The target of 27,500 set by the government is for both government and private centres,” he said.During last mega vaccination on August 3, the district had vaccinated 42,316 beneficiaries, which was the highest ever by the district. GB Nagar had ranked 19th in Uttar Pradesh in that drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-vaccinates-over-29k-people-in-one-day-drive-101629139166893.html
17-08-2021||Lucknow||Mukhtar Ansari tells UP court ₹5-lakh contract given to kill him inside jail||Jailed BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari told a court here on Monday that a contract of ₹5 lakh has been given for his killing inside the jail and that unauthorised people entered the prison without making any entry in the register, according to his lawyer.Ansari, who is lodged in Uttar Pradesh's Banda jail, was produced virtually before Maushmi Madhesi, a judge in the special court for cases involving MPs and MLAs here in Uttar Pradesh, in a case of forgery and cheating.The forgery and cheating case against Ansari was registered after it was found that a bulletproof ambulance with a Barabanki registration number was used to ferry him from Ropar jail to a Mohali court in Punjab in an extortion case.According to his lawyer Randhir Singh Suman, Ansari told the judge that a contract of ₹5 crore has been given for killing him inside the jail.Ansari also alleged that some suspicious persons entered the jail without making any entry in the register and that the directions of CCTV cameras were changed to facilitate their visits.Ansari requested the court to order a probe into the matter.The court has fixed the next date of the hearing in the case on August 27.After having been brought from the Ropar jail in Punjab recently, Ansari has been lodged in the Banda jail as an undertrial in a slew of criminal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mukhtar-ansari-tells-up-court-rs-5-lakh-contract-given-to-kill-him-inside-jail-101629138583163.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud: Chandigarh man facing 377 complaints gets bail||The Punjab and Haryana high court has allowed bail to a Chandigarh resident accused of duping 377 people on the pretext of sending them abroad.The accused, Arvind Ashat, was initially booked in March 2017 on the complaint of one Rupinder Singh Grewal, who alleged that he had paid ₹4.94 lakh to him to arrange visas for students who wished to pursue studies abroad, but was cheated. The case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector-3 police station. Ashat had approached the high court on July 19 seeking bail and argued that he was arrested in April 2018 and has remained behind bars ever since.Chandigarh Police told the court that five challans covering 14 complainants have been filed against Ashat so far and another supplementary challan has been prepared after conducting inquiry into three more complaints. In all, there are 377 complaints against him, the court was told. The HC bench of justice TS Dhindsa observed that seeing the tardy pace, wherein only 17 of the 377 complaints have been looked into, it appears the investigation might not be concluded for another couple of years.“The factual premise that investigation is in progress would not be a ground to keep the petitioner indefinitely in custody and particularly keeping in view the slow pace of investigation. The amount of money which is alleged to have been taken by the petitioner on account of having duped the investors/complainants would be a subject matter of trial on the basis of evidence adduced,” the court said. It added that bail can’t be denied to the petitioner on the demand of the complainants that certain amount be first refunded to them, since he has been behind bars for over three years now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/immigration-fraud-chandigarh-man-facing-377-complaints-gets-bail-101629139107598.html
17-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida authority to increase Ganga water supply to 111 urban villages||Greater Noida authority aims to increase its supply of piped drinking Ganga water to 111 villages from the current 43 by the end of October. The decision was moved considering the fast-depleting groundwater level in the city. Last month, HT had reported that the groundwater depth had increased to more than 30 metres at many parts of Gautam Budh Nagar. Among the other areas that registered the steepest drops were Gulistanpur Primary school in Greater Noida where the groundwater fell by 8.87m (from 10.65m in 2019 to 19.52m in 2020). In Delta-3 of Greater Noida, the water levels increased by 3.59m, while in the Bisrakh Block the increase was 2.98m.“Once the Ganga water delivery begins these villages will not have to depend on groundwater,” said Deep Chand additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.There are 254 villages under the authority’s jurisdiction. and most depend on groundwater for their daily needs. But other officials said they had received complaints that even this water was salty and unfit for drinking forcing people to rely on expensive water tanker supply. Chand said the authority will deliver piped Ganga water supply to all the urban centres and villages in the next two to three years.The ₹291. 77-crore project to supply Ganga water to Greater Noida households has missed several deadlines since it was first announced in 2010. In January, the Greater Noida Authority had announced it will start supply by April 30, 2021. But the city of 100,000households, needing almost 210million litres a day of water, still relies heavily on ground water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-authority-to-increase-ganga-water-supply-to-111-urban-villages-101629139048722.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||HC to hear parents’ plea for judicial probe into Dalit girl’s rape-murder||The Delhi high court on Tuesday will hear a plea by the parents of the minor Dalit girl, who was allegedly raped and murdered at a crematorium in Delhi Cantonment on August 1, seeking judicial probe into the alleged laxity by the police in conducting the preliminary probe.They parents have also demanded probe by a special investigation team into the incident.The petition, filed through advocate Jitendra Kumar Jha, is listed for hearing before Justice Yogesh Khanna. In their plea, the parents have alleged that the police delayed lodging the first information report (FIR), and that they were made to sit in the police station in between the intervening night of August 1-2.They petition said that even though the police reached the crematorium, they were focussing on “hushing up” the case. They petition said that the girl’s parents were forced by the police to keep quiet about the rape, and say that their daughter died of electrocution.“The petitioners were taken to the police station and throughout the night they were kept there and were tortured and pressured by the police to compromise the case,” the plea said, adding that the police arrested the accused but did not seek police custody for them.The parents have said that despite the case being transferred to the crime branch, they do not have faith in the present investigation and that the truth can only be proved by a court monitored special investigation team (SIT).The police have earlier denied allegations of laxity, saying all actions as per the law were being taken in the case. The police have informed a city court that it is yet to find any evidence to confirm that the girl was raped before she was allegedly murdered and forcibly cremated.The court noted that the investigating officer has admitted that neither any statement of any eye-witness nor any other evidence, including medical or scientific, could be collected so far to confirm as to whether the victim child was raped or not.The police also said that it only had the disclosure statement of two of the four accused admitting to the crime.“..the IO has stated that the disclosure statements of the four accused persons have revealed that accused Radhey Shyam and Kuldeep Singh had raped & killed the minor child victim and that the remaining two accused, namely Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan, had helped them in trying to cremate the deceased minor child,” said court noted.On August 1, the girl was raped and killed allegedly by a priest and three of his male associates at the crematorium in Purani Nangal village near Delhi cantonment in southwest Delhi. The four men then cremated her body allegedly without her parents’ consent or the police being informed.The accused claimed that the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from a cooler but the family alleges that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after raping her.The accused have been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, along with the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-to-hear-plea-by-dalit-girl-s-parents-seeking-judicial-probe-into-her-alleged-rapemurder-101629139047467.html
17-08-2021||Other||Covid vaccination picks up in Delhi||New Delhi: Immunisation against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi has picked up pace over the last 10 days, with over 100,000 shots being administered on all days except Sundays.In comparison, over 100,000 doses were administered only on six days during the first half of July, with officials blaming tapering supplies by the end of the month. Even as the number of shots administered dropped to 4,046 on Independence Day, which was also a Sunday, on an average, over 97,000 doses have been administered each day in August so far. In comparison, over 68,800 doses were administered each day on an average during July. The number of people receiving the first dose of the vaccine has also increased from August 2, with the government gradually increasing the use of Covishield stock for the first stock.The number of second doses administered became higher than first doses since the third week of July. With 18-45-year-olds who were immunised in May when the vaccination drive opened for them becoming eligible for their second dose after the 84-day window between jabs, and vaccines in short supply, the government had to stop using Covishield for first dose-takers on July 22.“In the beginning of August, the government had directed that only 20% of the doses be used for first shot. This was increased to 40% the next week, and last week it was further increased up to 50% as the supplies stabilised. The districts, however, have the freedom to decide whether or not to use fewer vaccines for first dose, like we are utilising 40% at the moment,” said an official from south-west district. The official added, “There is huge demand for the first dose, whereas the demand for the second dose is low at the moment because fewer people received their first dose in May and have now completed the waiting gap of 84 days.” So far, 8.3 million of Delhi’s 20 million population have received at least one dose of the vaccine, and 3.3 million are fully vaccinated.Another official added that the number of vaccines administered in Delhi is likely to remain high for the month.“Although we come to know about the vaccine supply only around a week in advance, this month the supply has been stable and we are hoping that it will continue the same way. Last month, there were frequent shortages with the state rationing the number of doses given to the districts,” said an official from Shahadara district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-vaccination-picks-up-in-delhi-101629138986884.html
17-08-2021||Other||Delhi anti-pollution body issues notice over violations at Ghazipur market||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Monday issued a showcause notice to the Delhi Agricultural Marketing Board for allowing the Ghazipur poultry market to function, despite violation of environmental norms.According to officials, the Ghazipur poultry market, better known as the Murga Mandi, under the control of the Board, has been violating environmental norms, causing both water and air pollution. The mandi is known for slaughtering birds without having established a system for the same and thus polluting the environment.In the notice, the DPCC has asked the board as to why prosecution proceedings should not be initiated against it for allowing violation of norms both under the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the Delhi high court.“You (referring to the board) are requested to look into the matter and take appropriate measures to comply with the directions of the NGT as well as the Delhi HC, as your unit (Ghazipur mandi) is operating without a valid consent under the Water Act, 1974 and Air Act, 1981, apart from paying an environmental compensation,” said the notice.Last month, the NGT asked the DPCC to stop polluting activities and recover compensation from violators at the mandi.In its order dated July 28, the NGT directed the DPCC, the nodal agency in the matter, to identify, initiate prosecution and stop polluting activities from violators at Ghazipur Murga Mandi. The green panel also asked the pollution watchdog to prevent slaughtering of chickens in a haphazard manner, management of waste generated in the process of slaughtering of chickens and dressing/cutting and selling of fish.The order also stated that silting norms need to be evolved and followed in the complex, which is in the vicinity of Ghazipur landfill site and residential area. It also said the said market is one of the biggest livestock trading markets in Asia as well as the largest chicken slaughter hubs located in the national capital region (NCR).A 2018 Delhi high cout order asked for the closure of the mandi till it works out a system or creates a proper market place, complying with all statutory requirements, particularly the environment and pollution norms.A senior official from the Delhi Agricultural Marketing Board said, “We haven’t received the order yet and will be able to comment on the same only after seeing the order.” The market association could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-anti-pollution-body-issues-notice-over-violations-at-ghazipur-market-101629138927045.html
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Woman RJ booked for hurting religious sentiments||Three days after the Zirakpur police arrested Sethi Dhaba owner Vijay Kumar Sethi for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, popular radio jockey Meenakshi and three other women were also booked in the same case on Monday. Sethi had allegedly recorded and distributed a video in which RJ Meenakshi and other women could be seen dancing to Sikh hymns in a derogatory manner during a Teej function. The function was organised by a Panchkula-based women’s social club at the dhaba in Zirakpur on Friday. Initially, the video gained popularity, but soon invited criticism from religious groups. An FIR was registered on a complaint lodged by Jaswinder Singh Rajpura and others and Sethi was arrested on Friday night. After his two-day police remand ended, Sethi was produced in court on Monday and sent to judicial custody.Onkar Singh Brar, station house officer, Zirakpur, said: “We have also registered a case against RJ Meenakshi along with Panchkula residents Jyoti Sehgal, Poonam Sehgal and Preeti. We conducted raids at their places, but they are at large.” The case has been registered under Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, in a video uploaded on Facebook, Meenakshi has apologised for hurting religious sentiments. The RJ said that she was invited to the even as the chief guest and was dancing to the dhol beats while not being aware that Sikh hymns were also being sung in the background.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpurwoman-rj-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-101629138871559.html
17-08-2021||Other||Delhi: Domestic help strangled to death during burglary in Patel Nagar||A 35-year-old woman working as a domestic help was strangulated to death during a burglary at a house in East Patel Nagar on Sunday, said police. Deputy commissioner of police (central Delhi) Jasmeet Singh said police received information about the incident around 5:30pm on Sunday. Police said the deceased woman, Sarita, was working in the kitchen while some labourers were carrying out repair works in the flat. The owner of the house left for lunch in the afternoon. Sarita was expected to leave the house after the labourers finished work, said police. When Sarita was wrapping work after the labourers left, the accused entered the flat, strangled her, stole cash and jewellery worth lakhs and fled, said police. When the owner came to the house, he found Sarita lying on the floor in an unconscious state. He took her to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared her dead.Police said that the owner later discovered that the cabinets of the cupboard were broken and valuables missing. A case of murder and robbery has been registered at Patel Nagar police station.“Forensics and crime teams inspected the spot. Various teams have been formed to probe the incident. Search is on to arrest the suspects,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-domestic-help-strangled-to-death-during-burglary-in-patel-nagar-101629138868786.html
17-08-2021||Other||Delhi: 18-yr-old woman, mother stabbed for rejecting marriage proposal; 1 held||New Delhi: An 18-year-old woman and her mother were stabbed allegedly by a 38-year-old family friend at their house in Dwarka’s Chhawla area after the former rejected his marriage proposal. Police said the incident happened on Sunday, adding that the two women are critical and are undergoing treatment in a hospital.Police said they received a PCR call at 8.37pm on Independence Day, stating that a man, identified by his first name Ramu, had attacked two women living in the neighbourhood, after which a team rushed to the spot. Police identified the victims as Laali (40), who was living in Kanganheri village and worked as a labourer, and her daughter Ruby (18). According to Laali’s statement, Ramu was a friend of her late husband and visited their home often.She claimed Ramu came to their house on Sunday and allegedly proposed marriage to her daughter, which left the family shocked. When Ruby refused, Ramu allegedly pulled out a sharp edged weapon, stabbed her and threatened to kill her if she did not comply. When her mother tried to intervene, he allegedly stabbed her too.Police said the two women were taken to the hospital by the time they reached the spot. Ramu, who sustained minor injuries, was taken to Safdarjung hospital from where he was arrested after his discharge.Police said that a case under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC has been registered at the Chhawla police station and investigation in the matter is ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi18yrold-woman-mother-stabbed-for-rejecting-marriage-proposal-1-held-101629138867468.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||Woman, man set themselves on fire near Supreme Court||A woman, who alleged that she was raped in 2019, and a man set themselves on fire outside the Supreme Court on Monday, the Delhi Police said, and added that they were taken to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, where doctors described their condition as critical.The police said the two first tried to enter the apex court’s premises around 12.30pm, and when they were denied entry, the woman poured kerosene over herself and her friend, and the two set themselves ablaze, near Supreme Court gate D.The police said in May 2019, the woman alleged sexual assault by Bahujan Samaj Party MP from Ghosi, Atul Rai. After the MP’s anticipatory bail was rejected by the Supreme Court the same month, he surrendered in a Varanasi court in June 2019. He is currently in jail.The woman filed another complaint against the MP and his close associate in December 2020 for maligning her image through propaganda on social media. According to the complaint, the woman alleged that ever since she filed the case against the politician, people associated with him have been harassing her and her family. She also alleged that at the MP’s behest, his close associate was running a vicious propaganda against her and a person who is a witness in the rape case.Gopal Rai, a representative of the Ghosi MP, said that the step taken by the woman was a move of “pressure politics” to divert attention of officials from the non-bailable warrant issued by a court in Varanasi recently (first week of August) in a case of forgery against the woman.Recently, a case was registered against the woman on a complaint lodged by the MP’s brother under IPC sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy).The police said the woman was “stressed” and wanted to protest the alleged harassment by the MP and his associates, inside the top court premises. A senior officer, who asked not to be named, said when she was denied entry into the court premises, the woman and her friend set themselves on fire.A video of the incident was being shared on social media, showing the two after they set themselves on fire. The video also showed some policemen throwing water at them to douse the fire.The officer quoted above said both the victims were unconscious when they were taken to the hospital. The police said they have burns mostly on their legs, but a medical assessment of their condition was awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-man-set-themselves-on-fire-near-supreme-court-101629138868175.html
17-08-2021||Other||Delhi: Schools welcome classes 10, 12 students, some yet to reopen||Public and private schools in the national capital opened its doors for class 10 and 12 students on Monday, following orders from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) last week allowing board students to come to schools for practical exams related work.Schools in Delhi opened for a brief period in January and February but suspended offline classes in April following the second wave (fourth for Capital) of Covid-19, that overrun the healthcare system. The directorate of education (DoE) issued guidelines and standard operating procedures for schools on August 9, asking principals to follow all sanitization protocols and check overcrowding at the premises. The education department also asked schools to acquire parents’ consent before calling students to school. While a few schools reopened last week, a majority of them are set to open their doors this week. Ahlcon International School in Mayur Vihar Phase 1, one of the few schools to reopen on Monday, said around 50% of its Class 12 students turned up on Monday. Of the approximately 200 students in Class 12, the school had called only three sections (105 students) on Monday.Headmaster Puneet Duggal said, “We have around 34-35 students in each section. Three sections of Class 12 were called in two batches for three subjects. Of them, around 95% turned up. We too were surprised with the turnout. Most of the children were happy to get out of their homes and come to school to interact with teachers and their peers. Teachers gave us feedback that students will take some time to get comfortable with the experiments taught in the practical classes due to lack of practice.”Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, which also reopened on Monday, saw 30% attendance on the first day. Principal Jyoti Arora, who is also a member of the action committee of over 400 private schools in the Capital, said, “We had called three sections of Class 12 and two of Class 11 for their practicals. While the attendance was nearly 30% of the total strength, we expect the attendance to increase in the coming days. We kept staggered timings and ensured there was a gap of 15 minutes before the dispersal of each class. Teachers were asked to remain at entry and exit points to ensure physical distancing. Students have also gotten used to wearing masks and following Covid-19 protocols on their own.”While more schools like Delhi Public School in Mathura Road, Amity International School in Pushp Vihar, The Indian School in Sheikh Sarai are expected to reopen this week, few schools, such as Bal Bharati Public School in Pitampura and Tagore International school, are expected to reopen later.Meenu Goswami, principal of Bal Bharati Public School, said, “We will be issuing the consent forms for parents this week and give them a week to respond. We are looking to resume practicals for only Class 12 students in the last week of August. Since we will be calling a few students and the same teachers will be teaching lessons for classes 11 and 12 students, we have to plan how to balance online and offline timetables and build alternatives for those who choose not to come to school.”Several government schools in Rohini, Tilak Nagar, Mayur Vihar, Chirag Delhi, Sarita Vihar, and Hauz Khas also reopened on Monday with students returning to school for the first time since April.Rakesh Semalty, principal of a government girls’ school in West Jyoti Nagar, said, “Since we have only one section in Class 12, which has 75 students, we have split them into multiple batches. Around 50% of the students turned up today (Monday). We will be getting in touch with school management committee members to encourage more students to join offline guidance classes. We have decided to start practicals next week and will continue with doubt-clearing sessions during school hours. In the meanwhile, online classes will continue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-schools-welcome-classes-10-12-students-some-yet-to-reopen-101629138866846.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||32 AC buses join DTC fleet in Delhi||The Delhi government on Monday flagged off 32 air-conditioned low-floor CNG propelled buses from Rajghat cluster depot, taking the city’s total bus strength to 6,793.“In order to further revitalize the bus-based public transport system in Delhi, Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot today (Monday) flagged off a fresh lot of 32 air-conditioned low floor CNG propelled cluster buses from Rajghat Cluster Depot. The addition of these world class buses takes the tally of Delhi’s fleet of buses to 6,793, of which 452 BS-VI compliant buses are being added since March 2020,” said a statement issued by the government on Monday.Of the total 6,793 buses, the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has 3,760 buses and the cluster fleet size is 3,033 buses.Gahlot said, “Since March 2020, the Delhi government has launched 452 BS VI compliant buses, including 32 that are being dedicated to the people of Delhi today (Monday). Equipped with world-class technology, special care has been taken for the comfort, convenience and safety of the passengers in all these buses.”He further said, “The safety of women passengers has been ramped up. If a passenger feels any discomfort, she can press the panic button. On pressing the panic button, an alert goes to the command centre and all the agencies that are there get to know the live location of the bus.”In 2019, the Delhi government drafted a plan to procure 4,000 buses, of which 100 were launched till March 2020 and 452 have been rolled out after March last year, said the government in the statement.“The plan also includes 1,000 electric buses, of which the first set of at least 200 buses are likely to arrive next week,” said a senior official in the transport department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/32-ac-buses-join-dtc-fleet-in-delhi-101629138806887.html
17-08-2021||Other||Monsoon may revive in Delhi, rain likely from August 20: IMD||After a week-long break phase, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that the monsoon in Delhi may revive with a good spell of rainfall likely on August 20.According to IMD scientists, break monsoon conditions are still prevailing in the northwest region, including Delhi, and are likely to remain till at least August 18. “In the absence of any intense pressure system, the break phase of the monsoon is still continuing. However, a cyclonic circulation is expected over Madhya Pradesh around August 19, with which easterly winds will blow over Delhi and may result in rainfall,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.According to weather experts, a break monsoon is a phase of the south-west monsoon, when there is a stoppage in the monsoon rain. This pause could last a couple of days or even extend for a fortnight.Srivastava added that Delhi is likely to see thunder activity from August 19 night, followed by ‘light to moderate’ rainfall on August 20. “We are constantly watching the movement of the trough,” he said. The first fortnight of August has largely been dry with the city receiving less than half the rainfall considered normal for this time of the year. The monsoon entered a break phase in Delhi from August 9, and the city has not received any rainfall since. The city last received rain (15.4mm) on August 8. IMD records show that the Safdarjung observatory, considered to be representative of Delhi’s weather, has received only 63.2mm rain till August 16, leaving a deficit of 56%. Under normal circumstances, it receives 142.4 mm rainfall by this time.Similarly, the Palam weather station recorded just 55.5mm rain during the same period against the normal of 149.4 mm, recording a deficit of 63%. The Lodhi Road station also has a rain deficit of 70%, as it received only 42.1mm rain against a normal of 142.4mm.“So far, August has a rain deficit of 56%, as there has been little rainfall with a dry spell ranging over a week. This, however, may get covered within just one or two good spells of rain,” said Srivastava.He added that if one looks at the cumulative rainfall received during the monsoon so far, Delhi still has a surplus rainfall of 45%. This is mainly because July received short and intense spells of rain with the cumulative rainfall for the month reaching 507.1mmagainst the normal precipitation of 210.6mm. Since June 1, Delhi has received 605.1mm rainfall. The monsoon season lasts from June 1 to September 30 in the Capital.Explaining that this kind of weather normally does not prevail in August, as Delhi receives maximum rainfall during this month, Srivastava said it was mainly because of the “break” phase that a dry spell occurred during this time. “Break phase is a normal phenomenon during monsoon and at times can occur twice during the season,” he said.While IMD officials said that they are not giving long-range forecasts as they are not entirely accurate, they hinted that Delhi is likely to have a ‘near normal’ monsoon. A cumulative rainfall of 648.9mm during the season is considered a ‘normal’ monsoon. “The few intense spells in July have already covered more than half of the season’s normal rainfall amount. A few good spells during August may help Delhi get normal precipitation or even more,” said a senior IMD official who did not wish to be named.This is the second break phase of the monsoon in Delhi. The monsoon arrived in Delhi on July 13, at least 16 days behind schedule. The IMD had in June predicted that monsoon will arrive in the Capital by June 15. However later, it revised its forecast and said that break monsoon conditions had developed, which delayed the onset.Independent forecasters too said that the second half of the month could be better and may cover up for the first half.Mahesh Palawat, vice president of Skymet, a private forecaster, said the monsoon trough is likely to shift back to south and result in light to moderate showers in northwest India, including Delhi, Punjab and Haryana on August 19. “A low-pressure system is being formed in the Bay of Bengal, which will move over parts of central India such as Madhya Pradesh. With this, the trough is likely to move south and bring rainfall in Delhi and surrounding region,” said Palawat. , for which the weather department has issued an ‘orange’ alert in its forecast update on Monday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-may-revive-in-delhi-rain-likely-from-august-20-imd-101629138746895.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||No respite from traffic jams at Ashram till at least Dec||The traffic mess at the busy Ashram Chowk is expected to continue till December this year with the Public Works Department (PWD) saying that it will miss the August deadline for the construction of a 750-metre underpass at the key traffic intersection, work on which has been going on since December 2019.To be sure this was the third deadline for the project that the department failed to meet. The first deadline for the project was set for December 2020, the second for April 2021. Having failed to finish the project, the PWD last revised the deadline to August 2021.Ashram, which is one of the busiest stretches in the Capital, sees over 350,000 vehicles passing every day during peak rush hours of morning and evening. Even though the work was still on to construct the underpass that connects Nizamuddin Railway Bridge and CSIR Apartments at the Ashram intersection, the government in February simultaneously launched work on extending the Ashram flyover on Ring Road. The two projects running together have made Ashram that connects south and central Delhi, and virtually serves as the connection for two NCR cities Noida and Faridabad — a traffic nightmareBesides prolonged and haphazard construction, poor site management and extension of barricades for building the underpass, have made the situation worse.Senior PWD officials have cited ban on construction activities due to air pollution in November 2019, assembly polls in February 2020, pandemic-induced lockdowns and labour shortage and financial crunch as some of the reasons that delayed work on the crucial project.A senior PWD official expressed the hope that they will be able to meet the latest deadline. “The delay this time has been caused due to shortage of labour. The second Covid wave has impacted our functioning on all the projects and we are lagging behind the deadlines. Now, the new deadlines have been made keeping in mind all parameters and if things go on smoothly, we will complete the construction at Ashram Chowk and underpass weeks before this year ends,” the official said asking not to be named.A Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the matter.A traffic police officer said, “The traffic plan for the extension of the Ashram flyover includes the placement of barricades on the Kilokri side and on Maharani Bagh side of Ring Road, and this has caused a bottleneck.”People who commute daily through the stretch say it has been a never ending traffic chaos at the Ashram intersection. At first, it was the Metro construction, then the closure of the Kalindi Kunj border because of the Shaheen Bagh protest and now, the construction work has been hampering traffic movement here, said Vaibhav Chadha.“This stretch is always the problem area. I don’t know when and how the problem will be resolved. In order to get to work every day, I have to leave almost home an hour earlier. My whole schedule goes for a toss,” said Chadha.Experts said the situation has turned worse with the work on the underpass and flyover extension projects have overlapped.“The construction work here at Ashram has been a major problem for the commuters and even if the work at the Ashram underpass is completed, I feel it is not going to cause respite to the commuters who take this route until the work for the extension of the Ashram flyover is completed,” said Dr. S Velmurugan, Chief Scientist, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI). He said the the high traffic volume on Mathura Road and Ring Road should have made the completion of the Ashram underpass project a top priority for the construction agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ashram-chowk-underpass-to-miss-yet-another-deadline-traffic-chaos-to-continue-101629138627519.html
17-08-2021||Other||HC seeks response on plea to appoint four members to NDMC||The Delhi high court on Monday sought the response of the Centre, the Delhi government and the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on a plea to appoint four members to the civic body’s Council of Members for its effective functioning.Justice Rekha Palli issued notices to the authorities on the plea by two individuals—Ganga Ram and Pawan Thapliyal-- both residents of the NDMC area, noting that the council is currently working with nine members instead of 13 of the quorum.The court, while issuing notice, said if the act mandates that 13 members have to be nominated, then it should have been done.Appearing for the petitioners, advocate Amit Sahni told the court that Section 4 of the NDMC Act says that four members shall be nominated by the Centre, in consultation with the chief minister of Delhi, from among lawyers, doctors, chartered accountants, engineers, business and financial consultants, intellectuals, traders, labourers, social workers including social scientists, artists, media persons, sports persons etc and any other class of persons.Sahni said his clients were aggrieved due to the NDMC’s failure in discharging its obligatory and discretionary functions in terms of the provisions of the NDMC Act. Representing the NDMC, its counsel Anil Grover, told the court that the municipal body is functioning properly.However, this did not go well with the court which remarked, “You may be functioning well, but if the Act mandates, then you have to appoint the persons”.Anurag Ahluwalia, the standing counsel for the Central government, said there was fundamental objection to the petition and the petitioners ought to have filed a public interest litigation.To this, Sahni submitted that the petitioners are also aggrieved parties as they are residents of the NDMC area. The matter would be heard next in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-response-on-plea-to-appoint-four-members-to-ndmc-101629138628309.html
17-08-2021||Other||DUTA objects to ministers statement, says there are over 4,000 ad hoc teachers in DU||New Delhi: Delhi University Teachers’ Association on Monday raised objections against the parliamentary submission by the Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan last month, and pointed out that there are over 4,000 ad-hoc teachers in DU as against the minister’s claim of 58. It also expressed shock at the minister’s statement that there are no proposals to make them permanent.DUTA president Rajib Ray said they have been highlighting the plight of ad-hoc teachers in multiple correspondence letters and memorandums with the Union ministry of education. The teachers’ body also said that as per February 2021 data based on electoral rolls published by DU for election of statutory bodies, there are 4,177 ad-hoc teachers, 6,089 permanent faculty members, and 22 temporary faculty members in in DU. Ad-hoc teachers constitute nearly 40% of the university’s teaching strength of around 10,000, which is much more than the target of 10% set by the government.Despite repeated calls and messages, there was no response from the Ministry of Education.Ad-hoc teachers in DU are appointed on a contract basis that is renewable every four months. Despite years of service under their belt, these teachers have not seen an increase in their pay since they started working and are not eligible for other benefits like the paid maternity leave. “It is shameful that the [response] annexure (submitted by Pradhan) states that there are 58 ad-hoc teachers in the University of Delhi as on April 1, 2021, when this is so far from reality... It is a well-known fact that around 4,500 teachers are currently working on an ad-hoc basis in DU, with the number increasing every day as no recruitments have taken place for over 10 years now and many teachers have superannuated in the interim period,” said DUTA president Rajib Ray.The teachers’ body held a press conference on Monday to express shock at the minister’s statement that the government has no proposal for absorbing the existing ad-hoc teachers into permanent service. In December 2019, thousands of DU teachers protested outside the vice-chancellor’s office and went on a strike for over a month demanding absorption and regularisation of these teachers.In a memorandum sent to Pradhan on Monday, DUTA wrote, “Though these teachers perform the same duties as their permanent colleagues, they have been denied basic rights to a dignified life. Despite fulfilling all the requisite academic qualifications like NET/JRF, M.Phil, PhD, post-doctorate, etc. from prestigious universities in India and abroad, and having teaching experience for years, these teachers are yet to be regularised in their respective positions...”“The UGC/MHRD should frame a specific regulation which allows the regularisation of serving temporary/ad-hoc teachers on a permanent basis through a one-time absorption,” they demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dutaobjects-to-ministers-statement-says-there-are-over-4-000-ad-hoc-teachers-in-du-101629138626826.html
17-08-2021||Other||Nabha Power gets nearer coal linkage; PSPCL to save 20 paise per unit||The Union coal ministry has approved Punjab government’s request to rationalise the coal linkage of Nabha Power Limited (NPL) by allowing supply from Northern Coal Limited, than from the present supplier, South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL). With the decision, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) will save 20 paise per unit in electricity generation from the thermal plant. This saving will be generated as the distance between the raw material and the user plant has decreased; NCL has coal mines in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and other nearby states, as compared to the SECL’s mines in the deep south of the country. As of now, NPL has been sourcing coal from different Coal India Limited (CIL) subsidiaries under a Fuel Supply Agreement FSA with the SECL. In this arrangement, PSPCL was being billed the actual cost of coal in terms of the much-maligned Power Purchase Agreement (PPA). CIL, however, wants the NPL to enter into a supplementary Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with the distribution companies or the PSPCL. This agreement, to be approved by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission,will mandate the passing on of the savings on account of linkage rationalization to the PSPCL. Punjab has asked for a waiver of this clause, as the entire power that NPL produces is supplied only to the PSPCL through a long-term PPA. PSPCL chairman and managing director A Venu Prasad said the utility was trying everything within its means to reduce power generation cost. “I do hope that with the change of coal linkage, the PSPCL will save between 20 paise and 22 paise per unit of electricity generated from NPL. Not only freight will reduce, but coal quality is also better,” he added. “The savings due to the use of such linkage of domestic coal will automatically be passed on to distribution to companies, and ultimately to consumers. These power plants will use the transferred coal only for generation of electricity for supply to the state,” said CMD, said saying that the PSPCL has asked the coal ministry to waive one of its conditions of a supplementary PPA, as it is not required for NPL and other plants. “PSPCL has sought this waiver as it wants to start coal lifting from NCL, as soon as possible, to reduce power generation cost. We are also trying to get coal linkages from nearby locations, to save freight cost, which has doubled over the past few years,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nabha-power-plant-gets-nearer-coal-linkage-pspcl-to-save-20-paise-per-unit-101629134307230.html
17-08-2021||Kolkata||Sushmita Dev quits Congress, shifts to TMC||Kolkata/Silchar: Former Silchar MP Sushmita Dev quit the Congress and joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Monday, prompting criticism within the principal opposition party and potentially helping Bengal’s ruling party expand its political footprint in the north-east. Dev was the national spokesperson of the Congress and the chief of the All India Mahila Congress.She sent her resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in a letter dated August 15 but didn’t mention any reasons for her resignation. “I cherish my three decade long association with the Indian National Congress...I hope I have your good wishes as I begin a new chapter in my life of public service,” she said in the letter that became public on Monday.Later on Monday, she flew to Kolkata and joined the TMC in the presence of the party’s national general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee. The 48-year-oldformer legislator was accompanied by TMC leader of Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien. She also visited Nabanna, the state secretariat, and met chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “Met TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and had a good discussion with him...then the three of us met the (West Bengal) chief minister. She clearly has an excellent future vision for the party,” said Dev in a video message. The TMC welcomed her. “Inspired by @MamataOfficial, she joins us today in the presence of our national general secretary @abhishekaitc & parliamentary party Leader, Rajya Sabha, @derekobrienmp,” TMC tweeted..Dev and O’Brien are slated to address the media in Delhi on Tuesday. Dev’s entry into the TMC comes even as the party is trying to bring together like-minded parties to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), currently the national political hegemon. Since the party’s landslide victory against the BJP in the West Bengal assembly elections in May, party chief and state chief minister Banerjee has sought to work towards this. Dev, a popular leader from the Bengali-dominated Barak valley region of Assam, is likely to help the TMC’s plans of expanding its political footprint beyond West Bengal. The TMC is also hoping to spread its base in neighbouring Tripura.“I cannot predict anything right now but any leader who is sincere about fighting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is welcome on board,” TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said. Dev is the daughter of former Union minister Santosh Mohan Dev who also represented the Silchar seat as well as Tripura West Lok Sabha in the adjoining state. He died in 2017. Her mother, Bithika Dev, is also a former legislator from Silchar. Leaders in Assam said Dev clashed with the party’s state leadership during the recently concluded assembly elections over ticket distribution. “I am the king maker in Barak Valley and we have performed much better than the Brahmaputra Valley...but APCC [Assam Pradesh Congress Committee] did not give our hard-fought win proper respect...there is a limit, and we cannot continue serving like second class workers in the party,” she said in March. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal blamed the party for her departure. “Sushmita Dev resigns from primary membership of our party. While young leaders leave we ‘oldies’ are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it. The party moves on with :Eyes Wide Shut,” he tweeted. Sibal is part of a group of Congress leaders who wrote to Gandhi last year, demanding organisational changes in the party. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said Gandhi had not received Dev’s letter. “I tried speaking with Dev but her phone was off. She was a dedicated Congress worker and perhaps is, even today. Sonia Gandhi has not received any letter from her. She (Dev) is mature enough to make her decisions, and I cannot comment till I speak with her,” he told reporters in Delhi.Former Bengal Congress chief Pradip Bhattacharya said: “I am surprised. Dev held a high post in the Congress. Probably she had some grievances.” Dev’s resignation marks another high-profile departure from the Congress. In June, former Union minister of state Jitin Prasada quit and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/sushmita-dev-joins-tmc-a-day-after-quitting-congress-101629110244999.html
17-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police constable critical after shooting self||A 35-year-old police constable allegedly shot himself in the head while on duty on Monday morning. According to police, his condition was critical and his treatment was on. According to a police official, the Vasant Vihar police station received a call around 6am that a constable shot himself and was lying unconscious. Police said the call was made by a boy on morning walk. Also Read | Atal Bihari Vajpayee death anniversary today: India pays tribute to former PMA local police team rushed to the spot at the Poorvi Marg police picket where they found the constable lying in a pool of blood. The constable had shot himself with his government issued pistol on the right side of his head and bullet exited from the left side. He was rushed to AIIMS trauma centre. A forensics team was also called to the spot for investigation. Help is just a call away: Snehi: 011-65978181, Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-constable-critical-after-shooting-self-101629100224385.html
