18-08-2021||Other||Crime has no religion: Delhi police commissioner||New Delhi: Delhi police commissioner Rakesh Asthana visited north-east Delhi on Wednesday and told residents that “crime has no religion and a few anti-social elements spoiled the social environment”. Asthana who took charge as Delhi police commissioner last month said that such persons should be identified and dealt with as per the law. The newly appointed Delhi police chief made the comments at the Shyam Lal College in Shahdara during a community-based policing function. During the programme, the top cop told citizens that though police were trained to tackle all law-and-order issues, they could be more effective with support of the citizens.“Being an important link in information regarding criminal activities, arrest of criminals or management of law-and-order issues, public cooperation is the sine qua non. Since it is not feasible to deploy policepersons in every nook and corner, a self-disciplined and service-oriented society is required to assist the police to establish peace and harmony. Crime has no religion and only a few anti-social elements spoil the social environment. Such unscrupulous elements need to be identified and dealt with as per law”, he saidIn February 2020, many parts of north-east Delhi had witnessed clashes between Hindus and Muslims in what was one of the worst riots in Delhi in the last three decades. At least 53 persons died while 600 others were injured. Among those who died was Delhi police head constable Ratan Lal. On Wednesday, Asthana also instituted “Ratan Lal Medal of hope.” Lal’s wife was also felicitated at the event. On the 2020 Delhi riots, Asthana told reporters, “ I was not in Delhi Police when the riots took place. But being a police officer, it was very sad for me to hear about it. I was regrettable that this kind of problem arose in a city like Delhi, where people had almost forgotten riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crime-has-no-religion-delhi-police-commissioner-101629311319488.html
18-08-2021||Pune||Sextortion cases on the rise in Pune||The cases of cheating people into indulging in virtual sex and recording them to extort money from them have seen a spike during the second year of Covid-19 restrictions.The number of extortion cases using nude pictures till the end of July 2021, was 134. By August 17, the number of those cases had reached 171, according to the cybercrime cell officials.The cases started rising at a rate that made the Pune city police cybercrime cell officials form a separate section in the data records of the cell.The total number of cybercrime cases has gone up in the past few years with 7,795 in 2019, 14,950 in 2020 and over 11,000 so far in 2021. With that, the number of cases in all three major categories and 65 sub-categories has gone up.“There is not even a single female victim in any of these recorded cases. They are all men. And the amounts extorted from them are in the bracket of ₹2,000-5,000 or a few more,” said senior police inspector Dagdu Hake of Cyber police station of Pune city police.“We have detected a few such cases and found the culprits to be from Rajasthan and the northern belt. While the investigation into these cases is underway, we have not found any links to suspects in Maharashtra,” he said.“These cases started getting more frequent in the lockdown period. But we were recording them in social media frauds. But in 2021, the frequency increased to a point where we had to make a separate sub-section,” said another official of the cell who did not wish to be named.“The modus operandi used to trap people in such cases, as observed by the police, is like any social media fraud - the accused befriend the victim on the social media platform, they start a conversation and exchange phone numbers and after weeks or months of talking, they ask for virtual sex which is recorded without the victim’s knowledge in most cases,” according to Hake.“So far the amounts are small. They say that they now know the relatives on the victims’ social media accounts and will send the video to these relatives to threaten the victims. Our advice is always to stop paying money as it emboldens them,” he said.Helpline numbersThe cybercrime cell has launched emergency helplines which are active at all hours and are also available on WhatsApp - 7058719371 and 7058719375. The police have urged people to report any cybercrime cases at the earliest in order to ease the detection process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sextortion-cases-on-the-rise-in-pune-101629311260646.html
18-08-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow sees spike in dry fruit prices as Taliban take over Afghanistan||The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan has led to a steep price rise of dry fruit and other items imported from the country. The price of dry fruit imported from Afghanistan has gone up by 30 to 50% within a fortnight, traders said.“The rates of almonds have almost doubled in the last 20 days. Pistachio and raisin prices have also gone up by around 30%. The prices of dates are also increasing every day,” informed Rohit Ahuja, partner in a major wholesale store in Fatehganj, Lucknow.Reportedly dry fruits and raisins worth 20 crore are imported every year in the state capital from Afghanistan. The produce is imported by firms in New Delhi and Maharashtra from where it is bought by local traders.Currently, the price of a 1 kg of almonds in Lucknow has gone up to ₹1,050 from ₹600, pistachio prices have gone up to ₹2,100 a kg from ₹1,700 a kg, while the prices of raisins have risen to ₹800 a kg from ₹600 a few weeks ago. The spike in prices has led to a decline in demand in the last few days. “Shopkeepers who used to buy a kg of almonds from our shop every week, are not buying more than 250 grams now,” Ahuja said.“The rise in prices of dry fruit will force the middle class to remove dry fruit from our kitchen. It is becoming difficult to manage the budget due to inflation and fewer earnings. How can we afford expensive dry fruit,” said Snehlata Singh, a homemaker in Gomti Nagar extension.Besides home kitchens, sweet shops too are major consumers of dry fruit. “We are already under strain due to the rise in prices of ingredients. Now the increase in prices of dry fruit will make it more difficult for us to maintain quality of products without increasing rates,” said Vineet Gupta, owner of a nearly 200-year-old sweet shop in the Old City area.Dry fruit traders fear that delay in Afghanistan returning to normalcy may further bump up the prices of dry fruit in the coming days. “The consumption of dry fruit goes up after the monsoon and during winter. If the condition in Afghanistan doesn’t improve by then, the rates of dry fruit will increase further,” said Suresh Dhiman, another dry fruit trader of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-sees-spike-in-dry-fruit-prices-as-taliban-take-over-afghanistan-101629310959965.html
18-08-2021||Other||SOPs issued for reopening of schools for classes 6-8||LUCKNOW: Ahead of reopening of classes from 6 to 8 from August 23, the state government on Wednesday issued elaborate guidelines to ensure that the Covid protocol was strictly adhered to by the institutions. The school administrations have been asked to reach out to parents and encourage them to send their children back to school for physical classes. But it has been made essential to take parents’ consent, according to detailed guidelines issued by Anamika Singh, director general, school education. “Due to prolonged closure of physical classes, there is a possibility that students’ capacity may have declined. The schools were asked to simultaneously run remedial classes for students who were not able to keep pace with online classes,” said the guidelines. The school administrations have been asked to constitute Nigrani Samitis that will ensure that the Covid -9 protocol is in place, suggesting that seating arrangements for students should be made in a way that a gap of 6 feet is maintained between two students. The government has also said that schools with a large number of students must operate in two shifts. The shifts are to be of three hours’ duration from 8 am to 11 am and 11.30 am to 2.30 pm. The school administrations have been asked to ensure that all common places accessed by staff and students are sanitized regularly. The school managements are required to educate students about Covid guidelines and discourage them from sharing their food and other belongings. Schools will run both online and offline classes so that students who do not wish to come to school may continue with their studies. Schools for students of classes 6 to 8 would now open from August 23 instead of September 1. Classroom teaching for classes 1 to 5 will begin from September 1. A government press release said the chief minister instructed officials to begin preparations for the reopening of schools for students of classes 6 to 8 in view of the controlled situation of Covid in the state. On August 2, the state government announced that secondary schools in UP (for classes 9 to 12) would resume physical classes from August 16, with 50% attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sops-issued-for-reopening-of-schools-for-classes-68-101629310600666.html
18-08-2021||Other||Delhi: Man sets himself on fire near Talkatora Road||New Delhi: A 47-year-old man tried to allegedly immolate himself near Talkatora road in the New Delhi district. Police said he received 30 per cent burns and was unfit for making a statement.Police said the incident took place around 12.45 pm on Wednesday, the victim, who was still unidentified, came near the road and poured inflammable liquid on himself and set himself on fire. People who were at the spot rushed to douse the flames. “He was taken to the hospital for treatment,” the official said.A senior police official said that they have heard the man was duped of his money by some person, but the same is yet to be ascertained by the man as he is presently undergoing treatment.Police said that the man is yet to be identified and under treatment. “The reason behind the extreme step will be clear once we record his statement,” the official added.This is the second such episode in New Delhi district in this week. Earlier this week, a couple set themselves on fire outside the Supreme Court and are undergoing treatment as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-man-sets-himself-on-fire-near-talkatora-road-101629310601069.html
18-08-2021||Other||HC asks Centre and ASI if monuments in Delhi are open for public||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Centre and ASI to inform whether the public is permitted to visit various monuments situated in the national capital.The court’s query came while hearing a petition claiming that citizens are not being allowed to visit the monuments situated in the premises of Delhi Golf Club at Dr Zakir Hussain Road here.Justice Rekha Palli issued notices to the Centre, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Delhi government’s Department of Archaeology and Delhi Golf Club and asked them to respond to the petition within three weeks.The court asked the Centre and ASI to specifically deal with, in their replies, the aspect of situation at other similar monuments here, saying it was not only concerned with Delhi Golf Club and listed the matter for further hearing on January 6.Delhi resident Ravinder Singh, represented through advocates Ritesh Agrawal and Teejas Bhatia, said he along with his brother went to Delhi Golf Club on February 2 last year to visit the monuments situated in the premises of the club but they were not allowed by the club employees to enter and see the monuments.It said one of the eight monuments ‘Lal Bangla’ is a protected monument under the ASI and the other seven monuments are under the protection of Delhi government.The plea said the petitioner had given a representation to the authorities but no action has been taken.The petitioner sought direction to the authorities to allow him to visit the monuments situated in the premises of Delhi Golf Club, saying citizens have a right to visit the monuments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcasks-centre-and-asi-if-monuments-in-delhi-are-open-for-public-101629310539389.html
18-08-2021||Lucknow||LU V-C meets Afghan students, assures them of support||The vice-chancellor of Lucknow University, Alok Kumar Rai, interacted with the Afghan students studying in the university on Wednesday, in the wake of the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan. Asserting that the university will take all measures to support them, the V-C asked students to focus on their career during these troubled times.“It is essential that you don’t lose focus of your careers and aim to excel in life. I know these are particularly difficult times to do so but I must urge all of you to take this as a challenge,” the V-C said to the Afghan students.There are close to 60 students from Afghanistan who are currently enrolled in various courses at Lucknow University. Most of these students have family in Afghanistan. “In situations like these I would also suggest that you join the happy thinking lab of the university and use other facilities available here to keep yourself busy and in a positive mind set,” the V-C said.Answering queries of students who will soon be completing their course at the university, the V-C suggested that such students must try to enrol in other courses at the university. He said that the university is in constant touch with ICCR (Indian Council for Cultural Relations) and Afghan Embassy. “If any Afghan student studying in the university has any problem, he can directly meet me and discuss his problem. I will advise you to maintain mental strength at this time. Be assured that the entire university family is with you in these difficult times,” the V-C said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lu-v-c-meets-afghan-students-assures-them-of-support-101629310359784.html
18-08-2021||Gurugram||Road rage: Four booked for brandishing pistols at driver for objecting to wrong-side driving||The police on Tuesday booked four men for allegedly abusing and threatening a 33-year-old man with pistols when he objected to them driving on the wrong side of a one-way service lane at Shankar Chowk on Monday afternoon.The complainant, a Supreme Court lawyer, shared a picture of the vehicle’s number plate with the police on Monday, following which the police identified the vehicle owner as a city resident. The police also recovered CCTV footage of the incident from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that they are verifying the facts. “The suspects will be arrested soon. We are scanning the CCTV footage,” he said.The complainant said that the confrontation took place when an Innova intercepted his car on the way from his residence at the National Media Centre, when was exiting the one-way service lane. “There were seven men inside the SUV and they wanted to go the wrong way. I politely objected and told them that it was the wrong way, but in response, I was abused and threatened with physical violence,” he said, wishing not to be named.He drove away to avoid further confrontation but the suspects followed him and intercepted his car within 200 metres. He said that four of them got down and started banging on his window, following which he rolled it down. “They hit the car windows repeatedly. They chased my car dangerously at a high speed and two of the youths were armed with pistols and threatened to shoot and kill me. They said that I had no business to tell them to not come the wrong way. One of the men sitting in the car saw a sticker (of a Supreme Court advocate) on my car and pulled them away. I took the opportunity to leave the spot,” he said.A case was registered under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 34 (common intention) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the DLF Phase-3 police station.The complainant also alleged that the suspects were pressurising him to withdraw his complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/road-rage-four-booked-for-brandishing-pistols-at-driver-for-objecting-to-wrong-side-driving-101629310123926.html
18-08-2021||Gurugram||Surveillance cameras upgraded to detect traffic violations||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has upgraded cameras installed at 28 points to simultaneously help with surveillance and traffic management, as part of its Safe City project.Officials said that full-surveillance cameras have been installed at 28 points that can record proceedings as well as read the number plates of vehicles involved in traffic offences. These cameras also facilitate automated issuance of e-challans to violators, as the system is connected with the database of the National Informatics Centre (NIC). “Earlier, we had installed general surveillance cameras in the city for public safety, but we upgraded cameras at a few sites to full-surveillance ones, especially at busy crossings or places with heavy footfall. At the full surveillance sites, the cameras can read the number plates of the vehicles and initiate e-challans for violators. As the system is integrated with the database of NIC, challans are sent directly to offenders, be it a resident of Gurugram or other states,” a senior official with the GMDA’s Smart City division said. Of the 28 cameras, nine full-surveillance cameras have been installed at Bakhtawar Chowk, four at Wazirabad four-way intersection, eight at Rezang La Chowk, three at ATI Chowk near Sector 54 Rapid Metro and four at the Galleria Market intersection. These cameras have additional features, including automatic number plate recognition and red-light violation detection. The process of installing these cameras started early this year and 13 such cameras were installed till March. However, work stalled due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials said that e-challans were issued from April 9, but the exact number issued till date was not available.Officials said that the full-surveillance cameras can also help locate stolen vehicles as specific numbers uploaded to the system will be detected by these cameras and officials alerted. Officials said that these cameras are also monitored by police officials at the integrated command and control centre regularly. After monitoring these sites for the next few months, the GMDA is likely to increase the number of full-surveillance cameras. However, a timeline has not been set. Under the Safe City project, the GMDA has already installed 1,100 live-feed CCTV cameras in the city. Another 100 cameras will be installed by the end of this month, officials said. The authority is also in the process of installing facial recognition cameras at 10 locations to track criminals and improve public safety. Two such cameras have already been installed at Sheetla Mata Mandir and the City Bus Stand. A tentative list of places for the installation of facial recognition cameras includes three metro stations, the railway station, bus stand and a government hospital, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/surveillance-cameras-upgraded-to-detect-traffic-violations-101629310121395.html
18-08-2021||Gurugram||Contractor falls 12 feet while fixing LED lights, bus driver booked for hitting crane||A 26-year-old man suffered severe injuries after falling from a crane, when it was hit by a speeding bus, while fixing an LED light on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on August 12. The police recorded the victim’s statement on Tuesday and registered a case against the driver of the bus run by a private operator.The police identified the victim as Jitender Kumar, a resident of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, who works with a private company that fixes LED lights on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. Around 4.30pm on August 12, he was fixing a light when a speeding bus allegedly hit the vehicle the crane was connected to, causing him to lose his balance and fall 12 feet. He was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 and was declared fit to record a statement on Tuesday.Sudhir Kumar, the station house officer of Sector 17/18 police station, said that they were informed of the incident by a colleague of the victim’s. “We sent a team to the hospital but he could not record his statement. On Tuesday, he narrated the incident and we have registered a case against the unidentified bus driver,” he said. A case was registered under sections 279 (rash driving), 336 (damage to the road had endangered life and personal safety of commuters), and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code on Tuesday. Kumar said they have recovered CCTV footage from the vicinity and are scanning the footage to identity the bus. The National Highways Authority of India has installed 3,500 LED lights in place of sodium vapour lights on a 27-kilometre stretch of the highway, from Delhi to Kherki Daula toll plaza, in the past three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/contractor-falls-12-feet-while-fixing-led-lights-bus-driver-booked-for-hitting-crane-101629310120272.html
18-08-2021||Other||Jain: Delhi govt creating free quality education and healthcare, like in US, UK||Delhi health and urban development minister Satyendar Jain highlighted the work done by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the health and education sectors in the Capital while inaugurating a community centre in outer Delhi’s Alipur on Wednesday. “The Kejriwal government has been the first in the nation to take up the issue of quality amenities as a prime responsibility and we are making remarkable progress in health care and education with each passing day. The UK and US are developed countries only because of free quality education and healthcare. The Kejriwal government is bringing the same kind of development to Delhi,” sai Jain at the launch of the community centre. “A people oriented and corruption-free governance model in Delhi has made people realise that there is someone working towards securing their rights,” said the health minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jaindelhi-govt-creating-free-quality-education-and-healthcare-like-in-us-uk-101629310060379.html
18-08-2021||Lucknow||2 UP teachers make it to 2021 national honours’ list||Two teachers from Uttar Pradesh have been selected for the National Awards for Teachers, 2021, in the list of 44 teachers nation-wide. They are: Manish Kumar of Junior High School, Shivganj, block Sahar, Auraiya and Tripti Mahaur, Government Girls Inter College Chamruya, Sadar, Rampur.Manish Kumar, 32, is the only government school teacher of Basic Shiksha Parishad, who has been selected for the award. Manish said that this award is just the start of the long journey he has to make in shaping the lives of thousands of children.To promote scientific temper among students and to make classroom teaching lively, Manish – a state teacher awardee in 2018 – claims that he developed a science lab, called ILA (informal lab activity with informal lab apparatus) where he encourages students to learn from kabaar se jugaar (trash to treasure). Currently, he is developing a science park to teach students the comparative size of planets (the solar system) when students return to school from August 23.Manish considers noted educator and retired IIT-Kanpur professor Padamshri HC Verma as his guru and role model. He is in touch with Verma for almost eight years and has attended four national workshops of Utsahi Physics Teachers (NWUPT) conducted by Verma.According to Manish, a government school teacher must stop cribbing about lack of resources. There are a number of government school teachers who generated resources without government funding and transformed their institution.“My role model, Prof HC Verma, says a teacher must first fall in love with the subject he or she teaches before expecting students to do the same. Schools are not the place to just score marks. They are the place to empower minds and improve capabilities. The target of education cannot be and should not be to clear board exams or IIT/NEET entrance.”Manish is a science graduate but he teaches all subjects at the junior high school level. He joined this school in Auraiya as an assistant teacher in September 2016. “There were just 64 children enrolled in the school then. Now, the student strength has increased to 107. There are three teachers in the school,” he said.The purpose of National Awards for Teachers is to celebrate the unique contribution of some of the finest teachers in the country and to honour those teachers who have not only improved the quality of school education but also enriched the lives of their students, through their commitment and industriousness.Tripti Mahaur expressed happiness over her selection for the national award saying that it is a recognition of her efforts that will continue to motivate her throughout her career. Tripti Mahaur has been teaching history and social science at the Government Girls Inter College in Kila Rampur for the last nine years. The teacher is popular among the students of the school for her unique teaching methods. Rampur district magistrate Ravinder Kumar Mandel called Tripti and congratulated her for the honour.Congratulating both teachers, Lalita Pradeep, director, additional basic education, said, “I am really proud of Tripti from secondary and Manish from the basic education sector for winning the National Award for Teachers this year. The state is proud of their extraordinary achievement in individual capacity. They are our heroes and will inspire a generation towards excellence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2-up-teachers-make-it-to-2021-national-honours-list-101629310059892.html
18-08-2021||Other||Over 6,000 apply to Delhi government for Covid financial aid||New Delhi: The Delhi government has so far received 4,165 applications for the ₹50,000 one-time financial assistance for Covid-19 deaths recorded in the city, and 2,753 applications for ₹2,500 monthly assistance from families which lost their sole breadwinner to the disease, according to documents that HT has seen.The government, however, is yet to start disbursing the ex-gratia amount, said a senior official in the government’s social welfare department who asked not to be named, adding: “The process will begin very soon.”Delhi has so far recorded more than 25,000 deaths due to Covid-19 – more than half of which were recorded in the last and worst wave of the pandemic during April-May.The government is conducting a separate survey for children orphaned by Covid-19 and data for that is yet to be summarised.On June 23, the government notified a scheme of one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000 for each Covid-19 victim’s kin, and monthly assistance of ₹2,500 for families which lost their sole breadwinner and children left orphaned by Covid-19.In July, the government formed teams to visit residences of people who died of Covid-19 and help them with the application process which, senior officials said, helped immensely in terms of the number of applications received so far .“Government officials have visited our residence recently. We were facing difficulties with the application. We are assured that we will receive the money soon,” said Jagat Kumar, one of the applicants, whose mother Tara Devi died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-6-000-apply-to-delhi-government-for-covid-financial-aid-101629309999332.html
18-08-2021||Other||AAP protests outside BJP headquarters over alleged corruption in cinema land deal||Scores of supporters of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday staged a demonstration outside the head office of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in central Delhi alleging corruption in the municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) and sale of assets at under-valued rates.“Aam Aadmi Party gheraoed BJP headquarters after MCD sold the Novelty Cinema land worth ₹200 crore for only ₹34 crore. The BJP knows it is going to be defeated in MCD elections, so it wants to fill its pocket by selling off public properties through MCD. People of Delhi want that an honest government, like the Kejriwal government, be brought into the MCD,” said the AAP’s national secretary Pankaj Gupta. BJP’s Delhi spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the north MCD has got the lease sale of Novelty Cinema done by an open tender.Going by the commercial circle rate, the plot is worth ₹19.50 crore. The plot has been leased at ₹35 crore, almost double the circle rate, said Kapoor. “Before levelling baseless charges, AAP leaders should know that authorised construction will be done on a large part of this plot that will have hardly 225% floor area ratio (FAR), unlike small plots around it where up to 300 to 350% FAR is allowed,” said the BJP spokesperson. “If the AAP government feels that the plot is being sold below the market price, then it should come forward and help the cash-starved north MCD by buying the plot at their self-claimed market value,” said Kapoor. While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations in the Capital. Delhi goes to the municipal polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-protests-outside-bjp-headquarters-over-alleged-corruption-in-cinema-land-deal-101629309939363.html
18-08-2021||Other||Covid-19 pandemic - closed sports hostels leave trainees in the lurch||The next generation of sportspersons are in for a tough time with the state’s sports hostels continuing to remain closed because of the Covid-19 pandemic.But due to the sheer love for sport and the will to excel, a dozen boys in the junior category from the sports hostel in Agra are residing in the city on their own expense, so that they do not miss out on the training imparted to them at the Eklavya Sports Stadium in the city. “The Eklavya Sports Stadium hostels house about 75 aspiring junior level players. There are 35 girls being trained in gymnastics, kabaddi and basketball, while 40 boys are being trained in gymnastics and table tennis. They were residing in three hostels for girls and two hostels for boys,” said Ram Milan, the deputy sports officer at the stadium. “With the outbreak of the pandemic early in Agra, these boys and girls had to leave the hostel and return to their hometowns, as they mostly came from eastern Uttar Pradesh, including districts of Varanasi, Azamgarh, Mau, Prayagraj, etc.” stated Ram Milan. These sports persons are chosen after a tough competition at the district, then regional and then state level. They undergo a 15-day central coaching camp and after physical and skill training, merit is prepared and hostels are allocated to them. To continue to be at a hostel to avail training, these boys and girls have to participate in national level games within 3 years and in junior level national within 5 years. They are below 12 years when admitted in hostels and are trained for particular sports while continuing their studies. There are many schools who wish to have these sports-oriented students as they bring laurels to the institution. The fee for these students is paid by the government which also bears their expenses when they travel to participate in tournaments. “These boys and girls have missed their training since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020 and had returned for some time before the second wave in April 2021 struck. As such, there has been a long break for these boys and girls,” said Ram Milan, but could offer little as a solution. “There are private sports academies in Prayagraj with whom our boys and girls often have competitions. These private academies in Prayagraj have re-opened but we await a go-ahead from the authorities. I fear our students will lag behind,” the deputy sports officer said. “We could not arrange for the girls but we arranged residence for 12 out of 15 boys and kept them in the city area so that they can attend training for gymnastics at Eklavya Sports stadium. However, families of these boys have to bear the expenses which come to roughly to ₹3,000 a month for a boy including charges for their lodging, food etc,” said Ram Milan. However, most parents find it tough to bear such expenditure because of financial constraints in these testing times. The sports authorities admit that financial constraints do matter and ultimately, the solution lies in having these young players in the hostel but precautions during these pandemic times too are unavoidable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-pandemic-closed-sports-hostels-leave-trainees-in-the-lurch-101629309640209.html
18-08-2021||Noida||Three die after consuming spurious liquor in Jewar||Greater Noida: Three persons died after they allegedly consumed spurious liquor in Greater Noida’s Jewar on Tuesday and Wednesday. Police identified the victims as Vijay Kumar (25) and his brothers-in-law Bijjo (30) and Jaggo (27), all residents of Jewar and worked as ragpickers. Jewar police station house officer Umesh Bahadur said that the trio found countrymade liquor while picking garbage in Aligarh’s Tappal on Monday. “They were collecting used plastic bottles and other stuff when they chanced upon bottles with some countrymade liquor in a sack on the roadside there. They consumed some and brought the rest home,” he said. On Monday night, all three complained of nausea and headache and on Tuesday, Vijay’s health deteriorated and he died at a Jewar community health centre where he died, said police. On Tuesday night the other two victims’ health too deteriorated and they were rushed to the Noida district hospital. While Bijjo died the same night, Jaggo was rushed to a Delhi government hospital in Delhi where he died on Wednesday morning, said police. The SHO said excise department was informed to launch an investigation into the matter. “It appears some people involved in manufacturing spurious liquor dumped the liquor bottles on the roadside,” he said.Police said they have not received any complaint from the victims’ family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-die-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-jewar-101629309219323.html
18-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Action against illegal hoardings after complaint||The Greater Noida authority acted against the illegal hoardings or unipoles in a drive that started on Tuesday night and went on till 4am on Wednesday. The move comes after the authority on Tuesday received a complaint of illegal advertisements mushrooming in the city. The complainant mentioned that the authority removes the illegal unipoles, but sometime later realtors and other firms reinstall these unipoles without any permission, said officials from the authority. The Greater Noida authority’s chief executive officer, Narendra Bhooshan, directed the officials to take prompt action against this illegal activity. According to the officials, the complainant also said that unipoles removed earlier are being stored in sectors 1, 2, 3 and Kisan Chowk in Greater Noida West. The authority last week removed several unipoles from main roads in Greater Noida West. “We reached the spot and seized the iron poles, frames and other material lying at Kisan Chowk and other places. We have removed and seized 31 unipoles, which were installed without permission. We have cut down iron pillars into small pieces so that they cannot be reused,” said KR Verma, deputy general manager, Greater Noida authority.“We will sell the seized items in an auction to send across a message that illegal activity will be contained and stern action will be initiated,” said Verma.Residents have demanded tough action against illegal hoardings and unipoles.“In installing an illegal unipole, no safety precautions pertaining to its foundation and height are followed. As a result, in case of heavy wind they fall off often injuring commuters or pedestrians on city roads. We hope the authority will not allow any such illegal activity in the city,” said Vivek Raman, a resident of Gaur City.On Monday, the authority issued recovery notices against 70 firms that put up unipoles without permission since April 2018.“We will also impose penalty against those, whose unipoles have been seized in the last night drive,” said Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-action-against-illegal-hoardings-after-complaint-101629309099256.html
18-08-2021||Noida||Controlling crime top priority, says new Ghaziabad SSP Pawan Kumar||Pawan Kumar, a 2009 batch IPS officer, is now the new Ghaziabad police chief. Kumar was transferred to Ghaziabad as senior superintendent of police from Moradabad as the state government shunted out SSP Amit Pathak in sudden transfer orders on Monday night. The officer from Hanumangarh in Rajasthan holds a master’s degree in economics and said his priority would be to stop crime in the city. “If it cannot be stopped, then it needs to be controlled. The chain of registration of cases, proper investigation and prosecution in court will worked on priority,” said SSP Kumar. “Any system cannot run in isolation and needs support and help from citizens. It will be wrong if anyone thinks that a police force can eradicate crime on their own. It cannot be done without the support from people.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/controlling-crime-top-priority-says-new-ghaziabad-ssp-pawan-kumar-101629309039259.html
18-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar issues 1,076 new Ayushman Bharat cards during 15-day campaign||Gautam Budh Nagar issued 1,076 Ayushman Bharat cards under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (PM-JAY) during the special 15-day campaign held from July 26 to August 12. Under the scheme, a beneficiary family can get free treatment up to ₹5 lakh every year at empanelled hospitals. There are eight government hospitals and 37 private hospitals affiliated under the scheme in the district. Beneficiaries are required to have an Aadhaar card and ration card to avail the scheme.The district is ranked 18th in Uttar Pradesh in executing the scheme.“Under the scheme, 46,785 Ayushman Bharat cards have been issued in GB Nagar so far. As per the census, 35,955 beneficiary families (approximately 143,820 people) were identified for the scheme. So far 12,142 people have availed benefits in the district,” said district information manager for the scheme Anamika.Dr. Ashok Kumar, the nodal officer for the campaign, said that camps were organised in all four blocks of the district -- Dadri, Dankaur, Bisrakh and Jewar.“These camps were organized at public places like Panchayat Bhawan, Health and Wellness Centre, Anganwadi Centre, Primary School etc. Two camps were organized daily in each block. Earlier a fee of ₹30 charged by the government for making Ayushman card but it has been abolished. Now a beneficiary does not have to pay any fee for the card,” he said.Chief Medical Officer Dr. Sunil Kumar Sharma said, “Under the campaign, effort was made to make Ayushman card of maximum eligible beneficiaries while making the targeted families aware of the scheme. In this campaign, priority was on those families that do not have a single Ayushman card”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-issues-1-076-new-ayushman-bharat-cards-during-15-day-campaign-101629308679203.html
18-08-2021||Noida||Residents’ body demands compensation for dog bites in Noida||Noida: Angry and scared over stray dog bites, a residents’ body has demanded compensation from the Noida authority alleging that it “failed to take care of city’s stray”.The stray dog menace is one of the major issues in the city. Rules prevent them from being relocated except temporarily in case of medical treatment, including sterilisation. Authority officials say they have “no data” on the number of incidents of dog bites, the residents’ body has estimated it at over 300 a month.“We are afraid to take a stroll on the roads and even in parks these days. Children, older citizens, cyclists, all have been at some point or the other chased or have suffered a bite from a stray animal. Yesterday, a little girl was bitten near our society. This cannot go on. Our patience is wearing thin. Since the authority is unable to control this menace, we demand that it pay ₹10,000 to every victim of a dog bite and offer treatment at a hospital of its choice. We will write to the authority demanding the same,” said Rajiva Singh, president of the Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA).He said that while officials claim that neutering or sterilising a stray dog is the only solution , “the same is not systematic”.“The authority has no survey or data on numbers of street dogs in the city or a particular area or the incidents of bites. How would they conduct a systematic or organised sterilisation or neutering. To our knowledge, almost 300 dog bites take place every month,” Singh said.“This is one of the major issues of the city as on daily basis we see or hear of a dog bite incident. Yesterday, a vegetable vendor was bitten by a street dog outside our high-rise. It should be dealt with on an urgent basis,” said Amit Gupta, a social activist and resident of Sector 77.According to the officials, their sterilisation programme will resume soon.“The sterilisation was stopped in March as a contract we had with a private agency expired. We have issued a fresh tender and the process will be completed in a few days. The aim will be to sterilise 1,500 dogs a month. We understand that this is the only way forward to control the problem,” said SC Mishra, project engineer (health), Noida authority,He said the programme had sterilised over 30,000 dogs in the past two years.“Both male and female dogs are sterilised so that they can’t reproduce. For this the operations are held at our Animal centre at sector 94. Over 30,000 dogs has been sterilised so far since 2019,” Mishra added.According to people engaged in animal welfare, some bites are “inevitable” and often due to “aggression towards the animal”.“An aggressive dog can be dealt with through proper training and treatment,” said Sanjay Mahapatra, founder of house of stray animal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-body-demands-compensation-for-dog-bites-in-noida-101629308619798.html
18-08-2021||Noida||Nigerian national arrested in Greater Noida for illegal stay||A 34-year-old Nigerian national was arrested from outside a residential society in Greater Noida on Wednesday for allegedly overstaying in the country. According to police, Valentine Ahosota was presently living in a rented flat at the high-rise society in Sector Mu. Pradeep Tripathi, SHO of Dadri police station, said that inspector (local intelligence unit) Parul Punia informed police that Ahosota was illegally living in Greater Noida. “We found that his visa had expired on May 10, 2013, while his passport had also expired on December 9, 2017,” Punia said in the police complaint. Tripathi said that Ahosota had come to India on a student visa about 10 years ago. “His visa expired eight years ago and he had not applied for its extension,” he said. Police conducted a search and arrested him from outside his residential society. A case has been registered against him under Section 14 of the Foreigners Act, 1946. “He was produced in court that sent him to judicial custody,” Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nigerian-national-arrested-in-greater-noida-for-illegal-stay-101629308619247.html
18-08-2021||Noida||Minor brothers found dead in Noida, father missing||Two brothers, aged seven and three years, were found dead on Wednesday with their throats slit in a green belt in Noida’s Sector 34 that comes under the Sector 24 police jurisdiction. The bodies were found about two kilometres from their home in Hoshiyarpur village under the Sector 49 police station limits, police said. The deceased were identified as Monu and Tinka. According to police, the boys’ mother, Varsha, on Wednesday morning had filed a missing complaint about her two sons and husband Mahesh at Sector 49 police station. Police said that local people informed them about the bodies of two children lying in the green belt near a private school. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said a police team reached the spot. “The two children had injury marks on their bodies and throats. It appears they were attacked by a sharp object,” he said.The Sector 24 police launched an investigation and soon it was found that a missing complaint was lodged in this regard.According to Vinod Kumar Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Sector 49 police station, the woman in her complaint said that her husband Mahesh had taken their two children for evening walk on Tuesday in the park, but they did not return late night. The woman launched a search but failed to trace them, police said, adding that she filed a complaint on Wednesday morning. The woman has identified the children’s bodies, police said.Singh said that Mahesh, who worked at an embroidery workshop in the city, had lost his job last month. “He had been tense since then. He also had a heated argument with his wife over job loss last week. It appears he killed the two children and fled the spot,” the SHO said.However, the Noida DCP said that a police team visited the victims’ house and scanned the footage of CCTV cameras from nearby areas. “In the CCTV footage, Mahesh was seen going with the children at 6.30pm. Since Mahesh is missing, it is not clear if he is a victim or a suspect in this case. We are trying to trace him,” he said.Police said the two bodies have been sent for a post-mortem and reports are awaited. A case has been registered against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder) of IPC at Sector 24 police station. “We are investigating the case from all angles,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/minor-brothers-found-dead-in-noida-father-missing-101629308559151.html
18-08-2021||Lucknow||India worships little girls, but pedophilia cases on the rise: HC||PRAYAGRAJ Taking serious note of rising crimes against minor girls, the Allahabad high court dismissed the bail plea of a man accused of sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl and observed, “Little girls are worshipped in our country, but the cases of pedophilia are increasing.”Justice Sanjay Kumar Singh rejected the bail application filed by one Jasman Singh of Lalitpur against whom an FIR on charges of sexual assault and under various sections of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act was lodged on February 17, 2019 at Jakhaura police station of Lalitpur.After hearing the parties concerned, the court observed, “In this case, a small innocent girl has been raped, who does not understand its meaning. Little girls are worshiped in our country, but cases of pedophilia are increasing. Sexual assault is a heinous crime. The victim suffers from psychological effects of embarrassment, disgust, depression, guilt and even suicidal tendencies. Many cases go unreported. In almost all such cases, the victim is unwilling to report the name of the abuser. Families of the victim remain silent about the sexual offences in order to protect the family image.”As per prosecution’s case, the applicant sexually assaulted the 13-year-old girl when she was alone in the house doing some household work and all her family members had gone to the agricultural field.The applicant allegedly took advantage of the situation, forcibly entered the house of the informant, and threatening to kill the victim, dragged her inside the room by grabbing her hair, and forcibly committed the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/india-worships-little-girls-but-pedophilia-cases-on-the-rise-hc-101629305441172.html
18-08-2021||Other||50 applications for vax for bedridden rejected by PMC; docus not in order||PUNE Of 65 applications sent in by citizens who are bed- ridden and want to get a Covid-19 vaccine, 50 have been rejected by the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department. Fifteen applications are still under scrutiny.This is because applicants did not provide a mandatory “fit for vaccination” certificate and/or a medical certificate declaring them as bed-ridden. The PMC had put out a special email ID inviting beneficiaries unable to go to vaccination centres due to their physical condition, to avail of the “vaccine on wheels” initiative; where in a mobile vaccine unit would drive to the home of the beneficiary to ensure the vaccination happened.Dr Surykant Deokar, PMC’s immunisation officer said, “Two weeks ago we rolled out this initiative, wherein citizens were to send their requests for immunisation on via email. We received 65 applications, of which 50 have been rejected. These applications lack the mandatory medical certificate issued by a doctor stating that the patient has been bed ridden due to some physical condition and is not able to go to the nearby Covid-19 vaccination centre. Also that the beneficiary is fit enough to receive the Covid immunisation. Some of the applications also lacked consent forms, mandatory to be submitted by family of bedridden citizens.All bed-ridden beneficiaries get only Covaxin as per central government guidelines, added Deokar. Dr Deokar said, “We are waiting to get enough applications so that we can plan the drive accordingly. If we have 15 beneficiaries as of now and if one of them lives in Hadapsar and the other on Sinhgad road or Baner, then it would take at least one hour to reach both places. In addition we would have to keep a watch on the beneficiary for at least for 20 minutes post vaccination. These are practical concerns and so we have to plan this special drive carefully.”City continues to face shortage of Covishield and Covaxin On Thursday, too, the civic body will keep its Covid-19 vaccination centres shut for a second day in a row due to a shortage of vaccines. On Wednesday centres were shut. Dr Deokar said that if the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) gets new stock on Thursday, then there would be a vaccination drive on Friday. Meanwhile, at a state-level video conference on Wednesday, the health department directed health officials at the taluka and corporation level to prioritise the second dose for beneficiaries. Also, a refund for private vaccination centres who have not received their vaccine stock despite payment was discussed.Vaccines for bedriddenApplicants can send their application along with mandatory documents to bedriddenvaccination.pune@gmail.com along with the beneficiary’s name, address, contact number, reasons for being bedridden, a doctor’s certificate and a consent letter from a family member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-applications-for-vax-for-bedridden-rejected-by-pmc-docus-not-in-order-101629305258837.html
18-08-2021||Other||Pune’s infra plans: 5 new cement concrete roads, one flyover||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) proposes to develop five new cement concrete roads and one flyover in the city under the public private partnership (PPP) system. The roads are located in Baner and Lohegaon, while the flyover is in Bibwewadi.The proposal, present in the standing committee’s budget plan, forecasts the cost of the project to be ₹500 crore.Amar Shinde, executive engineer of the road department, said, “We have decided to appoint a consultant who will give us a clear idea of the cost and other technical details. At present, we are working on five roads and one flyover.”He added, “One new road is located in Lohegaon and the other four are in Baner. The width of the roads varies from 14mts to 65mts. The flyover proposed in the Bibwewadi area will pass through Gangadham chowk. It is around one kilometre in length and will solve the traffic problem at Gangadham chowk.”Overall, as per Shinde, the road department has planned eight roads in its development plan (DP). The estimated cost of the eight roads is ₹123 crore. “We have also included one riverside road which connects Bund Garden road to the Mundhwa bridge. The road department has calculated the estimated cost of this bridge to be ₹27 crore,” he added. Under the PPP model, instead of PMC, private players such as contractor/builder/developer will spend the money and the PMC will issue credit notes which the private players can use for future construction activities, such as payment of development charges, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-infra-plans-5-new-cement-concrete-roads-one-flyover-101629305138824.html
18-08-2021||Other||PMC reports 79 cases of swine flu in city from Jan to Aug||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has reported an increase in the number of swine flu cases this year, as compared to last year. The civic body reported 79 cases of the H1N1 (swine flu) virus as of August 18, 2021. Last year the city recorded 10 cases of swine flu, which may have been due to the Covid-19 pandemic affecting the reportage of H1N1 cases.In 2009, when the city saw its first death due to the infection, Pune reported a total of 144 swine flu deaths that year, the highest in the country at the time. As per PMC data, a total of 306 people were screened after reporting symptoms, which are similar to flu and Covid-19. A total of 287 people were given Tamiflu and their swab samples were sent for testing. Of these, 79 were positive. None are active cases or admitted to hospital. No death due to the infection has been reported. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant health officer and in-charge of the PMC’s monsoon-related disease department, said, “Last year when the Covid-19 pandemic struck we could report only 10 cases in March and after that, the city did not report any swine flu cases. This was because the entire health machinery was involved in Covid-19 management and surveillance.”Dr Wavare added: “The same efforts taken for Covid-19 can be applied to control swine flu as well and we are doing the same.” The swine flu infection, primarily found in pigs, has symptoms that include fever, lethargy, sneezing, coughing, difficulty in breathing and a decreased appetite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-reports-79-cases-of-swine-flu-in-city-from-jan-to-aug-101629305078798.html
18-08-2021||Other||Covid impacts rural admissions, keeps FY cut-offs from getting too high||As the admissions process for undergraduate courses has begun, student preferences seem to be changing in the wake of Covid. Speaking about the admissions to the first year of the undergrad programmes, Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar, said that the students from rural areas are not opting for colleges in the city due to Covid.Modern College has released its first merit list for all three undergraduate courses – Science, Arts and Commerce. For first year BSc, Modern College saw a cut-off of 85.16 per cent; for BCom it was 95 per cent and for BA it was 90.98 per cent. “For commerce, the cut-off this year is higher than previous year, but for Science and Arts the cut-offs are not much higher than 2020. Due to Covid, many students are hesitant to choose colleges from the city. Finding a safe place to stay is a big challenge for rural students. As a result, cut-offs have been affected,” said Zunjarrao. Savita Datar, principal, Sir Parshurambhau (SP) College, said that her admissions are based on the merit list for undergraduate courses. “We were expected to release the first merit list on August 18, however, as there are more applications still coming in, we will release the list in the coming days. Students may opt for Engineering courses instead of Science, which has been a constant trend. However, this year due to Covid, many students may choose a college closer to home. The cut-offs of course are likely to be higher than previous years as the competition for the same remains,” said Datar. She added that students who have scored between 65 per cent and 80 per cent in their Class 12 assessments may have to struggle a bit to get admissions this year. At SP College, cut-off for Commerce in 2020 was 88.92 per cent. Whereas, for BSc it was 82 per cent and for Arts it was 91 per cent. At Garware College of Commerce, the cut-off this year is likely to go up by two to three per cent. Anand Lele, vice-principal at Garware College of Commerce, said that last year the cut-off for Commerce at their college was 92 per cent. “Many students opting for Arts to prepare for civil services, may opt for colleges near their hometowns. A trend of online coaching for civil services may be seen. Even with this, the cut-offs are likely to go up as competition in the city is still there. Arts in Garware College closed at 80 per cent last year. And for Science, the cut-off was 85 per cent,” said Lele. Many top colleges, like Fergusson College, Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce (BMCC) are yet to declare their cut-offs for 2021. The expected date for the same is August 21. Admission cut-offs for first year under-gradModern College 2021(Arts) -- 90.83% 2021(Science) -- 85.16% 2021(Commerce) -- 95% 2020 (Arts) -- 94% 2020 (Science) -- 89.90% 2020 (Commerce) -- 90.92% SP College 2020 (Arts) -- 91% 2020 (Science) -- 82% 2020 (Commerce) -- 88.92% 2021 – Cut-offs list yet to be announced||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-impacts-rural-admissions-keeps-fy-cut-offs-from-getting-too-high-101629304238793.html
18-08-2021||Ranchi||J’khand: Unique ID cards for farmers under new ‘Birsa Kisan’ initiative||In a first of its kind initiative, the Jharkhand agriculture department is working on issuing unique identity cards to lakhs of eligible farmers in the state to smoothen the process of providing all kinds of assistance, including direct benefit transfer, distribution of seeds and fertilizers and agricultural loan, officials concerned said on Wednesday.Under the new initiative, named Birsa Kisan, the agriculture department would come up with a dedicated portal containing records of all registered farmers and a chip-based identity card would be issued to them, which would also help in weeding out “ghost farmers” in the state, officials said.“We have engaged the National Informatics Centre to develop the portal and cards. These cards would have all the details related to farmers, including their Aadhar number, bank account, mobile number and land holding records. Later, we would also include the history of schemes and loans they have availed in the past,” said Nisha Oraon, director, agriculture.As per estimates, there are around 58 lakh farmers in the state. The agriculture department’s data is based on benefits availed under different schemes in the state. While the project would be implemented in phases and could take around three years to cover all eligible farmers, Oraon said the department was targeting to provide cards to atleast those farmers whose e-KYC has been done in the next two to three months.“The e-KYC was already done for around 3.5 lakh farmers for loan waiver recently. Issuing cards to them would not be a problem. After such farmers are covered, we would target those who have not been able to get any benefit in the past,” said Oraon.The official said in order to make it convenient for farmers living in remote areas, they are working to utilize banking correspondents for the e-KYC process. “Pragya kendras often get overcrowded. Many farmers live in remote areas making it difficult for farmers to do the formalities,” said Oraon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-unique-id-cards-for-farmers-under-new-birsa-kisan-initiative-101629304179313.html
18-08-2021||Patna||Bihar varsities set to hold final exams by Aug 31||As educational institutions have limped back to normal functioning, examination season has started at many prominent universities to bring delayed academic sessions on time and clear accumulated pending exams before admitting new students.On July 17, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had directed all varsities to hold pending exams by August 31 and complete the admission process for the new academic session by September 30.Following the directives, Patna University, Patliputra University, Nalanda Open University, Lalit Narayan Mithila University prepared schedules for holding final exams for various undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses.Patna University, which commenced final year exams on Tuesday, would finish exams this month.PU’s dean of students’ welfare, Anil Kumar, said, “The university has already commenced final year exams for regular UG students, which would conclude on August 31. After that, the third-semester exam for PG students will be conducted from September 4 to September 18.”“All Covid-19 safety protocols are being followed at exam centre”, he added.Similarly, Nalanda Open University (NOU) is all set to clear backlogs from August 26.As per NOU officials, final examinations being conducted in April were postponed due to rising Covid-19 cases.“Students of UG and PG have already written their four to five papers while a few are left. We have notified the new schedule to conclude exams by the first week of September. Exams for BA will begin from August 26, while MA exams will begin from August 27. We are likely to conclude final exams by September 4,” said an official of NOU.Darbhanga-based LNMU is also set to hold final exams for BA, Bcom and Bsc from August 28 to September 15.Meanwhile, students are relieved to take exams and prevent further delay in completion of their courses. Ayushi Kumari, a PG student at NOU, said, “I enrolled myself in MA course in 2019-21 session. I would have completed my course this year but, I am stuck in the first year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-varsities-set-to-hold-final-exams-by-aug-31-101629304059570.html
18-08-2021||Other||Motihari jail proposes release of 37 prisoners||Authorities at the Central Jail in Motihari have sent a proposal to the state government last week, requesting the release of 37 prisoners serving life sentences, citing their age and health, good conduct and number of years they have already spent in prison. Sushil Kumar Gupta, assistant superintendent, Central Jail Motihari, said, “Of the 37 prisoners, 17 are above 60 years and not keeping well whereas 20 others have already completed 14 years of imprisonment. Therefore, the jail administration has recommended their release considering their conduct.” “These prisoners might be released on the occasion of Gandhi’s birth anniversary, if approved by the government,” said an official, not willing to be named. According to officials, the jail currently has 2,871 prisoners against its total capacity of 2,510.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/motihari-jail-proposes-release-of-37-prisoners-101629303941805.html
18-08-2021||Other||Procurement six weeks away; Punjab yet to integrate land record of 40% of its farmers||Chandigarh With the Centre pushing for mandatory land record integration with food grain procurement from this kharif season (October and November), the Punjab government has, to date, completed this process for only 60% of 10.5 lakh farmers in the state.Compilation of details of the remaining 40% farmers is a challenge, as clear and authentic data on farmers engaged in agriculture on leased land is not available. “From September, we will start camps in mandis along with the arhtiyas to get the remaining data. There are 33,000 arhtiyas in the state and all farmers are linked to them. We want data to be matched before the start of (kharif) procurement,” said an officer of the food department.The Centre has made it compulsory for Punjab to carry out procurement after taking land details from farmers, who will get their payment (MSP) for their produce (wheat and paddy), only when the revenue record of their agriculture land is linked to the Public Finance Management System (PFMS). In rabi (wheat) procurement season this year, the state had implemented the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system, through PFMS, by transferring crop payment directly into farmers’ bank account, bypassing the traditional system of routing payment through the arhtiyas (commission agents). INTER-DEPARTMENTAL PROCESSOther than food and civil supplies department, the state’s revenue and agriculture departments, the state mandi board, Punjab Remote Sensing Centre and arhtiyas need to coordinate to ensure accurate matching of records. The state needs to match the PFMS, land record of the revenue department and the mandi board. The mandi board has the data as it prints J-forms to authenticate the sale of farmers’ produce. “It is a tedious process, but we have to implement it,” said a senior officer of state food department. During wheat procurement, the implementation of the DBT showed that there were 9.5 lakh farmers in the state. The number, however, is expected to go up in the paddy season as a greater number of farmers sell their produce to government agencies, unlike wheat, when private companies also make purchases. “The data management task is huge, as there 40 lakh Khewats, and matching it with procurement data is a tedious task. Errors may creep in. Another thing is that a large number of farmers are doing it on leased land, of which no data is available. In most cases, lease arrangement is through word of mouth. In spite of these challenges, we hope to complete the process before paddy procurement starts,” said principal secretary, food, Rahul Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/procurement-six-weeks-away-punjab-yet-to-integrate-land-record-of-40-of-its-farmers-101629303940602.html
18-08-2021||Other||Security beefed up in Darashing Hill near Assam-Mizoram border after fresh firing||Police officials of both Assam and Mizoram on Wednesday visited the area where cross-firing took place in the wee hours of Tuesday. Superintendents of police of both Assam’s Hailakandi and Mizoram’s Kolasib district informed that they did not find anything suspicious left at that area when they searched in the daylight. However, as per some reports, few families in Assam’s side have moved to other parts of Hailakandi district from Darashing Hill, the place where the incident took place after the firing. Hailakandi SP Gaurav Upadhyay has denied the claims. It is worth mentioning that at around 2 am on Tuesday, an incident of cross-firing took place between Assam police and unknown miscreants from Mizoram’s side at Darashing Hills under Bilaipur Police Outpost of Hailakandi district. Nobody from the Assam side got injured in this firing but a Mizoram resident sustained injuries that were not due to bullets. Kolashib SP Vanlalfaka Ralte has informed that a 41-year-old lady identified as Lalduhawni broke her right arm while running back to Mizoram when the firing started. After initial treatment, doctors released her from the hospital and she is now at home under observation. He visited the border area on Wednesday afternoon but did not find anything suspicious in that area. Talking to Hindustan Times he said, “Assam police officials have alleged that the firing started from Mizoram side but no police from our district were present there when the incident happened. There were three civilians from Mizoram who did not have arms to fire bullets. We should stop instigating each other and refrain from making comments without any base.”Ralte also reached out to the three civilians who crossed the border on Monday night. About this, he said, “I have personally talked to those civilians who are residents of Vairengte area. They said they are friends with few families residing in the Bilaipur area of Assam’s Hailakandi district. They went to collect some food and other essential items when Assam police threatened them with bullets. We are not in a war zone and I don’t think the Assam government has given an order to their police to shoot on Mizo civilians at sight in border areas.”Assam police have claimed that the incident happened on Assam’s land which is not a disputed area. Kolasib SP Vanlalfaka Ralte did not make any comment on this. According to people privy to the development, as many as eight families have so far moved from Darashing Hills of Hailakandi’s Kathlicherra constituency to other areas after the firing took place. Denying this report, Hailakandi SP Gaurav Upadhyay said, “We visited the area and talked to several locals after the firing incident happened. Our officials are present at the border areas and there is no report of people shifting to other areas out of fear.”He also said that the situation is under control and police have asked the locals living in those areas to be alert. “There were attempts of encroachment from Mizoram’s side in past also. There were reports of stealing essentials by Mizo miscreants from Bilaipur. But on Monday night, our on-duty officials noticed some Mizo people inside Assam who were using some sort of signals with torch lights. When our officials were interrogating them, some unknown miscreants started firing from the upper side of the hill and our officials also counter fired. Now we have asked the locals to be alert but as per our report, nobody is leaving the area.” This was the second firing incident near the Assam-Mizoram border after July 26. Six Assam Police officials were killed in Lailapur area of Cachar district on July 26 which resulted in a mass economic blockade on the Assam side. After several talks between Assam and Mizoram, peace was restored in border areas. Neutral forces have been deployed in disputed areas where locals are not allowed to visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-beefed-up-in-darashing-hill-near-assam-mizoram-border-after-fresh-firing-101629303939315.html
18-08-2021||Patna||BJP appoints Modi aide as Bihar gen secy||BJP national president J P Nadda on Wednesday appointed Bhikubhai Dalsaniya, the outgoing general secretary (organization) of the party in Gujarat, as the general secretary (organization) Bihar with immediate effect.Dalsaniya is said to be a trusted aide of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and has served for around two decades in Gujarat as general secretary of the party. Nagendra Ji, the general secretary of BJP’s Bihar unit, has been given charge as regional general secretary of Bihar and Jharkhand.“I have been working in BJP since 1997. In Bihar, I will stay adjoining the Ganga river,” Dalsaniya said in a tweet.Dalsaniya, an old RSS member, is considered a good policy maker and was general secretary in Gujarat in 2001 when Narendra Modi was the chief minister of the state.According to party sources, BJP wants to strengthen the organizational infrastructure of the party in Bihar. The party leadership knows the challenges in Bihar are more than in Gujarat. Its leaders believe there is a strong cadre in Gujarat and a similar cadre is required in Bihar for the next parliamentary and assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-appoints-modi-aide-as-bihar-gen-secy-101629303879412.html
18-08-2021||Patna||Bihar govt issues ads in hunt for rape accused DSP||The Bihar government Wednesday issued newspaper advertisements to nab absconding senior deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kamlakant Prasad, who has been evading arrest despite a special POCSO court issuing arrest warrant and proclamation order against him for raping a minor girl at his official residence in Gaya in 2017. An FIR against Prasad was registered in this connection with the women’s police station in Gaya on May 27 this year. However, the Crime Investigation Department (CID) failed to trace him after which the Gaya POCSO court issued a non-bailable warrant issued against him on July 8. It also could not be executed before the deadline set for the purpose.In the advertisement, the weaker section wing of Crime Investigation Bureau has provided multiple contact numbers, appealing people to provide clues for the arrest of the suspended DSP. The DSP, who was posted as officer on special duty in Central Selection Board of Constable, was suspended on July 15 this year by the state government. Special public prosecutor of POCSO court in Gaya, Sunil Kumar, said as the arrest warrant issued against the accused DSP returned unexecuted, a request was made by the investigating officer (IO) for issuance of proclamation notice, which was approved by the court.Meanwhile, additional director general (weaker section) Anil Kishore Yadav said the police would request the court to issue a property attachment warrant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-issues-ads-in-hunt-for-rape-accused-dsp-101629303459234.html
18-08-2021||Other||Mobile science van developed in SBS Nagar for students to explore concepts||Jalandhar Learning by doing is the best way to internalise concepts. Giving this adage a practical shape, the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar administration and the state education department have developed a ‘Mobile Science and Computer Lab’. Intended to arouse curiosity and revive interest in science and computer subjects of government school students, the ₹48 lakh project has finally materialised, four years after it was mooted in 2017. SBS Nagar deputy commissioner Sheena Aggarwal will flag off the new AC bus with 12 computers, printers, LED screen and science models, including of the human body, on Monday. Two generators will power the gizmos.Rajya Sabha MP KTS Tulsi had given ₹21 lakh for the project under the Member Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) fund, with the district administration arranging the rest, after deciding to revive the project in July 2020.  “Three major challenges for the project were arranging the remaining budget, operational cost and execution. In December 2020, the education department approved the operational expense of the van, including salaries to the staff, fuel and other costs,” the DC added. “We have designed the project as per utility, where students can get practical knowledge and develop their interest in the science. It is not a showpiece, but meant for exploration,” added Sheena Aggarwal. District deputy education officer (secondary), Amrik Singh said, “We purchased a new bus for ₹35 lakh, including installation of the body works. Another ₹13 lakh have been spent on computers and science gizmos.” Singh, who is also the nodal officer of the project, said there are 740 schools in the district across categories. “We will cover high schools in the first phase and primary schools in the second phase of the project,” he added. District education officer (secondary) Jagjit Singh said two computer and two science teachers have been deputed with the van. Amrik added that the bus will visit two schools a day and train students practically. “Many students, especially in the Kandi area (Balachaur sub-division), lag in computers and science. These will be trained on priority. Advance topis will also be covered through practicals. We will also take the mobile van to villages and towns, as per need.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mobile-science-van-developed-in-sbs-nagar-for-students-to-explore-concepts-101629303399423.html
18-08-2021||Patna||Bihar links funding to audited accounts for aided colleges||The Bihar government has further tightened the regulations for giving performance grant to aided intermediate colleges and degree colleges in the state, a move that will have direct impact on 602 inter colleges and 225 affiliated degree colleges, which have been awaiting funding, including backlog for years. State’s education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said Wednesday that the institutions needing performance grants would have to present audited accounts, indicating they have used previous grants to disburse salary to their teachers and staff through real time gross settlement (RTGS) or direct benefit transfer and spent 70% of their internal resources on it. “There have been a lot of complaints regarding exploitation of teachers and staff, who don’t get paid properly despite institutions getting performance grants. Now the endeavour is to ensure that the performance grants go to the performing teachers and staff of the institutions, not the ghost ones. The institutions are also supposed to use 70% of their internal resources on salary to teachers and staff,” he said. This is not the first time the government has tried to regulate the mushrooming affiliated colleges. On March 26, 2008, the government had linked payments to institutions to their performance, reflected in their pass percentage, in the hope that things would improve, but it did not. Later, it was made more specific. Better the performance of students, higher the allocation, with different slabs for first, second and third division. Though it brought sudden improvement in the results of little-known intermediate colleges, which even beat established institutions with far better infrastructure and faculty strength, doubts over their functioning further deepened due to emergence of toppers like Ruby Roy, who could not even name the subjects she studied. As soon as the government linked funding to performance, several institutions allegedly terminated the services of old teachers and appointed their kith and kin or started using ghost names. This prompted the government to issue another directive in 2010 that the grants of institutions making payment to illegally appointed teachers and employees would be stopped. The government made it binding on the institutions to make payment through cheques to maintain transparency. However, things did not reach any conclusion again due to the enormous clout of these institutions, though funding often remained suspended for years. In 2010, during scrutiny of records and physical verification of Magadh University colleges, the department had detected 10 unaided institutions working on paper only. In 2012 also, the government admitted there was fudging of records by some colleges and formed inspection teams for all the aided affiliated colleges. During a meeting with chancellor of universities a couple of years ago, many vice chancellors raised the issue of affiliated colleges and how they used their enormous clout and even muscle power to dictate terms.Former MU VC Qamar Hasan had once said he had apprised Raj Bhawan of the problems. “In fact, the biggest problem is that affiliated colleges don’t keep track of admissions and the process goes on till the last moment before examination. We have tried to stop this practice, but it is a tough ask. The students are incited and they ransacked the MU office in protest against action. The affiliated colleges lack a transparent system,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-links-funding-to-audited-accounts-for-aided-colleges-101629303279207.html
18-08-2021||Patna||Aid for kids born in relief camps||Pregnant women living in Bihar’s flood relief camps will get financial assistance of ₹10,000 if they gave birth to a son and ₹15,000 in case of a daughter. Chief minister Nitish Kumar made an announcement in this regard on Wednesday. Kumar said disaster victims have the first right on the state government’s treasury.HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/aid-for-kids-born-in-relief-camps-101629303099309.html
18-08-2021||Other||On day of 2008 deluge, Nitish visits Purnia, Katihar for flood survey||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday conducted an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in Purnia and Katihar districts where Ganga and Kosi rivers in spate have inundated areas in dozens of panchayats in three blocks of the two districts. It was on this day in 2008 that the Kosi embankment near the Indo-Nepal border at Kusaha breached, bringing about unprecedented damage to thousands of people in five districts of Kosi and Purnia divisions. About 500 people had lost their lives in the 2008 deluge. This year, 16 people have so far lost their lives in floods which have affected a population of 32.29 lakh in 2,430 villages spread over 96 blocks in 16 districts, according to a press release issued by state’s disaster management department (DMD) on Tuesday.Talking to media persons in Purnia and Katihar on Wednesday, the CM said, “We have come here to take stock of the situation. Our first priority is to protect lives. Our government is committed to providing all possible help to flood victims.”He said he had also directed Covid-19 testing and vaccinations at the relief centres.“We are also assessing the damage to crops after which farmers will be given economic assistance to compensate for the loss. The state government is providing a financial relief of ₹6,000 to each family affected by the floods,” Kumar said.According to the DMD, a sum of ₹134.34 crore has been distributed among 223,899 flood affected families.The chief minister, who was accompanied by deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, also visited several relief camps set up by the district administration.Dozens of panchayats of Barari and Amdabad blocks in Katihar and Rupauli block in Purnia have been affected by floods this year.Rajendra Kumar Mehta, chief engineer (flood control and drainage) at the water resources department, said, “Ganga, which has crossed its 2016 mark, is still rising, but the water level is expected to fall within two days.”The water level in Kosi has been fluctuating, he said.Flood facts2008 delugeOn Aug 18, 2008, the Kosi embankment near the Indo-Nepal border at Kusaha breached, bringing about unprecedented floods in five districts of Kosi and Purnia divisions and leaving 500 dead.Figures this yearNumber of deaths: 16Population affected: 32.29 lakh Villages affected: 2,430 villages Districts affected: 16 Source: disaster management department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/on-day-of-2008-deluge-nitish-visits-purnia-katihar-for-flood-survey-101629302919479.html
18-08-2021||Patna||Urban residents in Bihar to pay for tap water||Taking cue from the panchayati raj department’s experiment to charge for water to cover the running expenses of the water supply scheme in Bihar, the state’s urban development department (UDD) has also stipulated user charge for the tap water supplied to individual houses, commercial firms, government institutes and industrial installations, the proposal for which was approved by the state cabinet on Tuesday.This is for the first time that people will be paying for water being supplied from the installations raised in urban areas under the har ghar nal ka jal (tap water supply to each house) scheme. According to draft proposal of the UDD, approved by the cabinet on Tuesday, the user charge has been fixed in accordance with the property tax of the premises and nature of consumption. For individual use, each household have to pay the monthly charge in the range ₹40 to ₹150 per month. Private houses have been exempted from paying the one-time fixed charge, while commercial and other premises will pay a one-time charge in the range of ₹2,400 to ₹12,000.Sanjay Kumar, additional chief secretary, cabinet secretariat department, said those having their own independent water supply system would not be required to pay water tax. “Only such houses and installations require paying it, which get the supply from har ghar nal ka jal scheme. The user charge has been mooted to manage the running expenses of the water supply system installed by the government,” Kumar said.A senior officer of the UDD said that barring individual houses, all other installations connected with the water supply system are required to pay the one-time tax, which would mainly be raising the infrastructure for water supply. “The one-time charge is non-refundable. User charge for commercial and other premises increases if the consumption is higher,” said the officer, adding that the water tariff would be enforced once it was notified in the state gazette.A few months ago, panchayati raj department has also notified user charge for water consumption in rural areas. As per the tariff finalised for rural areas, each household getting the tap water supply are required to pay monthly charge of ₹30. Headline: Tap taxIntro: The water usage charge will be levied only on people getting supply under state’s har ghar nal ka jal schemeProperty tax Tariff (monthly)Range (annual in ₹) Individual Commercial Non-govt premises0-1,000 40 7.50-12/KL 2.50/KL 1001-2000 65 9.50-18/KL 3.50/KL2001-3000 120 12-24/KL 5/KL3001 and above 150 14.50-18/KL 6/KLIndustrial user chargeUsage small scale industries othersUp to 50KL 12/KL --50-75KL 18/KL --75-100KL 24/KL 18/KL100-150KL -- 24/KL 150kl and above -- 36/KL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/urban-residents-in-bihar-to-pay-for-tap-water-101629302739227.html
18-08-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,172 new Covid cases, 16 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 1,172 new Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths in 24 hours on Wednesday. This took the progressive count to 1.106 million of which 1.074 million have recovered, 19,124 deaths and 12,904 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw 39,854 vaccinations today in the city. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 701 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 338,232 and with 13 deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,400. Pune city reported 296 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 508,099 and one death reported on the day took toll to 8,933. PCMC reported 175 new Covid cases and the progressive count touched 260,250 and with two more deaths reported, the toll stood at 3,446. Pune also saw 39,854 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Wednesday and totally 7,085,983 vaccines have been administered, including 5,244,455 first dose and 1,841,528 are second dose. A total of 430 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 216 were government and 214 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-172-new-covid-cases-16-deaths-101629299678361.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Covid: BMC suspends vaccination drive in Mumbai for next 2 days due to shortage||Vaccination drive against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease will remain suspended on August 19 and 20 at all government and civic-body run centres in Mumbai due to shortage of doses, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Wednesday. The civic body said the inoculation process will resume on Saturday as a fresh stock of vaccines is expected to arrive on Thursday night and will be distributed to all publicly run centres the next day.The civic body of the country’s financial capital has had to keep the vaccination drive on hold in August earlier as well due to similar reasons. The BMC had announced on August 11 no doses of the anti-coronavirus vaccine would be administered for the next two days and before that on August 4.In July end, the BMC also began a door-to-door vaccination drive for beneficiaries who are bedridden due to medical or physical illnesses and so far, it has run mostly on a smooth note.Also read | Staff not fully jabbed yet, most malls in Mumbai remain shutEarlier in the day, the Union Health Ministry said more than 57.88 crore vaccines have been provided to states and union territories so far, and another 18,62,530 doses were in the pipeline.Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 55,11,64,635 doses (as per data available at 8 am). More than 94 lakh balance and unutilised doses were still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the ministry said.Also read | Vaccine inequity: Two-dose mandate for train travel will force people to get paid jabsMumbai registered 283 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, while 297 patients recovered from the viral disease during the same period. This took the active caseload of Mumbai to 2,686.The Maharashtra government has relaxed restrictions for fully vaccinated individuals in the state, including travel by local trains in Mumbai from August 15. Meanwhile, Maharashtra crossed the 5-crore mark in vaccinations on Wednesday with 5,07,52,443 doses administered so far.In a statement, the government has announced the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the state was under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-bmc-suspends-vaccination-drive-in-mumbai-for-next-2-days-due-to-shortage-101629298464799.html
18-08-2021||Lucknow||Shahar mufti, son booked for objecting to flag hoisting at Agra Jama Masjid||AGRA The shahar mufti and his son were on Wednesday booked for raising objection over the flag hoisting ceremony organised on Jama Masjid premises in Agra on Independence Day. Organiser of the event, Haji Aslam Qureshi, chairman of Local Islamia Agency, lodged the case at the Mantola police station of Agra.“A complaint was lodged against Mazdul Kuddoos Khubaib Rumi, the shahar mufti and his son, Hammadul Kuddoos, by the chairman of Local Islamia Agency, Haji Aslam Qureshi. The case has been registered and investigation is on. Required action will follow,” stated Muniraj G, SSP, Agra. The case was registered under Section 3 of Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971 and sections 153-B, 505, 505 (1)(b) and section 508 of the Indian Penal Code. The complainant had been provided security by the police after he raised apprehension of threat to his life from the shahar mufti, who purportedly used strong words in an audio that went viral. The SSP confirmed that the complainant, Haji Aslam Qureshi, in the FIR, expressed threat to his life from shahar mufti and thus a gunner had been provided to him. The issue relates to Independence Day celebrations at Madarsa Aalia on the Jama Masjid premises, where Uttar Pradesh Minority Commission chairman and BJP leader, Ashfaq Saifi, hoisted the national flag as the chief guest of the event. Shahar mufti Mazdul Kuddoos Khubaib Rumi objected to I-Day celebrations on the Jama Masjid premises and asked the ‘offenders to fear the Almighty’. In an audio that went viral, the shahar mufti purportedly used strong words against Independence Day celebrations on mosque premises. On Tuesday, Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha activists had protested at the SSP’s office, seeking an FIR against the shahar mufti for opposing hoisting of national flag and singing of national anthem on the mosque premises. Meanwhile, Haji Jamiluddin Qureshi, vice-president of All India Jamait-ul-Quresh, condemned Haji Aslam Qureshi for lodging a complaint against the shahar mufti. “We will meet the SSP on Thursday and apprise of correct facts, so that action can be taken against the complainant Haji Aslam Qureshi who has dragged religious head shahar mufti into a war of words and has harmed the sanctity of Jama Masjid by organising events,” said Qureshi, who clarified that they also respected the national flag and national anthem, but religious places should be avoided for such events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shahar-mufti-son-booked-for-objecting-to-flag-hoisting-at-agra-jama-masjid-101629297699098.html
18-08-2021||Dehradun||Cong to provide ₹200 subsidy on LPG cylinder if voted to power in Uttarakhand: Harish Rawat||Amid the heated political activities in the state considering the upcoming assembly elections to be held in 2022, Congress national general secretary and former chief minister Harish Rawat on Wednesday said that, if voted to power, the party will provide a subsidy amount of ₹200 on LPG cylinders to women. His announcement came on the day when the petroleum companies hiked the price of LPG cylinder by ₹25, costing it about ₹880 in Dehradun. “Amid the uncontrollable rise of prices of groceries and LPG cylinder, the women of Uttarakhand are badly suffering. But they deserve some direct relief in the suffering. For this, the Congress party, if voted to power, will provide a subsidy amount of ₹200 on LPG cylinder to the women hailing from non-income-tax payee households. It won’t give a significant relief but will help reduce the burden to some extent,” said Rawat who is also heading the election campaign committee for 2022 polls. He said, “In the first year of tenure, the subsidy amount will be ₹200 but it will be gradually increased in the following years. Though the state is not capable of this, our party will do it to provide some relief to our mothers and sisters.” Attacking the BJP-led state government, he said, “This government has failed on every front. Today, not only the cooking stoves are burning but the budget of kitchens is also burning with no relief in sight. The Ujjawala scheme launched by the NDA government to provide LPG cylinders to poor women has now blackened. People are now unable to buy cylinders under it due to skyrocketing fuel prices.” Rawat had earlier announced free power up to 100 units to all the households of the state in the first year of its government followed by up to 200 units in the next year. The BJP meanwhile, played down Rawat’s announcement as a “mere political gimmick.” “His announcement has no importance because he himself is fighting for his existence in the party. It is just a poll gimmick and nothing else,” said Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/cong-to-provide-rs-200-subsidy-on-lpg-cylinder-if-voted-to-power-in-uttarakhand-harish-rawat-101629296380198.html
18-08-2021||Other||3kg heroin seized from Rajasthan man in Patiala||Patiala A special task force (STF) of the state police arrested a Rajasthan resident with 3kg heroin in Patiala on Wednesday. STF member DSP Sukh Amrit Singh Randhawa said the arrest resulted after a special operation based on a tip-off. The accused, Toofan of Pallian Kheri village of Rajasthan, was held on the Passi Road, he added. “During his frisking, we recovered 3-kg of heroin stacked in a polythene bag. Preliminary investigation shows that the accused is a courier and directly coming to Patiala from Rajasthan,” DSP Randhawa said, adding, “This is not he first time that he has entered Punjab to deliver the contraband. We are interrogating him to know the names of his customers.” A case has been registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3kg-heroin-seized-from-rajasthan-man-in-patiala-101629296258821.html
18-08-2021||Pune||2 injured after bus stand collapses in Camp area of Pune; PCB orders structural audit of 20 PMPML stands||The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has ordered a structural audit of 20 Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus stands located in their jurisdiction after a bus stand collapsed at Moledina road, Camp, on Wednesday which left two persons injured.The incident took place at 1 pm on Wednesday.The injured have been identified as Devendra Shinde (52) and Santosh Kombal (40). Both are undergoing treatment at a private hospital and are out of danger, said officials.The stand was 23-years old and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) claimed that it was handed over to the PCB for maintenance.According to the board administration, the PCB has been looking after the structure as it was leased out to an advertising contractor for five years.Amit Kumar, chief executive officer (CEO), PCB, said, “We have ordered a time-bound structural audit of all 20 PMPML bus stands in our jurisdiction.”“The PMPML bus stand which collapsed was given to a contractor for advertising purposes for five years. For the last one year, he has been sending letters to us seeking discontinuation. As per the terms of the contract, he is responsible for the maintenance of the structure, “ he said.The board administration is also mulling over taking action against the contractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2-injured-after-bus-stand-collapses-in-camp-area-of-pune-pcb-orders-structural-audit-of-20-pmpml-stands-101629295778967.html
18-08-2021||Other||Sangrur farmers oppose politicians’ entry on Longowal death anniversary||Sangrur Two days ahead of the 36th death anniversary of former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Harchand Singh Longowal on August 20, Sangrur farmers are carrying out a campaign to not allow politicians to enter the district. Longowal is the native town of the leader. Bhupinder Singh Longowal, state leader of Kirti Kisan Union, said though the SAD had announced the cancellation of its political conference on the occasion, senior SAD and Congress leaders will attend a function in the town.He added, “Farmers are fighting against the three black laws, but the SAD and the Congress are trying to create an environment of elections in villages by using such events. Farmers will oppose political leaders who will reach Longowal.”Farmers added that due to their massive mobilisation and struggle, political leaders are ‘pretending to shed crocodile tears’, but their real plan remained to consolidate rural votes and win the 2022 assembly elections. To oppose this, a campaign was launched in Dhadrian, Takipur, Ratoke, Sahoke, Mander Kalan, Lohakhera, Longowal and other surrounding villages of Longowal block to prepare for the protest.Holiday in Sangrur tomorrowSangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir has announced a holiday in the district on Friday. He added that on August 20, all government/semi-government institutions, corporations, boards and government/non-government and private educational institutions, government/private offices and banks in Sangrur district would remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sangrur-farmers-oppose-politicians-entry-on-longowal-death-anniversary-101629295658795.html
18-08-2021||Other||300kg poppy husk seized in Jalandhar||Jalandhar The Rural Police seized 300-kg poppy husk, two pistols, ₹8 lakh and apprehended seven accused in three cases on Wednesday. In the first case, police arrested two Jammu and Kashmir men, Mohammad Ayub and Basir Ahmad, with 200kg poppy husk in the Maqsudan area.A Nurmahal man, Lakhwinder Singh, was held with 100kg poppy husk near Patara police station. The pistols and the cash was seized from Amit Kumar and Lovepreet Singh, both locals. They have been booked under the Arms Act. Jalandhar SSP Naveen Singla claimed that the department is maintaining strict vigil to ensure no illegal activity takes place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/300kg-poppy-husk-seized-in-jalandhar-101629295238518.html
18-08-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee sets sights on Tripura, says former speaker Jiten Sarkar wants to join TMC||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday that former speaker of the Tripura Assembly, Jiten Sarkar, wrote to her expressing his desire of joining TMC. "Former Tripura Speaker Jiten Sarkar has sent me a letter saying he and others want to join TMC," ANI said quoting Banerjee.The Bengal chief minister, who has been trying to make in-roads in the northeastern state, after her resounding victory in the Assembly elections in Bengal earlier this year, expressed confidence in her party's ability to win Tripura. "We will win Tripura next," she told ANI.Sarkar, a veteran politician, left the Congress in 2016 to rejoin Communist Party of India (Marxist), the party he deserted in 2008. He would be the second high profile political figure to join TMC, following in the footsteps of Sushmita Dev, who left Congress to join Trinamool in the presence of senior party leaders Abhishek Banerjee and Derek O'Brien in Kolkata on August 16.Dev, a former Member of Parliament (MP) and chief of the All India Mahila Congress, sent her resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi but offered no reason for it. "I have a long relationship with the Congress and I have written everything about that in my resignation letter. I got many opportunities in Congress and I tried to do justice to all the responsibilities. Many people tried to call me, but I was not available. On August 15, I gave the Congress president my resignation," she told reporters in Kolkata.Eyeing the upcoming Tripura polls TMC leader and Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee has constituted a team of senior leaders who will be camping in the northeastern state every month. This newly formed team comprises all veteran TMC leaders like Bratya Basu, Moloy Ghatak, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Ritabrata Banerjee, former legislator Samir Chakraborty, and party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh.“TMC leaders will be camping in Tripura to help the party expand its base ahead of the elections. Abhishek Banerjee himself went to Tripura earlier this week. This will help boost the party’s grassroot level infrastructure and let them know that senior party leaders are standing beside them," a TMC leader told Hindustan Times. Banerjee herself promised to implement welfare schemes of the West Bengal government in Tripura. "We want Bengal's schemes to be implemented in Tripura," she said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-sets-sights-on-tripura-says-former-speaker-jiten-sarkar-wants-to-join-tmc-101629294003967.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||2nd Covid-19 wave in state under control, says Maharashtra govt||The Maharashtra government noted on Wednesday that the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the state is under control. The government announced this in a statement after a meeting of the state cabinet."No new Covid-19 patient in Nandurbar, while the number of new patients was less than 10 in six districts each. Eight districts had less than 100 new cases each. The latest test positivity rate stood at 2.4 per cent," the statement read. On the vaccination front, it said that 50 per cent beneficiaries above the age of 45 have received their first dose, while the corresponding figure for those in the 18-45 age group was 25 per cent.Though Maharashtra's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally is the highest in the country, the state has, over the last three days, logged less than 5000 infections each day, as per government data. On August 15, 4797 people from across the state tested positive for the viral disease, while the number of those who returned a positive test result on August 16 and 17 was recorded at 4145 and 4408, respectively. Also, there were 130 related fatalities on August 15, 100 people succumbed on August 16 and there were 116 deaths on August 17.Overall, Maharashtra has reported 6,401,213 Covid-19 cases thus far, including 6,201,168 recoveries and 135,255 related deaths. The state has conducted 51,291,383 tests till now.Also Read | Covid cases: With 4,408 fresh infections, Maharashtra crosses 6.4 million markBeginning August 15, local train services in the state's capital city of Mumbai became open to members of public fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The city's infection tally currently stands at 739,722, including 15,925 deaths, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2nd-covid-19-wave-in-state-under-control-says-maharashtra-govt-101629292219701.html
18-08-2021||Other||3 members of Pando tribe die due to multiple organ failure in Chhattisgarh||Three members of a family, including two children, of the primitive Pando tribe died in the last four days due to multiple organ failure. Two others are admitted at a government hospital in Balrampur district, officials said on Wednesday.Following the deaths, the district administration has kicked off a health checkup drive for people belonging to Pando tribal community in the region.According to officials, while one death took place in the house of the affected family in the village, two others, including the head of the family, succumbed in a government hospital of neighbouring Surguja district. Two other members of the family who are admitted to the hospital are said to be out of danger, they said.The population of the Pando community stands at around 4,000 and they mainly live in at least 30 villages of the Balrampur and Surajpur districts in northern Chhattisgarh.Pandos are mostly small farmers, forest dwellers and labourers working in different places of Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand.Uday Pando, a representative of the community, claimed that Upendra Pando (9) died in Dolangi village of Balrampur district on August 14 after suffering from illness for a week.“When tribals came to his house to perform his last rites they found that his father Ramlakhan Pando (32) and elder brother Dinesh Pando (12) were also ill for a long time. The tribal pooled money and shifted the duo to a government hospital in Ambikapur where the father-son duo died on August 18,” said Pando. Two other sons of Ramlakhan —Virendra Pando (14) and Jitendra Pando (8) - who were also suffering from fever are admitted to a hospital in Balrampur, Pando said, adding that the two are said to be out of danger.According to Pando, the affected family was trying to cure illness through traditional medicinal plants available in the area and did not inform anyone in the village about their suffering.“The cause of deaths of two who died in the hospital in Surguja is multiple organ failure. There was a severe infection in their liver, as per the doctors,” said Surguja collector Sanjeev Jha.Meanwhile, the district administration of Balrampur has started a drive for medical examination of the Pando community in the region.“The deaths took place because they have not informed anyone and were relying on traditional medicinal plants. We have a community health check-up nearby the village. After the death, a health team is camping in the village and a special drive for medical examination of Pando tribals has started under the supervision of the collector,” said Abhishek Gupta, the local sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Ramanujganj, Balrampur.Block Medical Officer, Dr Kailash Karatiya said that the two kids who were admitted to the district hospital are out of danger. “We are examining all members of the community and medical teams have been sent to various villages of the region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-members-of-pando-tribe-die-due-to-multiple-organ-failure-in-chhattisgarh-101629289541003.html
18-08-2021||Noida||Nigerian held for staying in India illegally since 2013||A Nigerian national was arrested in Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday after he was found living in India illegally since 2013, officials said.The 34-year-old Valentine Ahosota was staying in a rented flat in a high-rise society in Sector Mu of Greater Noida, under the Dadri police station limits, the officials said."He was arrested on Wednesday for staying in India illegally. When checked, his passport was found to have expired on December 9, 2017 while his visa for stay in India had ended on May 10, 2013," a police spokesperson said.An FIR has been lodged at the Dadri police station under provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and further legal proceedings were being carried out, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nigerian-held-for-staying-in-india-illegally-since-2013-101629287241288.html
18-08-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Relief in college admission for students losing parents to Corona||Students who have lost both or either of their parents to the Corona pandemic will be given admission in undergraduate courses in government colleges even if they have obtained the minimum passing marks set by their respective senior secondary school boards.The new college admission policy issued by the College education department says such students will be admitted on additional seats without disturbing existing quotas or intake capacity of colleges. Similarly, women widowed by the pandemic will also be admitted on minimum passing marks on additional seats.Applicants from transgender community and children or widows of martyrs will also be admitted to colleges on minimum marks in addition to the existing 3% reservation available to family members of retired or in-service military personnel, as per the policy.25% additional seats will be made available for students in tribal sub-plan areas in the state to promote education. Tribal sub-plan areas are blocks or tehsils with 50% or more tribal population. The relaxations available to sportsperson for admissions have been retained.Apart from the above-mentioned vulnerable groups, the admission policy has some special provisions for families displaced from Pakistan, emigrants from Kashmir and the specially-abled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-relief-in-college-admission-for-students-losing-parents-to-corona-101629285097674.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh skips ED summons again; offers to cooperate with agency||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday again skipped the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the allegations of corruption and extortion against him. On Tuesday, the ED had issued fresh summons to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader a day after the Supreme Court refused to grant any interim relief to him, and asked him to appear at the agency’s South Mumbai office.However, today his counsel, advocate Inderpal Singh submitted a letter from the leader that he said he received on e-mail. In his letter, Deshmukh says that while refusing him interim relief, the apex court has granted him liberty to seek appropriate remedy available under the Code of Criminal Procedure and accordingly, he has decided to move appropriate court in a day or two.Deshmukh has requested ED officials to wait for the outcome of the court proceedings that he intends to initiate. In the meantime, he has offered to make himself available for recording his statement by electronic medium of the agency’s choice.ED has registered a money laundering case against Deshmukh after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21. Deshmukh had in the past said that the allegations against him are false.Also Read | Congress slams government over LPG price increaseThe central agency has alleged that while serving as the Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze – who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder case – collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”.Later, through hawala channels, this money was sent to two brothers in Delhi who operated bogus companies, said the agency. It claimed that at the behest of Deshmukh’s son, Hrishikesh, the two brothers diverted the money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukhs.The anti-money laundering agency also said that Vaze, in his statement to ED said he was called to Deshmukh’s official residence and directed to collect ₹3 lakh from every bar and restaurant in the city. He was also given a list of the establishmentsDuring investigation, ED has identified 24 private entities that are controlled by the Deshmukh family and found that huge sums of money were transacted among them without any rationale.“From the analysis of the bank accounts of these companies, it is clear that there is no rationale for the transfers, and thus it can be said that these series of transactions were meant for inflating balance sheets and layering of money from one company to other,” ED stated.The agency arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and assistant Kundan Shinde on June 26, claiming that they had handled the money laundering linked to extortions for the leader.In mid-July, the anti-money laundering agency provisionally attached Deshmukh’s properties, worth ₹4.2 crore. The attached assets include a residential flat in Worli valued at ₹1.54 crore and 25 land parcels of book value ₹2.67 crore at Dhutum village at Uran in the neighbouring Raigad district.Deshmukh has, however, maintained that the case against him was political witch-hunting. He said the allegations against him, made by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh, cropped up only after the cop was shunted out as the commissioner over his poor handling of the Antilia and the Hiran murder cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-skips-ed-summons-again-offers-to-cooperate-with-agency-101629283299182.html
18-08-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s Tales: Parvati hill bears witness to ups and downs of Peshwa rule in Pune||The Parvati hill temple complex has been the recipient of sustained attention and patronage of the Peshwa family since its inception. It still stands as a symbol of Peshwa rule in Pune and speaks of their religious ethos. It also stands as a fine example of Maratha architecture of the 18th century.Nanasaheb Peshwa appointed his personal affairs’ clerk, Bajirao Baburao Dike and Ravaji Keshav Dike who look after the temple construction. They were supervised by sardar Khajgiwale.The five pinnacles of the Devdeveshwar temple were fitted with gold in 1760-61 - 10.20kg of gold was utilised. The interesting phenomena of “Kirnotsarga” or sunrays illuminating the shivalinga of the Devdeveshwar complex takes place for two-three days during the cycle of Uttarayana (movement of sun between Winter Solstice and Summer Solstice). A similar phenomenon is observed in the case of the temple of Vishnu, established in 1758, where the idol of Madhava Vishnu is illuminated during Dakshinayana (movement of sun between Summer Solstice and Winter Solstice).Nanansaheb Peshwa was heartbroken due to the severe loss suffered by the Marathas during the battle of Panipat and passed away on June 23, 1761, at Peshwa wada on Parvati. His death anniversary is still observed with pensive remembrance.Raghoba Dada Peshwe, younger brother of Nanasaheb, had constructed a temple dedicated to Kartikeya swami, which was damaged during the Nizam’s attack. It was later reinstalled by Madhavrao Peshwa, which again suffered damaged in various unfortunate events. The present kartikeya idol was consecrated on June 28, 1869. Peshwas were very concerned about the safety of idols and in case of an emergency, such as an attack on Pune, they would move the idols along with the treasury to fort Sinhagad. For the same reason, the idols were kept safe at fort Sinhagad from November 17, 1751, to March 1, 1752, during the Hyderabad Nizam’s first attack.When the Hyderabad Nizam attacked Pune shortly after the demise of Nanasaheb Peshwa in 1763, considerable damage happened to the idols and temples of Parvati. Almost half of Pune was ransacked. The Nizam cut the golden pinnacles as he looted Parvati and city of Pune. The stone idols were severely destroyed. However, Madhavrao Peshwa restored the temples back to their glory. He also reinstated the idol of lord Vishnu in March 1766. Similarly, the six-faced Kartikeya idol was reinstated around the same time. He fitted the temple pinnacles with gold. Later, the idols were moved to fort Sinhagad during the attack of the Bhosales of Nagpur on Pune, in 1768- 69, and during Sawai Madhavrao’s period.The Dike family remained in service of the upkeep of complex till 1803, when Bajirao II took charge. After the Treaty of Vasai, Bajirao II removed the Dike family and Khajgiwale and appointed his own personal affairs’ clerk, Baburao Ganesh Katre. The lack of a proper pathway made it difficult for the Peshwa paraphernalia to climb the hill. Hence, Bajirao II commissioned 103 broad stairs to be built to access Parvati hill. The stairs were so wide, that camels and elephants could ascend without difficulty.In fact, when Albert Edward the VII, the Prince of Wales, visited Parvati in 1875 on an elephant, the pachyderm tripped at stair number 56 causing the Prince to have an embarrassing fall.During the famous battle of Khadki between the Peshwas and the British in 1817, Bajirao II made sure that the idols were shifted to Sinhagad. Maratha troops, on November 1817 gathered at Khandoba maal near Khadki, the location of the present Deccan College, under the command of Bapu Gokhale,. Bajirao II instead of leading the battle chose to watch it helplessly from the northern arched pavilion of the Devdeveshwar complex of Parvati hill through a telescope gifted to him by the East India Company in 1803. Thus, the once glorious Parvati hill silently watched the downfall of the Marathas, who lost the battle to the British on November 16, 1817. The British governor, however, returned the idols retrieved during capture of fort Sinhagad and reinstated them, fearing public outrage.Subsequently, the temple of Vitthal Rukmini was built in 1931. As we climb the stairs, the sacred platform of Vetal, the Mangirbabba shrine, the remains of Math, and the Sati memorial in the form of Tulsi Vrundavan are seen. A lone Nandi is installed at stair number 75. A room nearby known as the talim room housed two cannons which were fired on special occasions. These cannons were moved in 1879 as a matter of precaution, during the rebellion of freedom fighter Vasudev Balwant Phadke.Two nearby rooms are the clock room and drum room, which are next to the sajja, a viewing gallery. The Vitthal temple is situated at the end of stairs, while the newly built Peshwa museum is to the left. The museum originally was a two-storeyed spacious wada of the Peshwas and was equipped with a pooja room, kitchen, storage room, maajghar, a room to make prasad, hom shala (ritual room) and sahanechi kholi (pooja preparation).Every year, auspicious Mondays of the Shravan month and the Mahashivratri festival are celebrated at the Devdeveshwar temple. Vaikunth Chaturdashi is observed at Vishnu temple and Ashadh-Kartik Ekadashi are observed at the Vitthal temple. The full moon day of the Kartik month is celebrated at the Kartikeya temple. Peshwas were keen on conducting various family rituals such as the Upanayana ceremony of Sawai Madhavrao Peshwa, at the Parvati temples.Till the year 1929, entry of dalits was prohibited at the Parvati temples. Inspired by similar movements led by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, progressive activists planned a protest to allow entry of dalits into the temple complex of Parvati hill on October 13, 1929. The protest was led by progressive activists such as NV Gadgil, SM Joshi, Keshavrao Jedhe, Vinayak Bhuskute, Shivram Kamble, SS Thorat and others. However, a group of orthodox people attacked the protesters with sticks and threw stones at them as protesters climbed the stairs. NV Gadgil, Deshdas Ranade and Rajbhoj were severely injured. Entry was opened at all temples in Maharashtra after the Kalaram temple protest in Nasik by Dr Ambedkar and the Vitthal temple protest by Savarkar.Thus, all throughout the 18th century, the religious complex of Parvati flourished and expanded. Various attacks, natural disasters and thefts were unfortunate, but they could not overshadow the luminance of the Peshwa legacy and grandeur. Even today, Parvati hill is flocked to by health conscious Punekars who climb the hill and relive the Peshwa heritage as they glance at the town of Pune from the arches of “Devdeveshwar”.Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-parvati-hill-bears-witness-to-ups-and-downs-of-peshwa-rule-in-pune-101629283297787.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Local train services on CST-Vadala harbour line resume after brief outage||The local train services on the harbour line in Mumbai resumed on Wednesday evening after a brief outage. The services were affected between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Vadala due to power power supply problem, as announced by Central Railway. "Due to power supply problem at Vadala, suburban services between CSMT and Vadala/Kurla on harbour line are held up. Suburban services are running on other lines," it said on Twitter.Due to power supply problem at Vadala, suburban services between CSMT and Vadala/Kurla on harbour line are held up.Suburban services are running on other lines.Later, the Central Railway posted another tweet which said that services have resumed and operations are running normally."Harbour line services resume. Suburban services are running on all lines," the tweet said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-services-on-harbour-line-affected-due-to-technical-issues-101629282636879.html
18-08-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies | The city’s favourite monsoon snack— nippattu||When the monsoon makes its appearance in Bengaluru, as it has done now, the oil starts sizzling. South Indian kitchens keep their tryst with their gastronomic destiny, not wholly or in full measure (given the number of people who are on intermittent fasting diets these days) but very substantially.When it rains, South Indian kitchens start taking out their deep-frying kadhais. This moment comes, not rarely because every South Indian Mami (aunty) worth her salt will deep-fry papad or ‘happala’ pretty much everyday. It is a neat trick, performed in most traditional homes. After all, what better way to disguise leftovers? You simply serve them with piping hot ‘happala’ or ‘sandige’ (vadams or fritters) on top. These white tapioca discs will sit, like snow on Mt. Everest, hiding all flaws underneath. “Eat your vegetables before you can get dessert” is a Western admonition or threat. Here, in Bengaluru, we tempt our families to eat yesterday’s curries by serving a savoury temptation on top.The monsoon is another matter. All over Bengaluru these days, you see copious and heavy rain clouds that shed their weight through day and night. We are all stuck at home. Naturally, we reach for the much-loved snack that we call nippattu. Tamilians call it thattai. Andhra folks call this chekkalu. I would submit that the nippattu is a lot better than the other regional variations because of one subtle yet strong ingredient: the generous use of sesame seeds, peanuts, roasted gram (putani or chutney kadalai) and curry leaves. All this makes the nippattu easy to store and stay crispy for longer-- which after all, is the point of South Indian snacks. In that sense, the nippattu is onomatopoeic. It sounds like it bites.Also Read | Bangalore Talkies: What does Karnataka’s new CM like to dine on?The recipe is simple. You gently fry skinned peanuts and grind it along with equal quantities of white sesame seeds, roasted gram, and, if you like, copra or dried coconut flakes. Then mix rice flour, sooji rava (for crunch) and maida (to hold the thing together). Add your spices: asafoetida, chili powder, salt. Then add the roasted peanut mixture. Mix oil and water to knead the mixture into small balls. Pat into small round flat circles about the size of a jam jar lid. Deep fry.Some cooks artfully poke tiny holes with a fork on the nippattu’s surface for some design and to keep the crispiness. Others pour hot ghee over the whole mixture before adding water and kneading into balls. No matter. The taste comes from the sesame-peanut mixture and the satisfactory crunch when you bite into it.The purpose of a nippattu is to please the palate on a monsoon afternoon. Bengaluru’s nature community, numbering in the thousands, carry nippattu in their backpacks as they hike up Nandi hills or Savanadurga. Birdwatchers who throng Bengaluru’s lakes do the same-- along with the binoculars are the crunchies. Last week, I stood under my black umbrella feeling the thud of a monsoon shower, training my binoculars on a pond heron that was in brown breeding plumage, while my mouth rhythmically crunched on a homemade nippattu. I feel like a heroine in one of Kalidasa’s poems.Most of the Iyengar bakeries in the city sell decent nippattu. But if you want really good ones you have to find stores with the name “condiments” in them. Pavithra Condiments in Basavanagudi, Subbamma Stores or Srinivasa Condiments in Gandhi bazaar and Malnad Condiments in multiple locations are good places to start. Any store with a name that begins with Uttara Karnataka or North Karnataka is also a good bet.Traditional kannadigas strictly eat their nippattu at tea time but this rule is relaxed in the monsoon when the nippattu tin is reached for anytime it rains. To stand on a Bengaluru balcony and watch the red earth and pounding rain is an exercise in relaxation. Two things can enhance this experience: masala chai and a plate of six nipattus. Not more, not less. The first two nipattus are pretty much scarfed down. You don’t really taste them because you are dunking them in tea. The next two are really about slowing down and taking in the beautiful early rains or mungaru male (also a superhit Kannada movie about a stalker-- thus making something that is weird and scary into something that is acceptable). The last two nippattus are really where this snack sings. By then, you’ve almost downed your tea. Your stomach is full and you’ve slowed down. You have enjoyed the beauty of the downpour and can finally focus on this humble snack that was so far, just a crunchy accompaniment. Now you taste the layers, the flavours and the tiny shots of sesame seeds that get stuck in between your teeth. You can taste the peanuts, the bite of chili and the gentle aroma of fried gram. The nippattu is now elevated in your mouth to not just an afternoon snack but a rainy memory.And that, my friend, is the power of a nippattu.Shoba Narayan is Bengaluru-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-the-city-s-favourite-monsoon-snack-nippattu-101629282337864.html
18-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Elephants block railway track after 2 in herd killed in train-hit||A furious herd of elephants blocked railway traffic on Lalkuan-Kashipur section in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region after a female elephant and her male offspring were hit by a train on Wednesday morning. Passengers of the train had to be sent to their destinations in buses and few other trains were suspended till noon, when the track was finally cleared after the herd calmed down and was driven into the wild by forest officials.“We saw an adult elephant and baby elephant lying dead on the railway track. The elephant herd there was very furious. We waited for a while and then drove them away from the track,” said Harish Pandey, ranger, Peepal Parao forest range under Terai-Central Forest division in Kumaon.Pandey said the two elephants were hit by a speeding Agra Fort train which was headed to Ramnagar from Lalkuan at about 5 am on Wednesday. “When it reached Peepal Parao forest range, 4 km from Rudrapur Sidcul halt, a herd of elephants was crossing the track. The train hit an adult female and its offspring, who died on the spot. After this, the rest of the elephants in the herd got furious and surrounded their bodies, blocking the train traffic,” he said.The train had to be reversed to Rudrapur Sidcul halt and its passengers were de-boarded and sent to Bazpur, Kashipur, and Ramnagar in buses. Kashipur-Kasganj train heading towards Lalkuan was stopped at Gularbhoj and sent back to Kashipur and some other trains were cancelled on this route till noon, railway officials said.In the meanwhile, forest officials rushed to the accident spot and waited for the herd to calm down before driving them into the forest area.“The killed female elephant was around 40-year old while the calf was about 2 to 3 months’ old. We informed our seniors and removed their bodies from the track,” said Pandey.AG Ansari, Kumaon based wildlife activist said human error was responsible for this incident. “Early warning system is needed to avoid such incidents in the future. Forest department should take initiative and railways, too, should control the speed of the trains.”In the past, several elephants have been killed in train hit incidents, especially in the state’s Tarai area. In July 2020, a three-year-old elephant was killed on railway tracks in Nakraunda area of Dehradun forest division. In November last year, a 35-year-old female elephant was hit by a train. In May 2018, a five-year-old female elephant died on the Lalkuan-Bareilly railway track in the Nainital district. In March 2018, an elephant died near Nagla bypass on the Lalkuan-Bareilly railway line. In April 2017, two elephant calves were killed near Haldi railway station.Elephant population in Uttarakhand has reached 2026, according to the elephant census held last year. It is a 29.9% increase since 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-elephants-block-railway-track-after-2-in-herd-killed-in-trainhit-101629277897177.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||#TalibanCrisis: Afghans in Delhi worried about family back home||Ahmad Khan, a teacher from Afghanistan, made south Delhi’s Jangpura his home years ago, and is now among the many who are glued to their TV sets in anxiety as the Afghanistan-Taliban crisis deepens. Excessively stressed about the well-being of his family back home, Khan rues, “My mother, younger sister and elder brother are all in Kabul. They are in a very bad situation, and 24 hours they are inside the house! I keep calling them continuously, to check on them, and to make sure that they are all fine. I am very worried. And we can’t even go there,” rues Khan. The ongoing turmoil in Afghanistan has left many Afghans like Khan, who are living in the Capital, in a similar state of worry. A Delhi-based student, Zainab Hamidi, who is studying in Jamia Millia Islamia, is also in grave despair regarding the safety of her relatives back home. “I’m unable to contact anyone... My parents are here with me but my relatives, uncle and aunty are back home in Afghanistan, and since Monday, we haven’t had any contact with them! Their mobiles aren’t working. I’m hoping they are all safe. We can only pray for their safety and well-being right now,” says Hamidi, and Sharara Naderi, another Delhi-based college student from Afghanistan, adds, “My parents are thankfully here. Par mere chacha, bua, maasi, sab wahan hain...Woh log bahut zyada dare hue hai. Hum yahan news follow kar rahe hain. We are getting very emotional on what is going to happen now. When I called my cousin, he said he was at the bank withdrawing money, and he burst out crying while speaking to me. Hum logon ne kaha usko ki daro mat. Par hum yahan khud bahut pareshan hain un sab ke liye.”Sherazuddin Kamalzada, another Delhiite from Afghanistan, says his sister, mother and relatives are stuck in his home country, which has left him with sleepless nights since the news broke. “Woh safe nahin hai. Halat bahut kharab hain. Hum bahut tension mein hain. Woh, abhi airport mein hain since four hours. Wahan bahut problem hain. Unko wapis ghar nahin jana hai, and I’m in touch with them since last 48 hours,” says Kamalzada. And another Afghanistan native who has been working in Delhi for a couple of years, confesses on condition of anonymity that he too is reeling under the horror of the present situation. He adds, “Since last two weeks we haven’t been able to sleep, seeing all that’s going on in my country. The situation is visible on social media and TV. I’m in tears as I say this. It’s a very bad state, and I can’t explain what I’m going through right now. All I know is that my family is struggling there, and I’m helpless here!”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/talibancrisis-afghans-in-delhi-worried-about-family-back-home-101629277851892.html
18-08-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: BJP leader’s aide booked for rape, alleges vendetta||The Jharkhand Police have booked Sunil Tiwari, an aide to Bharatiya Janata Party leader Babulal Marandi, for allegedly raping his 20-year-old domestic help last year, according to the First Information Report filed in the case.The case was filed in Ranchi on a complaint of the woman, who has accused Tiwari of raping her in March 2020.Ranchi Police superintendent Sourabh, who goes by single name, said he would speak on the issue later as he was busy. Senior police superintendent Surendra Jha did not take calls for comments.Tiwari accused the government of framing him as he has filed a writ petition against chief minister Hemant Soren. “I have filed a writ petition in Supreme Court in the rape allegation against chief minister Hemant Soren by a Mumbai girl, seeking a CBI investigation in the incident. The case is to come up for hearing on August 23. The case against me is a result of that. I had written to the chief secretary, home secretary, Ranchi police as well as government of India on June 19 seeking protection. I clearly mentioned in the letter that I was getting threats from different quarters not to pursue the case,” said Tiwari.Also Read | Jharkhand cyber cheats: Gang swindled 37 retd UP police, govt officials in past few monthsRuling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha said the government would take adequate action as per the law. “The girl (domestic help) has filed a police complaint. The concerned authorities would do adequate investigation and act accordingly,” said JMM spokesman Manoj Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bjpleaders-aide-booked-for-rape-alleges-vendetta-101629275736832.html
18-08-2021||Patna||Bihar narrows parameters for performance grants to colleges||The Bihar government has narrowed the parameters for aiding intermediate colleges and degree colleges with grants, officials said, adding that this decision would impact 602 inter-colleges and 225 affiliated degree colleges, which were awaiting funding and clearance of backlog for years. Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Wednesday said the institutions that needed performance grants would have to present audited accounts, indicating that they have used previous grants to disburse salaries to their teachers and staff through realtime gross settlement (RTGS) or direct benefit transfer and spent 70% of their internal resources on it. “There have been a lot of complaints regarding exploitation of teachers and staff, who don’t get paid properly despite institutions getting performance grants. Now the endeavour is to ensure that the performance grants go to the teachers and staff of the institutions. The institutions are also supposed to use 70% of their internal resources on salaries for teachers and staff,” he said. This is not the first time the government has tried to regulate affiliated colleges. The government abolished the unaided education policy on March 26, 2008 and decided to make payments to institutions on the basis of their performance, directly linked to the pass percentage of the actual number of students, in the hope that things would improve. Also Read | Cabinet gives nod, Bihar to recruit school heads through BPSC examLater the scheme was made more specific -- the better the performance of students, the higher the allocation, with different slabs for first, second and third division. Though it brought a sudden improvement in the results of little-known inter-colleges, beating even established institutions with far better infrastructure and faculty strength, ambiguity over their functioning deepened due to the emergence of toppers who could not even name the subjects they studied. As soon as the government linked funding to performance, several institutions allegedly terminated the services of old teachers and appointed their kith and kin or started using ghost names. This prompted the government to issue a directive in 2010 that the grants of institutions making payments to illegally appointed teachers and employees would be stopped. The government made it binding on the institution managements to make payment through cheques to maintain transparency. In 2010, during the scrutiny of records and physical verification of Magadh University (MU) colleges, the department had detected 10 unaided institutions on paper only. The department had then decided to categorise institutions in three categories – A, B and C-- on the basis of their records, but that, too, did not materialise. In 2012 also, the government admitted record fudging by some colleges and formed inspection teams for all the aided affiliated colleges. During a meeting of university chancellors a couple of years ago, several vice-chancellors (V-C) raised the issue of affiliated colleges and how they used their enormous clout and even muscle power to dictate terms. In Veer Kuer Singh University, a V-C resigned due to undue pressure, while another V-C, who tried to resist, had to face inquiry. Former MU V-C Qamar Hasan once said that he apprised Raj Bhavan of the problems. “In fact, the biggest problem is that affiliated colleges don’t keep track of admissions and the process goes on till the last moment before examination. We have tried to stop this practice, but it is a tough ask. The students are incited and they ransacked the MU office in protest against action. The affiliated colleges lack a transparent system,” he added. Another V-C said it was high time the government showed the will to regulate affiliated colleges, which often tried to hijack the system with fudged enrolment figures, no transparency in admission process and academic activities and attempts to manage results. “The government linked performance to funding with good intention. After all, if the performance of colleges improves genuinely, it is a positive sign and for this the teachers need to be rewarded. The government gives funds for payment to teachers and staff of colleges functioning as per laid down norms. We will ensure it evenly across all aided institutions and those flouting it will have to face the music,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-narrows-parameters-for-performance-grants-to-colleges-101629274776957.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||Faith in judiciary vindicated, says Shashi Tharoor on court verdict||Thanking Delhi court special Geetanjali Goel for discharging him in connection with the Sunanda Pushkar death case, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday called the entire process a “nightmare”. He also reiterated that the allegations against him were “preposterous”.“I have weathered dozens of unfounded accusations and media vilification patiently, sustained by my faith in the Indian judiciary, which today stands vindicated. In our justice system, the process is all too often the punishment,” he said in a statement.The former Union minister, currently on bail in the case, was accused of abetment after Pushkar, his wife, was found dead in a hotel suite in 2014. He was also charge-sheeted by the Delhi Police under Sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In the statement, Tharoor added, “The fact that justice has been done, at last, will allow all of us in the family to mourn Sunanda in peace.”Also Read | Sunanda Pushkar case: Shashi Tharoor cleared of charges by Delhi courtHe also thanked his lawyers Vikas Pahwa and Gaurav Gupta. Speaking on the verdict, Pahwa told reporters that it was a long battle but ultimately, “justice has prevailed”. He said that Tharoor had faith in the judicial system right from the beginning, which is why he challenged the “absurd and preposterous” charges of abetment to suicide and cruelty levelled by the police.Public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava stressed that Pushkar underwent mental cruelty that led to her bad health. He also argued that it was not an accidental death and relied on the post mortem report which suggested that the cause of death was poisoning which could be oral or injected.Special Judge Goel gave her verdict in a virtual hearing in which Tharoor was also present. Tharoor told the court this was a “seven-and-a-half years of absolute torture”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/faith-in-judiciary-vindicated-says-shashi-tharoor-on-court-verdict-101629274657213.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||Monsoon mingling: Sun romances Delhi sky||Life in the pandemic has been and continues to be predominantly indoors, for most of us. Be it due to #WFH or the sensibility to follow Covid-19 protocols and maintain social distancing, by avoiding unnecessary visits to public places. But neither of this forces us to make our lives mundane. Wonder how? Look at the August skies of Delhi, in the evenings, and there lies the answer to how Nature has the ability to uplift our spirits. The heart fills with joy seeing the view that one is witnessing in Delhi, of late. The sky seems to have turned into a magical canvas, which changes its hues to reflect the sun’s varied mood swings! If one dusk marks the bright sun as present with beaming energy, the other ticks off its rays showing intermittently in the appearance of the clouds. These moments that are thus created, are so bewitching that it appears as if almost every day the city’s sky is getting dressed in a new shade, to show itself with aplomb, just before the sun sets on the horizon. And this is the thought that inspired our photographers to capture the many avatars that the Delhi sky takes in the monsoon months. And what our photographers witnessed in the process of exploring it, is displayed in the pictures here. Four days, four different shades: Stationed at Dwarka, our lensman spotted the sky turn from clear grey to pink, dark grey and then blue, all from the same spot! This colour scheme was observed over a span of four days, and is a perfect example of how the heavens can fascinate us. Day 1Day 2Day 3Day 4Have you looked at the sky, yet? Oh, and don’t forget to click and upload it on the gram.Author tweets @HennaRakhejaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/monsoon-mingling-sun-romances-delhi-sky-101629273173164.html
18-08-2021||Bhopal||MP govt calls reduction in number of abandoned children ‘technical error’||The Madhya Pradesh government has called a 32% reduction in its data of abandoned children during the second wave of Covid-19 “a technical error”, after emerging as the state with the highest number of such recorded cases. A National Commission for Child Rights Protection (NCPCR) status report on orphans and abandoned children between April 2020 and June 2021, submitted to the Supreme Court, had pegged the number of abandoned children at 226, of a total of 274 recorded throughout the country. A month later, a similar status report, submitted on July 23, brought the number down to 153. When NCPCR sought an explanation for the change in the data, officials of the Madhya Pradesh Women and Child Development Department said that this was due to a “technical mistake” in the submission of data in the Bal Swaraj portal. NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said, “Due to a technical mistake and submission of data in haste, the department submitted incorrect data which they later rectified. But we are verifying the details of every child through a social investigation report. We are handling the case very sensitively.” Also Read | India has administered at least 560 million Covid vaccine doses till nowMadhya Pradesh Women and Child Development Department joint director Vishal Nadkarni admitted that they had asked for an “edit option” in the data as district child protection officers had entered incorrect details. “They included children in the age group 6 to 12 years who were found at different places and shifted to child care institutions, but they could be those who went missing rather than who were abandoned, so we rectified the data. We informed protection officers about the definition of abandoned children and 73 were found inappropriate for the category,” he added. Child rights activists in Madhya Pradesh asked where the 73 children were. “The biggest question is that where are these 73 children. Are they still in shelter homes? Are the authorities sure that they are missing and have not been abandoned by parents? The woman and child department shouldn’t behave so irresponsibly because this matter is being monitored by the apex court,” said Prashant Dubey, a child rights activist. Ashok Shah, Principal Secretary, WCD, said that it was “human error.” “The MP government has no intention to hide data. We are helping orphan kids and providing ₹6000 per month to them with free ration and free education. We are one of the leading states where more than a thousand children are being taken care of by the government under the Bal Sewa scheme,” he said.Apart from abandoned children, Madhya Pradesh has also reported 885 orphaned children, second only to Gujarat with 947.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-calls-reduction-in-number-of-abandoned-children-technical-error-101629266616125.html
18-08-2021||Patna||Women self help groups in Bihar send mulberry silk rakhis to President and PM||Jeevika didis in Bihar’s Purnia district have sent handmade Rakhis, made of mulberry silk, to the President and the Prime Minister this Rakshabandhan. Jeevika didis is the popular name for women who run self-help groups (SHGs) in Bihar. They said the rakhis made up of mulberry silk, drawn from cocoons, were meant to symbolise the purity of ‘Resham ki Dori’ used to tie brothers and sisters in a bond.“The rakhis we made for the PM and the President were same as ‘Resham ki dori’ and symbolised our wish to see the Prime Minister’s ‘AatmaNirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) bid become a reality,” said Meera Devi and Munni Devi, who were involved in the running of the Adarsh Jeevika Mahila Mulberry Resham Utpadak Samooh, a women’s cooperative for production of Mulberry silk at Amari village in Dhamdaha area of Purnia district. The Prime Minister had mentioned this group in his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on February 23, 2020.Like Meeera Devi and Munni Devi, Reena Kumari, Rukmani Devi, Sukeshwari Devi and 60 others were busy making attractive rakhis out of mulberry silk with a plan to sell them in the market. “Last year we did it on a small scale but this year we have planned to make at least 50,000 handmade rakhis,” they said and added that they were hoping for a good return.The raw material besides mulberry silk cocoon was being supplied to these jeevika didis by the women’s collective of silk producers at Dhamdaha and Jalalgarh.“These silk rakhis were being sold at ₹15 to ₹50 and women were showing a keen interest in buying these rakhis,” one Jeevika didi said, adding, “Each rakhi earns us a profit between ₹5 and 7 and each one of us can make up to 50 rakhis a day to earn up to ₹10,000 in 15 days’ time. About 50 such women from Dhamdaha and Jalalgarh block were engaged in making rakhis from mulberry silk and these are being marketed by Adarsh Jeevika Mulberry Resham Utpadak Samooh.Rajeev Ranjan, manager, communication, Jeevika Purnia said, “During the pandemic, Jeevika didis have shown the way to others by not allowing themselves to be bogged down by the situation and have come up with fresh and profitable ideas to sustain themselves and their families.”In Purnia there are about 27,000 self-help-groups that engage over 350,000 women. Roughly 16,000 of these women are considered very active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/women-self-help-groups-in-bihar-send-mulberry-silk-rakhis-to-president-and-pm-101629263196793.html
18-08-2021||Kolkata||Bengal avoids wastage of Covid vaccine but faces shortage of syringes now||West Bengal has managed to avoid wastage of Covid-19 vaccine does but ended up using more syringes as a result and that has led to their shortfall, officials said. It now needs to purchase at least two million syringes, they added.“There is some shortage of syringes. By saving the (doses of) vaccines, we have consumed the syringes the Centre provided. We now need to procure a few lakh syringes,” said Ajoy Chakraborty, the director of West Bengal Health Services.West Bengal has received around 30 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre. From each vial of Covishield, 10 doses can be retrieved, and the Centre provided syringes proportionally.Also Read | Bengal’s new e-service to clear building plans, mutation, trade licence in 15 days“While wastage up to 10% is allowed in each vial... with a little efficiency one can also retrieve 11 doses from each Covishield vial. West Bengal has not only managed to stop any wastage but in most cases, we retrieved 11 doses, thereby registering around 7% negative wastage. In turn, we consumed the syringes that came along with the vials,” said a health department official, who did not want to be named.Officials said the state has so far saved around 1.7 million doses of Covishield.The state also procured around 1.7 million doses of vaccines and a million syringes on its own. “...to administer the saved vaccines, we need to procure around two million syringes. We have informed the Centre. If the Centre does not send them, we would have to purchase them,” said a third official, who did not want to be named.As the syringe used to administer the Covid-19 vaccine is the same as used for administering other vaccines, the state is managing the shortfall for now. But now the shortfall is mounting, and the state needs to purchase the syringes.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has repeatedly complained of a short supply of vaccines from the Centre. She has written multiple letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard.The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party has claimed there has been a mismanagement of vaccines in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-saves-vaccine-doses-but-faces-shortage-of-syringes-101629262416089.html
18-08-2021||Other||Cabinet gives nod, Bihar to recruit school heads through BPSC exam||PATNAThe Bihar cabinet on Tuesday cleared a proposal to create separate cadres of head teachers in primary schools and head masters in the higher secondary schools of the state, two days after chief minister Nitish Kumar made an announcement to this effect in his Independence Day address in Patna.So far, government school teachers appointed through panchayati raj institutions were promoted as school heads, who will now be recruited by the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) through a competitive examination, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said, adding that the decision reflected the government’s focus on improving quality of education in government schools.“Bihar will appoint 40,500 head teachers in primary schools and 5,300 head masters in the higher secondary schools. For higher secondary schools, those out of the government school system could also apply, but they would require slightly higher experience than the eight years required for government school teachers. It is a great move as the schools lacked leadership. It would help improve the atmosphere on campuses,” he said, while thanking the chief minister.Implementing the new process will require amending the regulations for school teachers that were announced just ahead of the assembly elections last year, which stipulated appointment of headmasters and head teachers through promotion of teachers fulfilling the required qualifications.Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary at the department of education, said it was a major policy decision. “The guidelines for the appointment of headmasters will be framed first. Later, we will change the regulations announced last year, which were for teachers appointed through panchayati raj institutions since 2006. Now, the cadre of headmasters and head teachers will be of the state level. All teachers could participate in the competition, subject to qualifications. Details will be published soon,” he said.At present, a large number of schools are without headmasters and the matter has been raised in the Bihar legislature time and again.The principal secretary said the cadre of headmasters for secondary schools will be at the divisional level and the one for head teachers for primary schools at the district level. “For high schools, those with requisite qualifications could participate in the competition even from outside the government school system. Those working with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) or Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CICSE) schools could also participate. The basic objective is to bring in quality people in schools,” he said.The move is in line with the Union ministry of Human Resource development’s suggestion last year to the states to consider filling 50% posts of headmasters in primary and upper primary schools through direct recruitment.The lack of quality education in government schools has often caused a lot of embarrassment despite growing enrolment, incentives and expenditure and even drawn flak from the Patna High Court.With the new move, the government, said a senior official, will provide a platform to meritorious teachers to excel and join the government cadre. A push for quality in educationCurrent processAs per new regulations announced just ahead of assembly polls last year, school heads are appointed through promotion of teachers fulfilling the required qualifications through panchayati raj institutions. New policyA separate cadre will be built for school heads, to be selected through a competitive exam, which will be open to teachers even outside the government school system. School heads will be govt employees. Centre’s nudgeThe move is in keeping with the Union HRD ministry’s suggestion last year to the states to consider filling 50% posts of headmasters in primary and upper primary schools through direct recruitment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cabinet-gives-nod-bihar-to-recruit-school-heads-through-bpsc-exam-101629260615096.html
18-08-2021||Bhopal||Bookie dies in police custody in MP’s Gwalior, five cops suspended||Five policemen, including a town inspector, were suspended on Tuesday after a bookie died in police custody in Gwalior late Monday night, said superintendent of police Amit Sanghi. The family of the bookie (identified as Sonu Bansal, 30) accused police of torturing him at Inderganj police station. Sanghi suspended town inspector Rajendra Parihar, additional sub-inspector Brijlal, constables Naresh, Mukesh and Shyam Kumar, all posted at Inderganj police station. Sanghi said, “A magisterial inquiry has been ordered in the matter of the death of Sonu Bansal but it is wrong to say that he was tortured. We are looking at CCTV camera footage of the police station and investigating the matter.” Also Read | Fight breaks out between communities in Indore locality; 2 injured“Sonu Bansal was a bookie and was arrested on Monday night. During interrogation, he felt uneasy. He was taken to the hospital where a doctor declared him brought dead,” he added. Sonu’s wife Dolly Bansal said, “Police came to my house to take my husband at around 8pm. My husband told me that he will return in 10 minutes but at 2am, a constable came to my house and said my husband died.” There were marks of torture on his body. He was killed by police personnel, she alleged. Heavy police force was deployed at the police station as local businessmen protested in support of Bansal’s family on Tuesday. With inputs from Mahesh Shivhare||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bookie-dies-in-police-custody-in-mp-s-gwalior-five-cops-suspended-101629260375880.html
18-08-2021||Patna||3 including former ITBP jawan get 20-years in jail for minor’s gang-rape||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court in Bihar’s Saran convicted and sentenced three persons, including a former ITBP jawan, on Tuesday to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment for the 2019 gang-rape of a minor in the office of a ward councilor.Special Pocso judge Noor Sultana also fined them ₹20,000 each and ruled that in the event of non realization of the fine amount, they will have to undergo additional six months’ imprisonment. The court also directed the state government to pay ₹8 lakh to the survivor as compensation at the end of the appeal period.The survivor was abducted and gang-raped at the office of a ward councilor on August 10, 2019, when she was returning home after submitting examination paper at her school, by Dhyani Sharma, Atish Kumar and Sonu alias Tarzan alias Saddam Hussain.The special public prosecutor of the court Surendra Nath Singh said Saran police filed a charge sheet against the three on September 30, 2019 and charges were framed on November 11 the same year. The court examined a total of six witnesses in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/3-including-former-itbp-jawan-get-20-years-in-jail-for-minor-s-gangrape-101629260075558.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Wind pattern to change today, monsoon revival likely soon||High temperatures are likely to continue in Delhi on Wednesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said. From Wednesday evening, however, wind patterns are expected to change and this will lead to the revival of monsoon from August 20, weathermen said.As the city is experiencing a “break monsoon” phase, the temperatures over the last week have been higher than usual. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature was 38 degrees Celsius, four degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the year.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, attributed the high temperatures in Delhi to this long period without rain. Also Read | Monsoon to revive over central and northwest India this week“Over the last few years, we have seen that the break monsoon conditions usually last for five to six days—maximum for a week. This time the period without rain is going to be around 10 days, which is a long time. This is causing temperatures to rise,” said Srivastava. Weather forecasters said that “break monsoon” conditions started in Delhi from August 9 and are likely to continue till August 19. This is among the longest “break monsoon” periods that the national capital has witnessed in at least the last decade, IMD officials said. IMD forecast also said that even after the monsoon revives, Delhi is only likely to receive moderate to light rain in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-wind-pattern-to-change-today-monsoon-revival-likely-soon-101629254735070.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Portrait of a childhood||Anand is carrying a huge gunny sack on his back. “It looks heavy but is actually light,” he says. This evening, near Gurugram’s bus stand, Anand is collecting empty mineral water bottles from the pavements and garbage bins. “That’s my daily work.”Anand is about 8 or 9 years old, he says. He is wearing a blue T-shirt, blue shorts and yellow chappals. His hair is cut short. He is without a mask. His nose is partly dusted with mud. His face has the expressions of an adult man in the midst of an important assignment, with no moment to spare.Anand lives in a “jhuggi” near the railway station, with his parents and four siblings. He is the youngest. They all collect recyclable material at different but nearby locations in the city. “Papa leaves early in the morning, mummy leaves after some hours, with my brothers.” Anand leaves by early evening. These days, he says, he boards a shared auto towards this part of the town and spends a couple of hours picking bottles from the bins and pavements. “Earlier I was working in subzi mandi near the station.”Time moves fast at work, he says. “The bottles don’t ever get over. You keep spotting them and picking them up.” Usually his sack, huge as it is, gets quickly filled. “I carry three sacks, and I fill all of them within two hours.” He takes the catch back to home in a rickshaw, and his father sells it to a dealer the next morning. When he feels thirsty while hunting for bottles, stall owners in the vicinity give him cold drinks or mineral water on request, “for free.”People of Anand’s age attend school. Anand nods. “(A) didi sometimes teaches me in the park,” he says. He remains silent on what subjects are taught to him. “One day I will go to school.”Anand now walks towards a bin, beside a kiosk stocked with cold drinks. He places the sack he is carrying on the ground and bends down, sorting the discards in the bin with bare hands. Most are empty chip packets and tetra packs of juices. He eventually excavates two or three bottles that he swiftly puts inside the sack. He places the sack back on his shoulder and walks on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-portrait-of-a-childhood-101629251531858.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||Cops reject reports on electrocution||The Delhi police on Tuesday dismissed reports that the minor Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered at a crematorium in the Purani Nangal village in south-west Delhi was not electrocuted.The police rubbished reports that appeared on social media on Tuesday, saying it was too early to conclusively say that the girl was not electrocuted, as mentioned in the FIR. Investigating officers said even though the water cooler had no current, the girl might have come into contact with a live wire near the appliance.One senior officer, privy to the case details, said police got the cooler checked by electricians to probe if she was electrocuted by the appliance. “There was no current in the cooler. But it is possible, she may have touched a live wire between the cooler and the main switch. It is too early to say that she did not die of electrocution,” the officer clarified.On the evening of August 1, the girl went to fetch water from the electric cooler installed at the crematorium. Around 6 pm, the priest and three male employees of the crematorium called the girl’s mother and informed her that her daughter has been electrocuted. The family told the police that the four men also showed burns on her body.When contacted, advocate Jitendra Kumar Jha, representing the nine-year-old girl’s family, said, “It is now for the investigating agency to tell as to how the death happened, if not by electrocution, as claimed in the FIR.”The accused allegedly told the child’s parents that it was better to cremate the body because if they informed the police the body would be sent for autopsy and the girl’s organs will be removed and sold by the doctors. The four then cremated the body. However, the girl’s mother suspected foul play and informed neighbours after which locals reached the crematorium; stopped the cremation and managed to retrieve charred remains of the girl’s body. The girl’s family then filed a complaint of rape and murder against the four suspects.The medical board, which conducted the autopsy on the charred remains of the girl’s body, could not confirm if the child was raped.Police said they would mention all this details in the charge sheet against the four men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-reject-reports-on-electrocution-101629251140150.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||BJP slams Rahul over photo of Dalit rape victim’s family||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday accused former Congress president Rahul Gandhi of lying to the country after the mother of the nine-year-old Dalit girl, who was allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi on August 1, told a news channel in an interview that the family didn’t give Gandhi consent to share any photographs of their meeting.The Wayanad MP had on August 4 tweeted a photograph of his meeting the family of the victim, following which there was a complaint against him filed by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). His Twitter account was locked for a few days and the controversial tweet withheld even as the BJP accused him and his party of politicising the matter.Twitter unlocked his account on August 14 after he submitted a consent letter by the parents of the victim, authorising him to use the image.A day earlier, on August 13, the victim’s family was also heard telling news media that they had no objection to Gandhi sharing their photograph on social media as he did that in good faith.But on Tuesday, the mother of the victim said something different to news channel Times Now. “We have not given consent to share the photos or reveal her (the victim) identity to anyone except the court,” the mother said.Following this, the BJP launched a fresh attack on Gandhi, calling him “insensitive”, and demanded that his Twitter account be locked again. “Rahul Gandhi has lost credibility and is a habitual liar. The public has locked his political account, now Twitter should also lock his account,” party spokesperson Sambit Patra said.Union minister for women and child development, Smriti Irani, joined in the tirade on Twitter: “That he lacks sensitivity, disrespects the law and lies on important issues was well known but using a child’s parents to score a political point over a rape crime is indicative of a depraved mindset. The former Congress President is beyond redemption.”Twitter said the controversial tweet will remain withheld in India in compliance with local laws and its own terms of service, but reiterated that its decision to unlock Gandhi’s account was taken after its grievance channel in India went through the formal consent letter signed by the family.Suresh Chaudhary, a lawyer representing the victim’s parents, said his clients hold a “neutral position” on the issue of sharing their images. “My clients have told me that they neither gave any written consent (to share their photograph), nor have they submitted any complaint in this connection,” said Chaudhary.He further said that his clients are people who have little knowledge of social media or such consent. “They don’t even own a mobile phone. What would they understand about Twitter and Facebook?” said Chaudhary.But a Congress functionary familiar with the matter said the family’s claim contradicts their previous claim. “In an earlier interview with India Today, the family said they had no objection to the photograph being shared,” the functionary said, requesting anonymity. “The fact that so many senior BJP leaders have made statements show how scared the party is of Rahul Gandhi.”The functionary added that since August 4, when Gandhi’s Twitter account was locked over the post, he has refrained from posting on the microblogging platform. “He’s basically disappointed that the government of the day pressures private companies to interfere in the internal polity of the country,” the functionary said. “He has strong opinions on the way the social media entities are becoming monopolistic and overbearing.”But an NCPCR official said the consent of the family is irrelevant in the case as the victim was a minor. “Only a sessions court judge can grant permission to allow the disclosure of information that can lead to the identification of the victim,” the official said, requesting anonymity.NCPCR has already moved the Delhi high court over the incident. But on Tuesday, it asked social media giant Facebook to explain why a similar post by Rahul Gandhi made on its sister platform, Instagram, was still up. The post was a video shared by the Congress leader of his meeting with the family. The Commission exempted the social media company from appearing at the hearing on Tuesday, stating that it will share its order regarding the response in due course.Facebook reacted by sending Gandhi an email (seen by HT), asking him to take down the post “expeditiously” as the NCPCR has alerted the company that it is in violation of Indian law.People familiar with the matter said that the company was constructively engaging with NCPCR to address the issue. According to Facebook’s policies, if a post violates its community standards or local law, then the company can either notify the user to remove it or proactively block it.Congress had said last week that nearly 5,000 Twitter accounts, including those of several senior Congress leaders and the party’s official handle, were temporarily locked on Thursday after they shared a photograph of Rahul Gandhi meeting the rape victim’s family even as the party mounted an attack on the central government for scuttling free speech. The microblogging platform, however, maintained that it “impartially” enforces its rules and terms of service.Gandhi’s controversial tweet was in Hindi in which he had said, “Parents’ tears are saying only one thing—their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice.”The child rights body said the tweet violated the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-slams-rahul-over-photo-of-dalit-rape-victim-s-family-101629250461946.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai gets first public electric vehicle charging station, minister hails move to save environment||Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday inaugurated the first electric vehicle charging point at a public parking lot in Mumbai."It is an attempt to promote usage of electric vehicles and taking a step ahead to protect the environment," Thackeray said.We had announced our state’s EV policy about a month ago. It is heartening to witness such efforts from all fronts. This is one of the many steps we as govt take for the greater good of our 🌍I want to wholeheartedly thank Ashutosh Enterprises, MLA @misadasarvankar ji, local Corporators & Asst Commissioner G/North @DighavkarKiran ji for furthering our efforts towards the EV revolution in the state.Taking to Twitter, the minister said that this is very encouraging as we move in the direction of making Maharashtra electric vehicle-friendly."Inaugurated an EV-enabled parking lot at Kohinoor building in Mumbai. This is very encouraging as we move in the direction of making Maharashtra Electric Vehicle friendly," he tweeted.Thackeray, in another tweet, wrote: "We had announced our state's EV policy about a month ago. It is heartening to witness such efforts from all fronts. This is one of the many steps we as govt take for the greater good of our earth.""I want to wholeheartedly thank Ashutosh Enterprises, MLA Sada Sarvankar Ji, local Corporators & Asst Commissioner G/North Kiran Dighavkar ji for furthering our efforts towards the EV revolution in the state," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-first-public-electric-vehicle-charging-station-minister-hails-move-to-save-environment-101629249553208.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||Ministers laud PWD redesign of Chirag Delhi road stretch||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and PWD minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday inspected a road stretch redeveloped in Chirag Delhi as per European standards, and directed officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) to replicate similar work standards elsewhere in the city.“This beautiful stretch will now serve as an example which will be replicated across Delhi. High quality, beautiful roads, and public spaces are the essence of a world-class city... PWD has done admirable work on this stretch and now should work on implementing the same across the city with innovative and unique redesigning,” said Sisodia.“Delhi will soon have beautiful roads of European standards. With our work commitment and dedication we will change the face of the national capital,” said Jain, after the inspection.The Chirag Delhi stretch, which also has a separate cycle track, is part of a Delhi government’s makeover plan for 540 kilometres of roads across the national capital which will be redesigned and beautified according to European standards.The stretch has been developed by the PWD and serves as the pilot project for more such redesigns across the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ministers-laud-pwd-redesign-of-chirag-delhi-road-stretch-101629248623897.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||‘Gambhir got Covid meds for health camp that never was’||At the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 in Delhi, with cases soaring to almost 20,000 a day, and people scrambling for oxygen, beds, and essential medicines, the Gautam Gambhir Foundation used “one letter” to purchase at least 2,500 strips of Fabiflu for a “free medical camp” that never happened, according to an inquiry conducted by the state Drug Controller (DC).While the state government has already informed the Delhi high court that it will not continue its investigation against individuals, social organisations and gurdwaras for procuring oxygen and supplying it free to the people, the former cricketer-turned-east Delhi member of Parliament from the Bharatiya Janata Party is still being investigated for allegedly hoarding the medicines. The high court remarked during a hearing on July 29 that Gambhir “irresponsibly hoarded” the medicines while citizens did not have access to it because of the shortage.Gautam Gambir’s office said they will not comment on it as the matter is being heard by the court.On April 21, Gambhir tweeted asking “people of East Delhi” to come to his office at 2, Jagriti Enclave if they wanted “Fabiflu for Free.”The Drug Controller has said that the parliamentarian’s foundation is liable for prosecution as it did not have the requisite drug licence under the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, for purchase, stocking or distribution of drugs. The DC has mentioned this in their action taken report submitted to the court, according to officials privy to the details.On July 17 , the Drug Controller informed the high court that they suspended the licence of four chemists for 10 days for supplying the medicine to the foundation.A team of four officials from the Drug Controller’s office, which conducted the inquiry, also found that some chemists supplied more than half their stock to the foundation.Sample this. The DC questioned Vinay Kumar Ahuja, proprietor of M/S New Sanjeevani Chemist located in Daryaganj, who confirmed that he supplied 1,000 strips of Favipiravir tablets (Fabiflu) vide invoice 0000407 against a purchase order of Gautam Gambhir Foundation and received ₹12,39,997 after which he was left with only 875 strips.“The state government had already suspended our licence for 10 days in the case. Even after supplying the medicines, we had enough stock left,” Ahuja said.Harshit Ahuja (no relation), proprietor of M/S Ahujason located in Patel Nagar, central Delhi was also questioned by the Drug Controller. The officials said Ahuja confirmed that he supplied 500 strips of Favipir tablets vide invoice 0000729 on April 29 and another 100 strips vide invoice 0000730 on April 26, against a payment of ₹9.90 lakh and ₹1.10 lakh. According to a stock statement he provided to the Drug Controller authorities, he had only 100 strips of the medicine.Ahuja declined comment.A third chemist, Medical Bureau, located at Bhagirath Palace, supplied 800 strips of the medicine but was left with 1244 strips. A person who answered the call at Medical Bureau said the proprietor Lakshay Kumar would respond. Till late Tuesday evening, there was no response from him.The details of the stock remaining with the fourth chemist, Neelkant, the Medicine People at Saini Enclave, were not shared with the DC. This chemist supplied the foundation 243 strips.To be sure, the DC noted in its report submitted to the court that “the dealers from whom this medicine was procured had sufficient balance stock in hand to supply to other retailers.”In April and May, Delhi police arrested at least 150 persons for hoarding and black marketing Covid-19 medicines such as remdesivir injections, oxygen cylinders and Favipiravir tablets. Police have not provided specific data mentioning how many of the 150 persons hoarded Favipiravir.The probe against Gambhir was launched on the basis of a Public Interest Litigation filed in the high court by a city resident.The PIL alleged that while common people were not able to access the medicines, many politicians including Gambhir were hoarding them. Other politicians such as BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana, Congress youth vice-president BV Srinivas and former Congress MLA Mukesh Sharma were given a clean chit, but the DC said that Gambhir procured the medicines in bulk for distribution on a “single letter.”According to the DC, the Gautam Gambhir Foundation requested a city hospital to organise a medical camp for Covid-19 patients and wrote a letter to this effect on April 18. One of the doctors of the hospital wrote back, saying he had been deputed to supervise the medical camp.The doctor suggested the medicines to be prescribed in the letter, following which the foundation placed orders. Based on this one letter, the foundation procured 2,634 strips of medicine, the DC found.HT is withholding the name of the hospital and the doctor as the Drug Controller has confirmed that neither were involved in purchasing or hoarding the medicines.Interestingly, the camp never happened.The Drug Controller questioned Gautam Gambhir Foundation’s CEO, Aparajita Singh, who confirmed that the foundation on April 15 passed a resolution to hold a medical camp at 22, Pusa Road New Delhi. Singh also confirmed that based on a letter from the hospital on the medicines that would be needed, she placed orders to buy Favipiravir tablets on behalf of the foundation. Singh also told the inquiry officials that while they intended to have the medical camp at the Pusa Road office, they never did so.Neither Singh nor Gambhir in their statement mentioned why the medical camp was not held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gambhir-got-covid-meds-for-health-camp-that-never-was-101629248246117.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||9 names cleared, India may get 1st woman CJI in ’27||India may get its first woman Chief Justice of India (CJI) in 2027.The Supreme Court collegium on Tuesday cleared nine names for appointments in the top court, including the name of justice BV Nagarathna from the Karnataka high court (HC), who, if elevated now, could become the country’s first woman CJI in 2027.According to the people familiar with the development, the other names cleared by the collegium include two more women judges and one direct appointment from the Supreme Court bar.Apart from justice Nagarathna, the other two women judges picked by the five-member collegium are justice Hima Kohli, who is the chief justice of Telangana HC, and justice Bela Trivedi, who is a judge in the Gujarat HC.Senior advocate PS Narasimha is the collegium’s choice for direct appointment to the bench. Narasimha’s recommendation comes less than a week after the retirement of justice Rohinton F Nariman, who happened to be only the fifth lawyer in India’s legal history to be directly appointed from the bar.Those in the know of the development told HT that the other names finalised by the collegium include justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka (chief justice of Karnataka HC), Vikram Nath (chief justice of Gujarat HC), Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari (chief justice of Sikkim HC), CT Ravikumar (judge in Kerala HC) and MM Sundresh (judge in Kerala HC).Three out of these nine judges can become the CJI during their tenure at the apex court, including justice Nagarathna who could be the CJI in 2027 for little over a month.The collegium in the Supreme Court comprised CJI NV Ramana, and justices Uday U Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao.It was the first collegium in the last 21 months when the five most senior judges could arrive at a consensus in forwarding names to the Union government for appointments in the top court.Since the retirement of Justice Ranjan Gogoi as the CJI in November 2019, the collegium had not sent a single recommendation to the Union government for appointments in the top court, which currently has nine vacancies after justice Nariman’s exit on August 12.Additionally, Justice Navin Sinha is set to retire on August 18, which will leave the Supreme Court with 10 vacancies out of 34. Out of these 10 vacancies, nine names have now been zeroed in by the collegium.As reported by HT on February 21, the impasse in the collegium, according to the people familiar with the development, persisted due to justice Nariman’s firm stand over recommending justice Akil A Kureshi, currently chief justice of the Tripura high court, as a judge in the apex court.Justice Nariman had asserted that any recommendation to be made by the collegium of the five most senior judges must include justice Kureshi, who stood at number 2 in all-India seniority list of high court judges. A lack of consensus within the collegium stalled appointment of judges in the top court ever since.The previous CJI SA Bobde’s 17-month tenure turned out to be the only one in judicial history when a CJI demitted office without making any recommendation for the Supreme Court after the advent of the collegium system in 1990s.Both justices Bobde and Nariman had, however, at different platform had said that it is time for the country to have its first woman CJI.The Supreme Court currently has only one woman judge, justice Indira Banerjee, who is set to retire in September 2022. There have only been eight women judges appointed in the Supreme Court till date.The recommendations will be sent to the Union law ministry that has the option of sending the recommendations back to the collegium for review, but if the collegium resubmits them, it has to approve the names.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/9-names-cleared-india-may-get-1st-woman-cji-in-27-101629246837628.html
18-08-2021||Kolkata||Belur Math in Kolkata to re-open for public from today||Belur Math, the global headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, will be open for devotees and visitors for about five hours from today, a spokesman had said on August 11.The math will be open from 8 am to 11 am and from 4pm to 5:45pm every day from August 18 following some improvement in the Covid situation, the spokesman told PTI.The Belur math had closed its doors from April 22 following a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state.On July 24, the math had opened its doors for a day on the occasion of Guru Purnima."In deference to the wishes of thousands of devotees and after consulting the situation with health experts, administration and among senior monks, we have decided to open the Belur Math now but all Covid-19 protocols will be strictly followed," the spokesman said.He said devotees and visitors must produce, at the entry point, a photocopy of the Covid-19 Vaccination Certificate of two doses, along with any one of the identity cards (such as Aadhaar/PAN/Voter’s ID).Alternatively, a Covid Negative Certificate of the test conducted within the last 72 hours should be produced along with any one of the identity cards (such as Aadhaar/Pan/Voter's ID).Only those devotees and visitors fulfilling the above conditions will be allowed inside the Belur Math premises.No meeting with senior monks of the order or attending the famous evening prayer and arati will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/belur-math-in-kolkata-to-re-open-for-public-from-today-101629244017207.html
18-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC’s drive against plastic bags proves a damp squib||The special drive launched by the municipal corporation (MC) to impose a ban on plastic carry bags in the city from August 2 has again turned out to be a damp squib. The drive announced by mayor Balkar Sandhu was conducted only for two days and has been put on halt since then. The trade and use of plastic carry bags continues at every nook and corner of the city as the civic authorities have failed to rein in on the violators of the ban that was imposed in 2016. After the MC team confiscated over 12.5 quintals of plastic bags and issued challans to the tune of ₹2 lakh to traders in different parts of the city within two days of the beginning of the drive, a delegation of plastic manufacturers and traders had met Mayor Sandhu on August 4, seeking permission to deal in plastic bags of width upto 50 microns and above, as allowed by the union government. A controversy had also erupted after MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon, the in-charge of the 13-member special team formed for imposing the ban, was transferred to Abohar just four days after the drive started. MC employees’ union had also opposed the transfer, suspecting it to be punishment for tightening the noose around the violators. At the time, mayor Sandhu had stated that the transfer has been done at the state-level and the drive will continue with some other official at the helm. But no raids were conducted in the city after that. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said the transfer has been put on halt due to the resentment shown by the employees union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-s-drive-against-plastic-bags-proves-a-damp-squib-101629238837753.html
18-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: UCPMA’s annual general meet today, likely to be stormy||With United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) set to go to polls on September 3, the body’s annual general meeting (AGM) scheduled to be held on Wednesday evening is expected to be a stormy one.The agenda of the meeting includes seeking approval for the minutes, proceedings of the last AGM held in September 2019, approval of the balance sheet, and appointment of the auditor, among others. There are around 2,000 members of the association.The current executive has been divided into two groups. Both groups are resorting to lobbying to garner the support of the members. While current president DS Chawla and secretary Harsimerjit Singh Lucky comprise one group, the other group consists of the rest of the six executive members of the association including general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva; senior vice-president Gurcharan Singh Gemco; vice-president Satnam Singh Makkar; joint secretary Walaity Ram Durga; press secretary Rajinder Singh Sarhali and finance secretary Achhru Ram Gupta.The Sachdeva group has also got the support of former presidents of the association including Charanjit Singh Vishwakarma, Inderjit Nayug, Manmohan Singh Marton, and other senior members including, Avtar Singh Bhogal, Jaswinder Thukral, among others, and has formed a United Alliance with them. The alliance is working under the leadership of senior member KK Seth as chief election coordinator.Sachdeva alleged that there have been certain discrepancies in the working of the president in the office related to the filing of the balance sheet for the last year due to which the association will have to pay fines. All these issues will be discussed during the AGM, he added.Meanwhile, Chawla said that all the office-bearers of the association are united and are working for the betterment of the members and the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-ucpma-s-annual-general-meet-today-likely-to-be-stormy-101629232720181.html
18-08-2021||Other||BSNL employees in Ludhiana protest against ‘biased’ transfers||Around 20 BSNL employees protested on Tuesday over alleged biased and untimely transfer of staffers. To register their dissent, they sat on the floor of the BSNL general manager’s office. Avtar Singh, district secretary of the BSNL Employee Union said, “A female employee working at the cash counter was transferred to the customer care centre and vice versa. This is not acceptable, since transfers are usually made in March every year. Employees should be allowed to work at a fixed place for at least two years,” he said. Meanwhile, police were called to ensure the safety of the officials against whom the protest was being staged. “There was no need to call the police since we were protesting peacefully. Moreover, the authorities have provoked other union leaders against us and adopted divide and rule policy. We ended the protest after we were assured that transfers will be reconsidered,” Avtar added. Meanwhile, BSNL officials said the transfers were made as the employees weren’t performing their duties properly, which according to Avtar is not true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsnl-employees-in-ludhiana-protest-against-biased-transfers-101629232540392.html
18-08-2021||Other||4 Covid cases, no new deaths in Ludhiana||Four cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana on Tuesday. In more good news, there were no deaths in the district in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases fell below the 100-mark after five days, and settled at 97. The cumulative count of infections now stands at 87,431.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-covid-cases-no-new-deaths-in-ludhiana-101629232240141.html
18-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana mayor bows to pressure, allows use of plastic bags till year end||Bowing down to pressure from the industry ahead of assembly elections, mayor Balkar Sandhu on Tuesday announced a breather against the plastic-bag ban and allowed the use of plastic bags of 50 microns and above till the year end.The announcement came after the members of the Punjab carry bag manufacturers and traders’ association met the mayor at his camp office on Tuesday.Though the state government had imposed a complete ban on plastic bags in April 2016, the relief has been provided, citing a recent notification by the Centre, which allowed plastic bags of width 50 microns and above.Mayor Sandhu said that after December 2021, a complete ban will be imposed in the city. Senior vice-president of the association, Harmeet Batra said the industry has been demanding a relief as the imposition of a complete ban would have robbed the livelihood of hundreds of traders and manufacturers, who are already reeling under losses due to the ongoing pandemic.He said, “We have been demanding permission to deal in 50 micron bags for a long time as the Centre has also permitted the same. The mayor has accepted our demand and we have also asked our members to avoid dealing in banned bags with width less than 50 micron.” The industry’s representatives also stated that they are willing to work with the civic body to manage the waste in the city.An MC official, requesting anonymity, revealed that the civic body has been forced to go easy on the ban due to the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections. Further, MC officials are also finding it difficult to measure the width of bags during the raids due to lack of proper equipment.Mayor Sandhu said, “The decision has been taken after the union government allowed plastic carry bags of width up to 50 micron and above. Temporary relief has been given citing the upcoming festival season. The civic body will continue to take action against traders and residents dealing in plastic bags of width less than 50 microns.” Earlier on July 21, the mayor had announced a massive drive to impose the ban on plastic carry bags, stating that apart from creating pollution, dumping of plastic waste also chokes the sewer lines. The drive had started in the city on August 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mayor-bows-to-pressure-allows-use-of-plastic-bags-till-year-end-101629231640203.html
18-08-2021||Other||Under depression, Ludhiana schoolteacher ends her life||Hours after returning home, a schoolteacher ended her life by setting herself ablaze on the terrace of her house in Kundanpuri area. She taught at a private school on Hambran Road.Police later recovered a suicide note, in which she stated that she was suffering from depression. The woman, 46, was unmarried and is survived by her ailing mother. Her father had passed away long time back and her brother had died about three years ago. In the note, she asked her mother for “forgiveness” for leaving her all alone. Division Number 8 station house officer (SHO), sub-inspector Rajinder Singh said that according to the woman’s mother, she had returned from school around 1pm and gone straight to her room. Later some neighbours saw her engulfed in the flames on the terrace. They rushed to rescue her, but she had already died by then, the SHO stated.Police have initiated inquest proceedings and sent her body for post-mortem at the civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/under-depression-ludhiana-schoolteacher-ends-her-life-101629231340177.html
18-08-2021||Other||Anticipating gang war, Ludhiana cops set to detain members of two rival groups||Anticipating a gang war, Ludhiana police are all set to detain members of two rival gangs –one led by Shubham Mota and the other by Puneet Bains. Police recently recovered a cache of weapons from the members of both gangs, which led them to suspect they were conspiring to harm the rivals. The two groups are known to have got into a clash in June, in which they attacked each other with iron rods, sticks and sharp-edged weapons. Now that the two gangs are armed with weapons, cops fear the situation may worsen. Further, some members of the two gangs, who are already in police custody, are said to have made startling revelations that led the police to increase their vigil. The Ludhiana police have recovered three illegal weapons from the gang members. On the other hand, their counterparts in Delhi seized 13 weapons from the possession of Karanbir Singh alias Karan Walia, a member of the Shubham Mota gang. He was brought to Ludhiana on production warrant from Tihar jail in Delhi on August 7. Cops had recently brought Rishab Benipal of the Shubham Mota gang on production warrant from Faridkot Jail and recovered a .32 bore pistol following the information provided by him. According to police, Benipal was running the gang from inside the jail. Earlier on August 13, police had arrested Naveen alias Negi of Geeta Nagar of Tajpur road from a farmhouse in Jhande village. Negi is known to be a close aide of Puneet Bains. Police recovered two illegal pistols from his possession. There are at least five FIRs lodged against the two gangs’ members at various police stations of Ludhiana. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, east) Davinder Chaudhary said police would arrest all members of both gangs to avoid any clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anticipating-gang-war-ludhiana-cops-set-to-detain-members-of-two-rival-groups-101629231040042.html
18-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Man poses as patwari, extorts money; arrested||A man was held for impersonating as a patwari and extorting money from a Khanna resident.The accused was identified as Manjinder Singh Grewal of Basant Nagar of Khanna.Complainant Makhan Singh of Bhairo Munna village of Koomkalan stated that the accused, posing as a patwari, called him on August 15 and told him that the work of laying of the Amritsar-Delhi petroleum gas pipeline was on and it would pass from under his plot near the national highway in Doraha, following which the government will acquire it.The accused offered to help him by filing a report in his favour and demanded ₹1 lakh for the same. Makhan paid him ₹10,000 in advance. The accused had also handed over a notice regarding land acquisition to him, on finding out that it was fake, Makhan complained to the police.Head constable Surinder Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that Makhan Singh approached police with the complaint and a fake notice handed over by the accused.The police arrested the accused and registered a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of the Indian Penal Code against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-poses-as-patwari-extorts-money-arrested-101629230801077.html
18-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Woman snatchers’ gang strikes again||A gang of three women and their male accomplice struck again in the city and robbed a retired teacher of her gold bangles on the pretext of offering her husband and her a lift in their car in Sarabha Nagar on Monday.On being informed, division number 5 police initiated an investigation after reaching the spot.Victim Champa Arora, 66, of Sarabha Nagar, said that she, along with her husband Gurbachan Arora, a retired block development officer, had gone to a temple in Sarabha Nagar.When they were returning home, a woman walked up to them and said that the wife of the priest, sitting in the car, wanted to talk to Champa, following which they walked to the car. The victim alleged that the accused offered them a lift but, after covering some distance, told them that they were heading in another direction, following which the victim and her husband got off. It was only then that Champa realised that her bangles were missing. The couple immediately informed the police.Sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, SHO at division number 5 police station, said that the police are scanning closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the area to identify the accused.The women snatchers’ gang has been active in areas under the jurisdiction of Ludhiana police commissionerate and Ludhiana rural police for the past few years.Similar cases in the pastMarch 20: A gang of thieves, including three women and a man, robbed an elderly woman of her gold bangle on the pretext of offering her a lift in their car in Jagraon.March 10: The gang robbed a 73-year-old woman of her gold bangle in H-Block of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar of Ludhiana.August 31, 2020: The women’s gang robbed two women in a day in Sarabha village and Jodhan Bazar. The accused had introduced themselves as relatives to the victims.July 26, 2020: A 53-year-old Sahnewal resident was robbed of her gold chain by a gang of women. The Sahnewal police had lodged an FIR against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-woman-snatchers-gang-strikes-again-101629230440117.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi varsity to develop announcement system for deaf at railway stations||Punjabi University’s department of computer sciences is going to develop an announcement system for the deaf at railway stations using Indian sign language synthetic animations.The Union ministry of empowerment of persons with disabilities has sanctioned ₹24.15 lakh for the project of two years duration. Prof Vishal Goyal, coordinator, research centre for technology development of differently abled persons, said he along with and Lalit Goyal, associate professor, DAV College Jalandhar, are working on developing machine translation system for translation of English into ISL animated videos since 2010. “We have formed a special team which will record all the videos related to railway announcements and then these videos will be converted to ISL animations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-varsity-to-develop-announcement-system-for-deaf-at-railway-stations-101629230199906.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Armyman drowns, friend feared dead after car falls into canal in Patiala||An armyman drowned while his friend, also an army jawan, was feared dead when the car they were travelling in plunged into the Bhakra canal near Ablowal village in Patiala district on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased was identified as Jagmeet Singh (27), a resident of Nadampur village in Sangrur district, who was in the car with his friends and colleagues Kamaljit Singh (28), who is missing, and Manpreet Singh (28) of Patiala district. The three, posted in Jammu and Kashmir, were on one-month sanctioned leave. They were reportedly having a get-together in Patiala. Civil Lines police station in-charge Gurpreet Singh Bhinder said Kamaljit who was sitting in the rear seat managed to come out of the car and swam to safety.A team of divers was immediately rushed to the spot to rescue the victims, the station house officer (SHO) said. “Jagmeet’s body was pulled out of the canal along with the car and the search is on to find Manpreet,” he added.Kamaljit told the police that they were driving along the canal when they lost the balance near Babu Singh Colony near Ablowal village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/armyman-drowns-friend-feared-dead-after-car-falls-into-canal-in-patiala-101629230140291.html
18-08-2021||Other||As train services get back on track, Ludhiana sees rise in ticket violators||With almost 90% of the train services restored in view of the dwindling Covid-19 cases, railway authorities in Ludhiana are seeing an increase in passengers travelling without tickets.In July alone, the railway authorities caught 914 ticket offenders and collected fine of ₹6,76,945 from them. In June, 161 such offenders were caught fined ₹94,105 in all. Railway officials attribute this increase in ticket violations to the unavailability of ticket-window facility at the station.Anil Kumar, inspector, Railway Protection Force, said, “As of now, ticket counters are not operational at the Ludhiana railway station, due to social distancing considerations. So right now, only people with online reservations are able to travel. This may be the reason for increased ticket violations.” He added that the number of persons caught travelling without tickets has increased over the past few days as more and more trains hit the track. Another official added, “We found that people were buying platform tickets, which are available at the counters, and boarding the trains. When our teams caught them, they claimed that they had just come to drop someone. After observing this trend, we started sending more teams inside trains to check for ticket offenders.”Officials said most of the ticket offenders were found travelling to Bihar or Uttar Pradesh. “Our teams conducting special drives to nab the offenders,” said inspector Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-train-services-get-back-on-track-ludhiana-sees-rise-in-ticket-violators-101629229839820.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Covid-19 tally surpasses 6-lakh mark||Punjab’s infection tally crossed the 6,00,000-mark on Tuesday after the detection of 37 more Covid-19 cases, according to a state government bulletin. The infection count now stands at 6,00,008, it said. One coronavirus-related fatality reported from Tarn Taran took the toll to 16,345. The number of active cases dipped to 543 from 557 on Tuesday. Faridkot reported five cases, followed by four each in Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala. With 49 recoveries from the infection, the Covid-19 recovery count reached 5,83,120 in Punjab, according to the bulletin. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-covid-19-tally-surpasses-6-lakh-mark-101629229727734.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||JCT Electronics’ plot sale: BJP leader Sud seeks minister Arora’s resignation||Senior BJP leader and former Punjab minister Tikshan Sud on Tuesday demanded the resignation of industries minister Sundar Sham Arora and that he should not occupy the ministerial berth till the time Lokpal completes an inquiry into the sale of liquidated JCT Electronics’ 32-acre commercial plot in Mohali to a realty firm. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Sud said Arora was a shareholder in the realty company, GRG Developers and Coloniser, which bought the controversial plot. “We have given all documents in this regard to the Lokpal, which has already asked Arora to appear in person on October 12. We demand that till this probe is completed, Arora should stay away from the cabinet otherwise as a minister, he can influence the probe or manipulate the evidence,” Sud said. The former minister also alleged that the industries minister also extended undue favour to Gulmohar Township India Pvt. Ltd. that bought a 27-acre piece of land and sold it further by dividing it into 125 small plots. “The sale of plots without the approval of PUDA and RERA has caused a loss of ₹500 crore to the exchequer,” Sud said. However, the industries department has refuted all allegations regarding the sale of plots by Gulmohar Township. “The allegations of undue favour and financial loss to the exchequer are completely unfounded and not based on facts,” a spokesperson of the department said in a press statement. He clarified that Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC) had sold Plot No 1 (25 acres) in Phase 9, Mohali, as a freehold property in 1984 and the sale deed was executed in 1987 between the PSIDC and Punjab Anand Labs India Ltd. Thereafter, as per orders of the court and following due process of law, the said plot was transferred in the name of Signify Innovations India Ltd, which applied for the no objection certificate (NOC) to sell off the freehold property in favour of s Gulmohar Township India Pvt. Ltd. in November 2020. The PSIDC as per procedure issued the NOC and Gulmohar Township applied before PSIEC for fragmentation of 25-acre land into 125 plots as per the standard policy applicable across Punjab, the spokesperson said. “Sud is frustrated these days as I had defeated him twice in elections. He has also lost support in Hoshiarpur which was evident when his wife lost the councillor’s election. He held press conferences with the same documents, first in Hoshiarpur, then in Jalandhar and now in Chandigarh,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jct-electronics-plot-sale-bjp-leader-sud-seeks-minister-arora-s-resignation-101629229722441.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||Unusual dry spell driving up deficit, discomfort: IMD||The second of the so-called break-monsoon phases has left the country with a 9% deficiency in total monsoon rainfall till August 16, although the India Meteorological Department expects rainfall to resume from later this week.Meanwhile, the national capital, where it last rained on August 9, is unlikely to see a resumption till August 19 — making it among the longest break-monsoon phases the city has seen, IMD officials said. The result: high temperatures; for instance, Tuesday’s maximum, at 38 degrees Celsius was a full four degrees above normal. Delhi at present is receiving hot and dry winds from the north-west. This is also causing the temperatures to rise, Met officials said.August has seen poor rain across India: a 33% overall deficiency in rainfall; a 51% deficiency over central India; a 22% deficiency over northwest India; a 37.7% deficiency over peninsular India; and a 5% deficiency over east and north-east India.This has worsened the overall statistics too. Cumulative rainfall between June 1 and August 16 has seen a 9% deficiency over the entire country; 8% deficiency over north-west India; 11% deficiency over east and north-east India; and 13% deficiency over central India . Only the southern peninsula is in the green — with 5% excess rainfall.Delhi has seen a 58% deficiency in rainfall in August and a 9% surplus overall (from June 1 to August 17).To be sure, rainfall that is plus-or-minus 20% of the long period average is considered normal.According to weather experts, break monsoon is a phase during the southwest monsoon when there is a break in the monsoon showers. This pause could last a couple of days, going up to a fortnight.While rainfall decreases in parts of north, north-west and central India, this weather phenomenon results in an increase in showers along the Himalayan foothills, in north-east India and also along the southern peninsula.Met officials added that this long dry spell is the primary reason behind Delhi witnessing high temperatures, which is unlikely for this time of the year.“Over the last few years, we have seen that the break monsoon conditions usually last for five to six days—maximum for a week. This time, the period without rain is going to be around 10 days, which is a long time. This is causing temperatures to rise,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.This is the second major break in this monsoon; the first one was between June 29 and July 11.However, IMD officials expect monsoon rain to resume by Wednesday or Thursday. “There was a long break phase in July also. But now there is a new monsoon pulse over southern peninsula which will move upwards gradually. A low-pressure area which has formed over northwest Bay of Bengal will also bring rain in its path,” said DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD Pune.“With the movement of the low pressure system, we are expecting rains to commence over central India, including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, etc, and then over parts of north-west India from August 19. Easterly winds at lower levels have started picking up over some parts of north-west India,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre, IMD.It isn’t clear whether the revival will see the deficit being made up.“Rains during the second half may help cover the rain deficiency during monsoon season,” said Pai but Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather Services, a private weather forecasting agency, said the forecast only suggests moderate to light rain. “But the forecast after August 19 is of moderate to light rains. It will only increase the count, it will not be beneficial to the city. Short and intense showers only result in flooding, the rain water doesn’t get absorbed into the ground as it should,” added Palawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unusual-dry-spell-driving-up-deficit-discomfort-imd-101629229275005.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Pargat Singh takes charge as Punjab Congress gen secy||Congress MLA Pargat Singh on Tuesday assumed charge as the general secretary of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC). The two-time Jalandhar Cantonment MLA took charge of his new assignment in the presence of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and several ministers and legislators at Punjab Congress Bhawan here. Sidhu had on Monday named his close confidant Pargat as the general secretary (organisation) of the state unit. Pargat said that it was a big responsibility, and he would take everyone in the party along. “Punjab has lots of expectations from us. I have told all senior ministers and MLAs that there is a gap due to pending promises. We will work together to fill this gap before going into the elections,” the Jalandhar Cantonment MLA said, stressing the need to make the administration accountable to the legislators. Sidhu, who also spoke on the occasion, said that Pargat was a legend and a team player who would take everyone along. “We will consult everyone before any decision is taken. No decision will be imposed,” he said. Cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, working presidents Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Pawan Goyal, MP Dr Amar Singh and MLA Kulbir Singh Zira, Madanlal Jalalpur, Harjot Kanwal, Angad Saini and Barindermeet Pahra were among those present. Sandeep Sandhu, political adviser to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, was also present. In May, Pargat had accused Sandhu of threatening him for questioning the state government on the sacrilege and police firing cases. Pargat, who had jumped ship from the SAD to the Congress in 2016, has been critical of the chief minister for the past more than two years, questioning the state government’s failure to fulfil key poll promises. Later, Sidhu also met Meritorious School Teachers’ Union, Old Pension Restoration Union, Sarpanch Union and members of electricity board who submitted their representations to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pargat-singh-takes-charge-as-punjab-congress-gen-secy-101629229541206.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Aaditya Thackeray meets Afghan students, says he will convey their concerns to Centre||As Afghanistan was taken over by Taliban, students from the country who are studying in Maharashtra are in fear for their life. They are concerned about their stay in the state as some of their visas are about to expire and they want to extend the same. Many of them also want asylum in India.A delegation of Afghan students met with Maharashtra protocol and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday, who assured them of full cooperation. He also assured them that students are safe in the state. Thackeray said they would convey the concerns raised by the Afghan students to the Central government as the state government.There are around 4,000-4,500 Afghan students studying in different parts of the state.“There are several issues that have concerned the students from Afghanistan, who have come to Maharashtra for studies. They want to know how they can continue to stay here as the visas of some of them are about to expire as their graduation is about to complete while others have a few years in hand. They are concerned about their return. Some of them also want to take asylum in the country. I will convey all their concerns and requests to the Centre as the state government has limited jurisdiction in the matter of foreign affairs,” Thackeray said, after his meeting with Afghan students at Sahyadri guest house at Malabar Hill on Tuesday afternoon.“It was necessary to hear their concerns and assure them that till they are in Maharashtra, they do not have to fear. They are safe and will not have to face any difficulty. We will take care of them. This is what I have assured them today,” he added.The state protocol minister, however, refused to comment on the Taliban and their taking over of the country by force. “I cannot speak on what is happening in Afghanistan as it would be better if it remains between the two countries (India and Afghanistan),” he commended, in response to a question.A student, who was part of the delegation, said they feared they would be killed if returned to Afghanistan. “It is unfortunate that the Taliban has taken over our country. We are afraid that our lives will be in danger if we go back to Afghanistan. We are unable to contact our families as there is no power supply. Mobile towers have been destroyed. We have come to meet Aaditya Thackeray ji to express our concerns,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aaditya-thackeray-meets-afghan-students-says-he-will-convey-their-concerns-to-centre-101629229540103.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||On poll trail, Sukhbir Badal kicks off 100-day yatra to 100 Punjab assembly segments||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced to start a 100-day yatra in as many assembly constituencies of Punjab from Wednesday to reach out to all sections of society, including farmers, businessmen, youth, women, Dalits and the backward classes. At least 700 public meetings will be held during the yatra that will start from the Zira segment, he said. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, the former Punjab deputy chief minister released a 132-page chargesheets against the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) governments in Punjab and Delhi accusing them of “failing the aspirations” of the people of the two states. “I will meet people to know about their grievances and expose the corrupt Congress government and its council of ministers. We will also formulate a strategy if we form government in Punjab with our coalition partner Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Launching the ‘gall Punjab di’ (talk about Punjab) campaign, Sukhbir said he and his party workers will go to each and every village and ward in the state to collect feedback from people. The SAD president said chief minister Amarinder Singh had a lot to answer with regards to the ₹6,500 crore excise scam as five of his ministerial colleagues were accused of indulging in corruption. He alleged, “Sadhu Singh Dharamsot was involved in the SC scholarship scam, Sukhjinder Randhawa was involved in the seed scam, Balbir Sidhu in the Covid procurement as well as de-addiction tablet scam, Bharat Bhushan Ashu in the wheat scam and Shyam Sunder Arora in the JCT land scam.” The ministers have already rejected these allegations. It was a misfortune of Punjab to have a CM who did not venture out of his house, did not meet even his ministers and does not listen to people, he said, adding that teachers seeking to meet him were thrashed brutally.“No development was carried out during his tenure, but gangsters have been patronised in jails to run extortion rackets,” he alleged. “Similarly, AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal swore by his children not to have any alliance with the Congress but broke it within days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/on-poll-trail-sukhbir-badal-kicks-off-100-day-yatra-to-100-punjab-assembly-segments-101629229481422.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Congress infighting: Not ‘fully satisfied’ with situation, Harish Rawat to visit Punjab next week||As the battle of wits continues between newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat on Tuesday said that he is not fully satisfied with the goings-on in the state. Rawat, who has been asked by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to mediate between Sidhu and Amarinder for unity in the party, said that both leaders had shown due deference to the party leadership and should work together. “I am not fully satisfied (with the present situation). There is need for humility from the PCC president. Capt also showed large-heartedness and needs to continue with that,” he told Hindustan Times. The AICC general secretary said there were reports of action against someone or reluctance to accept a suggestion from someone else (in the party). “These are small things and do not match the persona of Capt Saab,” he said, refusing to go into specifics. Rawat said he would visit Chandigarh early next week, most probably on Monday and Tuesday, to talk to both leaders. The one-upmanship between Sidhu and Amarinder, who are not on the same page on several issues, particularly some unfulfilled poll promises, has left the state Congress a divided house. Sidhu and other Capt-baiters, who have rallied behind him, continue to question the state government on the 18-point agenda handed to the chief minister by the Congress high command for implementation before the state elections. Amarinder, who is also making countermoves albeit quietly to corner some of his detractors, had, in his meeting with Sonia last week, told her that continued and repeated targeting of the state government would be detrimental to the party. Rawat, who was also present, later told reporters the Congress president had asked him to ensure that both (Amarinder and Sidhu) worked within their respective limits and cooperated with each other. On lack of coordination and public questioning of the government by the Punjab Congress leadership on pending poll promises, Rawat said that the state unit was free to give its suggestions and the government had to see if it could be done. “In case of faulty power purchase agreements, two-three of them should be cancelled. If needed, the state assembly’s view can be taken,” he said. About the controversy over the statements made by Malwinder Singh Mali, one of Sidhu’s three advisers, the Punjab affairs in-charge said it was the state president’s prerogative to choose his advisers. “I have not seen his (Mali’s) statements, but no one should cross the line. If I come across something, I will take a strong note,” he said. On the party’s organisational set-up, he said the party had set the ball rolling and would make a few more appointments in next two-three days. “A panel of spokespersons will be named followed by the constitution of the state committee and finally the district and block Congress committees,” he said. The state unit was disbanded by the Congress president in January 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-infighting-not-fully-satisfied-with-situation-harish-rawat-to-visit-punjab-next-week-101629229479774.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Hiring of 981 regular lecturers at govt colleges hits hurdle as file stuck with PPSC||Initiated after a long hiatus of 19 years, the process of hiring 931 lecturers, or assistant professors, on a regular basis at 48 government colleges in the state has hit a stumbling block as the file related to the recruitment is lying with the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) for five months. The file has not been cleared due to delay on part of the state government in appointing the commission chairman after Lt Gen Surinder Singh (retd) retired from the post in early July. According to the rule, only the chairman is authorised to give approvals for issuing advertisements on hiring by various government departments.The state department of higher education had submitted the file with the commission in April after completing all the formalities. Director of public instructions (DPI colleges) Paramjit Singh said there is no delay on their part as the department is waiting for the nod from the commission. “We are hopeful that the file will be cleared and advertisement will be issued thereafter,” he said.The recruitment of college lecturers on a regular basis in Punjab was done last in 2002 when the vigilance bureau busted a cash-for-job scam. The recruitments remained stalled for a long time as the matter was sub judice. In Punjab, there are 1,873 sanctioned posts of lecturers, of which 1,292 are laying vacant. To overcome the staff shortage, the department has roped in 882 guest faculty and 251 part-time lecturers.Guest faculty demands relaxationThe guest faculty and 251 part-time lecturers at government colleges are uncertain about their jobs as the process of appointment of regular assistant professors has kickstarted.They have urged the state government to give relaxations in the recruitment process so that their jobs could be regularised. Deepak Kaushal, member of the Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association, said with less than 70% regular lecturers in government colleges, the guest faculty forms the backbone of these institutions. “We want relaxation in age bar as 50% guest lecturers have crossed the age limit to apply for other government jobs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hiring-of-981-regular-lecturers-at-govt-colleges-hits-hurdle-as-file-stuck-with-ppsc-101629229419678.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||ED attaches properties worth ₹234 crore of former MLA Vivekanand Patil||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached immovable properties worth ₹234 crore of Vivekanand Shankar Patil, a former member of legislative assembly (MLA) and former chairman of Karnala Nagari Sahakari Bank Limited, in connection with an alleged fraud of around ₹560 crore. The attached properties include Karnala sports academy and several land parcels.ED arrested Patil in June in the case and filed a charge sheet on August 12. Patil is a four-term MLA from Panvel constituency from Peasants and Workers Party of India and was chairman of the bank, which has its headquarters in Panvel. The probing agency started the investigation on the basis of case registered by the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police in 2019. The fraud came to light after an audit was done at the instance of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in 2019-20, when it was revealed that Patil was siphoning funds from the bank through 63 fictitious loan accounts to Karnala Charitable Trust and Karnala Sports Academy, which were founded and controlled by Patil, said an ED officer.In March 2019, RBI had flagged 58 suspicious accounts in the bank and instructed the Commissioner for Cooperation and Registrar, Cooperative Societies (CC and RCS) to look into the accounts. The special audit was initiated by a government auditor who submitted his report to CC and RCS, Maharashtra. As the audit report revealed that since 2013, Patil allegedly created several fake bank accounts to facilitate at least 63 loans to bogus firms and persons without any valid documentation, a case was lodged.As per the complaint, the accounts which were granted loans were either of Patil’s close friends or relatives. The loan limit to these accounts was increased gradually and the sanctioned loan amount was diverted to Karnala Charitable Trust and Karnala Sports Academy. Investigations under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) revealed that the defrauded amount was to the tune of approximately ₹560 crore including interest. These funds were utilised by Karnala Charitable Trust, Karnala Sports Academy and others for construction of properties such as sports complex, college and schools and for other personal gains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-attaches-properties-worth-234-crore-of-former-mla-vivekanand-patil-101629229359783.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||4 more grenades, 3 pistols recovered from Batala||Two days after arresting two men linked to a UK-based terror entity, the Amritsar-rural police on Tuesday recovered four more hand-grenades and three pistols concealed by them along the Dhariwaal-Batala road near Suchetgarh village in Gurdaspur district. Police on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday had arrested two alleged militants identified as Amritpal Singh and Sammy, both residents of Amritsar, and recovered two hand-grenades, one pistol (9mm), along with bullets and magazines, concealed underground near a border village. The duo had been operating on the directions of UK-based terrorist Gurpreet Singh Khalsa, police had said. Sharing details about the new seizure, director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said following the disclosures by the arrested accused, a police team recovered four more hand-grenades, three 9mm pistols, six magazines and 30 rounds along Batala-Dhariwal road on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. SSP Khurana said their investigation to ascertain the trail of smuggled arms was still on. He said, most probably, the arms were smuggled from across the border. The police have added sections of 13, 16, 18, 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the FIR that was registered under Sections 25/27 of the Arms Act and 3, 4, 5 of the Explosive Substance (Amendment) Act at Gharinda police station. A few days before the Independence Day, the Punjab Police had also recovered a tiffin Box fabricated into an improvised explosive device (IED), along with five hand-grenades and 100 rounds of 9mm pistol, reportedly dropped through drone, from Behedwal village in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-more-grenades-3-pistols-recovered-from-batala-101629229300224.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Increase in passengers but no crowding at Mumbai suburban local trains||As local train services resumed for the general public on the first working day on Tuesday, queues of passengers outside railway booking offices and an increase in passengers travelling from suburban local train services were witnessed. Nearly one million additional passengers travelled by suburban local trains on Central and Western Railway on Monday and Tuesday, as compared to last week. On an average, nearly 2.9 million passengers travelled by suburban local trains last week with 1.4 million travelling on Central Railway (CR) and 1.5 million on Western Railway (WR).While local train services resumed for fully vaccinated passengers on Sunday, Sunday and Monday were public holidays.Queues outside railway booking offices were witnessed at Kurla, Ghatkopar, Bandra, Andheri, Dombivli and Borivli railway stations. According to railway authorities, at Thane railway station minimal crowding near local train compartment was witnessed during peak hours on Tuesday. The railways deployed additional Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel to maintain social distancing. “We noticed an increase in the number of passengers but there was no incident of overcrowding on Tuesday. An increase in passenger queues were seen outside railway booking offices but the process of issuing passes went smoothly as all railway booking offices are operational,” said a senior railway official.Passengers who travelled on Tuesday said there was no crowding inside train compartments. “The crowd was less as compared to what I had anticipated. I travelled from Ghatkopar to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) during morning peak hour but did not find a lot of crowds,” said Aarti Jain, a Vidyavihar resident.On Tuesday up till 7pm, 17,761 monthly season passes were issued by CR and 8,133 by WR.Meanwhile, around 7,698 citizens have been cleared for suburban railway travel at 11 railway stations of Navi Mumbai and acquired the season pass for train travel. So far, 76,98 citizens in Navi Mumbai have obtained the railway pass. Inputs from Raina Shine||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/increase-in-passengers-but-no-crowding-at-mumbai-suburban-local-trains-101629229181463.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||AAP demands ‘one pension’ rule for MLAs||A delegation of the opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislators on Tuesday met Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh to demand the ‘One MLA-One Pension’ rule in the state. Led by leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, the AAP delegation submitted a memorandum to the speaker, opposing the present policy under which a member is entitled to pension for each term. The party delegation included Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Budh Ram, Meet Hayer, Manjit Singh Bilaspur, Kulwant Pandori, Jai Singh Rodi and Amarjit Singh Sandoa, all first-time legislators. The AAP MLAs, in their memorandum, opposed more than one monthly pension for MLAs who have been elected to the state assembly more than once, stating that such financial gain in the name of increments was “morally and theoretically wrong”. “A legislator should be given the same pension no matter if he had become MLA more than once,” they said. Cheema said the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government had stopped the pensions of Punjab government employees in the name of reforms in 2004, which was strongly opposed by the entire employees and pensioners community. “The delegation demanded that in the forthcoming assembly session, a law should be passed with the consent of all the MLAs to abolish more than one pension rule and restore the old pension scheme for government employees,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-demands-one-pension-rule-for-mlas-101629229180371.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Poor infra at Dehlon CHC, woman delivers stillborn on way to Ludhiana civil hospital||Even as the state government makes tall claims of providing state-of-the-art health infrastructure to the residents of Ludhiana, the situation on ground tells a different story.A woman from Jand village lost her baby in childbirth, as the community health centre where she was first taken to “lacked adequate infrastructure to handle the complications in her case.” The woman’s husband, Charanpreet, a marginal farmer from Jand village, said he took his wife to the Dehlon community health centre on Sunday morning after she complained of labour pains. “She was kept under observation for nearly an hour at the centre but later referred to the Ludhiana civil hospital. But the 25 kilometre commute to the civil hospital proved too long as our child died on the way,” he said. He added, “Had the operation theatre at the Dehlon centre been functional, our child could have been saved.”When contacted, civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said all arrangements have been made for safe childbirth at the community health centre in Dehlon. “The condition of that particular patient was critical. So she had to be rushed to the civil hospital. While the child could not be saved, the mother is stable.”The foundation stone for the Dehlon community health centre was laid on 2011 but it was not until 2016 that the construction work finally kicked off. Though the spick and span entrance gives an impression of a fully functional health centre, only two rooms on the ground floor and five rooms for doctors are in a good state. The rest of the building paints a picture of bureaucratic neglect. Several rooms in the building have not even been whitewashed and the passage leading to the first floor isn’t yet to be electrified. Dr Ahluwalia said, “Due to Covid outbreak, many projects had come to a halt. But now work has resumed and soon all buildings will be fully functional. The remaining part of the building will soon be completed. We are also hiring more staff and doctors to meet the shortage of manpower.”Another project in the balanceA 10-bed urban community health centre that was thrown open for the public at the civil surgeon’s office in 2019 is also yet to be operationalised due to lack of doctors and staff. It is currently being used as the Covid vaccination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poor-infra-at-dehlon-chc-woman-delivers-stillborn-on-way-to-ludhiana-civil-hospital-101629229061028.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Cop in Arnala patrols 12-km stretch of beaches near Mumbai on horse||A senior officer with the Arnala Coastal police station has to ride a horse every weekend to patrol the 12-km stretch beaches in Arnala, Navapur, Bhuigaon, Kalamb, Rajodi, Rangaon, Suruchibaug and other areas. The horse has been rented from owners who use them for joy rides at the beach.Senior inspector (crime) Amar Patil hires the horse for ₹300 for an eight-hour shift every weekend and on holidays when the crowds arrive at the beach. “As joy rides on horse carts are banned on the beach due to Covid-19, the horse owners are facing financially difficulties. So it was decided to pay for hiring the horses,” said Patil. “We do have a jeep for patrolling but cannot use it on the beach as the wheels get stuck on the sandy soil. So a horse comes in handy as they have strong flattened hooves and can even wade through waist deep water, and their feet also do not get stuck on sandy soil,” said Patil. Mumbai Police in June had received around 10 all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) to patrol beaches, but the newly formed Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commissionerate does not have such ATVs though the Vasai-Virar stretch has a long beach line. Thus, horses come in handy for beach patrolling, said Patil.“When I was earlier posted in Mumbai Police, I had learnt horse riding as a hobby. Now I am putting it to practice to nab the violators. This month alone, we have managed to rescue 14 drunk revellers from drowning and also booked around 60 tourists for Covid-19 violation by mounted patrolling,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cop-in-arnala-patrols-12-km-stretch-of-beaches-near-mumbai-on-horse-101629229059636.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra breaches 6.4 million mark of Covid-19 cases; rise in delta plus cases a cause of worry||With 4,408 fresh infections, Maharashtra crossed the 6.4 million mark of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. The state’s tally stood at 6,401,213. The tally of active cases also reduced to 61,306 as 5,424 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours.The state saw 116 casualties. Sangli reported the highest toll with 36 deaths. Of them, 29 were found in the district and the rest in the city. It was followed by Satara with 30 fatalities.Even as the decline in daily cases is slow, the Maharashtra government has granted relaxations in restrictions across the state from August 15. Officials said the impact of relaxations will be known in the next 15 days and further decisions will be taken after assessing the situation.On the other hand, Delta plus variant cases are rising in the state. Till Monday, the state had 76 Delta plus cases, a concern for the state administration.Maharashtra is the state with highest number of Covid-19 cases. Now, it also has maximum Delta plus variant cases.Significantly, it has also achieved a milestone of administering 50 million doses on Monday. It vaccinated 677,974 doses on Tuesday and has administered a total 50,710,698 doses till date, according to the data available on Co-Win portal.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force for Covid-19, said, “Delta plus is an offshoot from AY.1. It’s a myth that Delta plus cases are rising in a significant number. There is a small number of Delta plus cases, but they have not reached any critical threshold. It is only 1% of the total number of positive samples collected for genomic sequencing. In terms of population it is only 0.0001%.”According to the health officials, most of the cases being reported in the state are from Delta variants in the last few months.Dr Joshi said that Delta variants were responsible for the second wave and continued to be the dominant strain even today. “A large part of the second wave was driven by the Delta variant. We still have the Delta strain very much prevalent in the population. For example, in a city like Mumbai, till January 2021 it was predominant by B.1617.1, which is being named as ‘Kappa’ and from March, it was gradually replaced by Delta (B.1.617.2). Kappa is almost virtually extinct. But the problem is Delta is more contagious. It is as contagious as chickenpox and a faster spreading virus than its previous variants,” he said.On August 15, the state government allowed reopening of shopping malls and allowed other establishments including malls to operate till 10pm. It also allowed gyms, parlours and salons to open with 50 per cent capacity. It has further opened local train services in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) for fully vaccinated people. “Maharashtra is also looking at fewer cases; compared to last month, daily cases have come to half. The districts of concern are also shrinking. We are reaching some degree of herd immunity to the Delta variant and thus we are gradually removing curbs. Every fortnight, we will see more and more relaxations and will assess if there is any negative impact of relaxations or not.”Dr Joshi said that the current data shows even if the state is relaxing the curbs, the daily cases are still on decline. On Sunday, Mumbai clocked 196 cases and reported a total 739,722 cases till date. It also recorded two fatalities taking the toll to 15,925. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 179,488 samples and had a positivity rate of 2.45%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 12.48%, according to the data issued by the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-breaches-6-4-million-mark-of-covid-19-cases-rise-in-delta-plus-cases-a-cause-of-worry-101629229000162.html
18-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Wife, in-laws among 5 booked after police find video message of suicide victim||The Hathur police have booked five persons including the wife and in-laws of a 33-year-old man who ended his life on August 15.The FIR was lodged after the police found a video message recorded by the victim on his mobile phone, in which he accused his wife and in-laws of forcing him to take the extreme step.Earlier, the police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).The victim’s father in his complaint said that on August 15, he and his wife had gone out and when they returned in the evening, they were shocked to see the lifeless body of their son hanging from the girder.Since they were clueless about the reason, no case was filed. On August 16, however, the victim’s father found a video message recorded in the son’s mobile phone in which he accused his wife and in-laws of forcing him to end his life.The complainant added that his son had married three years ago and had a one-and-a-half-year-old daughter. He further alleged that three months ago, their daughter-in-law had left home following a spat. His son had gone to bring her back, but she had refused, due to which he was depressed.Sub-inspector Ramanpreet Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against Balwinder Kaur, wife of the victim; his mother-in-law; father-in-law Darshan Singh; brother-in-law Jaspal Singh; Jaspal’s wife Indira; and relative Basant Singh.A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianawife-in-laws-among-5-booked-after-police-find-video-message-of-suicide-victim-101629228941267.html
18-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC to fit GPS in its vehicles to curtail misuse||The municipal corporation (MC) has decided to get Global Positioning System (GPS) trackers installed in all its official and field vehicles to keep a check on the movement of officials and pilferage of fuel.The movement of the vehicles will be monitored through Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) being established at the MC Zone D office under Smart City Mission.As per information, GPS trackers will be installed in all 300 vehicles, including official vehicles, JCBs, tippers, road rollers, etc.The step is being taken on the directions of the mayor to avoid misuse of the vehicles. The mayor had, in the past, caught officials getting fuel allocated for vehicles that are not even in use, said one of the officials, requesting anonymity, adding that fuel theft cases have also been reported during the fogging process.He said earlier also, the MC had got the trackers installed in a few of its vehicles and those operated by A2Z company, which was dealing with solid waste management in the city till February this year. While some of them did not work properly others were damaged by the employees, he added.MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said, “The project has been initiated on the directions of mayor Balkar Sandhu and the GPS trackers will be installed through a contractor by following the tender process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-to-fit-gps-in-its-vehicles-to-curtail-misuse-101629228940132.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM launches boating club, adventure sports to boost tourism||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday launched several initiatives of the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) to push tourism in the state. The projects include a new boating club, facilities for skydiving and adventure sports, tie-up with leading online travel companies to boost MTDC properties on the portals, among others. Thackeray, during the launch held at Varsha bungalow, said the state has a wide variety of tourist destinations to attract domestic and international tourists, which will boost the state’s economy and provide employment.On Tuesday, the tourism department, in presence of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, minister of state for tourism Aditi Tatkare, launched a new boat club in Ratnagiri district’s Ganpatipule, signed MoUs with M/s SkyHigh India to start skydiving and adventure sport activities in Sindhudurg district. The MTDC on Tuesday launched a new website, which goes live from Wednesday morning.Thackeray said, “The state too has several destinations that can go on world map. Like Amsterdam’s Tulip Garden, we can also develop tourism around flowers on Kaas Pathar in Satara district.”The MTDC also signed the MoU with online travel companies Make My Trip and Goibibo to promote MTDC properties on the portal, and an agreement was inked with Maharashtra State Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology, Pune, to train MTDC staff in hospitality and service. Thackeray also inaugurated a refurbished at MTDC Sinhagad Resort, giving the visitors a chance to explore the glory of Sinhagad Fort.Aaditya Thackeray said, “Tourists worldwide are in for a pleasant surprise as we continue to enhance MTDC’s user experience... Following the enthusiastic reception of Nashik Boat Club, Ganpatipule Boat Club is set to welcome tourists with thrilling aquatic sports and charming beach shacks.” Pawar, who heads the finance department, added that the sector has the potential to push state’s economy and create jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-launches-boating-club-adventure-sports-to-boost-tourism-101629228699665.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Staff not fully jabbed yet, most malls in Mumbai remain shut||Two days after reopening, at least 12 malls in the city were shut on Tuesday, owing to the state’s condition that the staff should be fully vaccinated. Mall owners said a majority of their staff is partially vaccinated, considering they are below the age of 45. The state last week allowed malls to open from August 15, after asking them to stay shut all throughout the second wave of Covid-19. On Tuesday, Inorbit Mall, Growel’s 101 Mall and several other malls in the city remained shut on Tuesday, even as many are still to start operations. According to mall owners, last week they had sought clarity on citizens below 18 years of age, considering there is no vaccine for kids, and had also requested the state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to relax the condition of two doses to a single dose. However, the state on Monday clarified that all staff members of malls and even customers will have to be fully vaccinated and two weeks should have passed after that to enter the mall and work. Regarding citizens below the age of 18, the state said they should be allowed, considering there is no vaccine available for children. Sachin Dhanawade, chief operating officer (COO), retail & real estate, Grauer & Weil (India) Limited, which operates Growel’s 1O1 Mall in Kandivli, said, “The condition is difficult to meet as a large majority of employees and staff are aged below 45. The vaccination for this age group started in May, which was soon suspended due to shortage. The supply was later resumed around June 21. Furthermore, the Central Government also extended the gap between two doses for Covishield. With most having taken the first dose only, malls will not be able to operate before September-end.” In a tweet, Inorbit Mall said, “Please note that Inorbit Mall Malad and Vashi will not be operational until further instructions from government authorities. We regret the inconvenience. Hope to see you soon.” Mukesh Kumar, chairman, Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI), said it was impossible to run the malls in this scenario.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/staff-not-fully-jabbed-yet-most-malls-in-mumbai-remain-shut-101629228639715.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kishtwar cloudburst: 21 days on, no trace of 19 missing persons||More than 20 days have passed since a flashflood swept away a number of people in Kishtwar’s Honzar village, but 19 of those missing still remain untraced. Kishtwar SSP Shafqat Hussain Butt said, “Though the searches are still on, most likely the 19 people who are missing were swept away in the river following flashflood on July 28.” At least seven people were killed and 17 others were injured, six of them critically, while 19 went missing after flashfloods hit Honjar village following a cloudburst in the wee hours of July 28. “We have not called off the search operation, but there is no clue of those missing,” Butt added. The dead were identified as Sara Begum, wife of Ghulam Mohammad, Rakila Begum, wife of Zakir Ahmed (a nomad), Ghulam Nabi, son of Ghulam Rasool (a watchman at a ration depot), Abdul Majid (a teacher), son of Nazir Ahmed, Zaytoon Begum, wife of Haji Lal Din (a nomad), Touseef Iqbal, son of Mohammad Iqbal and Ghulam Mohi-ud-Din, son of Nasrullah. Nineteen residential properties and 21 cowsheds were also damaged while two houses were partially destroyed by the deluge. The cloudburst was reported at 4am on the fateful day. Honzar is around 50km from Kishtwar district headquarters and it takes a 7km trek from the nearest road to reach the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kishtwar-cloudburst-21-days-on-no-trace-of-19-missing-persons-101629228462256.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kathua chopper crash: Naval searchers continue to scour Ranjit Sagar lake to find co-pilot||Naval searchers had been trying to trace the co-pilot in the Ranjit Sagar Dam reservoir in Basohli area of Kathua district, but success has so far eluded them, officials said on Tuesday. On Sunday, body of one of the two pilots on board the Rudra helicopter that had crashed into the lake was found after 12 days of the incident. Kathua senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ramesh Chander Kotwal said, “Body of the pilot, Lieutenant Colonel AS Batth, was retrieved from the Ranjit Sagar lake around 6.30pm on Sunday while search for the co-pilot (a captain) are on. There is no further progress.” A defence spokesperson had on Saturday said, “The Indian Air Force has lifted heavy equipment from Visakhapatnam to Pathankot to speed up the underwater search. Indian Army and all other agencies, including the navy, IAF, NDRF, Ranjit Sagar Dam Authority, district authorities and locals, are sparing no effort to bring the operations to a final conclusion.” On August 11, on the ninth day of intense searches since the helicopter had came down, the rescuers had located the wreckage of the ill-fated machine at a depth of nearly 80 metres in the vast lake. “The wreckage of the #ArmyHelicopter that had crashed into the #RanjitSagarReservoir had been identified at a depth of approx 80m from the surface of the reservoir. Heavy duty #RemotelyOperatedVehicles are being flown in to assist the recovery operations (sic),” the Western Command had posted on its Twitter handle. The Rudra helicopter had crashed on August 3 around 10.43am. Built at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, the chopper was carrying out a training sortie that involved low-level flying over the lake. The helicopter belonged to the Army’s Pathankot-based 254 ALH-WSI squadron, which had earlier lost a Rudra chopper in January 2021. Lt Col Batth cremated with military honours in AmritsarThe mortal remains of Lieutenant Colonel Abheet Singh Batth were consigned to flames with full military honours at his hometown Amritsar on Tuesday.His body reached his home in Adarsh Nagar about 11am and was taken to Shaheedan cremation ground in the afternoon. His pyre was lit by his son, Ahan Singh, after the jawans gave him a guard of honour. He is survived by his mother Balwinder Kaur, wife Sukhpreet Kaur and son.Abheet was born and brought up in Amritsar and joined the Indian Army after completing his education from local Khalsa College. Abheet’s father Sarabjit Singh Batth, who died a few years ago, had also served in the army, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kathua-chopper-crash-naval-searchers-continue-to-scour-ranjit-sagar-lake-to-find-copilot-101629228461133.html
18-08-2021||Other||Three-fold hike in Ocean freight rates in six months hits exporters hard||Ludhiana In a pandemic-ridden world, all natural elements appear to have ganged up against Ludhiana’s industry. After braving a crippling goods train stoppage just a few months ago, transporting shipments over water has emerged as a major worry for exporters. Ocean freight rates have risen at least 3.5-fold (250%) over the past six months and the local industry, which accounts for a major chunk of the country’s exports, says shipments are either being delayed or held back. The industry has also written to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) to address the crisis. A combination of factors has led to the higher shipping costs, with soaring demand amid stimulus packages the key. Saturated ports and not enough ships, dockworkers and truckers has aggravated the situation. Easing of restrictions after the second Covid wave is another contributing factor. From Ludhiana, yarn forms the major chunk of exports at about 25,000 TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent unit) a year. Of this, hosiery accounts for 4,500 TEUs; export of rice follows at 2,000 TEUs. Export of bicycles, spare parts, auto-part components and engineering goods add another 1,700 TEUs. “For some destinations, the freight has increased between 500% and 600% (six-seven times); this increase is for the west coast of the US and Latin America. Cities like Los Angeles and Seattle are majorly affected. Even as we are ready to pay the higher rate, vessels are not available as ports are congested. There is a waiting time of two-three weeks in countries along the west coast. Shipping lines are minting profits, with the only silver lining being that our main competitor, China, is also in the same boat,” said Amit Thapar, vice-chairman, Confederation of Commerce and Industry (CII), Punjab. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU), said, “Our Export Promotion Committee is working to resolve issues of members with the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), under the Union ministry of commerce.” Sarvjit Singh, co-convener, export committee, CICU, said a consignment to East Africa which used to cost $1,400 (just over ₹1 crore) is now costing $4,800 (around ₹3.5 crore). He added, “Shipping companies are charging huge amounts and exporters have to pay up for the fear of losing customers. The nexus between top officials of shipping lines and some freight forwarders is behind the steep increase in ocean freight rates. If the practice continues, exporters might have to shut shop. Rates gone up to 250% (3.5 times), which is forcing exporters to delay or hold the shipment.”An export committee member, chartered accountant Abhilesh Aneja, said the average container price (40 feet) from India to the US has risen 3-5 times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/threefold-hike-in-ocean-freight-rates-in-six-months-hits-exporters-hard-101629228459778.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tokyo Paralympics: PM Modi interacts with Jammu archers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday interacted with Tokyo-bound Indian athletes, including two para archers Rakesh Kumar and Jyoti Baliyan, who have been trained at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Sports Complex at Katra. Rakesh is a native of Katra, while Jyoti has been training here for the last four years. These archers have qualified for Tokyo Paralympic Games scheduled to be held between August 24 and September 5. The motive behind the interaction was to encourage the players and motivate them ahead of their participation at the high-pressure games. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, who is also the chairperson of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, congratulated both the sportspersons and wished them luck in the showpiece event. Shrine board member Ashok Bhan and CEO Ramesh Kumar have also congratulated the duo for qualifying for the Tokyo Paralympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tokyo-paralympics-pm-modi-interacts-with-jammu-archers-101629228403897.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Eyeing Mandi bypoll, Jai Ram makes a dash for tribal Pangi, Bharmour||Eying the byelection to Mandi parliamentary constituency, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday visited Pangi and Bharmour tribal subdivisions of Chamba and doled out sops for the remote region. He inaugurated and laid foundation stones of development projects of about ₹ 23 crore at Killar, the subdivisional headquarters of Pangi.Major projects included a taxi stand at Killar and three bridges. He also laid foundation stone of ₹12.51-crore arts block and protection work at Government Degree College, Killar and distributed solar grid power plants (250W) to six people. As many as 1,162 solar plants would be made available in the Pangi valley. The chief minister announced opening of Jal Shakti division at Killar and subdivision at Sach. He announced opening of new PHC at Surah and Kariyuni and upgrading of middle schools in Mingal and Luj to high schools.He said tourist places of Pangi valley will be developed under ‘Nai Raahein Nai Manzilein’.Deputy speaker of Himachal Vidhan Sabha Hans Raj urged the CM to take up the matter of declaring Chamba to Pangi and Pangi to Lahaul road as national highways with the central government.Later, the chief minister visited Bharmour and dedicated various projects there.The chief minister also released a book, ‘Women Development through Micro Finance’ penned by Bharmour senior additional district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Dhiman.He said the book will be a good guide to planners, government authorities, district rural development agencies and researchers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eyeing-mandi-bypoll-jai-ram-makes-a-dash-for-tribal-pangi-bharmour-101629228402670.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||School in J&K’s Kupwara renamed after rifleman who died fighting terrorists||The army on Tuesday renamed its goodwill school in Lolab of Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district after Shaurya Chakra awardee rifleman Abdul Hamid Chara, who was killed in a counter-militancy operation in 2000.“In an initiative to give a befitting tribute to a gallant son of Lolab, Rifleman Abdul Hamid Chara, Shaurya Chakra, a renaming ceremony of Army Goodwill School was held today (Tuesday) at Chandigam,” Srinagar-based PRO Defence Col Emron Musavi said.He said Chara made the supreme sacrifice in Lolab while fighting terrorists.Abdul Hamid Chara, of the 162 Territorial Army battalion, remains embedded in the larger conscience of the locals as a hero who fought against hardcore terrorists in the year 2000 during a counter-terrorism operation while he was serving with the 18 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, Musavi said.Chara was singularly responsible for neutralising a Lashkar-e-Taiba commander, identified as Mussa, while fighting against heavy odds, he added.“To honour the brave son of Lolab, AGS Chandigam was renamed as Hamid Chara Army Goodwill School, Chandigam. Unveiling of the school name was done by Gulshan Akhtar, wife of the late rifleman,” Musavi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/school-in-j-k-s-kupwara-renamed-after-rifleman-who-died-fighting-terrorists-101629228401252.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||HP sees deadliest day in 7 weeks, logs six fatalities||Himachal saw its Covid tally rising to 2,10,719 as 300 new cases were reported across the hill state on Tuesday.There was also a spike in the fatalities with six people succumbing to the virus. This is highest single-day death figure in seven weeks as the toll mounted to 3,541. Before this, six deaths were recorded on June 26. Mandi district, that has emerged as the epicentre of the latest spurt, recorded maximum 69 cases, followed by 61 in Kangra, the population-wise largest district. Chamba recorded 56 infections, Shimla 49, Kullu 24 and Hamirpur 23.Among the districts reporting less than 10 cases were Bilaspur (6), Lahaul-Spiti (5), Solan (4), Kinnaur (2) and Sirmaur (1). No new case was reported in Una. Two fatalities occurred in Shimla and one each in Bilaspur, Chamba, Kangra and Mandi.The active cases have again climbed to 2,705 after recording a decline for two consecutive days. As many as 284 people recuperated, taking the recoveries to 2,04,451.Kangra is still the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 46,138, which is followed by Mandi and Shimla districts on second and third position with 29,065 and 26,257 cases, respectively.To date, Solan has recorded 22,484 cases, Sirmaur 15,406, Hamirpur 14,946, Una 13,505, Bilaspur 13,330, Chamba 13,121, Kullu 9,366, Kinnaur 3,353 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,848. 83 test positive in J&KJammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 83 fresh infections and a death.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 153 with active positive cases reaching 1,158. The overall number of people who have recovered was 3,18,025 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.23%. The overall cases in J&K have reached 3,23,582 and the death toll to 4,399.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-sees-deadliest-day-in-7-weeks-logs-six-fatalities-101629228400077.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Hany Babu to be shifted back to Navi Mumbai jail, says HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed that Elgar Parishad accused and Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu be transferred to Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. The directions were passed after Breach Candy Hospital where Babu had been undergoing treatment for an eye infection for almost three months submitted a report stating that his health condition had improved. Babu will be discharged from the hospital on Wednesday. On May 19, the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, was hearing the petition filed by Babu’s wife Jenny Roweena – seeking bail for her husband on medical grounds or transfer to a private hospital for treatment. The bench had directed the professor’s transfer to the private hospital for treatment, provided he bore the cost of same. On July 29, Babu’s counsel had informed HC that his client had largely recovered from the eye ailment, and as the slight swelling in the corner of the eye could be treated with antibiotics, his wife was not seeking any further reliefs. The bench then asked the hospital to submit Babu’s latest health report. On Tuesday, advocates Yug Mohit Chaudhry and Payoshi Roy, representing Roweena, submitted that though the hospital report stated that Babu was fit to be discharged, he should be taken to the private hospital for regular follow-ups as the swelling in his eye had not subsided entirely. Chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai for the prison authority submitted that Sir JJ Hospital was well-equipped for the check-ups and hence, there was no need to take Babu to the private hospital. However, the bench said that in the event that the state-run hospital did not have the facilities for the check-up, Babu should be taken to the private hospital. Pai said that Babu would have to bear the cost every time he is taken to the private hospital. The bench then observed that getting admitted was a different issue but in light of various judgments, consultation was the responsibility of the state. “We don’t know if you have visited these [government] hospitals; they are good. Only thing is he should get timely treatment. If the systems can be improved more and infrastructure can be given. We can only suggest, ultimately it is up to the state (sic),” remarked the bench. The bench, while directing that Babu be transferred to Taloja jail after he is discharged from hospital, asked the superintendent of the prison to take the professor to Sir JJ Hospital when the need arose and also directed that he be referred to the private hospital if required, and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-hany-babu-to-be-shifted-back-to-navi-mumbai-jail-says-hc-101629228339713.html
18-08-2021||Bangalore||Fearing complications, Covid infected couple dies by suicide in Karnataka||Fearing complications after showing symptoms of Covid-19, a couple died by suicide at Baikampady in Mangaluru on Tuesday, city police commissioner N Shashi Kumar said. Before ending their lives, the 40-year-old man had sent an audio message to the top cop and a few of his friends, Kumar added. In the audio clip, the couple purportedly said that they were showing symptoms of Covid-19 for the last seven days, and fearing complications, had decided not to seek treatment. According to the police, since the 35-year-old woman’s eyesight was deteriorating, and both were facing difficulty in breathing, the couple decided to die by suicide. The commissioner said he tried to trace the couple and even sent a team to their apartment but the duo were found dead by then. Police also recovered a suicide note, purportedly written by the wife, from the apartment. “As we see people losing eyesight and other organs because of Black Fungus infection followed by Covid-19, I fear that the same thing might happen to me, as I am getting symptoms and could sense changes in my body,” the woman wrote in her suicide note. “My husband is also showing symptoms of Covid-19 from the last three days, and in this situation, we have come to a decision that we don’t want to live any further. My father, mother and brother have got infected with Covid and they recovered. My mother suffered a lot and I don’t want to give them any difficulty in carrying out our funeral,” the suicide note added.The couple in their note also requested that their belongings be distributed to the poor, people aware of the developments said. Reacting to the incident, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said: “More than 2.8 million people have recovered from the disease. The couple had lack of information. I urge people to get tested if they are detected with Covid symptoms. No one should panic and until the vaccination drive is completed, Covid guidelines must be followed.” (With inputs from agencies) (Those under stress and experiencing suicidal tendency can contact Arogya Sahayavani on 104, or the mental health helpline 080-46110007)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/fearing-complications-covid-infected-couple-dies-by-suicide-in-karnataka-101629228279017.html
18-08-2021||Bangalore||Dakshina Kannada logs surge in cases, reports more cases than Bengaluru||Since August 10, except for the two days (i.e August 13 and 17), Dakshina Kannada district has reported more Covid-19 cases than Bengaluru, shows data from state health department. Since the outbreak of the virus on March 8, 2020, Bengaluru has been reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, until now. The administration of the Dakshina Kannada district, which shares its border with Kerala, has blamed visitors from across the border for the surge in Covid-19 cases. With districts, especially Mangaluru city, emerging as a hotspot, the district administration is even considering stricter measures including a lockdown if the pandemic crosses a certain threshold. “I want to make it very clear that I’m not saying that a lockdown will be imposed, but we are prepared for the eventuality if the numbers crossed 1,000 or more cases per day. The biggest problem has been the interstate commute to Mangaluru. We understand that many are coming here for work, but we have witnessed a lot of non-essential travel as well. If the current measures can’t control the situation, we will have to look at the stricter measures,” said the senior official of the Mangaluru district administration, who didn’t want to be named. For the residents of Kasaragod in Kerala, Mangaluru city in Dakshina Kannada is a lifeline. Even though Mangaluru and Kasaragod are on either side of a map, they are closely knit, say residents. Mangaluru is the closest city to Kasaragod. From anywhere in Kasaragod, Mangaluru is just 10-50 km away and the closest city in Kerala, Kannur, is more than 100 km away. The test positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada is above 3%, much higher than the state average of 1%. According to the district administration, between August 1 to August 15, 103,000 RT-PCR tests have been conducted at an average of 9,000 tests a day. “There have been protests at the border because people are not happy with the rule mandating RT-PCR tests for those entering the city. We are left with no option because we are the only state with positivity higher than 3%,” the district administration official added. The state reported 1,298 new cases on Tuesday taking the active caseload to 21,481. Bengaluru accounted for 340 new infections, taking its active cases to 7,913. As many as 32 fatalities were reported across the state on Tuesday, which took the state’s toll to 37,039. Bengaluru’s toll due to Covid-19 jumped to 15,915, with 10 deaths being reported Tuesday, according to the state health department. Among the new cases reported in Karnataka, on Tuesday Dakshina Kawanda accounted for 288 cases and 5 deaths. According to officials, apart from the increased testing, the district is preparing ramping up medical facilities as the district has high chances witnessing a third Covid wave. The district administration has reserved 50 beds in four of the district’s taluk hospitals, this is in addition to the facilities at Wenlock District Hospital and eight medical colleges. “36 Covid Care Centres with nearly 2,700 beds have also been readied. The administration has directed 118 hospitals and clinics registered under the KPME Act to be prepared to manage cases. We are also setting a 13,000-litre medical oxygen plant at Wenlock Hospital. The hospital already has a 12,000-litre oxygen plant,” said deputy commissioner K Rajendra. He added that the district administration will set up 16 oxygen plants for supply in rural areas by end of the month. Experts believe that the younger population might be one of the vulnerable groups in the third wave. Addressing this concern, Rajendra said that each taluk hospital has been equipped with pediatric primary care units. “We have hired enough doctors and other medical staff as per the requirement. More will be hired as and when required,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/dakshina-kannada-logs-surge-in-cases-reports-more-cases-than-bengaluru-101629227919600.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid vax trial participants, those who got jabs abroad, struggle for train passes||In October 2020, Mankhurd resident Shakeel Shaikh had enthusiastically participated in the Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial at Parel’s KEM hospital. In April 2021, when the hospital unblinded the trial, Shaikh, 40, was told that he had received two shots of the real Covishield vaccine and not the placebo. He also received a certificate from the hospital to verify that he was fully vaccinated. But since last week, Shaikh has failed to convince civic and railway officials to consider this certificate so that he can get a railway pass. Like Shaikh, hundreds of clinical-trial participants are struggling to get a train travel pass as their data is yet to be uploaded on the CoWin software. “I have tried to convince officials sitting at the helpdesk at Mankhurd and Kurla railway stations, but they refused to consider my certificate,” said Shaikh. “I also tried to generate an e-pass, but that’s also linked to CoWin,” he said. According to Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital, they had unblinded the trial with permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which was a co-investigator in the trial and its ethics committee. “We have already requested the ICMR to update the data of trial participants. It is likely to be done by month-end,” said Deshmukh, adding that there would be nearly 200 such trial participants whose records have to be updated on CoWin. “All trial sites will have such participants,” he said. In another case, 30-year-old Wadala resident Naved Kazi, who got two doses of the Moderna vaccine in Qatar, has been struggling to get a pass. The civic and railway officials at the helpdesk at Wadala railway station refused to consider his vaccine certificate issued by Doha’s Hamad Medical Corporation. “I could not even generate an e-pass with my certificate,” said Kazi, who worked in the hospitality sector in Doha for three years and is now looking for a job in Mumbai. “I have interviews lined up. I need to take the train,” he said. Central and Western Railway officials HT spoke to said that they were not involved in the verification process. “The civic officials are at the helpdesks to verify the vaccination status. Our staff is only assisting them,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, Western Railway. An official from Central Railway echoed the same. A senior civic official said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has already written to the Maharashtra government to upgrade the e-pass website for those vaccinated abroad. It is likely to be done soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaicovid-vax-trial-participants-those-who-got-jabs-abroad-struggle-for-train-passes-101629227859917.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||CBI not entitled to documents till they show relevance to probe: Maharashtra govt||The Maharashtra government in an affidavit filed before the Bombay high court (HC) has stated that the application filed by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), seeking documents in the probe related to allegations of corruption and political influence in police transfers, is vague. The state, in response to CBI’s interim application – filed against the refusal of the government to hand over documents sought by them pertaining to the corruption case – also said that the central agency is silent on how the documents are relevant and needed in the probe. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, after hearing the state government’s petition challenging and seeking the removal of two unnumbered paragraphs in the CBI’s first information report (FIR) on July 22 had directed the central agency to continue the investigation on corruption charges against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh and others as directed by HC’s April 5 order. The July 22 order had stipulated that the investigation should be in accordance with law. However, after additional solicitor general Anil Singh had informed the bench that the state police officers were refusing to part with the documents sought by the agency as per the July 22 order, the bench had directed CBI to file a separate application. The application stated that the officers were not only refusing to part with the documents but also resorted to threats. The state has responded to the allegations made in the application through an affidavit that stated that CBI was seeking documents of investigations that had been undertaken by the cyber police with an intent to jeopardise and interfere in the investigations. The affidavit filed by Kailas Arjun Gaikwad, joint secretary, home department, has further stated that CBI was going beyond the directions of the July 22 order by stating that the documents are relevant and needed without actually mentioning how so. The affidavit stated that if CBI’s application is accepted, it would give “uncontrolled, unrestricted and unimaginable authority” to the applicant to seek any and every document and/or information from the state for investigation. “The entire present application is blissfully vague and eloquently silent as to how the documents and/or material sought by the present applicant, which the respondent is not inclined to share with the applicant are “relevant”, “material” and “needed” for the purpose of investigation undertaken by the applicant (sic),” stated the affidavit. It added that till CBI does not demonstrate the relevance of the documents sought to HC, it was not entitled to get them. The affidavit also points to the fact that all orders and judgments delivered by HC in the matter give a very restricted and circumscribed authority, power and jurisdiction to CBI to investigate in Maharashtra. This is in light of the withdrawal of consent by the state government to conduct investigation by CBI, in the light of section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act. The affidavit has also alleged that CBI is relying upon replies issued and/or responses given by the state prior to the July 22 order of HC and trying to mislead the court. In light of these submissions, the affidavit has sought dismissal of CBI’s application.HC has posted the hearing to Friday when it will consider the application by CBI and the state’s response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-not-entitled-to-documents-till-they-show-relevance-to-probe-maharashtra-govt-101629227807202.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Cut-offs for popular Mumbai University degree courses jump by 10-13 percentage points||The first general merit list for first-year (FY) undergraduate courses announced on Tuesday saw cut-offs increase by 10 to 13 percentage points on an average compared to last year, according to data shared by city colleges.Increasing Covid-19 cases forced most school education boards to scrap their class 12 exams this year and instead assessed students based on their performance across Classes 10, 11 and 12. The final results saw a massive increase of students in the 90% club. While ICSE and CBSE schools boasted of nearly 50% or more of their Class 12 students scoring above 90-95% this year, the number of 90% scorers across the state jumped by 12-fold, compared to last year. For the first time ever, 46 HSC students managed to score a perfect 100% this year.While some colleges reported an increase of six-eight percentage points across courses, the cut-off for BSc course at Vile Parle’s Mithibai College witnessed a hike of 29 percentage points - from 55.1% last year to 84.1% this year.At St Xavier’s College, one of the most popular choices for Bachelor of Arts (BA) aspirants, the first merit list for FYBA course ended at 98% for state board students and 99.17% for non-state board students—the state board list witnessing a jump of six percentage points. The biggest jump, however, was seen in BSc Biological courses at Dhobi Talao college where the list ended at 92% for state board students, up 13 percentage points from 79% last year. Even the minority quota merit list for FYBA ended at 91% for HSC students and 95.8% for non-state board students at the institute this year.“All seats in the FYBA course have been allotted in the first merit list itself. Vacant seats, if any, will only be revealed once the round ends when we will find out how many students don’t confirm their admissions,” said Rajendra Shinde, principal, St Xavier’s College.Once again, self-financed courses including Bachelor in Management Studies (BMS), BA in Mass Media and Communication (BAMMC, formerly BMM), BCom in Accounting & Finance (BAF), BCom in Banking Insurance attracted top scorers across different streams and colleges. At Narsee Monjee College, Vile Parle, the first merit list for BMS ended at 95.8% (for Arts), 95.2% (for Science) and 97% (for Commerce), nearly two-three percentage points higher compared to last year. At RA Podar College, Matunga, another popular choice for commerce and BMS aspirants, the BMS merit list ended at 94.6% (for Arts) 94.7% (for Science) and 96.8% (for Commerce), nearly three to ten percentage points higher compared to last year.“We knew admission to top colleges would be a challenge this year, but the first merit list has shocked us all. In many cases, the first merit list has ended at 95-98%, which means this year, even a 90% won’t assure anyone a seat in a college and/or course of one’s choice,” said Riddhi Parikh, an ICSE student who scored 93% in her boards and missed a chance to be allotted in a college of her choice. “I have been allotted a seat in another college, which was not high on my priority list. Any other year I would have cancelled this admission and waited for the next merit list, but this year I’m not sure anyone can take such a risk,” she added.At Jai Hind College, Churchgate, cut-offs across streams also witnessed an increase and the hope for students in the next two lists remain low. “We are a minority college so we have already completed the in-house, minority quota admissions and the remaining seats have been allotted to the open category in the first round itself. I’m sure we will have to announce a second merit list in order to fill up all seats but I highly doubt there will be a third merit list for popular courses,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College.Additional division for colleges Earlier this month, the state government released a circular, allowing colleges to add an extra division to certain popular courses to accommodate all students owing to a higher number of class 12 students clearing their exams this year.“This option will be available to colleges only for the 2021-22 academic year and can continue for the current batch until the completion of their graduation,” said the circular. College principals, however, have not shown interest in this move, with many saying it will be impossible to add divisions in terms of infrastructure in space-starved institutes, once colleges reopen for physical classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cutoffs-for-popular-mumbai-university-degree-courses-jump-by-10-13-percentage-points-101629227806071.html
18-08-2021||Other||Karnataka taps on doors of HNI, large corps to increase vaccination drive||BengaluruKarnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday said that the government will seek the help of individuals with high net worth and large corporations to tap into their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds and help the state procure more vaccines, after a high-level meeting between the representatives of several corporations and the health ministry officials took place here.According to a statement by the health ministry, the meeting that was held on Tuesday afternoon, saw the attendance of representatives from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology majors to get their backing on the state government’s proposal.The Centre’s decision to control the distribution of Covid- 19 vaccine doses among all states has left Karnataka with a shortage of sorts to achieve its target of administering at least one dose to all eligible people by the end of the year, according to data.“We have set an ambitious target to fully inoculate the entire eligible adult population in the state by December. I will soon visit Delhi to seek an additional supply of vaccines to our state. The private sector can procure 25% of the vaccine production. We are having discussions with corporate companies to explore the possibilities of procuring vaccines under CSR and providing it to the state government. This will significantly accelerate the vaccination drive,” Sudhakar said in a statement.Sudhakar said that he will accompany chief minister Basavaraj Bommai to Delhi next week and hope to secure a larger order of vaccines for the state. He said that the centre has assured to give the state around 7.5 million doses in August, of which around 3.5 million have already been administered.Sudhakar added that even chief minister Bommai will meet with leading captains of all industries including information technology, biotechnology and other large corporations for support on its vaccination drive.The CSR funds can be used to buy a higher share of vaccines allotted for the private sector, which is around 25%, he added.Karnataka has so far inoculated 35,430,742 people, according to the data on the Cowin dashboard. This includes 27,321,422 of the first dose and 8,109,320 of the second dose, the data shows. Karnataka administered 320,908 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday until 7 pm.While regions like Bengaluru are seeing a large vaccination coverage, rural areas of the southern state have suffered on account of lower availability of the vaccine, as boards of “no vaccine stock” dons the walls and gates of primary health care centres in various districts.Bengaluru, the biggest city of Karnataka, which houses over a quarter of the state’s 70 million population, has seen a higher coverage since a large portion of the vaccination is paid for by the people.With a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections looming large over the state, the government has a few options but to increase its vaccination drive to ensure it has enough space in its already inadequate healthcare infrastructure to cope with any sudden spike or risk a collapse like it did in the second wave.In the last eight days, Karnataka has recorded 12,116 new infections, according to the state health department.There were 1,298 new cases of Covid-19 infections in 24 hours and 1,833 recoveries, according to data released by the state health department on Tuesday. The total number of active cases stood at 21,481. The death toll rose to 37,039 as 32 more succumbed to the virus across the state, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.The positivity rate stood at 1.01% and the case fatality rate rose to 2.46%, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-taps-on-doors-of-hni-large-corps-to-increase-vaccination-drive-101629227559385.html
18-08-2021||Other||900 illegal water connections regularised in Moga without requisite charges, penalty||Moga In a serious act of omission that points to widespread corruption, the Moga municipal corporation (MC) has regularised over 900 illegal water and sewerage connections over the past two months, by just charging a government fee between ₹200 and ₹500 per connection. Officials did not collect road cutting charges, connection fee, security fee, arrears and penalty, resulting in loss of revenue to the state exchequer, the MC record shows. What raises eyebrows even more is the fact that MC has regularised these connections when the policy for regularisation of unauthorised connections was in the pipeline. On Monday itself, the state government has announced that it will implement ‘One Time Settlement Policy’ for unauthorised water and sewerage connections; there is, however, no notification as yet. “The regularisation of illegal connections has been done at very low fee, when even as for a new connection, residents have to pay over ₹5,000 under various heads,” said an MC official, on the condition of anonymity. The matter came to light when Davinder Singh, a superintendent of water and sewerage branch of MC, filed a reply over allegations of corruption in regularisation of illegal connections. On May 18, the MC had issued a circular seeking applications for regularisation of illegal water and sewerage connections. The circular asked offenders to deposit between ₹100 and ₹500 for regularisation of connection. HT has a copy of this circular and the superintendent’s reply. The Moga MC has fixed road cutting charges as ₹13 per square ft for katcha road; ₹351 per square ft for BM and premix road; ₹66 per square ft for brick paving block; ₹264 for CC road and ₹264 per square ft for premix carpet road. It also charges ₹200 as security and another ₹200 for water and sewerage connection. Suresh Sood, a local activist, said, “The corporation has legalised these illegal connections under the garb of the ‘One Time Settlement Policy’, while the state government is yet to implement it. The real motive is corruption.”Davinder Singh, superintendent of water and sewerage branch, said, “There are over 3,000 illegal connections in the city and we have regularised 938 of these. The corporation had issued a circular for regularisation of these connections, and I performed my duty as directed.” Moga MC commissioner Surinder Singh, said, “I will look into the matter immediately. I have joined only recently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/900-illegal-water-connections-regularised-in-moga-without-requisite-charges-penalty-101629227439519.html
18-08-2021||Other||‘We can’t trust Taliban’s claims’: Afghan women studying in Bengaluru||Bengaluru: On Monday, 28-year-old Diana Farzan spoke to her family living in Herat province in north-western Afghanistan for the first time after the Taliban began taking over the country. In the call that lasted less than five minutes, apart from checking on her parents and siblings, she asked whether the Taliban are allowing women to work. Farzan is among hundreds of Afghan students pursuing their higher education in Bengaluru. Anxious and anguished, the students are finding solace in the close-knit Afghan community in the city. For women like Farzan, their concerns are layered. Apart from concerns about the safety of their families, they are worried that the Taliban regime might undermine their hard work and academic achievements. Before coming to India for higher studies, Farzan was teaching at Herat University; she is not now sure whether her job will remain when she returns to Afghanistan. “I’m doing my masters in journalism because I want to pursue a career as a journalist or get back to teaching journalism. I don’t know what will happen now and what I will I do when I got back home. Sit at home as they (Taliban) want in a country where I don’t have the right to vote? I don’t want to do that,” said Farzan. Talking about her immediate plans, she said that though she is concerned about her family, she won’t be returning to Afghanistan. “My sister is also a graduate from the (Herat) university. She told me that as of now, all have been asked to stay home and they will allow women to work in the coming days. We will wait and see,” said Farzan. Another student says knowing the Taliban’s history, the new regime or its promises can’t be trusted. “The government has handed over power to the Taliban without a fight. The Taliban have made promises that they will allow women to study and work, but we can’t trust them because of their history of violence,” said Palwasha, who is pursuing her Master of Business Administration in Bengaluru. “Women in our country have suffered to get education and for the right to work. I can’t accept if someone says I have to sit at home and I don’t have the right to work,” said Palwasha. Asked whether she will be returning to Afghanistan, she said she will return if she is allowed to work. “If I’m not allowed the basic human right to work, I would want to live in India or any other country, where I can work.” While Farzan and Palwasha have two more semesters in the university, her seniors might have to return at the end of the academic year. “I don’t know what I should do. The family is in Afghanistan, but under the Taliban, we would be 20 years behind in history. From what we have heard, it was a time when a woman didn’t matter. I don’t want that. I will see how things are by the time my course is over,” said a Bangalore University student, who didn’t want to be named. Marwa, another MBA student, said the information they are getting from home is not clear. Some people back home have told them that the Taliban would allow women to work and the regime will not be regressive, while others claim that initial optics are mere eyewash. “I hope that our generation doesn’t have to face that bad phase (the regressive Taliban rule) again. My only prayer to Allah is that we don’t see that phase again,” she said. Former classmates of Afghan students are also concerned about their safety back home. “Our friend Hamid, who studied with us in St Joseph’s College between 2006 and 2009, is a government official in Afghanistan. We have not heard from him since the war has begun. We are concerned,” said Masood Faraz, a former student of St Joseph’s College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-can-t-trust-taliban-s-claims-afghan-women-studying-in-bengaluru-101629227379554.html
18-08-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to track health of 15 mn children to minimise impact of third wave||The Karnataka government will initiate a programme to test 15 million children to identify vulnerable groups and monitor them closely to mitigate the impact of a possible Covid-19 third wave, the state health minister said on Tuesday.The programme, ‘Arogya Nandana’, will be launched by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai soon, said K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education.“There are about 1.5 crore children in the state and all of them will be subjected to tests under this initiative,” he said. “Children with less immunity power and other comorbidities will be identified and they will be provided with nutritious food and supplements to boost immunity. All precautionary measures will be taken to monitor their health.” The initiative comes even as the state is reporting nearly 1,000 daily Covid cases. Karnataka reported 1,065 new Covid-19 cases, including 270 in Bengaluru Urban, on Monday, according to health department data.As of now, children below 18 years are not eligible for vaccination, which leaves them as the most vulnerable to the coronavirus.The state government has also decided to reopen schools from August 23 for classes 9 to 12 in districts where the Covid test positivity rate is less than 2%, which adds to the risk of them contracting the virus while out of the safety of their homes.An expert committee, led by cardiologist Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, submitted an interim report to the state government on June 22, recommending the reopening of schools and colleges despite the looming threat of a third wave.Emphasising that education is a fundamental right of the child, the government-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC), in its recommendations, said reopening schools would optimise learning, physical and mental health, and cater to nutritional aspects of children.According to the TAC, there are 23,838,995 people below the age of 18 in the state, accounting for 34% of Karnataka population.The state government has decided to resume physical classes for students in graduate courses and started to increase the vaccination coverage. However, experts doubt if the Bommai-led government will be able to achieve such a feat with the previous Yediyurappa government unable to minimise the impact of the second wave as it neglected warnings by the TAC in November last year.“Among the total Covid-19 infections, children aged between 0-18 years constituted around 8to 10% during (the) 1st and 2nd wave. Most national and international data indicated that a maximum of 5-7% of such children require hospitalisation. However, a recent data from the USA suggests that children in the age group of 12-17 years requires almost around 31% ICUadmission and among them 5% needed invasive ventilation, but no deaths reported. To meetthe surge in India, specially in Karnataka, we need to be ready for a little higher number to berequiring hospitalisation,” the TAC report said.The TAC has estimated the bed requirement according to categories of moderate, best and worst case scenarios.According to its estimates, the state government would require around 51,008 beds, including 6,801 ICU/HDU beds, in the best case scenario. In the moderate case scenario, 73,963 beds are required. In the worst case scenario, the TAC has estimated the bed requirement of 95,216, including 13602 ICU/HDU beds.For testing, the TAC has said children are comfortable with non-conventional methods, such as nasal and oropharyngeal swabs, gargle and salivary RT-PCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-track-health-of-15-mn-children-to-minimise-impact-of-third-wave-101629227260784.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP president meets party leaders likely to join SAD||BJP state president Ashwani Sharma conducted a meeting with former cabinet minister Anil Joshi, former deputy mayor RD Sharma, senior leaders Kamal Chatly and Mintu Sharma, who are likely to leave the Saffron Party for Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). The meeting was held at Chatly’s house on Hambran road.As per information, Sharma asked the leaders not to leave the party, but no consensus could not be reached. The leaders stated that they stand united with Anil Joshi and few others from the BJP will also join SAD along with them. The BJP leaders from the city are also expected to conduct a meeting with Joshi in this regard on Wednesday. The BJP in July had expelled Joshi for six years after he criticised the state and the central leadership for mishandling the farm agitation. A show-cause notice was also served to RD Sharma who supported Joshi during a meeting held in the city in the recent past. One of the leaders, requesting anonymity, said that during the meeting with Ashwani Sharma, they asked the state leadership to work things out with Joshi as only then the issue can be resolved.Mintu Sharma said,”We will be moving ahead with the decision taken by Joshi to join SAD.” Meanwhile, district BJP president Pushpinder Singal said, “The leaders have been asked to take up the issues concerning them at party level and those will be resolved. It is an internal matter of the party and it should be resolved in house only,” he said.Meanwhile, former BJP district president Rajiv Katna joined back the party fold in presence of Ashwani Sharma on Tuesday. Few months back, Katna was expelled from the party for six years for anti-party activities||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bjp-president-meets-party-leaders-likely-to-join-sad-101629227259679.html
18-08-2021||Other||Gastroenteritis outbreak in Sangrur’s Bhawanigarh; 35 report sick in 5 days||Sangrur Over the past five days, starting August 13, 35 people have fallen victim to gastroenteritis after drinking contaminated water in Bhawanigarh town of Sangrur. Gastroenteritis is an inflammation of the lining of the intestines caused by a virus, bacteria, or parasites. It spreads through contaminated food or water or by contact with an infected person. Senior medical officer from Bhawanigarh government hospital Dr Mahesh Ahuja said, “We admitted 35 patients since August 13, but now only five are still in hospital. The rest have recovered.” Bhawanigarh Nagar council officials also claimed that leakage in water pipelines had been traced. For now, tankers have been deployed to provide drinking water in the town. “Over 30 patients have recovered. The health department teams are also visiting affected areas of the town where people are complaining of vomiting and diarrhoea. The situation is under control,” Ahuja added. Sukhdeep Kaur, a patient, said that she had been suffering from diarrhoea for a couple of days and got admitted Monday evening. “Locals are forced to drink contaminated water, and people still fear Covid-19. They are, thus, avoiding hospitals. The administration is not serious about resolving the problem.”Bhawanigarh Nagar Council executive officer Parvinder Singh said, “We have found a leak in the pipeline and repaired it. Still, tankers are being called in to supply drinking water. Tap water should be avoided. The cases are decreasing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gastroenteritis-outbreak-in-sangrur-s-bhawanigarh-35-report-sick-in-5-days-101629227020404.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Vidhie Mukerjea: Mother said she’ll prove her innocence to me||Months after former media baron Peter Mukerjea’s memoir Star Struck: Confessions of a TV Executive came out in February, 23-year-old step daughter Vidhie Mukerjea’s book, Devil’s Daughter is set to hit the shelf. Published by Westland, the book offers new perspective on the Sheena Bora murder case, which came to light in 2015. Mukerjea, then 17, was living in Mumbai with her parents Indrani and Peter, co-founders of INX Media, who were arrested for allegedly conspiring to kill Bora, Indrani’s daughter from a previous marriage. Bora’s partially burnt body was recovered from a forest in Raigad district three years after the murder took place.On August 25, 2015 Indrani was arrested for allegedly murdering 24-year-old Bora in 2012. Indrani was charged with murder, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and destruction of evidence. Her driver Shyamvar Rai and her former husband and Mukerjea’s biological father Sanjeev Khanna were also arrested. Three months later, Peter was arrested as well. In March this year, the Bombay high court found that Peter (66) was not directly involved on the day of the crime and granted bail to him. In July, the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court rejected Indrani and Khanna’s bail applications and Indrani (49) remains lodged at the Byculla Women’s Prison. The case is before the Civil and Sessions court and over 60 witnesses have been examined so far. While Indrani has claimed that the witness statements are riddled with discrepancies, Peter has claimed that the charges against him are defective as he was in London at the time of the alleged murder.“At some point, around 2007, Mum introduced me to this beautiful girl. She said it was her sister, Sheena. She was tall and slender, with jet-black hair and fair skin. She had these gorgeous brown eyes, and her striking features all coexisted beautifully on her face. Sheena looked incredibly similar to Mum. Within the first few times of meeting, we grew fond of each other,” Mukerjea wrote in the book.Indrani, who married Peter in 2002, when Mukerjea was three years old, had told her family that Bora was her sister. According to the Mumbai police and later the CBI, who investigated the case, Indrani allegedly strangled Bora to death in a car after Bora refused to break off her relationship with Rahul, Peter’s son from a previous marriage. The investigators said that Bora had blackmailed Indrani, threatening to expose the fact that she was actually her daughter. Indrani reportedly used Bora’s phone to send text messages leading family members to believe that Bora had moved to the United States, the Mumbai police investigation stated. The CBI maintained that while Indrani is the prime accused, Peter did not make any effort to find Bora between 2012 and 2015.“I always knew that I ought to record my experience. I tried once or twice but soon realised it wasn’t the right time. During the pandemic due to psychotherapy called shadow work, I managed to open up,” Mukerjea said over an email interview. At time of her parents going to jail, Mukerjea who was to turn 18 was set to leave for London to study at Regent University. Vidhie, who had completed most of her schooling in England, graduated in International Business from Barcelona. Bora stayed with the Mukerjeas in 2007 in their apartment in Central Mumbai. She later shifted to South Mumbai as she was studying in St Xavier’s College.Vidhie said she enjoyed Bora’s company and they often watched movies together, and went out for ice cream. “I felt we had a sisterly connection. She loved me so much and I did her,” she wrote.According to the book, in 2010, Bora told Peter, Rahul and Mukerjea that she was not Indrani’s sister, but was in fact, her daughter. At the time, Indrani was in Goa attending a relative’s wedding – Mukerjea and Peter were to join her there shortly.“Whilst we were outside on terrace of our apartment, Sheena told [me] she’d recently met her real dad. She repeated the story of how Indrani was actually her mother, looked at me, held my hand, and affirmed, ‘We are sisters, Vids’. This was actually the first that I had heard this story — no one had told me what had happened earlier. I remember this moment so clearly, the sense of betrayal and confusion as to why Mum would lie about this, but that was trumped by the feeling that I had a sister! We’d had this unspoken sisterly connection right from the beginning, and we loved each other so much that I couldn’t have been happier to find out that she really was my big sister.”Her mother countered this, Mukerjea wrote.“Indrani: she is one of the smartest women I know, and anyone who knows her will not disagree with this. She has the power to talk her way into and out of any situation. She had one of the toughest childhoods possible, and it honed her skill for self-preservation. She told us that she would take a DNA test, and also gave us ‘proof’ that Rahul and Sheena were doing drugs together. The whole narrative was turned around so it seemed like they were plotting against her to make her look bad. She even threatened to divorce Papa and leave. What does one think and do in this situation? We started to doubt ourselves. Mum got into both of our heads, and at the end of it, we felt Sheena and Rahul had made up this massive hoax.” Barring a few press interviews, Mukerjea has been so far silent about the case and her family. She writes about her loneliness after the arrest of both her parents, and said that she underwent depression, and faced panic attacks. “I went through hell for five years. “ Peter suffered a heart attack in 2019 while he was in judicial custody. Mukerjea was in Barcelona at the time. “I was in a terrible headspace back then, and I treated everyone as though they were all against me. I kept telling myself, ‘If anything happens to Papa, I’m going to be the first one that’ll be kicked out. Everyone hates me.’ I knew that a few members in the family had warned the others, telling them I could screw my father over, just like my mum had. Like mother like daughter, they thought. But the truth is none of them knew me or my relationship with my father,” she wrote. Mukerjea wrote about the deep bond she shared with Peter. She also touched upon her relationship with Indrani.“They (Sanjeev and Indrani) met in Kolkata, fell in love, and got married, as one does. I was conceived during their marriage. A few years down the line, my mum and Sanjeev had a terrible falling out and decided to get a divorce. She told me she gave up everything she had, all the money and the property she owned, to get custody of me.” Mukerjea, currently in Mumbai, said that she speaks to Indrani over the phone once a week.“My mother and I are close in a different way. We have a complicated relationship that we are trying to work out. I am trying to understand her as she is trying to understand me. We are both trying to navigate our relationship,” Mukerjea over an email interview. “There are many things my mum has done, things I won’t be able to forgive her for, but I have taken a path where I will give her a chance. I believe every single person deserves it,” Mukerjea wrote in her book. “She told me how hurt and alone she’d felt: that for years she had absolutely no one, but when I reconnected with her she saw light and hope. She told me she had never given up, and would prove her innocence for me. I told her if we have to have a relationship there was a list of questions she needed to answer and she needed to be entirely truthful. I would know if she was lying to me, I told her, I have learnt a great deal in the past five years, and I believe one of the things I am better at is reading people. She promised me she would do whatever it took to mend things with me. I believe her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vidhie-mukerjea-mother-said-she-ll-prove-her-innocence-to-me-101629227019300.html
18-08-2021||Other||Odisha to sponsor Indian hockey teams for 10 more years||Odisha on Tuesday announced it would continue to sponsor the men’s and women’s national hockey teams for another 10 years after the current sponsorship ends in 2023.While felicitating the men’s and women’s hockey teams in Bhubaneswar after their stellar show in the Tokyo Olympics, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “We, in Odisha, are elated that our partnership with Hockey India has led to this great achievement for the country. I believe, Odisha and hockey are destined to become synonymous. We will continue our partnership with Hockey India. Odisha will support the Indian hockey teams for 10 more years.”However, the exact amount of sponsorship deals are yet to be revealed. In 2018, Odisha had signed a ₹100 crore deal with Hockey India for sponsoring the men’s and women’s teams for 5 years after Sahara India withdrew after getting entangled in legal issues.Patnaik, who awarded ₹10 Lakh and each to the players and ₹5 lakh each to the support staff, said each of the hockey players made Indians proud with their spirited fight at Tokyo.“These are deeply emotional moments for India to witness the revival of Indian hockey. For nearly four decades, hockey fans have been yearning to see India grab a medal at the Olympics. The way the entire country was glued to the screens to watch the hockey teams’ matches, it is quite evident there is something more to hockey than just sports. In these crisis times, the teams have brought smiles to the faces of crores of Indians. We all should be thankful to our boys and girls,” he said. As a token of appreciation, each team gifted a framed Jersey autographed by the players to Patnaik.Patnaik also gave away the ‘player with the maximum number of goals scored’ award to Harmanpreet Singh while PR Sreejesh won the award for the player with the maximum number of goals saved. Nilakanta Sharma won the award for the maximum number of goal assists, Rupinder Pal Singh won the award for the player with the maximum number of defensive tackles and Harmanpreet Singh and Amit Rohidas were felicitated with awards for maximum interceptions in the midfield.In the women’s team, Gurjit Kaur and Vandana Katariya won the award for the maximum number of goals scored. Savita Punia won the award for the maximum number of goals saved. Rani Rampal and Navneet Kaur jointly won the award for the maximum number of goal assists. Deep Grace Ekka won for the maximum number of defensive tackles and P Sushila Chanu was awarded for maximum interceptions in the midfield.Captain of the national women’s hockey team, Rani, said, “The team and I are very happy to be present here today as we wish to express our heartfelt thanks to the Odisha government for supporting our team. Our team is always made to feel so welcome when we come here... Odisha feels very much like the home of Indian hockey now.”Captain of the men’s team, Manpreet Singh, said it felt good to be back here in Odisha. “This bronze medal may have been won by us as players, but in reality, it equally belongs to India,” he said while praising the CM for supporting the hockey teams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-to-sponsor-indian-hockey-teams-for-10-more-years-101629226840861.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Despite travel curbs, no end to rash driving on highways connecting Mumbai||Travel restrictions owing to the Covid-19 pandemic have failed to contain the fatalities on national highways.According to statistics provided by the Maharashtra Highway Police, 2,754 fatal accidents were reported from 2019 to June 2021 on four national highways – Mumbai-Goa, Mumbai-Kolhapur, Mumbai-Surat and Mumbai-Agra – in which 3,012 people lost their lives.The data also revealed that from 2019 to June 30, 2021, a total of 12,850 accidents took place on the four major highways connecting Mumbai to other cities.Police officers said even though travel curbs were in place across the country, fatal accidents have not declined. In 2019, the four major highways reported 2,696 accidents, including 1,084 fatal ones in which 1,166 people lost their lives. In 2020, the figures did not show any vast decline despite the lockdown as 2,158 accidents took place, including 1,114 fatal accidents in which 1,215 people died.This year till June 30, the four national highways have witnessed 1,196 accidents, wherein 621 people have lost their lives.Highway police officers said that most of these accidents occurred due to human error on part of heavy vehicle drivers.The most number of accidents, however, were reported on Mumbai-Agra and Mumbai-Kolhapur highways, making them the most dangerous road stretches.To bring down accidents, BK Upadhyay, additional director general of police (highways), said that since March this year, they have begun an intensive drive to book violators through the e-challan system.Apart from non-governmental organisations (NGO) and local bodies, the police are also taking help of locals and employees of private establishments located on highways to provide first aid to accident victims and assistance in taking them to nearby trauma centres or hospitals.As a part of the project, the police have started capacity building at spots which have been identified as accident-prone areas so that the fatalities are brought down. The police have positioned cranes and emergency vehicles near identified hot spots so that the victims can get immediate medical assistance. Apart from this, the police have also blocked unauthorised median cuts across the highways, which were causing accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/despite-travel-curbs-no-end-to-rash-driving-on-highways-connecting-mumbai-101629226661178.html
18-08-2021||Other||Prayagraj youths on mission green, donating indoor plants to people||Members of Euphorial Youth Society, a group working towards environment protection, are donating indoor plants to residents of Prayagraj and spreading awareness about protecting the environment. The members of this group are students of different colleges and universities from across the country but are residing in Prayagraj.In the past two months, the youths have donated over 1000 beneficial indoor plants to residents of their respective localities of Prayagraj and have spread awareness about environment protection.“Our enthusiastic team members have donated snake plant, money plant, aloe vera, heart plant, dragon plant, etc as all of these plants are one among the most oxygen producing indoor plants and can work as a natural air purifier too”, said founder of the society, Devesh Jaiswal, who is 20 years old and a resident of Kareli locality. We decided to undertake the drive after witnessing the wrath of Covid-19 pandemic resulting into loss of several lives for not having enough supply of oxygen, said Devesh, a BBA student. Another member of the society Shuti Srivastava, 20 and a resident of Preetam Nagar colony said, “Our young members are telling everyone as how even now, humans are constantly cutting trees to create urban jungles and as a part of Karma, everyone is suffering. This suffering will not stop until or unless we start taking a positive step towards the greener earth and start planting trees and plants”. But for that to happen, we will have to change ourselves and this modest step like keeping and nurturing indoor plants was a small step towards the needed change, added the undergrad. Euphorial Youth Society’s plant donation campaign was held in two phases. In phase 1, under the leadership of Jaiswal and Stuti, a team of 12 volunteers were trained and nursery of plant saplings was readied at their homes. Later, in phase 2, the prepared plants were donated. With the joint efforts of Chirag, Shikhar, Anish, Prakhar, Vibhav, Parany, Suhani, Sumbul, Nausheen, Mohamad Saquib, Amit and Priya Mishra, this entire campaign emerged as a huge success and we got many positive responses from the residents, said Jaiswal. Earlier last month, the team had also planted 1500 trees to celebrate forest festival with the help of forest and agriculture department of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-youths-on-mission-green-donating-indoor-plants-to-people-101629226180279.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Bambiha gang investing extortion money in music companies: Mohali SSP||A joint team of the crime investigating agency and Kharar police on Tuesday arrested three members of the Davinder Bambiha gang, which had claimed responsibility for the murder of Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera in Mohali on August 7.While the three are being quizzed to know whether they were involved in the crime, police claimed they have admitted to their role in the attack on Punjabi singer Parmish Verma and threats to another singer and actor Gippy Grewal in 2018. Police have also recovered two pistols and nine cartridges from the trio, identified as Mandeep Singh Dhaliwal of Ferozepur; Jaswinder Singh, alias Khattu, of Ludhiana; and Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh, of Patiala. According to Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police, Mohali, Khattu is the son of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee member Ranjit Singh Mangli.Slain gangster Davinder Bambiha’s key aides Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, Dilpreet Baba and Sukhpreet Budha had allegedly opened fire at singer Parmish Verma in Mohali on April 2018. While Dilpreet and Sukhpreet were later arrested and are lodged in jail, Lucky is running the gang from abroad. He is also the prime accused in the Middukhera murder case.“The gang has been involved in extorting money from industrialists after threatening them on phone. It has further invested the money in two music companies: Thug Life and Gold Media,” said the SSP. He said the gang members generate numbers through fake IDs and threaten people on social media, and also glorify their criminal activities through social media to create an atmosphere of terror.During the preliminary interrogation, it came to the fore that Mandeep Singh Dhaliwal came in contact with Lucky when he was studying in Panjab University. Mandeep had allegedly provided shelter to Lucky, Dilpreet and Sukhpreet after the attack on Parmish Verma. Later, he fled to Dubai. He returned a few months back and started working for Thug Life, which the SSP said was being run by Deepinder Singh Cheema of Ludhiana, who is at present in Canada. His name has also been added to the FIR. Police have recovered a .30 bore pistol and four cartridges from Mandeep. The SSP said Jaswinder Singh, alias Khattu, revealed that he had earlier shot dead lawyer Amanpreet Singh Sethi in Mohali in 2013. After coming out of jail, he had started working with the Bambiha gang. A .32 bore pistol and five cartridges were recovered from him.The third arrested gang member, Arshdeep Singh, was running the company Gold Media and had aided Sukhpreet Budha in making extortion calls to Gippy Grewal, said the SSP. Police have got the trio’s remand for three days after they were produced in a local court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bambiha-gang-investing-extortion-money-in-music-companies-mohali-ssp-101629226119108.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate polls: Ex-officio members to appoint faculty secretaries||Panjab University (PU) has decided that ex-officio members of the major faculties will appoint their secretaries to convene the meeting for the election of senate members.According to PU regulations, elections of senate members from the constituency of faculties are held at the faculty meetings convened by their respective secretaries.There are six faculties at PU, which include languages, arts, sciences, law, medical and combined faculties. However, for the combined faculties, the meeting notice is issued by the deputy registrar (general). The term of deans and secretaries of faculties had ended on January 31. Six members are elected to PU senate from the constituency of faculties.Meetings of the ex-officio members, which include chairpersons and professors, will be held on Thursday. “The secretary may be appointed by ex-officio members of the respective faculties, either by election through simple majority voting of the members present or by consensus,” a notice issued by PU states.The university has also written to UT administration seeking permission to hold the polling for combined faculties, which has more than 200 members. There are 12 candidates are in fray from the six facultiesTwo constituencies go to polls today For the election of 16 members to the Panjab University (PU) senate from the constituencies of heads and teachers of affiliated arts colleges on Wednesday, 62 polling booths have been set up in Chandigarh and Punjab. Eight members will be elected from each of them and senior professors of the university will act as observers.Two centralised control rooms have also been and to check unauthorised voting, videography will be carried out at every booth. While 11 candidates are in fray from the constituency of heads of arts colleges, 15 are contesting from the constituency of teachers. The teachers constituency has a total of 2,423 voters and the constituency of heads has 58 voters. The counting of votes will be held on August 20. There are eight polling booths in Chandigarh- DAV College, Sector 10; PG Government College for Girls, Sector 11; Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26; GGDSD College, Sector 32; MCM DAV College for Women, Sector 36; PG Government College for Girls, Sector 42; Dev Samaj College for Women, Sector 45 and PG Government College, Sector 46.In Punjab, polling booths will be set up in Abohar, Fazilka, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Moga, Sri Muktsar Sahib and Nawanshahr (SBS Nagar). After August 18, polling will be held for election of six members from the constituency of faculties on August 23.Meanwhile, students associated to Punjab Students’ Union (PSU-Lalkaar) and Youth For Swaraj started an indefinite strike outside vice-chancellor Raj Kumar’s office on Tuesday demanding the immediate conduct of polling for registered graduate constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pusenate-polls-ex-officio-members-to-appoint-faculty-secretaries-101629226068802.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Rape victim booked for forging age proof||A rape victim and her mother have been booked for forgery after investigations revealed that they had submitted fake documents to establish her as a minor.The woman, who is 21-year-old and resides in Mauli Jagran, had lodged a rape case against a Panchkula man last month. She was found to be pregnant during medical examination. At present, she is 21-week pregnant and is awaiting permission for abortion. At the time of the registration of the FIR, the woman and her mother had submitted her school-transfer certificate, according to which she was aged 15 years. The two had claimed that she didn’t have a birth certificate or any other proof of her age.Following this, the accused was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was arrested and sent to judicial custody. Police said the victim had met him at their place of work, and he allegedly raped her after luring her. To verify the complainant’s age, police got her school-leaving certificate checked and found it to be forged. Further investigations revealed that she was in fact 21-year-old. After submitting a report to senior officers and based on legal opinion, the Mauli Jagran police have booked the woman and her mother under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 177 (furnishing false information), 195 (giving or fabricating false evidence), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-rape-victim-booked-for-forging-age-proof-101629226059317.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Owner drives off in impounded vehicle, booked||The police have booked a Peermuchalla man for stealing his own vehicle that was impounded after he was caught for traffic violations.Accused Abhishek Jindal is yet to be arrested, but the police were able to impound the vehicle again.On August 16, the Chandigarh Police had set up a naka at Kalagram light-point when an Etios car was impounded. Police said that the car bearing Haryana number was being driven on the wrong side. When Jindal was unable to produce documents, the vehicle was impounded and parked near the Bitta petrol pump near the light-point.Abhishek was assured once he paid the fine at Sector-29 traffic police lines, the vehicle would be released. Abhishek had later informed the naka in-charge that he was told by the Sector-29 staff that the fine would be paid at the district court in Sector 43.Around two hours later, Abhishek returned with a duplicate key and drove off with the vehicle while the traffic police staff was busy checking other vehicles. A case was registered. Later in the night, the team from Manimajra police station managed to recover the impounded vehicle, but the accused is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-owner-drives-off-in-impounded-vehicle-booked-101629225939090.html
18-08-2021||Lucknow||Defence Corridor: Aligarh node in UP becomes favourite destination of investors||Among six nodes of the Defence Corridor project of the Uttar Pradesh government, the Aligarh node has emerged as the favourite destination for industrialists to set up their units as all land earmarked for the project has been allotted to investors. The other five nodes are Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow. Now, the UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) has asked the state government to allot 30 acres more land for the Aligarh node of the Defence Corridor project. The UPEIDA is the nodal agency of the state government for executing the project. The entire 55.401 hectares land earmarked for the Aligarh node has already been allotted to 19 companies who will invest ₹1245.75 crore.“Entire land in Aligarh node has been allotted to 19 companies. All land in this node is sold out,” said Durgesh Upadhyay, media advisor, state government, UPEIDA. According the UPEIDA, more investors want land in the Aligarh node. Around 25 acres in this node will be used by the UPEIDA for developing public utilities. “We have asked the state government to allot 30 acres more land in the Aligarh node as more investors have expressed desire to set up their units here,” added Upadhyay. According to experts, investors prefer Aligarh node of the Defence Corridor due to its proximity to the national capital, New Delhi, and the national capital region (NCR). “The Aligarh node provides easy connectivity by road from New Delhi and the NCR. From Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi and the upcoming Noida International Airport, one can easily come down to Aligarh by road,” said an official of the UPEIDA. This is the reason why Aligarh node has become the most favoured destination for investors in the Defence Corridor, he added. The Defence Corridor would come up in Bundelkhand region and is expected to generate more than one lakh jobs. On February 21, 2018, PM Narendra Modi had announced ₹20,000 crore Defence Industrial Corridor in Bundelkhand region which is considered as one of the most backward regions in the state. The companies that bought land in Aligarh node Allen & Alvan Pvt Ltd - DronesNitya Creations India – Precision Components PBM Insulations Pvt Ltd - Insulated Mats M/s Jai Sai Anu Overseas Pvt Ltd – Precision Components Deep Explo Equipment Pvt Ltd – Metallic parts for grenades and explosives Kobra Industries - Defence packaging Shridha Udyog - Parts for aerospace sector M/s Precision Products – Precision componnets Werywin Defence Pvt Ltd - Small arms Advance Fire and Safety – Fire Safety Equipment Navraj Metal Works – Tungsten Rods Ancor Research Labs LLP – Drones P2 Logitech Pvt Ltd –Optical Sights New Space Research & Technologies Pvt Ltd – UAVs Crimson Energy Experts Pvt Ltd – Navigational Devices Tractrix Opto Dynamics LLP – Precision and Optical Instruments Syndicate Innovations International Ltd – Small arms ammunition Royal Sales Pvt Ltd – Precision components Milkor Defence Pvt Ltd – Defence Weapon Manufacturing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/defence-corridor-aligarh-node-in-up-becomes-favourite-destination-of-investors-101629225880191.html
18-08-2021||Other||Corruption case: Ex-DGP Saini withdraws plea from HC||Chandigarh Former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini on Tuesday withdrew a plea from the Punjab and Haryana high court that he had filed in a corruption case. In the plea, he had requested the court to direct Punjab police to take the court’s permission before arresting him in any other offence, if added in the FIR registered in the corruption case. Appearing for Punjab, Sartej Singh Narula upon being asked by the court had submitted that the plea was “misconceived”. Subsequently, lawyers representing Saini decided to withdraw the plea as the court was not convinced with the contentions that it had raised. On August 12, the bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan had granted interim bail to Saini, subject to his joining investigation within one week in this case. On August 2, the Punjab vigilance bureau had registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and criminal conspiracy against the former DGP along with six others, including an executive engineer with the public works department and his father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal, who owned the Sector-20 house in Chandigarh. The agency alleged that Saini had acquired the house in a fraudulent deal with fake documents, using questionable financial transactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corruption-case-ex-dgp-saini-withdraws-plea-from-hc-101629225879172.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGIMER finds Covid antibodies in 72.7% children||The final findings of the sero-survey of Chandigarh’s paediatric population, conducted by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), revealed that 72.7% of the children, in the age group of 6 to 18, have acquired natural antibodies against Covid-19.The sero-survey, which examines how many people in a population have been infected with Covid-19 and recovered, is conducted by using an antibody test, also known as a serology test, that examines if an individual’s immune system has responded to the infection.PGIMER had started conducting the survey in Chandigarh on June 24. “Of the total 2,695 children tested, natural antibodies were found in 72.7% of them. The results also indicate that the antibody positivity rate in Chandigarh’s sector areas was 67%, followed by 75% in rural and 76% in colony areas,” said PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram.Dr Ram added, “Since the children below the age of 18 have not taken the vaccine, the antibodies prevalence shows that all of them were infected and recovered. Also, not many children in this age group were admitted, revealing that the infection rate was either moderate or mild. Also, most of the children were asymptomatic.”“Looking at the sero-survey results, we can say that children may not be the only population vulnerable to getting infected in the third wave. Children and adults in Chandigarh have the same antibodies level and the virus may infect anyone again,” he further said.PGIMER starts genome sequencingTo study variants of Covid-19 and infection trends in states, PGIMER has started conducting genome sequencing at hospital premises. Genome sequencing attempts to draw out the complete genetics of viruses.Giving details, Dr Jagat Ram said, “Initially, we have started testing 40 samples, results of which will be concluded in a week. These results will show us which Coronavirus variant (Alpha, Delta or Delta Plus) is dominant in Chandigarh and other neighbouring states. We will soon expand the sampling capacity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhpgimer-finds-covid-antibodies-in-72-7-children-101629225820277.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: BJP targets Shiv Sena over temples reopening||As malls, restaurants and bars, and local trains have opened their doors for people again, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday asked why the Uddhav Thackeray government is not reopening temples across the state, in an attempt to corner the Shiv Sena and question its credentials on the continuing curbs on temples.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday said temples can be opened up by keeping social distancing measures in places. BJP legislator from Mumbai, Ram Kadam, took on the Sena, saying the decision to not allow temples to reopen is akin to “muzzling the voice of Hindus”.Speaking to reporters, Fadnavis said, “I do not understand the reason why temples are not being allowed to reopen. I think there will be less crowding in temples than in bars and malls. Temples can reopen by keeping social distancing norms in place. I have repeatedly said this that reopening temples is not needed just for religious reasons, but there is a large section of population that depends on temples and related activities for their livelihood.”Last year as the state government was unlocking various activities with Covid-19 cases on a decline, BJP leaders and workers held several protests and agitations demanding the reopening of temples and other places of worship. Last week, Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil had warned of agitation if the government does not reopen temples soon.Kadam, who demanded that temples should reopen, was stopped from leaving for Siddhivinayak temple on Tuesday. He said the government could have imposed strict rules on people going to places of worship and allowed them to reopen. He further alleged that the state opened malls, restaurants and bars as they give donations to the government. Kadam said he had left for Prabhadevi, where Siddhivinayak temple is located, but was stopped by police near his home in Khar. “You have put rules and standard operating procedures (SOP) for malls and bars, but temples have not been opened. If you put some strict rules for reopening of temples, it will be followed. Everything is now open in Maharashtra, including bars and liquor shops, but not temples. People have learnt to live with coronavirus now, but this coward government, which doesn’t step out of their homes [to govern], is not allowing people to live,” Kadam said.Reacting to BJP’s allegations and demands, Sena legislator and spokesperson Manisha Kayande said, “The BJP will demand reopening of all activities, but not follow any rules and Covid protocols. The BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra is a Covid super spreader as none of the Union ministers were wearing masks, barring one [minister]. The government has opened up activities now as livelihood of thousands depends on it. It will open up temples as well, but not under pressure from them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-targets-shiv-sena-over-temples-reopening-101629225819191.html
18-08-2021||Other||August 3 Rudra Chopper crash: Pilot Lt Col Bath cremated with full military honours in Amritsar||Amritsar The mortal remains of lieutenant colonel Abheet Singh Bath, who died after the army’s Rudra helicopter crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam in Jammu on August 3, were consigned to flames with full military honours in Amritsar on Tuesday.Abheet was one of the two pilots of the helicopter; his body had retrieved from the dam on Sunday, twelve days after the crash.His body reached his home in Adarsh Nagar about 11am and was taken to Shaheedan cremation ground in the afternoon. His pyre was lit by his son, Ahan Singh, after the jawans gave him a guard of honour. Officers of the army and the district administration were present. The fallen soldier is survived by his mother Balwinder Kaur, wife Sukhpreet Kaur and son.Abheet was born and brought up in Amritsar and joined the Indian army after completing his education from Amritsar’s Khalsa college. He had been deployed in Pathankot’s Mamoon Cant. Abheet’s father Sarabjit Singh Bath, who died a few years ago, had also served in the army. The Rudra helicopter crashed into the dam lake near Pathankot about 10.43 am. Built at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), the chopper was carrying out a training sortie that involved low-level flying over the lake.The helicopter belonged to Army’s Pathankot-based 254 ALH-WSI squadron that had lost a Rudra chopper in January 2021 as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/august-3-rudra-chopper-crash-pilot-lt-col-bath-cremated-with-full-military-honours-in-amritsar-101629225641757.html
18-08-2021||Other||South Delhi Municipal Corporation to procure electric sweeping machines||In a first, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) plans to purchase four electric mechanical sweeping machines at an estimated cost of ₹4, 72,50,000 before the onset of winter, when air pollution emerges as a major concern--a proposal for which has already been cleared by the civic body’s standing committee, said officials aware of the development. “The machines are compact and smaller in size than the diesel-run sweepers and ideal for use on roads less than 60ft. The machines are 1.5 cubic metres in size as compared to diesel-run sweepers, which measure around 4.5 to 6 cubic metres,” said a senior SDMC official, who did not wish to be named.Currently, the civic body has 24 diesel-run mechanical sweepers. The proposal will now be placed in the corporation’s House for a final approval. The switch from diesel to electric mechanical sweepers has been made to opt for environment-friendly alternatives to mitigate dust, says the proposal. The SDMC claims to be the first civic body across the country to purchase these electrical machines. “Since this is a new technology, only a few companies are making these prototypes. It will take around three months, after getting the final approval, to procure these machines. However, we plan to do it before the onset of winter,” said the official. The battery-run machines will be charged at the several charging stations already set up by the civic body. A prototype of the machine was tested at Rajouri Garden market, said the official. Colonel (retd) B K Oberoi, chairman of SDMC’s standing committee, said it’s a major switch towards a clean fuel, which has become the need of the hour. “The SDMC is the first civic body to purchase these machines in the country. This is just a start towards using more electric-run equipment, which can help reduce the carbon footprint in the Capital. These machines are more effective and efficient in sucking up dust and has a good battery life of five years,” said Oberoi. As per the proposal, the machines will be purchased with the funds the SDMC receives under the Urban Development Fund (granted by the central government). However, it’s operational and maintenance cost of around ₹10,00, 26, 280 for a period of five years will be borne by the corporation itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/south-delhi-municipal-corporation-to-procure-electric-sweeping-machines-101629225578488.html
18-08-2021||Other||Govt campaign helped curtail malnourishment in children by 32% in Chhattisgarh||The statewide Mukhyamantri Suposhan Abhiyan campaign launched by the Chhattisgarh government on October 2, 2019, on the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, helped in bringing down the number of malnourished children in the state by 32%.In January 2019, as many as 4,33,541 children in the state were identified to be malnourished. However, as of May 2021, nearly one-third or 32% of these children (1,40,556) were declared free of malnutrition.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel initiated the campaign to eradicate malnutrition and anaemia in the state considering the rate of malnutrition and anaemia among women and children shown in the data of National Family Health Survey-4.As per the survey, 37.7% children below five years of age in the state were suffering from malnutrition and 47% women in the age group of 15 to 49 years were suffering from anaemia. It was observed that the maximum of the malnourished children was from tribal and remote forest areas.Furthermore, a pilot project called ‘Suposhan Abhiyan’ was started in some gram panchayats of the forest region, including Maoist-affected Bastar, which was carried forward through innovative programmes such as the distribution of hot nutritious food through panchayats in Dantewada district and 'Laika Jatan Thaur' in Dhamtari district. The government statement said that arrangements were made to provide hot-cooked food under Suposhan Abhiyan by ensuring better utilisation of the District Mineral Trust fund.Following the success of the scheme, Baghel expanded it throughout the state. Under this campaign, in addition to the supplementary nutritional food given to the identified children at the Anganwadi centre, arrangements have been made to distribute free nutritious food at local-level to the malnourished women and children.According to the government, nutritious food made from eggs, laddoos, gram, jaggery, sprouted grains, and milk, among others, along with hot-cooked food are also being provided to the beneficiaries. Awareness has also been created about locally available vegetables and nutritious items, as a result of which the nutrition-level of children and women has started improving.In collaboration with the health department, iron folic acid and anthelmintic tablets are also being provided to the anaemia-affected citizens. To achieve the goal of 'Malnutrition-free Chhattisgarh' in the next three years, the department of women and child development, health department and other departments’ are making coordinated efforts to bring about results, the statement said.Despite the closure of all Anganwadi and mini Anganwadi centres due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-inducted pandemic, ASHA workers and assistants of 51,455 such centres in the state distributed ready-to-eat nutritious food to 28.78,000 beneficiaries at their doorstep.Under the ‘Supplementary Nutrition Food Programme’, ready-to-eat food items are being distributed to the children of age group six months to six years, pregnant, lactating women and adolescent girls.Anganwadi centres have now been reopened with the consent of the public representatives and parents in the Covid-19-free places in the state. This decision to reopen Anganwadis was taken to maintain the victory over malnutrition and to prevent the impact of Covid-19 on the health of children, the government’s statement further said.Under the Mukhyamantri Suposhan Abhiyan, in Balod district, 12,481 children were identified malnourished as of January 2019, out of which 1,402 children have been cured. Similarly, 6,032 children out of 30,917 in Balodabazar have been cured of the condition. In Balrampur-Ramanujganj district, 14,106 children out of 27,352 have been cured while in Bastar, 3,633 children out of 15,753 have been free of malnourishment.The government statement further stated that similar improvements in the number of children suffering from malnourishment have been reported from other districts of the state as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-campaign-helped-curtail-malnourishment-in-children-by-32-in-chhattisgarh-101629225096649.html
18-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC relief for Muharrum procession on August 20 in south Mumbai||The Bombay high court (HC) granted limited relief to a section of Shia Muslim devotees and allowed seven trucks to accompany the taziya from Dongri to Mazagaon cemetery on August 20 on Moharrum. Last year, the HC had allowed only one truck to carry the taziya with five people on board. This year each truck can be accompanied by up to 15 persons. The court has, however, imposed strict conditions such as ensuring that the 15 persons on each truck are fully vaccinated and 14 days have lapsed since the last dose was taken, and also restricted entry into the cemetery to only 25 persons when the procession ends. The court also restrained devotees from coming on roads and following the trucks, which is similar to last year’s order. The court also directed the petitioner to furnish a list with details of participants to the deputy commissioner of police of the area concerned by August 19 afternoon. The procession has to be taken out and completed between 4pm and 7pm and will have to be recorded to ensure there are no violations of the conditions. The division bench of justice KK Tated and justice PK Chavan, while hearing a petition filed by All India Idara Tahafuz e Hussainiyat, an organisation which represents a section of the Shia community in Mumbai, was informed that in light of various relaxations permitted by the state, directions should be issued to permit conduction of Muharram rituals with Covid-19 protocols. The petition also sought relief against the August 9 government decision which disallowed Muharram processions and sought permissions for taking out processions for two hours each day between August 18 and 20. The August 9 circular, while permitting setting up of sabeels (water distribution counters) that could be manned by no more than two persons to distribute water in sealed bottles, had restricted processions in light of the ban imposed on social and religious programmes by the Centre and the state government. While making submissions on Tuesday, senior advocate Rajendra Shirodkar for the organisation said the petition was seeking permission for a limited number of persons to participate in the procession, and that persons who have taken a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine should be permitted to participate. Shirodkar also referred to the permission granted to devotees to go to Pandharpur in buses to celebrate Ashadhi Ekadashi festival following Covid-19 protocols. However, government pleader Purnima Kantharia opposed the petition and said, as religious processions would see a huge number of people participating, the police would have to requisition forces from all zones to control the crowd, and hence it was not advisable to permit a procession during the pandemic. She added that the relaxations permitted by the state have been conditional and access to hotels and malls was only for people who have taken both the vaccine doses, and hence the same should be applied to the participants of the procession as well. On a query by the court, Kantharia submitted that on a full sized truck not more than 15 persons can be allowed and organisers should ensure that there is no crowding at the cemetery as well. After hearing the submissions, the court warned the organisation of strict action in case of violation of conditions and asked them to give an undertaking that the rituals would be conducted by following social distancing and Covid norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-relief-for-muharrum-procession-on-august-20-in-south-mumbai-101629225459137.html
18-08-2021||Other||Fresh firing along Assam-Mizoram border in Hailakandi district, one Mizo civilian injured||Fresh tension erupted along the Assam-Mizoram inter-state border area in Hailakandi district of Assam after a cross-firing took place between the police of both the states in the wee hours of Tuesday, officials said. According to police officials from the two neighbouring states, the firing took place at around 2 am on Tuesday at Darashing Hills area under reserve forest in Assam. One person from Mizoram has sustained injuries but it was not due to firing, police said. According to the superintendent of police of Hailakandi district, Gaurav Upadhyay, at around 2 am on Tuesday, police officials noticed that some people have entered Assam and were using some sort of signals with torch lights. He said Assam police officials asked them why did they enter when suddenly some people started firing from the upper side of the hill on the Mizoram side. In return, Assam police fired 12 rounds of blank shots after which the entrants ran away. “First of all, we did not start the firing, our officials were attacked with bullets from the upper side of the hill which is under Mizoram. Ordinary civilians do not cross the border silently at 2:00 am, so it appears these people were up to something fishy. Our officials did not fire on them as we have them instructed not to do it. Now some wrong messages are being given from the Mizoram’s side which should not be done,” Upadhyay said. He also said that the area where these three people were stopped falls under Assam and it is not a disputed part of the border. “If this was a disputed area, higher officials would have intervened by now,” he added. Superintendent of police of Mizoram’s Kolasib district, Vanlalfaka Ralte, informed that three residents of Vairengte area of Kolasib district were attempting to go to their friend’s house in Bilaipur village of Assam’s Hailakandi when Assam police threatened them with bullets. “In bordering areas, people are friends with each other and they exchange things amongst them. Three Mizoram residents, including two ladies, were going to a friend’s house on Monday night when Assam police threatened them with bullets. One lady has sustained severe injury but that is not due to the bullet. She broke her leg while running because of fear. This is unfortunate that Assam police tried to use bullets on innocent civilians of Mizoram,” he said.According to a Mizoram DIPR release, deputy commissioner of Kolasib, H Lalthlangliana, has appealed to Mizoram’s public to avoid visiting border areas where police are deployed in order to eschew brewing up of tension. He also urged people not to spread fake news which could lead to fresh tension along with the border areas. A firing incident happened between the police of both the states at Lailapur area in Cachar district along the border on July 26 killing six Assam police jawans. After that, the locals on Assam’s side imposed an unofficial economic blockade for 10 days. After several talks between the two states, the blockade was removed and peace prevailed in border areas. Police from both states are keeping vigil at the border areas post the July 26 incident.Recently, a school in Hailakandi district near the border was bombed by unknown miscreants. While Assam police claimed that the miscreants came from Mizoram, the Mizoram police demanded a neutral investigation on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fresh-firing-along-assam-mizoram-border-in-hailakandi-district-one-mizo-civilian-injured-101629225400865.html
18-08-2021||Other||PWD to build sports complex below Lajpat Nagar flyover||The public works department (PWD) of the Delhi government will develop sports facilities such as a badminton court, a gym and other recreational facilities under the Lajpat Nagar flyover as part of the efforts to decongest and redevelop the Ashram-Moolchand stretch. The Delhi government has been undertaking comprehensive streetscaping projects on major road stretches across the city to beautify and decongest them. Recently, a small stretch of the BRT corridor has been redeveloped on a pilot basis.  A senior PWD official said the space underneath the Lajpat Nagar flyover is currently encroached by the homeless, who will be shifted to nearby shelters. The space will then be used to develop a sports complex like facility.The official said the project is in the planning stages. In order to ensure the safety of visitors, there will be special crossings and zebra poles. For security, the sports complex will have iron gates, and illuminated with LED lights. There will also be seating provisions for visitors and the elderly. As a part of the streetscaping project, officials said they will be inspecting the spots where traffic jams are reported and try to widen the stretches, wherever possible. The drainage system too will be repaired as a part of the project, which would help solve the issue of waterlogging. The pipelines will be dug deeper and a close vigil will be kept on those dumping garbage anywhere, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pwd-to-build-sports-complex-below-lajpat-nagar-flyover-101629225399652.html
18-08-2021||Other||Cotton farmers in for a good season; CCI hopes it doesn’t have to intervene||Bathinda Amid growing demand for raw cotton in the domestic and international yarn industry, the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) and traders hope that this kharif season, more private players will buy the produce above its Minimum Support Price (MSP). “In its market assessment for 2021-22, CCI hopes that private players will buy the entire cotton production above the MSP. The current market trend is very remunerative for farmers,” said CCI assistant general manager and Punjab in-charge Neeraj Kumar, adding that this time, the central agency was unlikely to play any major role in cotton purchase, but it will ensure its presence in the market to stabilise pricing. The CCI buys cotton only if private buyers pay farmers less than the MSP. Of 55 lakh quintal produced last season, CCI procured a record 27 lakh quintal on MSP in the state. Cotton harvesting in the state is expected to commence from September 15. In the last fiscal (2020-21), the MSP for cotton varieties grown in Punjab was ₹5,725 per quintal. For this kharif season, the Centre has enhanced MSP on cotton by ₹200 onwards on different staple sizes. A notification of MSP on long-medium varieties sown in Punjab has not been issued yet. Cotton is the economic lifeline of farmers in the semi-arid belt of south Malwa as the crop is sown in eight districts, mainly in Fazilka, Mansa, Bathinda and Muktsar. With over 3 lakh hectare under area cotton, southern Punjab has recorded an increase of 17% than 2020 when cotton was sown on 2.5 lakh hectare.Director of Indian Cotton Association Limited, a body of those dealing in export, spinning, ginning of cotton, Rakesh Rathi said the situation in the international and domestic market indicates that raw cotton may fetch farmers ₹500-700 per quintal above the MSP.“Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the textile industry was among the worst-hit sectors in 2020. Later, demand for cotton or yarn in the market increased. The CCI played an important role in stocking up after paying a better price to cotton growers. This time, private players may buy the entire stock at competitive rates to meet demand,” said Rathi.A progressive farmer from Bathinda’s Bajak village Baldev Singh said like last season, the cotton-growing area did not witness any major pest attack and an average yield of 10 quintal per acre is expected. “Farmers are looking for good returns for their crop,” he added.A leading cotton ginner from Muktsar Bhagwan Bansal said the climate was highly conducive for the cash crop and a bumper yield is expected. “Bangladesh, the hub of international textile sector, has shown huge demand for Indian raw cotton and thread due to our quality. Competitive rates will motivate farmers to cover more area under cotton next season,” Bansal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cotton-farmers-in-for-a-good-season-cci-hopes-it-doesn-t-have-to-intervene-101629225399138.html
18-08-2021||Other||Auction of 12 liquor retail zones in Delhi from August 25||New Delhi: The Delhi government has floated fresh tenders for auctioning licences for 12 liquor retail zones in the city, bidding for which will open on August 25 and close on September 2, according to documents HT has seen.The Delhi government has already earned ₹5,300 crore from auctioning alcohol licences for 20 of the city’s 32 zones on August 5 and 6, and looks set to double its excise revenue by netting a record ₹10,000 crore in the first few months of the new liberalised liquor policy.Auction of the 12 remaining zones could not take place because the bidders got disqualified in the last moment on technical grounds, forcing the government to issue fresh tenders.The annual reserve license fee for the zones range between ₹220 crore and ₹225 crore, according to the documents.The government estimates to earn ₹3,180 crore from the auction of licences in the 12 zones, and another ₹650 crore from excise duty, import fees, value added tax and other licence fees, the official added on condition of anonymity.Another ₹900 crore to ₹1,000 crore is expected to come from licensing of new brands, distributor licenses, etc, the official added.“The last auction was successful. In the upcoming auction too, the excise department estimates an average premium of 10% over reserve price of license set for each zone,” said a senior excise department official who asked not to be named.This will mark a new record for the Capital, and push annual earnings growth rate from the current 5-7% to over 30% -- highlighting that a new excise policy, which aims to reform the city’s liquor business by improving user experience, cleaning up the liquor mafia and eradicating pilferage, is making an impact within two months of being adopted.The average revenue of the city over the past three years stood at around ₹5,500 crore annually, according to government data. The new policy was implemented on June 11.The 12 zones to be put up for auction include localities such as Sarita Vihar, Shakarpur, Dakshinpuri, Anand Vihar, Tagore Garden, Vikaspuri, Trilokpuri-East, Badarpur, Timarpur, Nawada, Matiala, Rithala, Pitampura, Paschim Vihar, Lajpat Nagar, Jama Masjid, Paharganj, Najafgarh, Punjabi Bagh, Kasturba Nagar, Shastri Park, Mukherjee Nagar, Alipur, Narela, Ashok Vihar, IP Extension, Abul Fazl Enclave, Laxmi Nagar, Kalyanpuri, Sadar Bazar, Sriniwaspuri, Ballimaran, Deoli and Pratap Nagar.Under the new policy, retailers are free to decide the selling prices in a competitive environment, rather than an MRP being mandated by the government. Each zone will have at least 27 liquor vends — all of which will go to one successful bidder.When the first set of auction opened earlier this month the reserve bidding price was set at ₹221 crore for each zone on an average but the licences were awarded at an average premium of 20% with the average bid price being Rs. 265 crore, said the official.The highest bid was received for the New Delhi zone at a 45% premium of ₹315 crores -- which includes areas such as Connaught Place and Janpath.Tenders for the bids were first floated on June 28, soon after the government implemented the new excise policy on June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/auction-of-12-liquor-retail-zones-in-delhi-from-august-25-101629225339212.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||HC refuses judicial probe for now, police form SIT||The Delhi high court on Tuesday refused to immediately allow a judicial enquiry for now into allegations of laxity against the police in probing the alleged rape-murder of a Dalit minor girl, even as it was informed that a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to investigate the incident that took place on August 1.The court refused to pass an order on a petition by the parents of the nine-year-old girl, who was allegedly raped and murdered at a crematorium in the Purani Nangal village near Delhi Cantonment area, seeking judicial probe in the alleged laxity by the police in conducting the preliminary probe.Justice Yogesh Khanna said judicial enquiry cannot be ordered at this juncture as the investigation is at an initial stage. “The investigation is at a nascent stage. We can’t direct judicial inquiry at this stage…When they have constituted the SIT, let them do their work. You can’t presuppose..,” the court said.Advocate Sanjay Lao, standing counsel (criminal), Delhi government, told the court that an SIT comprising five members including two assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) has been constituted for the case.Lao, representing the Delhi police, said round the clock security is being provided to the parents in the wake of the alleged threat to their lives.Lao said, “DCP, crime branch has constituted the SIT. There are two ACPs. The prayer has been fulfilled. The probe is being monitored by the high-ranking officials of Delhi Police”.Lao also said that two accused persons have admitted to the crime and provisions for alleged commission of offences of murder and rape under the Indian Penal Code, section 6 under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 have been added to the FIR.He said a judicial probe cannot be ordered at this stage because the matter has yet not been decided and the alleged laxity could be established only if the accused are acquitted.However, advocate Jitendra Kumar Jha, who was representing the girl’s parents, said that the SIT has not been functioning properly “as they did not seek the custody of the four accused for nine days after their arrest”.Taking note of the submissions, the court asked the police to file a status report indicating the progress of the investigation and posted the matter for hearing in October. “Status report be filed so as to know the stage of the investigation,” the judge said.In their plea, the girl’s parents said that there was a delay in lodging the FIR as they were made to sit in the police station in between the intervening night of Aug 1-2.The petition claimed that even though the police reached the crematorium, their focus was to “hush up” the case. They said that they were forced by the police for not saying anything about the rape or murder, and instead say that their daughter died due to electrocution.The parents have said that despite the case being transferred to the crime branch, they do not have faith in the present investigation and truth can only be proved by a court-monitored SIT. They also sought judicial probe against the police officers who allegedly reached the spot late and delayed registration of an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dalit-girl-s-rape-murder-hc-refuses-to-order-judicial-enquiry-police-set-up-sit-101629225159151.html
18-08-2021||Other||Delhi govt renames its school after Olympic medallist Ravi Dahiya||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Tuesday decided to rename Government Boys Senior Secondary School No.2, Adarsh Nagar, after its alumnus Olympic silver medallist Ravi Dahiya. Dahiya won a silver medal in the men’s 57kg freestyle wrestling in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics. He completed his schooling at the school. Announcing the decision, Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia said that Government Boys Senior Secondary School Adarsh Nagar had been renamed Ravi Dahiya Bal Vidyalaya. “Olympic medal winner Ravi Dahiya was today welcomed at his school in Adarsh Nagar. It was an emotional moment for his teachers. The government has decided that the school will now be named as Ravi Dahiya Bal Vidyalaya,” Sisodia tweeted. He added that it was a matter of great pride that an alumnus of a Delhi government school had brought Olympic medals for the country. He facilitated Dahiya and unveiled a portrait of Dahiya that would be installed at the school to encourage students. Dahiya said that the Delhi government had extended support to him even before he was shortlisted for the Olympics. He added that the government had supported him by conducting special training sessions during the covid19 lockdown which aided him greatly. Dharmendra, a parent whose child studies in the same school, said that it was a matter of pride that the Olympic medalist had studied from the same school where his child was studying. “The government should prioritise sports in schools so that children can get inspired from Dahiya and make the country proud,” said Dharmendra, who goes by his first name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-renames-its-school-after-olympic-medallist-ravi-dahiya-101629225158427.html
18-08-2021||Other||Suicide bid outside SC: Two cops suspended in Varanasi over probe lapses||VARANASI A day after a woman, who had accused Ghosi MP Atul Rai of sexual assault in May 2019, and a man set themselves on fire outside the Supreme Court, two cops, including Varanasi Cantt SHO Rakesh Singh and sub-inspector Girija Shankar Yadav, were suspended on Tuesday and departmental action initiated against them for not properly compiling evidence in another cheating case involving the woman.The case, which also involves forgery and concealing her age, was registered in November 2020 on the order of a court in Varanasi and was investigated by Yadav, said police. Another officer, Vedprakash Rai, who has been made the SHO of the station, will investigate the case now, police said.Before attempting suicide, the woman, along with her associate, recorded a Facebook live video, in which she disclosed her identity and alleged that she had filed the sexual assault case against the BSP MP. She also said that some senior police officers and others were supporting the MP.Police suspect that she attempted suicide as she feared being farmed in fraud cases levelled against her.The MP was arrested and has been in judicial custody in the sexual assault case since the last two years. In December 2020, the woman had filed another complaint against the MP and his associate, Sudhir Singh, at Lanka police station in Varanasi, alleging that the two were defaming her and running a propaganda on social media. Thereafter, a case was registered at Lanka police station under sections of IT Act. Meanwhile, the MP’s brother, Pawan Singh, filed an application in a court, alleging that the woman forged her date of birth to conceal her age, and urged the court to order a police case against her. Thereafter, on the order of the court, a case was registered against the woman under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at Cantt police station in November 2020. Later, a non-bailable warrant was issued against the woman in the first week of August this year, after the investigator informed the court that she couldn’t be located despite several visits to her house.Inputs from agency||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suicide-bid-outside-sc-two-cops-suspended-in-varanasi-over-probe-lapses-101629225098553.html
18-08-2021||Other||Three-fold hike in ocean freight rates in six months hits exporters hard||In a pandemic-ridden world, all natural elements appear to have ganged up against Ludhiana’s industry. After braving a crippling goods train stoppage due to the farmers’ rail roko protest against the new farm laws just a few months ago, transporting shipments over water has emerged as a worry for exporters. Ocean freight rates have risen at least 3.5-fold (250%) over the past six months and the local industry, which accounts for a major chunk of the country’s exports, says shipments are either being delayed or held back. The industry has also written to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) to address the crisis. A combination of factors has led to the higher shipping costs, with soaring demand amid stimulus packages the key. Saturated ports and not enough ships, dockworkers and truckers has aggravated the situation. Easing of restrictions after the second Covid wave is another contributing factor. From Ludhiana, yarn forms the major chunk of exports at about 25,000 TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent unit) a year. Of this, hosiery accounts for 4,500 TEUs; export of rice follows at 2,000 TEUs. Export of bicycles, spare parts, auto-part components and engineering goods add another 1,700 TEUs. “For some destinations, the freight has increased between 500% and 600% (six-seven times); this increase is for the west coast of the US and Latin America. Cities such as Los Angeles and Seattle are affected. Even as we are ready to pay the higher rate, vessels are not available as ports are congested. There is a waiting time of two-three weeks in countries along the west coast. Shipping lines are minting profits, with the only silver lining being that our main competitor, China, is also in the same boat,” said Amit Thapar, vice-chairman, Confederation of Commerce and Industry (CII), Punjab. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU), said, “Our Export Promotion Committee is working to resolve issues of members with the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), under the Union ministry of commerce.” Sarvjit Singh, co-convener, export committee, CICU, said a consignment to East Africa which used to cost $1,400 ( ₹10.5 lakh) is now costing $4,800 ( ₹36 lakh). He added, “Shipping companies are charging huge amounts and exporters have to pay up for the fear of losing customers. The nexus between top officials of shipping lines and some freight forwarders is behind the steep increase in ocean freight rates. If the practice continues, exporters might have to shut shop. Rates gone up to 250% (3.5 times), which is forcing exporters to delay or hold the shipment.”An export committee member, chartered accountant Abhilesh Aneja, said the average container price (40 feet) from India to the US has risen 3-5 times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ocean-freight-up-3-fold-over-six-months-ludhiana-s-exporters-raise-red-flag-101629224680127.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Flyover on busy Ring Road to be shut for 40 days for repair||Traffic jams on the busy Ring Road may worsen during the peak hours as the Nauroji Nagar flyover that connects connects Aurobindo Marg, AIIMS to Moti Bagh, near Sarojini Nagar, will remain closed for traffic for at least 40 days for repairs, public works department officials said on Tuesday.They said the expansion joints of the flyover that allow for continuous traffic between bridge structures have not been repaired in the last five years, and required immediate maintenance. The PWD submitted the plan to the Delhi traffic police on two weeks ago for the work.The traffic police approved the plan on Sunday, and the work began on Monday night, PWD officials said.A senior PWD official said work has begun on the carriageway from Moti Nagar to AIIMS. The traffic police has allowed the work for 40 days, but officials said it could be extended.The repair work could potentially trigger traffic jams on the busy stretch that is used by nearly 100,000 vehicles every day. The PWD official said in order to cause minimum trouble to the commuters, the work will be taken up in different phases.In the first phase, work has begun on one carriageway, and it is expected to be completed by September 5. The repair on the other carriageway -- from AIIMS to Moti Bagh -- will begin on September 6 and will be finished by September 25, the official explained.“The work is sure to increase the traffic problems in the area but more traffic cops have been deployed in the area to man the traffic, in order to ensure the jams are not prolonged. The only time when jams are likely to increase is during peak hours. More than 1,00,000 vehicles cross the stretch during peak hours every day. In the first phase of this project, the expansion joints of the flyover will be changed. The entire round of repairing work will be done in phases,” said a PWD official.In the third phase, repair work will also be carried out on the Africa Avenue flyover, on the carriageway from AIIMS to Moti Bagh between September 26 and October 15, he said.PWD officials said these stretches are riddled with potholes due to heavy rain, and the road surface here has to be resurfaced.The traffic police are yet to issue specific diversions for the repair project. They have advised commuters going towards AIIMS and South Extension, from areas such as Naraina, Delhi Cantt, Dhaula Kuan, and Moti Bagh, to avoid this route.“As of now, no diversions have been made on any of these stretches, as we feel the volume of traffic can be managed. The traffic is being directed to a service lane underneath the flyover. If the need arises, we will make a proper diversion plan and implement it immediately,” said a senior traffic police officer.Ring Road was among 25 stretches across the city where reports of traffic jams continuing beyond peak hours were received by the traffic police control room between June 1 and June 25, a peculiar phenomenon that was witnessed when the traffic movement resumed after the second lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhiflyover-on-busy-ring-road-to-be-shut-for-40-days-for-repair-101629224378289.html
18-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: RTO coming up at Jharoda Kalan, to have automated test track||The Delhi government is soon going to inaugurate a regional transport office (RTO) in southwest Delhi’s Jharoda Kalan, said a senior government official on Tuesday. This will be the 14th RTO to be inaugurated in Delhi and the 10th one with an automated track for driving test.“The new RTO will cater to areas of outer Delhi near Najafgarh. Earlier, residents of this part of southwest Delhi had to go either to Dwarka or Janakpuri to get a driving licence made or for other transport related work,” said the senior official adding that a separate RTO for the zone has been a long pending demand due to overcrowding in the existing facilities.While the new RTO was ready in terms of infrastructure, the government was confronted with a manpower shortage because of the Covid-19 pandemic, which is slowly getting stable, the official said.The last time Delhi got a new RTO was around 10 years ago when the Surajmal Vihar RTO was made operational to cater to east Delhi areas such as Shahdara, Anand Vihar and Vishwas Nagar.In the coming months, the RTOs in Lado Sarai and Dwarka too are likely to get automated test tracks.Tests on automated tracks are much more stringent. Unlike conventional tests, in which drivers have to drive on a track amid traffic in the presence of a motor vehicle inspector, the automated tracks simulate tougher driving conditions.The tests are monitored by sensor-based cameras, the video is live-streamed in a control room at the spot and evaluation is done by a computer software. The result is generated after taking into consideration instances of the total time taken, unscheduled stops, the number of times the applicant hit a kerb or go off track. Any driver who scores below 70% has to reappear for the test after a certain time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhirto-coming-up-at-jharoda-kalan-to-have-automated-test-track-101629223658008.html
18-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity: New Covid cases in single digit for second day||Amid a rise in weekly Covid-19 cases, the tricity breathed a sigh of relief on Tuesday as the daily infection tally remained in single digit for the second consecutive day. Only six new cases were reported, with three each in Chandigarh and Mohali and none in Panchkula. The tricity had recorded five cases on Monday, after the daily tally remained in double digits for a week.Even as no death owing to the virus has been reported in August, the first half of the month has seen a rise in the weekly infection numbers after a constant drop since the second wave peak in May. The weekly caseload had dropped to 50 by July end, but went up to 65 and 86, respectively, in the following two weeks.Meanwhile, the active caseload, which had crossed the 100 mark on August 13, continued to remain in three digits, with 55 active cases in Mohali, 42 in Chandigarh and 12 in Panchkula on Tuesday.In Chandigarh, the new cases were reported from Sectors 43 and 46 besides Dhanas, while in Mohali, Kharar reported two cases and one surfaced in Kurali. So far, 62,035 people in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus, of whom 61,182 have recovered while 811 have succumbed. In Mohali, 68,540 people have been infected and 67,427 have successfully beaten the virus and 1,057 have died. Of the 30,661 patients in Panchkula so far, 30,273 have recovered and 376 have lost their lives.Health experts have urged people to shun complacency and keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour to prevent a third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-new-covid-cases-in-single-digit-for-2nd-day-101629222818835.html
18-08-2021||Pune||Dhalewadi village has an organ donor in every family||PUNE Dhalewadi village, in Purandar taluka of Pune district, has by registered at least one member from every family in the village to be an organ donor. Within two days the village saw 350 donors registered, which has raised the organ donation numbers for the Pune zone, said officials. The Pune Zonal Transplant coordination committee, which covers nine districts, was able to register only 100 donors a month. This has now gone up to 450 donors in a month, thanks to this village.Aarti Gokhale, central coordinator, Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee, said, “Even if we try to persuade people by actually visiting the person’s house, we could not get even a 100 organ donors registered in a year in the entire zone. However, with this one village registering close to 350 organ donors in one day our numbers have pushed higher. Due to the lockdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, we were not able to carry out awareness camps and distribute our forms. This is why we launched our QR code, the first of its kind in the state, which made it easier for people to register as organ donors by just scanning at the code. Since its launch in June, we were able to get close to 100 donors from the entire zone until now, and within the two days that this village started registering donors - on both August 13 and August 15 - we could get 350 donors registered and the count in Pune zone went up to 450.” Pune zone consists of nine districts, Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Dhule and Jalgaon.Vandana Kalane, gram panchayat member from the village said, “We will not stop at just 350 and we will be registering each and every member for organ donation. We have about 250 families and a population of 1,500 in the village. With this we have at least one member from every family registered as an organ donor. In addition to just filling out forms we also have two members who signed as witnesses. Although the donor has willingly registered, after the death a family member has the right to deny despite the registration. By registering all the eligible members in the villages, anyone aged between 18-80 years, we will also create awareness among all to be registered as donors so that even after a person is brain dead the organ donation process can be smooth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-least-one-from-every-family-in-dhalewadi-village-to-be-organ-donor-101629217776939.html
18-08-2021||Other||Pakistan combining with Taliban in terms of terrorism major threat to India: Narendra Jadhav, economist||As the Taliban takes control of Afghanistan, HT spoke Narendra Jadhav, economist and member of the Rajya Sabha, who was posted in Kabul in 2006 as chief economic counsellor to the Da Afghanistan Bank (central bank), in Kabul. He has since also been the vice-chancellor of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), just after he returned from his Afghan assignment. Excerpts.What is your reaction to the current happenings and situation in Afghanistan?This is the most unfortunate thing to happen and it is a black day not only for Afghanistan, but I would say for humanity. What is happening out there is extremely saddening and the future looks very scary. My major worry is what happens to all the women and young girls, there is a big question. The younger generation has so many aspirations in Afghanistan and how will they go forward with their careers. There is a strong bond between India and Afghanistan and every year, thousands of Afghan students come to India for education. How will that be affected now?When I was the vice-chancellor of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), the then prime minister Manmohan Singh had announced a scheme under which 1,000 Afghan students were invited to India and the Indian government financed them for a four-year course in whichever university they wanted. Since then, the number of students coming to India for various studies has gone up and it will definitely be affected now. All these engagements and schemes will come to a halt after the Taliban. Taliban do not believe in the kind of education we have and I really don’t know what would happen to Afghan students studying in India. I think the Indian government should positively respond to students’ issues, mainly about their visa extensions. Sending them back on technical reasons would be very unfortunate. What was your experience working in Kabul 2006?The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) gave me permission to go to Afghanistan as the country was coming out of 23 years of devastation of war. In every family there was at least one death in the war, so the backbone of the country was broken. We were there to restore democracy and many Afghans who had gone abroad were returning to build their nation. People were in a lot of agony and Americans were running the country. America had given a contract to the USAID organisation that was running the entire show, so they appointed me as chief economic counsellor for the Government of Da Afghanistan Bank in Kabul.So there was a team of Americans, Afghans and myself working together. I was in charge of the team to rebuild the economy. For few months I was staying inside a secured walled compound as there were all kinds of security issues. Every day some explosion would take place. I decided their exchange rates on day-to-day basis, interest rates and I trained lot of Afghan people on monetary policies. There was a huge vacuum of trained people and I was there to teach them. Your memories of Afghan culture, the people and their social life…Going out was ruled out for us being a security threat. To move from one place to another when necessary they would take us in armed vehicles with high security. Initially I was given Z plus security and an American soldier was my bodyguard, it made me a direct target. Later on, a local Afghan soldier was my bodyguard. The Afghans are a beautiful people with a great culture and there are lot of similarities with our culture. When I was coming back to India for a short period one of my servants requested me to bring back a CD of ‘Kyunki Sans bhi Kabhi Bahu thi’ serial. Afghan people are fond of Indian cinema and serials and they just love our Bollywood industry and Indian culture. What do you look see happening to Afghanistan now that the Taliban has taken control?It is a false state government now and we don’t know… a terrorist university or centre may come up there. Talibans are known for that. Pakistan along with Taliban combining in terms of terrorism will be a major threat to India and we need to watch out!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pakistan-combining-with-taliban-in-terms-of-terrorism-major-threat-to-india-101629217596837.html
18-08-2021||Pune||No Zika infected mosquito reported in Purandar: state surveillance officer||PUNE State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said on Tuesday that so far, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) has not reported a single Zika-infected mosquito from samples from Belasar village, ground zero for the Zika virus in the state.Despite just one confirmed case of Zika having been reported in the state, the administration is still continuing with its surveillance of cases and destruction of larvae. The taluka health officer said that although an official order is awaited, the NIV has not reported any infected mosquito, the primary vector for the Zika virus.Following the Zika virus case reported on July 31 from Belasar village in Purandar taluka, multiple teams were sent from the state as well as the central government to collect samples and advise the local health administration on better surveillance. Earlier, a central team had sent samples of mosquitoes along with blood samples of symptomatic patients to check for the infection. One theory on the possible means of infection is traders from across the country, including Kerala which has reported an outbreak of the Zika infection. An infected mosquito can spread the Zika infection to at least 17 more people, along with dengue and chikungunya as well. Dr Pradeep Awate said, “Until now, the samples of mosquitoes that we have sent to NIV have tested negative for the Zika virus, however, this is a continuous process and we will send more samples if need be, to be sure that there is no threat of the spread. The central team has asked us to keep up the survey till there are zero cases of dengue and chikungunya in all the six villages that fall within the Zika virus radar. Dr Ujjawala Jadhav, Purandar taluka health officer said, “We had begun with the fogging process and destruction of larvae even before the first case of Zika virus was reported on July 31, because of the number of dengue and chikungunya cases being reported. After the Zika case was reported, the central team visited the spot and collected samples of mosquitoes. The NIV team has informed us that they have not got any infected mosquitoes. Overall, mosquitoes in the village have gone down because of our continuous action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-zika-infected-mosquito-reported-in-purandar-state-surveillance-officer-101629217057669.html
18-08-2021||Pune||3-firm consortium to take over DS Kulkarni Developers Limited||Investors of DS Kulkarni Developers Limited may see some payback, as a consortium of three firms, comprising Ashdan Properties, Classic Promoters and Builders and Atul Builders will take over the debt-ridden group through the insolvency process. Manoj Kumar Agarwal, a resolution professional, on August 13 informed the listing compliance department of the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange about the approval of the resolution plan involving DS Kulkarni Developers. Agrawal in his letter stated: “The Committee of Creditors (CoC) has approved the resolution plan submitted by Ashdan Properties Pvt Ltd, Classic Promoters & Builders Pvt. Ltd and Atul Builders, with a requisite majority of the voting share as per the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016. You are requested to take the above information on record.” There were three applications to acquire DS Kulkarni Developers through the insolvency process. Besides the Ashdan-Classic-Atul consortium, Mantra Properties and Developers and the trio of Hemendra Shah, Kanhaiyalal Matani and Ghyanshyam Sukhwani had also submitted bids In September 2019, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Mumbai bench, ordered the commencement of corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) related to the real estate group under the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, on an application filed by Bank of Maharashtra. “The total liability was ₹2,300 crore and the plan accepted is of ₹827 crore. If this is the situation, then what is the amount the depositors are going to get is a big question,” said advocate Ashish Patankar, counsel for DSK’s son Shirish Kulkarni. The DSK group lawyer Prateek Rajopadhye said, “Most complainants/investors who filed cases against DSK group for alleged cheating under the stringent MPID Act are not going to benefit from purported takeover of DSKDL”A total claim of around ₹1,750 crore has been made, of which nearly ₹1,050 crore pertains to 12 banks and other financial institutions.Under Committee of Creditors, institutional financial creditors have 66.7 per cent voting rights, while homebuyers and fixed deposit holders have 17 per cent voting rights Special public prosecutor advocate Pravin Chavan said, “The consortium must take into account the depositors’ money transferred to the DSDL company.” The DSK couple was booked for cheating and criminal breach of trust at Shivajinagar police station following complaints from investors. The Kulkarnis were booked under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act.RTI activist and Aam Admi Party leader Vijay Kumbhar said, “The entire proposal has received a lukewarm response. The banks which were responsible for the financial imbroglio have not been indicted. Also with this decision, the interests of the small-time depositors have been throttled.” DSK: Timeline of events Case: Under 406, 420, 34 of Indian Penal Code and Sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors filed against DSK and wife on October 28, 2017.Arrest: The two were arrested from a hotel in New Delhi on the morning of February 17, 2018.ED attachment: Through a notification dated May 5, 2018, ED attached 459 properties, 276 bank accounts, and 46 vehicles and other valuables of DSK and his businesses worth ₹904 crore.Chargesheet: On May 17, 2018, a 37,000-page chargesheet was filed against 13 people by EOW, Pune police. On August 13, 2018, a supplementary chargesheet was filed against six people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3firm-consortium-to-take-over-ds-kulkarni-developers-limited-101629211596519.html
18-08-2021||Dehradun||AAP names Col Kothiyal Uttarakhand CM candidate||Dehradun: A month after promising 300 units of electricity free if the Aam Aadmi Party comes to power in next year’s assembly elections in Uttarakhand, the party’s national coordinator and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, on Tuesday announced Col Ajay Kothiyal (Retd) as AAP’s chief ministerial candidate. He also announced that AAP will make Uttarakhand the spiritual capital for Hindus across the world.Uttarakhand is ruled by a Bharatiya Janata Party government that has seen three CMs -- both changes have come in the past year -- with the Congress as the principal opposition. Kejriwal, who is on a day-long visit to Dehradun, said the people of Uttarakhand don’t want politicians but a patriot army man like Col Ajay Kothiyal, who has fought for the country, battled terrorists, carries two bullets in his body, and played a major role in the reconstruction of the Kedarnath after the 2013 tragedy. “Sometimes back (AAP leader and Delhi deputy CM) Manish Sisodia came here to find out who people here wanted as the CM . We carried out many surveys. And we got an overwhelming response from Col Kothiyal. People said we don’t want leaders, we want a patriot, who thinks about Uttarakhand, its people and Mother India,” he said and added, “So it is the choice of people of Uttarakhand.”AAP has sought to revive its national ambitions in recent months. In June, he said the party would have a Sikh chief ministerial candidate when it contests the Punjab elections next year. “Punjab is looking for a new brand of politics,” he said then, inducting former IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh into the party. The party has also set its sights on Gujarat, which goes to the polls later that year. In both states, the party has promised units of free electricity if it comes to power. Kothiyal joined AAP in April this year in the presence of AAP state unit president SS Kaler at an event in Haridwar. The party, which plans to contest all 70 seats in the state, is banking on Kothiyal’s army background and his popularity in the state for his significant contribution to the reconstruction work of the Kedarnath shrine after the 2013 tragedy. “If we want to do something good in the state, we have to bring the AAP model of governance to Uttarakhand. I was impressed by this model and that is why I joined AAP to implement this model here,” Kothiyal said Tuesday.Political analyst Prof MM Semwal, who teaches political science at Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University said that though AAP is aggressively trying to gain a foothold in Uttarakhand politics, it remains to be seen how the party performs at the ground level. “Uttarakhand has been primarily dominated by BJP and Congress. AAP still has to create a cadre like BJP and Congress in the state. But they can dent both BJP and Congress in some areas with their youth connect and major poll announcements”, he saidDuring his July visit, Kejriwal promised to replicate AAP’s Delhi model of governance in Uttarakhand. He added that if the party came, it would bring about a major change in the state’s education and health infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/aap-announces-cm-candidate-for-2022-u-khand-assembly-elections-101629194313691.html
