20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Question Hour: Different per capita income figures prompt discussion in Haryana assembly||A big variation in Haryana’s per capita income figures, if one compared the income data collected under the state government’s Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) and the budget speech of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar earlier this year, prompted a discussion during the question hour on Friday.Congress MLA from NIT Faridabad, Neeraj Sharma, who had asked a question on the per capita income and per family income as per the PPP scheme, said as per the PPP database, the per capita income in Haryana was ₹61,558 while it was ₹2,39,535 as per the 2020-21 economic survey of the state.Sharma also sought to know whether the government will provide monetary compensation to citizens if the database gets breached and misused.Responding to the question, Khattar told the House that the income data in the PPP has been collected on the basis of self-declared information by the families along with the number of members. He said the verification process for income data is currently underway.As of now, about 54.73 lakh families have self-declared income of about 2.20 crore persons of their family in PPP with a total income of ₹1,35,724 crore.When calculated, the per capita income and per family income are ₹61,558 and ₹2,47,962, respectively.He said self-declared income is verified through digital medium from other available databases maintained by the central or state government and through physical verification by specially constituted committees. Verification of income is also done through digital medium with income tax database of the Central Board of Direct Taxes.The CM said the per capita income as per PPP database was different from the per capita income calculated on the basis of the gross state domestic product.Officials later said the PPP database still does not have the income statistics of the entire population and people with high net worth may not have come forward to share their income details as the PPP enrolment is voluntary.Khattar, meanwhile, told the House that about 2.20 crore persons (of about 2.54 crore) in state have given their signed consent by registering themselves for PPP till August 18.He said the PPP database serves as metadata for distribution of all government schemes, subsidies, services and benefits.Presently, integration of government schemes, subsidies, services and benefits with PPP is being done and the work is likely to be completed in the next three months.Upon integration, it will be possible to provide citizen services proactively anytime, anywhere without the need for documents as the data available with PPP database is pre-verified, he said.When Congress MLA from Tosham, Kiran Choudhry raised the issue of security of this database, the CM assured that the data is completely secure.“It is neither used for any other purpose nor shared with any private agency. The data in the PPP database is stored securely on the government cloud. The only portal works on an authorised user basis and no one has been given open access to the data stored,” he said.‘136 FIRs registered against farmers protesting farm laws’The Haryana government on Friday told the House that 136 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered till date against the farmers protesting the three central farm laws.In a written reply tabled in response to a question by Congress MLAs Bharat Bhushan Batra and Jagbir Malik, the government said two FIRs have also been registered against the farmers under Section 124-A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).This information was tabled in the assembly during the question hour on behalf of state home minister Anil Vij who did not attend the House due to health problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/question-hour-different-per-capita-income-figures-prompt-discussion-in-haryana-assembly-101629484147137.html
20-08-2021||Other||Vrindavan widows send ‘rakhis’ to PM||Agra Widows of Vrindavan sent hundreds of ‘rakhis’ to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday for the coming Rakshabandhan festival. Before the outbreak of Covid--19, these widows used to visit the Prime Minister on Rakshabandhan but like last year, once again they are going to miss this opportunity due to the pandemic.“Though the widows are again missing a personal meeting with the Prime Minister on Rakshabandhan day, they have prepared 251 special rakhis with images of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and similar number of special Vrindavan themed cotton masks,” informed Vinita Verma, vice president of Sulabh Hope Foundation.The ‘rakhis’ were prepared by a group of aged widows living in Maa Sarda and Radha Tila Ashrams in Vrindavan.She said well-known social reformer and founder of Sulabh Movement Dr. Bindeshwar Pathak had started organising all important Hindu festivals and rituals for widows living in Vrindavan to break the social stigmas surrounding them.Prior to the pandemic, on behalf of thousands of widows, four or five widows used to visit Delhi to present baskets of ‘rakhis’ and sweets to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she said.“The ongoing corona crisis disheartened these widows but it didn’t shatter their spirit so they started preparing rakhis and special Vrindavan themed masks for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Some of the rakhis contain photos of the Prime Minister with face in mask,” she said.Usha Dasi, 77, who had personally tied rakhi on the wrist of Prime Minister Modi in the past, was dejected as she was spending her days inside her ashram for the past five months .But she was happy that her rakhis and masks were sent to the PM. “I have personally designed special masks carrying messages like ‘Stay Safe’ and ‘Atamnirbhar Bharat’ and ‘rakhis’ with image of the PM wearing a mask”, said Usha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vrindavan-widows-send-rakhis-to-pm-101629484145961.html
20-08-2021||Other||Senior officer at oil company in Assam arrested for allegedly raping woman colleague||Police in Assam’s Golaghat district have arrested a senior official of a public sector oil company for allegedly raping a junior woman colleague at his official residence, officials said. According to the police, the incident took place last month when the accused officer, who holds the position of deputy general manager with the oil company, allegedly raped the woman after intoxicating her drink. “The incident took place last month, but the woman filed a report in Numaligarh police station on Thursday. Based on that, the accused was arrested from Guwahati on Thursday night itself,” Golaghat superintendent of police, Sumeet Sharma said. The police have registered a case of rape against the accused and are conducting further investigations. Following his arrest, the accused was found Covid-19 positive during a routine medical test. He has been shifted to a hospital in Golaghat for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/senior-officer-at-oil-company-in-assam-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-woman-colleague-101629484099200.html
20-08-2021||Noida||Monsoon breaks pause with light rain in Noida||After a spell of 10 days without rain, Noida got 2mm rain on Friday, classified as a “light shower”. It brought the maximum temperature down by around six notches to settle at 31.1°C. The relief is likely to be temporary as weather analysts predict that the dry spell may return after August 23 when meteorological conditions will turn unfavourable for rains.Weather analysts say that the “break monsoon” condition, which drove the 10-day dry spell, is likely to return as the monsoon trough line, which increases the chance of rain, will likely shift back to the Himalayan foothills depriving the plains of rains soon. However, this too is likely to be temporary.“Regions will continue receiving rainfall for another few days till August 23 as the low pressure monsoon trough is here. It also ended the break monsoon condition. The mercury will remain below seasons average, however, there are chances of another spell of dry and warm days for three to four days from August 24 onwards as the monsoon trough line will shift back to the Himalayan foothills. The region may thus see a temporary break monsoon condition for a few days,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.Noida last recorded received rain on August 9, which was low intensity. On Friday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum and minimum temperature of Noida at 31.1°C and 27.7°C against 37.1°C and 28°C a day earlier.At Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the national Capital region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 32.8°C, a degree below the season’s average and 27.3°C, a degree above season’s average. The humidity oscillated between 97 and 70%.“On Saturday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 32 and 27°C,” said an official from IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/monsoon-breaks-pause-with-light-rain-in-noida-101629483664852.html
20-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar District Magistrate all set to represent India at Tokyo Paralympics||District magistrate (DM) of Gautam Budh Nagar Suhas L Y, who is also an international level para-badminton player, is all set to represent India in badminton at the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games scheduled to be held between August 24 and September 5. He will leave for Tokyo on August 28. Suhas will be seen in action from September 2 in the men’s singles Standing Lower 4 category---players in this class must play standing. Players in this class could have impairment (less than SL-3) in one or both lower limbs and minimal impairment in walking/running balance.With his eyes set on the gold medal, the DM hopes that the country gets to see him play in the finals on September 5. “While I am preparing to give my best, I do not think about the past or future, winning or losing during the match. At that moment, I am playing to score that one point and take each set as it comes. I believe that it is not the preparation but how you perform during the match is all that counts,” said Suhas, who is a 2007 batch IAS from Uttar Pradesh cadre. He took charge as the district magistrate of GB Nagar on March 31 last year. When asked how he finds time to train for competitions while being an administrative head of a district, he said, “I generally train for around two hours post 10pm after all my meetings and assessments of the day are over. For the Paralympics, I have been training at the Shaheed Vijay Pathik Sports Stadium in Greater Noida. This is not new for me as I have been training for competitions alongside my duties as an officer for six years now”.From passing orders during the day to taking orders from his coach by evening, the district magistrate turns student at night to prepare for the competition. Talking about his entry into international games as a badminton player, Suhas, who had an affliction in childhood that left him physically challenged, said he had been a public servant for nine years when he first thought of playing internationally. “I was the Azamgarh DM in 2016 when a state badminton championship was being held there and I was invited to inaugurate it. As the event was on, I expressed my desire to have a playful match because I had been playing badminton as a hobby. However, I was able to defeat the state-level players there. That is when Gaurav Khanna, who is the current head coach of the Indian para-badminton team, spotted me and asked me to try playing professionally. At the time I refused but about four months later, I decided to give it a shot and went on to play Badminton Asia Championship in China the same year, and got a gold medal for India,” said Suhas. The DM made history by becoming the world’s first unranked player to win a gold medal at the Asian Championship in Beijing in 2016. After this, Suhas went on a medal-winning spree at various international badminton competitions. He won gold at the BWF Turkish Open Para-Badminton Championship held in Turkey in 2017 and then again at Turkish Open Para-Badminton Championships in 2019. The last match that brought him a gold was the Brazil Para Badminton International Championships in Sao Paulo in February last year. Sharing his experience as a specially-abled public officer and an international player, Suhas said his parents taught him to never be insecure of his shortcomings. “Fortunately, I never faced any sort of discrimination because I have always tried to overcome my shortcomings by being the best in whatever I do. Up till Class 10, I was feted with the all-rounder award for being good in sports as well as academics. Later in the IAS academy too, I was given the honour of being an all-rounder. My parents always taught me that every person has one or the other shortcoming and that no one has it all. The only difference is someone’s shortcomings are visible physically, others’ might not,” said Suhas. He added that playing badminton is a spiritual activity for him and he hopes to make his country proud in the Tokyo Paralympics.This year’s Olympics challenging for players, says Deputy Chef de MissionMeanwhile, India’s Deputy Chef de Mission Arhan Bagati, who is in Tokyo with the first and second batch of Paralympics contingent, said due to Covid-19, a year’s gap in holding Tokyo Paralympics became a challenge for the players.“The players had been preparing for the Tokyo Paralympics since 2016. When Covid came, their training and preparations were disturbed. As a result, this year’s games are extremely challenging for each player,” said the 22-year-old, who is the youngest deputy CDF at the Tokyo Olympics. Bagati said he expects the Indian players at the Paralympics to get over 10 medals, including four gold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-district-magistrate-all-set-to-represent-india-at-tokyo-paralympics-101629483605429.html
20-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida imposes penalty for illegal advertising||The Greater Noida authority on Friday imposed a ₹2 lakh penalty each on three firms for allegedly putting up illegal advertisements.The authority has been on a drive against illegal hoardings that cost it money in advertisement fees and posed a risk to commuters. Confirming this, the authority deputy general manager Shyodan Singh said the drive will continue.The authority released a helpline — 0120-2336046/7/8/9 — for citizens to inform them of such hoardings.“The authority will promptly act against unipole or hoardings that are unsafe and put up in violation of safety guidelines,” said Deep Chand additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.As per the rules, a firm or individual has to obtain permission before putting up such advertisements. A committee from the authority will test the strength of the hoarding or unipole foundation, pillar and frame .Following complaints from several residents, the authority on Tuesday night seized 31 illegal unipoles and issued recovery notice for causing it a loss of ₹3 lakh in revenue through advertisement fee.“Releasing a helpline is a welcome step because it will discourage illegal unipole or hoardings in the city,” said Shashank Shekhar a resident of Sector 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-imposes-penalty-for-illegal-advertising-101629483604912.html
20-08-2021||Noida||Two days after killing two sons, man found dead||A 38-year-old man, missing for two days after he allegedly killed his two minor sons, was found dead in a deserted house in Basai village on Friday. Mahesh, a resident of Hoshiyarpur village, had allegedly gone for evening walk on Tuesday with sons seven-year-old Monu three-year-old Tinka. The next day, the boys’ bodies were found with their throats slit in Sector 34. On Friday, Mahesh’s body was found hanging in the house. Police said they had recovered a note from the spot in which Mahesh purportedly confessed to the crime without specifying a reason.Police said the body was sent for an autopsy that confirmed death by strangulation, and that his wife, Varsha, had identified the body too.Earlier, additional deputy commissioner of police (Noida) Kumar Ranvijay Singh said that Mahesh earlier worked in an embroidery workshop in the city, but lost his job last month. “The police teams were searching for Mahesh when someone informed them of finding a body in a deserted house in neighbouring Basai village,” he said. “The identity has been confirmed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-days-after-killing-two-sons-man-found-dead-101629483545418.html
20-08-2021||Noida||Underpass at Noida sector 44 to be opened by year-end||The Noida Authority on Friday said that the underpass between Sector 44/96 and 126/127 on the Noida Expressway is nearly 60% complete and will likely open by the end of this year. “The authority had decided to construct this underpass keeping in view the increasing vehicular pressure in this area. It will benefit residents along the Expressway and also those, who have their offices in sectors 96, 97, 98, 99, 94, 125, 126, 127 and 128 etc,” said Rajeev Tyagi, chief general manager of Noida Authority who inspected the work on Friday . Tyagi directed the staff to make sure that the normal traffic in the area is not disrupted during construction. The underpass is expected to provide smooth commute in the area that has several multinational corpoartions, educational institutions and residential areas. The Noida Authority plans to shift their main administrative to Sector 96 next year and this is expected to increase traffic volume in the area.. Work on the four-lane project started on March 17, 2020. It will be 715 meters long and is being built at a cost of ₹99.34 crore. “Currently many newly built office buildings and housing towers in the area are yet to be occupied. Once that happens, we expect the traffic to increase. Without the underpass, there could be heavy congestion as more vehicles will attempt to cross from one side of the Noida Expressway to the other,” said Tyagi. Residents said that the underpass was the need of the hour in this region, where population will increase once occupancy level in newly built housing complexes in sector 94, 96, 97 and other adjoining areas will increase. “The underpass will be of immense benefit to commuters and those living in these sectors along Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The authority should make sure it opens on schedule without delay,” said Pratap Singh, a resident of Raipur area, sector 127.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/underpass-at-noida-sector-44-to-be-opened-by-yearend-101629483544909.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Rashmi Shukla’s report: HC quizzes Maharashtra govt’s refusal to give evidence to CBI||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday questioned the Maharashtra government over its refusal to handover Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rashmi Shukla’s 2020 report on corruption in police transfers and postings in the state to the Central Bureau Of Investigation (CBI).CBI has included the topic of the report – prepared by Shukla last year when she was the commissioner of the state intelligence department – in its ongoing probe against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, and has moved an application before HC, complaining about the state government’s refusal to handover certified copies of the report, related documents and other materials collected by the IPS officer.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar has now asked senior advocate Rafiq Dada – who represented the state – to inform the court on August 24 as to which documents was the government willing to handover to CBI. The bench, however, said that the central agency cannot decide relevancy of the material without assessing it.The central agency has sought a direction to the state government to handover the report’s copy and other related documents for probe in the corruption case registered against Deshmukh on April 21.The state government had opposed the plea contending that CBI’s request was vague and does not explain how the documents are relevant for its probe. Additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi argued on behalf of CBI that the refusal to part with the material was nothing but contempt of HC’s July 22 order, by which the court had dismissed a petition filed by the Maharashtra government, seeking to drop the topic of Shukla’s report and reinstatement of controversial police officer Sachin Vaze in service.CBI registered the offence after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on March 20 wrote an explosive letter to the chief minister, alleging that as home minister, Deshmukh had on number of occasions summoned some officers at his official bungalow and told them that they had a target of collecting ₹100 crore from bars and other establishments in the city.The central agency has included the topic of Shukla’s report and reinstatement of Vaze in the purview of its probe in the case against Deshmukh and had sought the documents for investigation. The evidence includes materials pertaining to phone tapping and other digital proof which was seized on the basis of which Shukla’s report was made.Shukla had purportedly tapped phones between July 17 and July 29, 2020, after a number of complaints were received at various levels in the police department and in Mantralaya that some persons were acting as conduits for senior officers to secure transfers at desired places and plum postings by paying the then home minister and one “Dada” from the power circle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rashmi-shukla-s-report-hc-quizzes-maharashtra-govt-s-refusal-to-give-evidence-to-cbi-101629483486631.html
20-08-2021||Other||Delhi: 20-year-old held for string of burglaries||A 20-year-old man was caught by the night patrolling team of north Dwarka police when he, along with his friend, was looking for a house to burgle in the Dwarka area, said police. According to police, the arrested man, identified as Rahul, committed two back-to-back burglaries at night in the Dwarka area in the last one week for money to please his female friend. The police team caught him before he could burgle another house with his friend. Police said that on Independence Day, their teams received an alert about one of the accused men and they quickly swung to action. While on patrolling duty, the team apprehended Rahul. A case under relevant sections was registered at the Dwarka north police station and stolen items like necklaces, chains, bangles and rings were received from his possession.Rahul told police that his friend Sanchit was also involved in the burglaries. He later revealed that he robbed his own sister’s house in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri so as to be able to give his girlfriend something on their next date. An FIR regarding the burglary was registered at Trilokpuri four days ago, said police. Police said besides the purpose of giving something to his girlfriend, Rahul also purchased drugs after selling off the smaller gold items. The other burglary was in the Kakrola area. “We have started investigating the matter. With his arrest, we have solved two cases of burglary,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena. “Efforts are on to nab the other culprit,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi20yearold-held-for-string-of-burglaries-101629483188418.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Development Authority to develop 11 commercial hubs along Green Corridor||The Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) will develop 11 commercial hubs along both sides of the Green Corridor coming up between IIM Road and Kisan Path, said officials of the development authority. The Green Corridor project has been conceptualised to connect two ends of the city through a four-lane road. It is expected to ease traffic movement and cut down travel time from one part of the city to another from an hour to 15 minutes. The corridor will connect Hardoi Road, Sitapur Road, Old Lucknow and Khadra with Gomti Nagar. The development authority has identified 45 acres land for this project. The LDA has added this project in feasibility report of the Green Corridor and will add it in the detailed project report (DPR). Now, Tata Consultant Engineers, the consultant of the project, will present its report detailing expenses and expected income from the commercial hubs. According to LDA officials, these commercial hubs will be developed in two phases- eight in first and three in second. The officials further said the authority has estimated to earn around ₹10,800 crore from sale of residential and commercial properties along the corridor. Of this, ₹2700 crore income has been estimated from sale of residential properties and ₹8100 crore from commercial properties. Construction work for the first phase will start from October, said officials adding that separate detailed project reports will be prepared for all phases. LDA secretary will be the nodal officer and facilitate coordination with other departments for execution of the project. It may be pointed out that industrial clusters will also come up along other expressways. The state government has got approval from the Centre to develop industrial clusters in Agra and Prayagraj. The Yogi Adityanath government had sought nod from the Centre to allow development of two Integrated Manufacturing Clusters (IMCs) at a greenfield site near Saraswati Hi-Tech City in Prayagraj and near expressway in Agra. These clusters will come up along the 1839-km long Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor (AKIC) whose 57 percent is in Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) will execute the projects. The clusters are expected to attract an investment of over ₹15,000 crore and will generate more than one lakh direct and indirect employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-development-authority-to-develop-11-commercial-hubs-along-green-corridor-101629483186381.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Being made scapegoat: IPS officer Rashmi Shukla in Bombay HC in phone tapping case||Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rashmi Shukla on Friday claimed before the Bombay high court (HC) that she was being made a scapegoat.The bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was hearing her petition for quashing of the first information report (FIR) registered by the cyber cell in the case of alleged illegal phone tapping and leaking of her 2020 report over corruption in police transfers and postings.Shukla, the then head of the state intelligence department (SID), said, “I am an upright officer. I was shunted out in an illegal manner from SID commissioner’s post without following any proper procedure because I had made the report.”The case – registered on March 26 – was triggered after opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis, in an interview to a television channel on March 23, cited the report and corruption in transfers, Jethmalani told the bench.“I had got sanctions from time to time from additional chief secretary Sitaram Kunte from July 17 to July 29, 2020, to carry out the phone tappings. I had managed to bring to light the nexus between brokers and others assigning postings to police officers, and the fact that nine of them had actually got the postings,” she said.“I was abruptly transferred on September 2 without following due procedure as director general of police (civil defence). There was no office neither any staff allotted. The state has made nine DGP posts without permission from home affairs or approval from the state cabinet,” Shukla further stated.She alleged that Kunte is trying to “exonerate” himself. “Despite having all the permissions to carry out the tappings, I am now been made a scapegoat. A report by Kunte already blames me and further states that I accepted my mistake before him and told him that my husband had died due to cancer and my children were still studying. This is a lie. I had only told him that if there was a problem, I was ready to withdraw my report. My husband died in 2018, I am even ready to undergo a lie detector test, provided others are also willing to take it to bring out the truth,” the IPS officer submitted through her lawyer.“I have done nothing wrong in my job as SID commissioner and duly followed my duty, and if the state thought there was nothing in my report, why was it reluctant to share it with Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), that is demanding it,” she questioned.The bench, while continuing the protection from arrest to Shukla, has posted the matter for Saturday, when the state government is likely to argue on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/being-made-scapegoat-ips-officer-rashmi-shukla-in-bombay-hc-in-phone-tapping-case-101629483185423.html
20-08-2021||Other||Delhi records zero Covid-19 fatality, eleventh time since onset of 2nd wave; 57 cases||No Covid-19 deaths were recorded in the Capital on Friday even as 57 fresh cases, at a positivity rate of 0.08%, were reported by the health department.This is the eleventh time since the second wave of the pandemic that the national capital has seen zero deaths in a day.On July 18, 24 and 29 and August 2, 4, 8, 11, 12, 13 and 16, no deaths due to Covid-19 was recorded in the Capital, according to official data. Before this, Delhi recorded zero deaths on March 2 this year, when the number of infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent.The second wave swept the city during April-May period.Thursday saw 25 fresh cases of Covid-19, the lowest since April 15 last year, and two deaths while the positivity rate stood at 0.04 per cent.Despite fall in daily cases in the last several days, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently cautioned that the chances of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a “war-footing” to combat it.A total of 73,718 tests, including 51,028 RT-PCR tests and 22,690 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin issued on Friday.The number of cumulative cases on Friday stood at 1,437,274. Over 14.11 lakh patients have recovered from the virus so far.The number of active cases increased to 459 on Friday from 448 a day before, according to the bulletin.The number of people under home isolation dropped to 135 on Friday from 140 a day before. The number of containment zones, however, increased to 237 from 234 on Thursday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-records-zero-covid-19-fatality-eleventh-time-since-onset-of-2nd-wave-57-cases-101629483126058.html
20-08-2021||Other||Kejriwal may inaugurate Mayur Vihar flyover loops on August 28||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to inaugurate cloverleaves of the Mayur Vihar-I flyover on the Delhi-Noida link road on August 28, PWD officials said on Friday.The move will benefit commuters travelling from Mayur Vihar-I to Akshardham and from Noida to Mayur Vihar-I as they will have an easy ride to these destinations after opening of the two loops. “We have got the date from the Chief Minister’s Office for opening of flyover loops. These cloverleaves (loops) of the Mayur Vihar-I flyover will be inaugurated by the Chief Minister (Arvind Kejriwal) on August 28,” a senior Public Works Department (PWD) official told PTI on condition of anonymity. He said that the time of the inauguration ceremony is yet to be decided.The 800-metre-long flyover was constructed by the PWD and was opened for traffic in January 2019 but its loops, which were to provide seamless connectivity to Mayur Vihar -I and to Delhi, were under construction. The official said the construction of cloverleaves was over long back but its opening was delayed due to the Covid pandemic and also because of streetscaping of a small portion of the road beneath the flyover.At present, the road beneath the flyover is closed because of construction activities hence motorists have to take detours to reach destinations in central and New Delhi.Commuters going to Mayur Vihar-I from Noida have to travel nearly a kilometre extra to take a U-turn from underneath the NH-24 flyover. Similarly, vehicles destined to Akshardham from Mayur Vihar-I have to travel around a kilometre towards Noida to take a U-turn from underneath another flyover on the Link Road.The officials said that these problems will be solved after cloverleaves of the flyover are opened. One loop will allow the traffic coming from Noida to come down from the flyover and drive towards Mayur Vihar-I. The other will start from Mayur Vihar-I side and join the flyover towards Akshardham. The length of each cloverleaf will be 300 metre.“The delay occurred because of the construction work that slowed down due to restrictions on construction activities first due to rising pollution levels in winters and then shortage of material due to COVID-19 restrictions,” the official said. Another Public Works Department (PWD) official also said that some portion of the Link Road has also been widened near the flyover to accommodate extra traffic. The official said that estimated cost of the construction of the two loops and widening of the road is approximately ₹40 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-may-inaugurate-mayur-vihar-flyover-loops-on-august-28-101629483125444.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||Post Covid-19 illness can trouble for months, says doctor who heads post Covid clinic at KGMU||Post-Covid-19 health issues are troubling patients not just for a month or two but even longer.Samples this: a man in his early 40s came to see a doctor at the post-Covid-19 clinic in King George’s Medical University (KGMU), on Thursday. “The man complained of a breathing problem along with weakness. He had tested positive for Covid-19 in the second half of November 2020,” said Prof Surya Kant, HoD, respiratory medicine, KGMU.The other case was of a man who had tested positive for Covid-19 in April 2021. He came to the clinic complaining of excessive weakness.“I am getting eight to 10 cases of post-Covid-19 trouble and these patients have had Covid-19 at least six months ago. Some even nine months before,” said Surya Kant, who is running the post-Covid-19 clinic at KGMU, which is the only one of its type in the state.There are three main categories of post-Covid-19 trouble that patients coming to the clinic face. “In all, 50% have trouble in the lungs, 30% have sleeplessness or psychiatric problems and 20% come with excessive weakness and fatigue,” said Surya Kant.“Statistically, 70% patients fell ill with Covid-19 along with a positive test report, while 30% had symptoms but a negative test report. But both categories suffered similarly and even post-Covid-19 problems are the same,” said Surya Kant. KGMU had made three wards separately for presumptive Covid-19-positive patients.Doctors in the private sector say post-Covid-19 trouble depends upon the intensity of the infection people suffered. “If the illness was severe the post-Covid-19 recovery is delayed and complications too stay for long, particularly among the 50-plus age group and those suffering with comorbidities, particularly diabetes,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.“Not just those who tested positive but even those who hadn’t tested positive face similar problems. The other category of patients is of those who had their CT score above 15. Such patients were also treated as presumptive Covid-19-positive cases and given similar medical care,” said Surya Kant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/post-covid-19-illness-can-trouble-for-months-says-doctor-who-heads-post-covid-clinic-at-kgmu-101629483065653.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||Dengue fears: Mosquito larvae found in city areas, govt machinery, hosps get active||After mosquito larvae were spotted at different locations in the state capital – raising fears of dengue – hospitals have started making preparations in advance to treat dengue patients.“We are yet to admit any dengue patient. But yes, we have prepared a separate dengue ward of 20 beds to cater to any patient who may contract dengue,” said Dr SC Sundriyal, director of the Civil Hospital.The health department has intensified checking inside houses and offices along with big complexes to detect presence of mosquito larva.“In August, we issued notices to about 50 house owners after mosquito larvae were spotted on their campuses. In the process of screening houses, we have covered about 500 houses and it will continue for the next few weeks,” said Dr KP Tripathi, in-charge of vector-borne diseases in the state capital.“Many patients coming to the OPD in private hospitals complain of fever. It is important to control mosquito breeding before dengue can spread,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general Association of International Doctors.Doctors said apart from authorities, residents too need to contribute. “We can ensure that water does not stagnate in our houses and remove it to stop mosquito breeding,” said Dr Shukla.Apart from Civil Hospital, Balrampur Hospital too has made arrangements for treatment of dengue cases while other hospitals have alerted staff to ensure immediate treatment of such patients.Areas under scannerAreas such as Thakurganj, Chowk, Para, Rajajipuram, Aliganj, Gomti Nagar, Faizullahganj, Khadra, Triveni Nagar, Alambagh, Ashiana are under the scanner of the district authorities after mosquito larvae were found in these areas.District malaria department and Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) will run an awareness campaign for residents. The residents will be told not to allow stagnation of water inside houses, especially inside coolers, tyres or in drains. Those residents who will allow the collection of water on their premises will be penalised.Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia has directed municipal authorities to start fogging drives across the city. “At a time when residents are already suffering due to the pandemic, the municipal corporation cannot allow epidemics like diarrhoea, dengue, or malaria to hurt residents. That’s why regular fogging of city areas is important. I will also write to the malaria department to conduct anti-larvae drives in coordination with LMC so that the anti-larvae drive is followed by fogging for total elimination of mosquitoes in the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dengue-fears-mosquito-larvae-found-in-city-areas-govt-machinery-hosps-get-active-101629482825595.html
20-08-2021||Other||Tripura CPM to start month-wide protests from September on 15-point demand||The Tripura CPM will start one month long movement on 15 different point of demands, including procurement of Covid-19 vaccines globally, compensation for those who lost their lives to the virus, among others, from September across the state. The decision was taken during central committee’s online meeting held earlier this month. “We will organise phase-wise protests in different parts of the state in September with our 15 different demands of increase in manufacture of Covid-19 vaccines, procure of vaccines from other nations, compensation for people who died due to the virus, employment for people and others,” said CPM secretary Goutam Das on Friday. On a different note, Das criticized BJP legislator Arun Chandra Bhowmik who sparked off controversy by asking his party activists to attack the Trinamool Congress leaders in Talibani style when they land at airport in Agartala. He also demanded legal action against another BJP legislator Biswabandhu Sen, also deputy speaker of Assembly who landed into controversy last week by saying that some government employees who sit on roads and complained of getting nothing, their bones should be broken. “We demand legal action against both the legislators,” said Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-cpm-to-start-month-wide-protests-from-september-on-15-point-demand-101629482648604.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||Central oxygen system not operational at Agra hospital even after 10 years: CAG report||In its audit report, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has said the lackadaisical approach of the Uttar Pradesh medical health and family welfare department resulted in unfruitful expenditure of ₹1.88 crore on the procurement of a central oxygen system (COS) for the Agra district hospital which could not be made operational even after a lapse of more than 10 years.Uttar Pradesh parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna tabled the report on the general and social sector for the year ending March 31, 2019, in the state assembly on Thursday. The scrutiny of records of the office of the superintendent-in- chief at the Agra district hospital (male) revealed that the UP government had sanctioned ₹2.76 crore in 2010 and ₹2.70 crore in 2011 for the procurement of equipment and materials to upgrade the medical facilities in the same hospital, according to the report.Nevertheless, the COS remained non-operational even after a decade, the report added.When Covid patients were hit hard by oxygen crisis during the second wave (April- May), the state government transported oxygen from various parts of the country to maintain the stock in hospitals. Hundreds of attendants were seen in queues outside filling stations to get medical gas for their family members battling Covid-19 in hospitals at that time.The CAG report showed that even after investment, government hospitals remained ill-equipped in terms of oxygen supply.The CAG report also observed that the Agra district hospital invited tenders and executed an agreement with two firms in March 2010 and February 2012 for the supply of various equipment, including central oxygen system (COS) for 50-bed and 60-bed wards. The COS was supplied by the firms at a cost of ₹0.83 crore and ₹1.29 crore respectively.The agreement executed by the Agra district hospital with the suppliers did not incorporate a clause for the release of payment on the successful installation and commissioning of the oxygen system, the report noted.The hospital made a payment of ₹2.12 crore to the supplier after installation of the equipment. The hospital staff were not trained to run the COS, nor it was made operational, the report said.The security deposit made by the suppliers could not be forfeited as it was taken in a non-recognized form through cheques, it said.Later, the director general medical and health services (DGMHS), Uttar Pradesh, directed the Agra district hospital to submit the particulars of the superintendents of hospitals, who were posted during 2009-12 and 2016-17 for action over irregularities committed in the installation of the COS.In May 2017, the then Agra district magistrate wrote a letter to both the suppliers to make the COS operational. Only one supplier submitted a revised estimate of ₹3.61 lakh to make the COS operational. The amount was not released by DGMHS.The state government, during discussion in December 2017, accepted the audit observation and assured investigation to fix responsibilities to check recurrence of such situations in the future. The information regarding action taken by the state government is still awaited, the report said.The CAG stated that expenditure of ₹1.88 crore on COS had been rendered unfruitful. The COS was lying non- functional, and the hospital continued to depend on small cylinders to maintain oxygen supply to the wards, it said.3,339 purchase orders not executedThe CAG audit report noted that a scrutiny of the records of chief medical officers (CMOs) and chief medical superintendents (CMSs) of 11 districts during August 2016 and September 2017 revealed that 3,339 purchase orders valued at ₹37.37 crore and placed to 374 suppliers remained unexecuted even after lapse of 60 days from their placement. The purchase orders were automatically cancelled.Accordingly, as per conditions of supply, liquidated damage at the rate of 20% and 15 % on the value of unexecuted orders amounting to ₹6.21 crore were required to be recovered from the suppliers. No liquidated damages were recovered except ₹4.47 lakh by CMO, Bareilly. There was an undue benefit of ₹6.17 crore to the suppliers, CAG observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/central-oxygen-system-not-operational-at-agra-hospital-even-after-10-years-cag-report-101629482645596.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||New engineering colleges fewer than those allowed to shut across India||The process of approval of new institutes recently ended at the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and for the first time in nearly half a decade, the number of new institutes is lower than the number of institutes allowed to shut shop for the 2021-22 academic year. This also meant that the intake capacity in engineering colleges across the country stands at its lowest in the past 10 years. From 15.48 lakh approved intake capacity in engineering institutes, the number this year stands at 12.86 lakh across 2,978 institutes around the country.In its second year, the blanket ban on new engineering institutes seems to have finally achieved what the experts had aimed to—less number of seats that focus on better infrastructure and quality of education. “Engineering was losing its sheen mainly because of colleges mushrooming across the country but not having enough back-up to ensure quality education, best teachers and proper placement after graduation. While the intake capacity is low compared to 10 years ago, we hope the quality of education imparted in existing colleges is better than ever,” said Anil Sahasrabuddhe, chairman, AICTE. In December 2020, nearly 60% of engineering seats in West Bengal institutes were vacant after three rounds of admissions. Similarly, nearly 75% of seats in Tamil Nadu engineering institutes were vacant after three admission rounds, whereas in Karnataka, colleges approached the AICTE for an extension in the admission deadline to fill up the over 50% vacant seats in the last week of December 2020. “In most states, seat vacancy is higher in private engineering institutes especially because of the high fees demanded and the low quality of education imparted,” said the dean of a government-run engineering institute in the city. With the implementation of the two-year blanket ban on new engineering institutes, AICTE this year approved the closure of 63 institutes, while 32 institutes applied for withdrawal of approval and a staggering 500 institutes around the country did not apply for continuation of approval for 2021-22 academic year. “New institute approvals have only been allowed in districts with not enough government-funded engineering institutes, to give aspirants in such districts the option of studying closer to home. In the last two years, only government-funded new institute approvals have been accepted to ensure engineering seats are affordable for students,” added Sahasrabuddhe. Lack of proper placement initiatives and falling demand for engineering graduates in the market meant fewer students aiming for BTech courses. Until 2014-15 number of new engineering colleges was higher than those shutting down, automatically hinting at an increase in total intake capacity. From 17.04 lakh seats in 3,398 colleges, the numbers kept dipping with every passing year and in 2021-22, there are now 2,978 engineering institutes with an intake capacity of 12.86 lakh, the lowest in almost a decade.Similarly, admissions to premier IITs depends on the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains score and while in 2013 nearly 14 lakh students had registered for the entrance test, less than nine lakh have the exam in 2018.However, attribute it to ban on new colleges or the change in the perception of students, but technical courses are slowly once again gaining popularity among students. After witnessing a decline in the overall enrolment in professional courses, especially engineering and technology, things seem to look better. As per the latest All Indian Survey of Higher Education (AISHE) 2019-20 report, BTech and MTech programs witnessed a marginal rise after hitting a four-year low in 2018-19. The enrolment for MTech in 2018-19 stood at 1,35,500 and the same in 2019-20 stood at 1,37,051. Similarly, enrolment for the BTech program stood at 21,25,043 and in 2019-20, the figure stood at 21,47,962. Many felt the decision of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to encourage the introduction of new-age courses like Artificial Intelligence (AI), Data Science and Robotics in technical colleges could be the main reason for this push. “In 2020-21, Electronics and Communication sector managed to swoop the best of the minds and many also opted for BTech in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Data Science fields. Since jobs in the electronics as well as AI sectors are gaining more popularity, students too are very clear about their ambition and aiming for seats in specific departments,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-engineering-colleges-fewer-than-those-allowed-to-shut-across-india-101629482585567.html
20-08-2021||Gurugram||Man held for frauds a former bank loan agent, knew all loopholes: Police||Investigation into the crimes allegedly committed by a 48-year-old former bank loan agent, who was arrested in Delhi on Thursday for allegedly duping people and transferring amounts from their account by linking his mobile number, revealed that he had expertise in the banking system and knew all loopholes, the police said.The suspect was identified as Praveen Mittal, of Haryana’s Sonepat, who lived in Gururgam and worked as a loan agent for several nationalised banks. The police said the suspect and his aides executed a series of banking frauds in at least three northern states, including fraud of ₹1.39 crore from the account of a farmer who had received compensation for land acquisition in Gurugram.Until a week ago, the police were clueless about the identity of the persons responsible and only had CCTV footage from a bank that was collected two years ago. To expedite the probe, the city police recently formed a special investigation team (SIT) under Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), to track the suspect and a reward of ₹5 lakh was announced on his arrest.In the past month, the police arrested six persons, Sanjeev Yadav, Hari Singh, Hitesh Goyal, Amit Chandana, Prem Kumar and Sachin Gupta, all residents of Delhi, in connection with the case but none of them was aware of the real identity of the kingpin. All of them were involved in issuing SIM cards without proper documentation for the crimes.The Nuh police had rounded up Mittal in Delhi and handed him over to the Gurugram police in connection with a fraud case registered in the city.The police said they were able to identify him through records of jails. “The breakthrough came from Faridabad jail, where Mittal was lodged last year and later released on bail. Mittal, along with six others, were arrested by the Faridabad police in 2020 in connection with a fraud and later released on bail. The police started checking the records of visitors who had met Mittal in jail. After questioning multiple persons, the police managed to get the WhatsApp number of Mittal,” said Sangwan.Sangwan said the suspect was absconding for the last two years and was also declared a bail jumper by the local court. He only communicated through WhatsApp.The police also booked a few bank officials in the frauds.“Mittal impersonating as farmer applied for changing the mobile number and it was done without proper verification. As per the number, the old mobile number received a notification about the update of new mobile number attached with the account, but the farmer did not receive any such message,” said Sangwan, adding that role of bank officials are still being probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-held-for-frauds-a-former-bank-loan-agent-knew-all-loopholes-police-101629482525388.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai lake level crosses 85%, stock enough for 320 days||Water level in lakes supplying drinking water to Mumbai crossed 85% mark on Friday morning. The city now has water stock sufficient for next 320 days, according to civic officials.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said the city may not have any water cuts this year due to available water stock which is likely to last till next monsoon. A BMC official said, “The total lake levels going above 85-90% is considered to be safe, and hopefully we should not see any water cuts until next year for now.”However, the civic body will continue monitoring rainfall till mid-September. Of the seven lakes supplying drinking water to the city, four lakes — Tulsi, Vihar, Tansa and Modak Sagar — have already overflown once this monsoon. According to BMC’s data, the livestock of water is 100% in Tulsi and Vihar, followed by Tansa with 99% and Modak Sagar with 88% water.The seven lakes that supply water to the city are located in Mumbai as well as neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. Between July 16 and July 23, the catchment areas of the lakes received maximum of its stock. On July 17, the overall water level in seven lakes was just 17% and the BMC was considering announcing water cut. However, by July 22, water level had crossed the 50% mark, followed by 60% on July 24 and 70% on July 28. Last year at this time, the water level was 87% and it was 94% in 2019.Bhatsa dam in Thane which supplies 55% of the total annual water requirement of the city has 83% water stock which was 85% last year at this time. In case of Upper Vaitarna, water level is 73% as of Friday. Last year at this time, the level stood at 71%. Middle Vaitarna has 91% of water stock as opposes to 93% last year at this time.The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems —Vaitarna system which supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and Bhatsa system which supplies to the eastern suburbs. The civic body supplies 3,850 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres. In order to meet the shortfall, BMC has been exploring several ways to increase water supply to the city. A month ago, the civic body signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with an Israel-based firm for the city’s first desalination project at Manori in Malad. Under this project, BMC plans to turn seawater into drinking water, and the pilot project is expected to be ready by 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-lake-level-crosses-85-stock-enough-for-320-days-101629482345500.html
20-08-2021||Gurugram||CMO surprise inspection at Polyclinic finds several shortcomings||The Gurugram chief medical officer (CMO) conducted a surprise inspection of the Sector 31 Polyclinic on Friday and found several shortcomings like lack of sanitation, congested waiting areas, among others, said officials. The polyclinic staff was directed to resolve the issues within a week. According to a statement issued by the health department, CMO Dr Virender Yadav made the visit at 1:30 pm. “Some of the doctors were not on duty and one doctor did not mark attendance. A warning has been issued to all the staff that strict disciplinary action will be initiated if the mistake is repeated,” read the statement. Yadav took the complete round of the polyclinic and asked patients about the services at the hospital. “Electricity wires hanging out of place. The facility lacked cleanliness. There were multiple registration counters for vaccination and that confused beneficiaries. In the drug and vaccination store, items were not arranged properly. Instructions have been given to resolve the shortcomings within a week,” said Yadav. He instructed the staff to clean hospital premises frequently and open the second main door of the hospital. “The dispensary of the hospital which is located behind the hospital will be shifted to the front to increase visibility. Even the waiting areas for vaccination will be extended to avoid congestion. The medical officer of the hospital has been directed to display important government guidelines and instruction at the registration, pharmacy and vaccination sites,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cmo-surprise-inspection-at-polyclinic-finds-several-shortcomings-101629482285393.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Reports of genome sequencing at Mumbai’s Kasturba hospital to come on Monday||Results of whole genome sequencing of the first batch of swab samples collected from Mumbai to identify mutations of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, will be available on Monday. On Friday, Byculla-based Kasturba Gandhi Hospital started genome sequencing, making it the first civic-run healthcare facility in Maharashtra to do so.Genome sequencing is an exercise to study the changes in the structure of virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant.On Friday, a total of 192 samples were tested for genome sequencing at the hospital. The samples were collected through the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) from international passengers, Covid-19 hotspots, places with high transmission rate among others. In the next cycle, 384 samples will be tested.“We will get results of the first cycle on Monday. These tests have three phases. The first phase is library presentation which is also called pre-sequencing preparation. It takes two-three days. Then we do sequencing of samples in the machine which generally takes four to five hours. In the third stage, we analyse the results to understand the variations,” said Dr Jayanti Shastri, in-charge of molecular diagnostic reference laboratory of the hospital. “We started the first process on Tuesday but we loaded the samples for sequencing on Friday. It takes three-four days to get test reports,” she said.The machines were installed at the laboratory on August 3. For the past two weeks, the hospital was busy with installing and validating the machines. “After a lot of efforts, we have been able to start genome sequencing at the laboratory. We hope this will help in detecting Delta and Delta Plus variants faster and decrease our dependence on other laboratories,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital which runs the laboratory at Kasturba hospital. When asked if the laboratory will only test samples from Mumbai or the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), a senior health officer said, “We haven’t decided it yet, as the primary focus is to run tests on samples from Mumbai.”At present, 11 Delta Plus variants have been identified in the city with one death. Although the number is increasing, it has not contributed to any sudden rise in Delta Plus cases. The positivity rate of Mumbai stands below 1%. “What experience from across the world has consistently shown us is that when rates of vaccination are high, even if variants cause surges in infections, such infections tend to be of a milder nature and do not cause hospitalisations or deaths in a large scale. We also need to do our best to limit crowds as overcrowding has consistently led to spread over the past 18 months,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, pulmonologist and epidemiologist from Hinduja hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reports-of-genome-sequencing-at-mumbai-s-kasturba-hospital-to-come-on-monday-101629482165559.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||ULCC model: A strategic shift or marketing gimmick?||Last month, the country’s leading stock trader, Rakesh Jhunjhunwala announced his plans to invest $35 million in a new ultra-low-cost carrier (ULCC) in India. The announcement to set up another ULCC comes at a time when both Indian full service and low-cost carriers are struggling to keep afloat in the wake of the pandemic. With demand for air travel plummeting, the creation of ULCC indicates a shift in both the business model and the domestic Indian aviation market that has witnessed a growth of low-cost carriers (LCCs) from 2000. Unlike LCC, a ULCC does not offer frills such as baggage or food in the ticket price. ULCCs, pioneered in Europe by Irish carrier Ryanair and in the US by Spirit, target passengers who want to reach their destinations by spending as little as possible. Jhunjhunwala’s proposed entity, when it comes up, would be the second ULCC in the domestic market. In May, the erstwhile GoAir announced its rebranding as GoFirst, including a change in business model from a low-cost carrier to ULCC.When contacted, Jhunjhunwala refused to comment. GoFirst did not respond to HT’s query.The Indian aviation industry has been facing major headwinds given the sharp contraction in travel demand due to the pandemic and high-fixed cost structure. This has resulted in a significant amount of cash burns and resultant losses. Ever since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year, the industry continues to have a demand-supply mismatch due to the sharp decline in passenger traffic amid consumers’ hesitation to travel, restrictions by the government on permissible capacity deployment on domestic routes, suspension of scheduled international air services and quarantine norms of various state governments.“It is important for the airlines to contain costs and maintain liquidity to tide over this (situation). In such a scenario of excess supply and low demand, the entry of new players in the industry will only intensify the competition, further hampering the already weak pricing power of the airlines. This may negatively impact the yields, thereby worsening the revenue per available seat kilometre (RASK) and cost per available seat kilometre (CASK) spreads of the airlines,” said Kinjal Shah, vice president & co-group head - corporate sector ratings, ICRA Limited.According to reports, Jhunjhunwala’s Akasa Air, on the anvil since the end of 2020, is aiming to take off by the end of this year and has received a No-Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Civil Aviation Ministry as well as the Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to start an airline in the country. However, senior officials confirmed to HT that the airline is yet to get a NOC. “Contrary to reports, Akasa has not yet received NOC from the civil aviation ministry,” said the official.Reports also say that the proposed Akasa airline is in talks with the US aircraft maker Boeing to acquire up to 100 737 Max aircraft. The airline has also approached the government to recertify the grounded aircraft. At present, all Boeing 737 Max planes in India, which are only in budget carrier SpiceJet’s fleet are grounded since late March 2019 over safety concerns. According to an industry expert, the concept of LCC and ULCC is not clearly defined in India, unlike Europe or the USA. “In Europe and the USA, ULCCs define their space. For example, they never go to major airports like Frankfurt instead they go to Frankfurt- Hahn airport which is 70kms away. By doing so they reduce their cost massively. However, we don’t have such a concept in India hence there is no way they can differentiate,” he said.CS Subbiah, an aviation consultant and former chief executive officer (CEO) of Alliance Air, said all carriers have unbundled most of their services. “Except meal and executive class facilities, there is no major difference in India. I believe we have economy class airlines and airlines with two classes. Being cost-conscious and thrifty is a good thing in management parlance today. I believe in India ULCC is only a marketing gimmick but in real terms, they are the same as LCCs. They can’t pack more seats than the present six in a row. Maybe they can try and squeeze another row or more.”Subbiah added, “Any ULCC bringing in A320 or B737 aircraft will need to touch a metro or a major tier-II airport. Where is the cost difference as LCCs do the same? Both will offer similar fares to the same traveller. In India, I don’t see a major difference between an LCC and ULCC.”ULCC business model is to have a lower cost than traditional low-cost airlines- though in India due to structural cost challenges the reduction of cost is relatively marginal.“Akasa has the opportunity to design a very low-cost base compared to other LCCs. ULCC also means lower revenues and hence, ancillaries are fundamental to its success but in India, we have regulatory barriers related to ancillaries that need to be sorted out by Akasa. However, one can expect all the carriers to match Akasa fares irrespective of their cost base,” said Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer of Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), India, an aviation firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ulcc-model-a-strategic-shift-or-marketing-gimmick-101629482046473.html
20-08-2021||Gurugram||Red Cross secretary denied anticipatory bail in molestation case||A local court on Friday rejected the anticipatory bail application of the secretary of Red Cross Society who was booked for allegedly molesting a 35-year-old woman staffer of the organisation last week. Additional sessions judge Sashi Chauhan rejected the anticipatory bail on Friday as a serious allegation had been levelled against him. “He was directed to join the investigation,” said public prosecutor Jagbir Singh Sehrawat.The woman, in her complaint filed last week, alleged that she had met the secretary at an event organised by an NGO in Sohna on March 3 this year, when he shared his mobile phone number with her and told her to get in touch with him for a job. The woman is a law graduate.The following day, the woman allegedly met him at the Red Cross office in Gurugram and was offered the job of a counsellor within two days, following which he sexually harassed her, according to the complaint. The woman said that she confronted the accused, Shyam Sunder, along with the chairperson of another NGO, during which he claimed that the messages were sent by his servant. Refuting the allegations, Sundar on Friday said that he was transferred to Panchkula but was ready to join the investigation.He said that he was being framed and that the woman was trying to extort him. “The woman had approached me for a job. I helped her to get the job but she started threatening to frame me in a false rape case. She had demanded ₹20 lakh. The police can match the locations; I was not there at the location when she alleged (the incident took place),” he said. The woman had approached the deputy commissioner with her complaint and also submitted her resignation to the organisation. Based on her complaint, an FIR was filed against the suspect under IPC sections 34 (common intention), 354 (assault with intent to outrage a woman’s modesty) 354-D (stalking) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at the women’s police station (west) on August 12.Usha Kundu, the assistant commissioner of police, said that Sundar has been asked to join the investigation. “Arrest will be made after investigation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/red-cross-secretary-denied-anticipatory-bail-in-molestation-case-101629482045371.html
20-08-2021||Gurugram||Six held for firing at property dealer over plot dispute||Six men were arrested from different parts of the city on Friday for allegedly shooting at a property dealer after assaulting him in a tiff on Wednesday night. The dealer’s father, who came to his rescue, was also assaulted and suffered injuries in the incident, the police said.The victims, identified as Vikas Singh and his father, Samay Singh, of Nathupur in DLF Phase 3, had purchased a plot in the area in partnership with another party but their relationship turned sour due to disagreements and they became rivals, the police said.According to the police, the suspects had been threatening Vikas with dire consequences for the past month if he did not pay them to settle their dispute over the plot. The assault took place when Vikas was visiting a grocery shop in his neighbourhood.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that on Thursday, they received a call from a private hospital regarding a gunshot injury. “The victims had suffered severe injuries and Vikas had a gunshot injury in his left leg. The son and father recorded their statements and identified the main suspect as Ravi Kumar, of Khandsa, who brought along 15 associates for the attack,” he said.The police said that Vikas tried to escape by running inside the shop and took shelter behind a fridge when the suspects started firing at him. As a crowd started gathering, the suspects threatened to kill Vikas if he contacted the police and fled the spot.The DLF Phase-3 police handed over the case to the Sector 17 crime investigation unit and on Friday, following which the main suspect and five of his aides were arrested. They were identified as Manoj Kumar, Vikki Singh, Balvinder Singh alias Vardi, Vikki Bhagel, Chetan Shankar and Dharambir alias Aman, all residents of Gurugram.Sangwan said Balvinder was a wanted man and there was a reward of ₹5,000 for his arrest, as he was involved in over a dozen of crime cases of attempt to murder, assault, carjacking, robbery and land dispute.A case was registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (assault), and 120 (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the DLF Phase-3 police station.According to the police, the suspects threatened the dealer as they wanted to take possession of the plot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/six-held-for-firing-at-property-dealer-over-plot-dispute-101629481928957.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Daily Covid caseload dips below 5,000 in Maharashtra with 4,365 new cases||Maharashtra reported 4,365 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, marking a dip below 5,000 daily cases. Over the past few weeks, daily caseload in the state hovered around 5,200-5500. The total case tally now stands at 6,415,935 and the death toll at 135,672 after 105 deaths were reported on Friday.Mumbai reported 319 new cases and six deaths pushing tally to 740,608 and toll to 15,941.While most parts of the state decline in the cases, six districts accounted for 63.25% of the daily caseload and 56.51% of active cases on Friday. As many as 63.25% or 2,761 cases reported on Friday were from six of the 36 districts — Pune, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Kolhapur, Beed and Sangli. These districts also account for 56.51% or 31,339 of the total 55,454 active cases in the state. The state administration expects the high number of cases in these districts to fall in coming days and has directed the district administrations to go for aggressive tracing and testing of suspected contacts to keep the spread of the epidemic in check. Pune continues to report high number of cases and registered the highest cases at 882 on Friday. Three other Western Maharashtra districts — Ahmednagar, Solapur and Sangli — reported 614, 422 and 555 cases, respectively. Kolhapur and Beed logged 187 and 101 cases. Meanwhile, Satara reported the highest deaths at 17, followed by 11 each in Sangli and Solapur and 10 in Ratnagiri. “We have witnessed a fall in cases in some of the districts like Raigad, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg over the past few weeks. Similarly, other districts which are still reporting a high number of cases are expected to see a downward trend in the next few weeks. Some of the districts which could have controlled the number of cases in the past few weeks have very weak health infrastructure. District administrations in Ahmednagar, Kolhapur and Sangli have good infrastructure, but lag in tracing, isolation and testing. They have been directed to not lower the guard,” said an official from health department.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state government’s advisor on Covid-19, said, “Until the existing variant of virus does not mutate and is highly virulent, we can expect a fall in cases in the next two to four weeks even in the districts with high number of cases. The districts which are showing a high number of cases had late introduction of the virus and also do not have high intensity of surveillance. People are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. On the other hand, the activities have been opened up. These factors could also lead to rise in the number of cases in near future.”The state has 55,454 active cases, including 12,558 in Pune, 7,022 in Thane and 6,658 in Satara. With 4,365 of the 206,848 tests turning positive on Friday, the daily positivity rate of the state was 2.11 %. State’s overall positivity rate stands at 12.36%, while case fatality rate stands at 2.11%. At present, 322,221 people are in home quarantine and 2745 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-covid-caseload-dips-below-5-000-in-maharashtra-with-4-365-new-cases-101629481927885.html
20-08-2021||Gurugram||Health dept opens 3,800 Co-WIN slots for second dose vaccinations||To meet the demand for the second dose of Covid-19 vaccinations, the district health department has opened 3,800 slots on the Co-WIN platform for online appointments in addition to the direct walk-in policy that is currently being followed.Officials said that starting Saturday, slots will be made available for the second shots besides the 4,750 slots currently allotted through tokens at the vaccination centres. They said that since many people above the age of 18 years will be completing the time interval of three months after taking the first shot in May, the demand for the second dose will increase.“Half of the second dose slots of Covishield will be opened for online appointment and rest will be walk-in, whereas all first dose slots of Covishield will be through a walk-in. In the case of Covaxin, only a second slot will be available through a direct walk-in. The change in the vaccination strategy has been adopted to increase the second dose inoculation now and timely complete the vaccination schedule of people,” Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said.According to Yadav, online slots will be published on the Co-WIN website from 4.45pm to 5.30pm a day prior. “People who will book their slots online for Covishield can get vaccinated between 10am and 2pm,” said Yadav. Data available on the Co-WIN portal shows that 2,167,798 doses of the Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the district since January 16, of which 1,603,478 were the first dose and 564, 320 were the second dose.On Friday, at least 17, 512 vaccine doses were administered, of which 6,771 were given at government health centres and 10, 741 at private hospitals. On Saturday, vaccination will be held at 48 session sites, with a target to administer about 14, 350 doses, including 5,800 first doses of Covishield.Vaccination camps for teachersThe health department is organising special vaccination camps for people associated with the education department. This includes both the teaching and non-teaching staff. These camps are being held in government and private schools near health centres.On Saturday, vaccination will be held at 14 centres. At these centres, 100 doses are available, of which 50 will be given as the first shot and the remaining 50 as the second shot.“About 18,000 teaching staff have been inoculated with at least a single dose. Almost 4,100 teachers are yet to be vaccinated. Medical officers at government health centres have been directed to complete the coverage by August 24,” said Yadav.On Friday, 936 school staff received the first dose of their vaccines while 194 took the second dose. A special vaccination camp was also held for journalists, in which 64 took the second shot and eight people took the first shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-dept-opens-3-800-co-win-slots-for-second-dose-vaccinations-101629481925420.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Marathas resume stir; will ensure quota is reinstated, says Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati||Demanding that their quota in government jobs and education be restored at the earliest, Maratha community outfits held agitation in Nanded on Friday. Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, who is leading the agitation, said that both the state and Central government will have to take certain decisions to ensure Maratha reservation will be reinstated. He said that the Centre will have to remove the 50% cap on reservation quota mandated by the Supreme Court while the state government will have to ensure that the Maratha community is socially and educationally backward.Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati is a descendant of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji and has taken a lead in providing reservation to the Maratha community after the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act 2018 — which was enacted by the state government to provide quota to the community — was quashed by the Supreme Court on May 5. The community is upset with the Apex court verdict and want it to be restored with immediate effect.Before this, Maratha outfits held agitations in Kolhapur and Nashik. “Both the state and the Central government are trying to shirk the responsibility by saying that the other will have to take the decision. The Centre is saying that they have made the 127th Amendment in the Constitution and it is on the state government to provide reservation. The state government has said that the Central government will have to remove the 50% cap on reservation quota. But the fact is both the governments [state and the Centre] will have to make certain decisions, only after which, Maratha community will get their reservation back,” Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati said while addressing a gathering in Nanded on Friday afternoon.The reservation of the state has currently reached 52%.“The Central government will have to ensure that the 50% cap on reservation quota is removed by the Apex court without which the state government cannot provide the reservation. The state government will also have to start the process to prove that the Maratha community is socially and educationally backward. We are not interested in the fighting between both the governments,” he added.A five-judge bench of the Apex court, in its ruling on May 5, struck down the SEBC Act, 2018, which extended 12% and 13% reservation to the Maratha community in education and employment respectively, above the ceiling limit of 50% fixed by the Supreme Court earlier. The 50% cap in the reservation was fixed in the Indra Sawhney judgment passed by a nine-judge bench.While quashing the SEBC Act, the bench had also ruled that states have no powers to grant reservation to socially and economically backward classes post 102nd Amendment in the Constitution. Following this, the Central government has moved a bill for the 127th Amendment in the Constitution to restore the right of the states to identify and provide reservation to the backward classes. The bill was approved by the Parliament on August 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathas-resume-stir-will-ensure-quota-is-reinstated-says-sambhajiraje-chhatrapati-101629481868563.html
20-08-2021||Gurugram||Trace rainfall pulls down maximum temperature by eight degrees||A few parts of the city received light rain on Friday that caused an eight-degree dip in the maximum temperature on the day.On Thursday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 37.4°C, which was four degrees above the normal, and a minimum temperature of 25.7°C. Following trace rainfall on Friday, the maximum temperature was 29°C, five degrees below the normal, while the minimum was largely unchanged, at 25.6°C.The city witnessed light rain at scattered places from noon, with the rainfall recorded as trace, an amount of rainfall that is greater than zero but too little to be measured.The temperature is likely to drop further by Sunday, as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a “yellow alert” weather warning, predicting heavy rain with thunderstorms, lightning and squall. According to the weekly forecast of IMD, one or two spells of rain or thundershowers are likely in the city till August 24.“Today (Friday), rain activity was lesser in Delhi-NCR, but the intensity is likely to pick up over the next two days. Temperatures have already reduced in the region, and we might see a further drop,” a senior IMD official said.Over the next four days, the maximum temperature in Gurugram is likely to be between 31-33°C, while the minimum temperature is likely to be around 27-29°C.Meanwhile, despite the rain, the air quality in the city did not improve and continued to remain in the moderate zone of the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality bulletin for the fourth consecutive day. On Friday, the city had an air quality index of 167, with PM 2.5 the prominent pollutant.The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain largely in the satisfactory category till Tuesday, according to a bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/trace-rainfall-pulls-down-maximum-temperature-by-eight-degrees-101629481867546.html
20-08-2021||Gurugram||MCG gets nod to store C&D waste on five-acre plot opposite Basai plant||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) on Friday approved a request from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to store construction and demolition (C&D) waste on a five-acre plot opposite the Basai C&D plant. Citing public protest against sites identified by the MCG for the purpose, the MCG sought the GMDA’s help in this regard.The city produces at least 850 tonnes of C&D waste daily, most of which is dumped vacant plots and roadsides.On July 5, the MCG had issued a release stating that they had identified five sites — Sector 56, near Golf Course Road, Kadipur, Transport Nagar near Rajiv Chowk, Wazirabad near Golf Course Extension Road, and Sector 110 near Dwarka Expressway — for dumping C&D waste.However, residents protested against the same and moved the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in the matter, the MCG’s letter to the GMDA stated. The MCG has not stored any C&D waste at any of the five sites, the letter stated.“The biggest problem with the selection of the five sites was that they were in the middle of the city. A C&D waste dumping site, instead, needs to be away from habitat, which will have minimal impact on the environment and waste can be segregated and processed on site,” said Roma J Vinayak, a city-based environmentalist.MCG officials on Friday said that they received a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the GMDA to use their five-acre plot located opposite the Basai plant for storage purposes. The letter, written by MCG’s executive engineer for Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), Sunder Sheoran, mentioned that the matter was discussed in a meeting at the office of Sudhir Rajpal, the chief executive officer of GMDA, on August 10.“The MCG has received a NOC from the GMDA and we are in the process of completing the lease formalities. Storage of C&D waste will commence next month. The MCG will construct a boundary wall around this site and give it back to GMDA if the land is required for any public utility,” said Sheoran.Sheoran said that the Basai C&D plant has also reached its full capacity and the processing capacity is likely to be increased as the GMDA has made the plot available to them.“Currently, the plant is processing around 300 tonnes of C&D waste daily. The MCG has formed a five-member committee to examine the ways it can increase its capacity, one of which included additional space to store C&D waste,” said Sheoran.According to MCG officials, the Basai C&D plant has a maximum capacity of processing 1,800 tonnes of C&D waste per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-gets-nod-to-store-c-d-waste-on-five-acre-plot-opposite-basai-plant-101629481866452.html
20-08-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to promote treated water use at construction sites||After using treated water in green belts, officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) are planning to promote the use of treated water at construction sites, as part of an initiative to conserve water in the city.The chief executive officer of GMDA, in a meeting on Tuesday, instructed officials concerned to find out ways for best utilisation of treated water.“As per norms, treated water should be used by builders at construction sites, but this does not happen always as the water needs to be filled in tankers and taken to the site. Under this initiative, around 200 hydrants are likely to be installed with new pipelines and their locations will be shared on the website, so people know the nearest hydrant,” a senior GMDA official said, not wishing to be named.However, real estate developers in the city said that due to water scarcity, treated water is already being used.“It is difficult as we have to hire tankers specially to take water from government sites, but as there is shortage of water, treated water is being used at construction sites. It adds on to the cost with fuel charges as water is required frequently. We cannot say for sure how this initiative will help as water would still have to be collected by tankers from designated sites,” said Kamaljeet Singh, vice president of Bestech Ltd, a city-based developer. The urban environment division of the GMDA is planning to install lateral lines of high-density polyethylene (HDPE) pipes along with hydrants to supply treated water. These hydrants would be installed with a spacing of 30 metres and pipes are set up using trenchless technology, a method used for installing or replacing pipelines with minimum disruption to the surface.“These hydrants are to be made specially in the sectors where the construction is going on and the builders may be made aware to use this water by fixing signboards,” the GDMA chief had said in the meeting.Officials from the infrastructure II division said that a list of priority locations will be sought from the urban environment division for the project.“We already have pipelines for treated sewage water laid on stretches like Sector 44 to Subhash Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk, but these lines are on one side, either right or left. As green belts can be on either side of the roads and also in the centre, this network will be expanded to help other uses also,” a senior official of the infrastructure II division said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-promote-treated-water-use-at-construction-sites-101629481865470.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Abandoned by father, infant with rare birth defect discharged from Ludhiana hospital||It takes a village to raise a child: this time-tested adage was proven right when large-hearted anonymous benefactors and talented doctors pitched in to provide an infant, who was born with a rare defect, a new lease of life. For 22-year-old Aarti, , a resident of Laxmi Nagar, the world collapsed around her ears, the day her daughter was born as the infant’s intestines were hanging outside the body. Doctors at the private hospital where she was born told the child’s father that the defect would require an expensive rectifying procedure, which could only take place at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh. This was enough for Aarti’s husband, who sells rags, to wash his hands of the matter and abandon his newborn. However, Aarti and her mother-in-law did not resign to their fate and took her to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), the next day. “The patient was a day old when she was rushed to the neonate ward of our hospital on June 24 with a diagnosis of gastroschisis, which is a rare congenital abdominal wall defect with a high mortality, in which the intestines hang outside the abdominal cavity at birth,” Dr Vishal Micheal of the department of paediatric surgery at CMC said, adding that Aarti had no money to even prepare a file, let alone pay for surgery when she came to the hospital. The doctors decided to start an online campaign, requesting residents to donate for the surgery, which even when performed free-of-charge would cost ₹3 lakh. Donations poured in and after spending 55 days at the hospital, the infant was discharged on Friday. Dr William Bhatti, director of the hospital, who led the team who led the surgical team, said, “The department of paediatric surgery at CMC, Ludhiana, has been performing all kinds of surgeries in children less than 18 years of age since 1972. The department has been equipped with state-of-the-art facilities for performing minimally invasive neonatal surgeries. This is the only department in Punjab, which is successfully running a maternal and child health programme in paediatric surgery.”The doctors said one in 10,000 children suffer from such abnormalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/abandoned-by-father-infant-with-rare-birth-defect-discharged-from-ludhiana-hospital-101629481806085.html
20-08-2021||Pune||Pune’s SPPU reduces fees for academic year by 50 per cent||In a major relief to more than seven lakh students, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to slash fees for the academic year 2021-22 by 50 per cent. The circular issued by the varsity will benefit students while taking admission for further courses.As per the order issued by SPPU, the fees reduction will depend on various facilities provided by the college and not used due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Major reduction include 50 per cent fees in in library, laboratory, gymkhana, extra-curricular and computer facility. Student who has lost either one or both parents due to Covid will get full waiver in fees. Those unable to pay full fees will be given option to pay it in installments.“In June this year, a request was made by the state higher education department to think over fees reduction for this academic year. Accordingly, a proposal was send for approval before the university’s management council. Later, a committee formed under the chairmanship of Sudhakar Jadhavar submitted the report to vice- chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar and he gave acceptance to the report.” said SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar.Students, specially from rural areas, have welcomed the decison. Santosh Kadam, a second year Science student, said, “We suffered huge loss in farming business and was unable to pay fees for this year. The relief of fee reduction has been given by the university. I will borrow money from relatives and pay in instalments. I am happy to continue my studies and won’t have to take a gap.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-sppu-reduces-fees-for-academic-year-by-50-per-cent-101629481744786.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM attends Sonia Gandhi’s meet, says Opposition unity must stay intact||Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray batted for the Opposition unity and said that the task before all the parties is to make the people believe that they stand together. Thackeray, who participated in the meeting convened by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Friday evening, spoke of fighting together against the ruling party in the country to save the democracy, senior Sena leader Sanjay Raut said. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, who also attended the virtual meeting, called for time-bound efforts by the Opposition parties to deal with the issues the country is reeling under. He also suggested collectively prioritising the issues and resolving them one by one.Gandhi met 19 Opposition leaders in a virtual meeting and asked them to unite and fight the 2024 elections. During the meeting, Gandhi said that the monsoon session of the Parliament saw “determined unity” of all Opposition parties. She, as per the statement from the party, said that the unity has to be sustained in the Parliament but there was a “larger political battle has to be fought outside it”.Raut, who was also a part of the meeting said, “Uddhav ji said that the unity among the Opposition parties must remain intact. Besides that, he said that we have to give people the confidence that the political parties that have come together will remain united. Uddhav ji spoke about fighting together and saving democracy.”According to senior Shiv Sena functionaries, Thackeray believed that the unity of the Opposition parties has to be accepted by the people if they have to give a fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2024 general elections. “The message should go down to people that the Opposition parties have united to bring down BJP and the reins of the nation are in safe hands which will work cohesively if the people choose them as an alternative to BJP,” a senior functionary said.Pawar, meanwhile, said that the current scenario in India appears very gloomy. Farmers have been protesting for many months and it is an anguishing picture for a democratic country like India. In the meeting, the veteran leader slammed the Narendra Modi-led Central government and said the current dispensation has failed to address and resolve issues such as inflation, economic slowdown, Covid mitigation, unemployment, border disputes, issues related to the minority communities among others.“The present government has failed to address and resolve all these issues. Those who believe in democracy and secularism; those who like to work together to save the democratic principles and ethos of our country must come together. A time-bound action programme needs to be taken up collectively and I strongly suggest that instead of dealing with all these issues together, we must collectively prioritise each issue and solve them one by one to give our country a good present and future,” he said in a series of tweets posted after the meeting.Pawar led NCP is one of the three ruling parties in Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government led by Uddhav Thackeray. He has been a proponent of a united front against the ruling BJP at the Centre. On June 25, Pawar said that an opposition front was the need of the hour, and it cannot be formed without Congress. He also said people want an alternative and it is the responsibility of the political leadership to fulfil their expectations. He made the statement in the backdrop of a meeting of leaders from many political parties and civil society members organized by Yashwant Sinha led Rashtra Manch, at Pawar’s Delhi residence early this week..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-attends-sonia-gandhi-s-meet-says-opposition-unity-must-stay-intact-101629481445436.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Wife, her siblings and neighbours kill man, held||Two months after a 28-year-old Kurla resident went missing, the Mumbai crime branch unravelled the mystery behind his disappearance and arrested seven people, including the wife of the deceased, her elder sister and their two brothers on Friday. The accused persons had mixed sedatives in the victim’s dinner and when he became unconscious, they stabbed him to death After killing Deepak Sangle, a resident of Kranti Nagar area in Kurla (West), the accused had buried his body near their house.The arrested accused are identified as Saraswati Deepak Sangle, 21, her elder sister Manisha Achari, 25, and their two brothers, Aditya Gautam, 19, and Anand Gautam, 22, and their neighbours Vishal Karade, 25, Kishor Sahu, 24, Ritik Vishwakarma, 22. All the accused were produced before a metropolitan magistrate and remanded to police custody till August 30.Deepak Sangle’s elder sister Sangeeta had lodged a missing person complaint with the Vinoba Bhave Nagar police station on June 21, claiming that her brother had gone missing since June 15.Police officers said Sangle was an alcoholic and several body offences were registered against him by the local police. He often assaulted his wife on trivial issues and was also a nuisance for neighbours due to his erratic behaviour, said a police officer. “Initially, we suspected that he may have left the area to avoid police action. The official of unit 5 scrutinised his mobile number and other family members and suspected some foul play. On questioning Sangle’s wife and two brother-in-laws Aditya and Anand, we found several discrepancies in their statements,” said deputy commissioner of police Pranay Ashok (zone 5).However, Aditya finally confessed to the crime and also revealed that they had buried the body at their other house, near Sangle’s residence, Ashok added.Sangle’s body has been sent for post-mortem, said Ashok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-wife-her-siblings-and-neighbours-kill-man-held-101629481147467.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana teacher, son skip home quarantine, test Covid +ve||The positive coronavirus test results of a teacher and his son have set alarm bells ringing in two government schools in the district. The teacher’s daughter, a Class-9 student at Government Senior Secondary School, Bhaini Derera, had tested positive for Covid five days ago. However, the man and his son had continued to go to school instead of quarantining themselves at home, increasing the risk of transmission among students and staff at their respective institutions. The man is a teacher at Government Primary School, Akalgarh, while the boy is a Class 11 student at Government Senior Secondary School, Bhaini Baringa. The health department had collected their samples on August 16 and the teacher had got his first jab on July 27. Worried health department officials have started collecting samples of students and staff at both schools. As many as 2,783 samples were collected from 58 schools on Friday. Since August 1, 25 students have tested positive in five schools of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-teacher-son-skip-home-quarantine-test-covid-ve-101629481146350.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s HR and KC colleges release lists, cut-offs up by 2-4 % points||Two days after the University of Mumbai (MU) released the first merit list for undergraduate degree courses across their affiliated colleges, Churchgate-based HR and KC colleges released their respective merit lists on Friday. Both colleges are popular destinations for commerce, science and art students from the city and around the country. Both institutes saw high cut-offs in the first merit lists due to the high Class 12 scores this year.“We are noticing anywhere between 3-5% point increase in cut-offs across courses this year compared to last year. Courses in the science stream have witnessed a 5-10% point hike this year,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal of KC College. Starting 2020-21, both colleges that form part of the Hyderabad Sind National Collegiate University (HSNCU) along with Bombay Teachers’ Training College, conduct admissions on a separate schedule. At KC College the first year (FY) BCom list ended at 96.15%, up from 93% recorded last year. The overall demand for the FYBA pushed the cutoffs by less than a per cent point. Similarly in HR College, the FYBCom list ended at 97% this year, 2% points higher than last time. Self-financed courses in both colleges remained high in demand with cutoffs for courses like BCom in Banking and Insurance (BBI), BCom in Accounting and Finance (BAF), BA in Media and Mass Communication (BAMMC), Bachelor in Management Studies (BMS) remaining over 93-95% across courses in both institutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-hr-and-kc-colleges-release-lists-cut-offs-up-by-2-4-points-101629480785300.html
20-08-2021||Other||2 held while transporting liquor in ambulance||The Purnia police on Friday seized an ambulance transporting about 200 litres of Indian-made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) West Bengal-Bihar border on National Highway-31 at Dalkhola, officials said, adding that two persons were arrested in this connection. Sale and purchase of liquor is prohibited in Bihar.Purnia superintendent of police (SP) Daya Shankar said police received a tip-off that a huge consignment of liquor was being supplied in Purnia town area through an ambulance, following which they started vehicle checking. “However, as soon as the ambulance driver saw the police, he switched on the siren and asked other vehicles to give way. Police checked the ambulance and saw a man lying on the seat pretending to be sick. On searching the vehicle, police recovered 198 litres of IMFL and arrested the two persons ,” the SP said.Both the arrested persons were sent to judicial custody. Investigation into the case is on, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-held-while-transporting-liquor-in-ambulance-101629480065427.html
20-08-2021||Other||Quota benefits to stay even after bifurcation of states, rules SC||New Delhi The Supreme Court has held that bifurcation of states will not result in persons already employed under reserved categories to be deprived of their benefits in the newly formed state.The Court was dealing with a case resulting from bifurcation of Bihar and Jharkhand in November 2000 where a scheduled caste candidate, born in undivided Bihar, was declared a migrant by Jharkhand and denied reservation benefits.A bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi noted that the caste to which the petitioner Pankaj Kumar belonged was recognized as a Scheduled Caste in both Bihar and Jharkhand. Pankaj was born in Hazaribagh in 1974 which came under Jharkhand after the passing of the Bihar Reorganization Act, 2000.The bench said, “It will be highly unfair and pernicious if the benefits of reservation are not being protected in the State of Jharkhand... Section 73 of the 2000 Act clearly postulates not only to protect the existing service conditions but the benefit of reservation and privileges which he was enjoying on or before the appointed day, i.e. 15th November, 2000, in the State of Bihar not to be varied to his disadvantage after he became a member of service in the State of Jharkhand.”Kumar was appointed as assistant teacher in December 1999 in Ranchi. Upon bifurcation of Bihar, he opted to work as an employee of the Jharkhand government. In 2008, he applied as an SC candidate for the Combined Civil Service Examination advertised by Jharkhand government, got selected but was denied appointment on the ground that his service book showed him as a permanent resident of Patna and denied him job on the ground that he was a migrant in Jharkhand.The apex court noted that such a matter involving reservation benefits being denied as a result of bifurcation was arising for the first time. Laying down the law, the bench said, “... such employees shall remain protected by virtue of Section 73 of the Act 2000 for all practical purposes which can be claimed (including by their wards) for participation in public employment.”The Court was assisted by Attorney General KK Venugopal, who said that a government order of February 1985 generally lays down the law that reserved category candidates will be entitled to claim benefits within their home state and not in the state to which they have migrated. But here it was not a case of voluntary or involuntary migration but bifurcation, he argued. He said such class of persons (as the petitioner) would not be considered as migrants to Jharkhand. He also clarified that reservation benefits could be claimed only in one state and not both states, which the court too reiterated.The top court set aside the high court judgment and directed the Jharkhand government to appoint Kumar on the post he was selected for in 2008. He will be entitled to seniority as per his placement in the order of merit with notional pay and allowances but not back wages.The court also heard a batch of separate appeals filed by six candidates of SC/ST/OBC categories who were appointed as Constables in Jharkhand but were removed from service in June 2008 on the ground that they were migrants in the successor state. On merits, the apex court found they were indeed migrants as they had no proof of how long they were staying in Jharkhand and failed to produce their caste certificate at the time of appointment.But the Court used its extraordinary powers and directed their reinstatement as undeniably, they belonged to the SC/ST/OBC category in the undivided Bihar and had already served for a period of three to four years as constables with Jharkhand police. Having lost 13 years in litigation, it would be hard for them to secure employment at this later stage, the bench observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/quota-benefits-to-stay-even-after-bifurcation-of-states-rules-sc-101629480005413.html
20-08-2021||Other||RJD crisis: Tej Pratap storms out of brief meeting with Tejashwi||PATNACrisis in the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) deepened on Friday when party chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav, who has been involved in angry public exchanges with state unit president Jagdanand Singh, stormed out of a brief meeting with his younger brother and the party’s heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav and told reporters he was not being allowed to talk to him.On Thursday, Tej Pratap had demanded action against Singh after he replaced the former’s aide as the party’s youth wing leader with his own nominee and said he would meet his younger brother Tejashwi to press for the same. On Friday, he reached the residence of their mother and former chief minister Rabri Devi in Patna, where Tejashwi is staying. However, within minutes, he was out of the house visibly angry and told reporters that Sanjay Yadav, who is considered close to Tejashwi, did not allow him to talk to him. “He is coming between two brothers. He interrupted our conversation,” Tej Pratap alleged. “While I was meeting Tejashwi, Sanjay Yadav walked in and took him to another room. Who is he to stop two brothers from meeting?” he said.Meanwhile, Jagdanand Singh, talking to reporters, advised party leaders not to cross the line and said Tej Pratap is not a member of the core committee of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rjd-crisis-tej-pratap-storms-out-of-brief-meeting-with-tejashwi-101629479885437.html
20-08-2021||Other||Delhi ISP firm in dock over operations in Bihar||PATNAThe Bihar and Jharkhand field office of the department of telecommunication (DoT) is set to recommend to its head office to revoke the licence of a Delhi-based internet service provider (ISP), having licence for Delhi NCR, after it found operating in Bihar through local agencies, telecom officials have said. The firm in question, IPNET Communications Private Limited, has denied it was providing internet services anywhere across the country, except Delhi NCR, for which it had “category B” ISP licence. “We didn’t operate anywhere under the company banner of IPNET Communications (P) Ltd. We were operating only in Bettiah with the name of IPNET under the company banner IPNET Broadband Network (P) Ltd, which has ‘category A’ ISP licence (VNO),” said the firm’s director Prateek Shukla, in an e-mailed response to the Hindustan Times on Friday. A virtual network operator or VNO is an entity that does not own a complete telecom network infrastructure but provides telecom services by purchasing capacity from network service operators (NSOs). While “category A” ISP licence allows a firm to operate across the country, “category B” licence limits the operation to a particular geographical area mentioned in the licence. The DoT, however, said it had found evidence of the IPNET Communications Private Limited’s operation at Bettiah and Mirganj in Bihar’s West Champaran and Gopalganj districts, respectively. “We have found technical footprints of the ‘category B’ VNO licencee for Delhi area in Bihar since August last year. One of the local operators in Mirganj area of Gopalganj district has even given us a written statement that the firm had misled it and was providing internet services through it in the area for the last nine months,” said director (technology & security), DoT, Bihar, Krishna Nand Rai, who recently conducted raids on some local agencies in five districts of Bihar. Shukla, who is also the director of the IPNET Broadband Network, a sister concern of the IPNET Communications, claimed his firm began its internet services in Bettiah after getting the letter of intent from the government in April. The DoT has meanwhile, disconnected internet service of the local operators and initiated steps to blacklist them. “We will ask the Indian Registry for Internet Names and Numbers (IRINN), which allots IP addresses and other internet resources like domain name, to revoke the public IP (internet protocol) addresses of the Delhi-based ISP and the local operators. Besides, we will move our head office to revoke the ISP’s licence under Section 8 of the Telegraph Act,” said Rai. Companies without valid authority providing internet connection through local operators to individuals is a security risk as it becomes difficult for investigating agencies to establish the public IP address of the end user, said DoT officials. “We are also exploring how public IP addresses were allocated to the ISP, the local operators and their franchisees, who do not fulfil the conditions for grant of public IP. Misuse of IP is a security threat,” said Rai. “Even in case of the IPNET Broadband Network, which has a category A ISP licence (VNO), it cannot have its own public IP address. As per licence conditions for VNOs, it has to take IP address from its NSO. We will look into violations by this firm, if any, separately,” he said. Shukla avoided a direct response to Hindustan Times’ query if the IPNET Broadband Network was authorised to have its public IP address. “As per guidelines of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) and DoT related to ISP and their franchisee, it is mandatory to run end subscribers with proper public IP addresses through which internet logs can be examined easily. That’s why the National Internet Exchange of India sub-department IRINN allows IP addresses to franchisees also,” he said. Rai, however, said, “The Delhi-based VNO and local operators in Bihar cannot trade public IP address. Any such violation makes them liable to forfeit all the allocated internet resources and related rights by IRINN.” The DoT discovered the unholy nexus of unauthorised firms providing cheap data connection to households and commercial establishments during a raid on some local operators in Saran, Siwan, Gopalganj, East and West Champaran districts between August 13 and 15.“Such practice leads to loss of government revenue by way of evasion of taxes and licence fee, and also compromises national security,” said Rai. More such raids would follow, he added. Earlier, the Intelligence Bureau and DoT, in a joint operation in Patna on June 18, 2020 and July 20, 2021, had busted a racket of illegal routing of international data calls through mobile calls from local numbers. The raids had led to the arrest of four persons.Web of deceitIn the netSome local operators in Saran, Siwan, Gopalganj, East and West Champaran districts were raided between August 13 and 15 for providing cheap data connection to households and commercial establishments.DoT’s takeCompanies without valid authority providing internet through local operators is a security risk as it makes difficult for probe agencies to establish the public IP address of the end user. It also causes tax losses to government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-isp-firm-in-dock-over-operations-in-bihar-101629479765589.html
20-08-2021||Other||Danapur-Maner-Bihta stretch of NH 30 set for new makeover||PATNAThe road construction department (RCD) will strengthen and maintain the Danapur-Bihta stretch of national highway (NH) 30 via Maner for which the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has created a new alignment, a senior official said.The NHAI has notified the new alignment for NH-30 connecting Bailey Road from Saguna More to Bihta via Danapur railway station and Neora and is widening it as a four-lane road. It will be linked to the upcoming the civilian airport at Bihta through an elevated corridor.The NHAI, which used to maintain Danapur-Bihta stretch of Patna-Ara road, handed over its possession to the RCD in June and asked to maintain it as per its requirement. The state government often locked horns with NHAI for maintenance of the road, as it was in the process of finalising new alignment of the NH30. RCD’s additional chief secretary Amrit Lal Meena said the department has proposed to develop the existing seven-metre road from Danapur to Bihta via Maner as a 10-metre wide boulevard with pavements in keeping with future traffic load on it. “The road is being strengthened as it will connect to the proposed Greenfield bridge on river Ganga from Shepur in Patna to Dighwara in Saran, being built as part of the Patna’s ring road project,” said Meena.It will be the sixth bridge on the river Ganga in Patna. The Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has already allocated a sum of ₹3,000 crore to build the bridge under the Prime Minister’s special package to Bihar. It will be a key component of the larger ring road project for Patna and other cities in the north of river Ganga.A senior official of the RCD said the department has prepared to a detailed project report (DPR) to strengthen the road at the cost of ₹50 crore. The road is also important as it connects to a religiously important tourist place of Maner Sharif Dargah, once an ancient centre of Sufism in the eastern India. “Thousands of people from India and abroad visit the place every year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/danapurmanerbihta-stretch-of-nh-30-set-for-new-makeover-101629479645386.html
20-08-2021||Other||Bengal BJP losing celebrity factor with actors quitting amid differences||The West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is running out of its celebrity faces with a host of actors, who joined the party prior to the March-April assembly polls, either lying low or quitting.Two actors from Bengali television and cinema, Rupa Bhattacharjee and Anindya Banerjee, declared this week that they have severed ties with the BJP. Several other popular actors have distanced themselves from the BJP, party leaders said.The development comes weeks after the Bengal BJP’s most prominent celebrity, Bollywood singer-turned politician Babul Supriyo, who won the Asansol Lok Sabha seat twice and served as union minister of state, announced his decision to quit active politics.Supriyo, who was dropped from the government during the cabinet reshuffle on July 7, said he would continue as an MP but would not attend any political event. He contested the Tollygunge assembly seat in Kolkata but was defeated by minister Aroop Biswas.Before the elections, in which the BJP secured only 77 of the state’s 294 assembly seats, more than a dozen television and cinema actors with no political background joined the saffron camp.Of them, Bhattacharjee and Banerjee took part in numerous debates and talk shows on popular news channels and batted for the BJP. Both were inducted in the presence of state president Dilip Ghosh but were not fielded in the polls. Bhattacharjee said she joined in 2019 with the hope that the BJP might usher in a change although she believed in Marxist ideology since childhood.The two actors faced criticism on August 16 for attending a programme that marked the completion of 500 days of a crowd-funded public canteen that Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers run at Jadavpur in south Kolkata.Reacting to this, Ghosh said, “Who is Rupa? Who is Anindya? I cannot remember them. I don’t remember inducting them. So many people joined us. Probably they came with the crowds. Celebrities do not struggle on the field. They only add to the party’s beauty.”Alleging that factionalism in the Bengal BJP is a dominant factor, Bhattacharjee wrote an open letter to Ghosh on her Facebook page on August 18 and said she faced this because she was inspired by Mukul Roy to join.Roy, who was a national vice-president, returned to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on June 11.“I support each and every social welfare activity that helps. I don't see who is running it. I am not part of any party anymore. If you cannot respect artists, at least respect your party workers,” Bhattacharjee wrote in her letter to Ghosh. She also told the media that she does not believe in radical Hinduism.Anindya Banerjee did not criticize any leader but said he was not in the BJP anymore although he did not submit a formal resignation letter.A top Bengal BJP leader said several popular cinema actors such as Srabanti Chatterjee, Payel Sarkar, Tanushree Chakraborty and Yash Dasgupta, all of whom unsuccessfully contested the polls, have not been seen at any BJP programme in recent months.“Those who invited actors at random should explain why they are leaving us now,” said the leader who did not wish to be named.Fielding actors in the polls became a bone of contention in the BJP in May when senior leader and former Tripura governor Tathagata Roy accused Ghosh and national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya of selecting unfit candidates.In his tweets, Roy called some female actors “politically stupid.” This led to a row.The TMC also fielded some people who had no political experience. Of them, actor Saayoni Ghosh, who lost the contest from West Burdwan district, was later made president of the party’s youth wing.ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bengal-bjp-losing-celebrity-factor-with-actors-quitting-amid-differences-101629479586654.html
20-08-2021||Patna||8 cops injured in attack by sand mafia in rural Patna||At least eight members of a police team were injured when they were attacked by miscreants during a raid against illegal sand transportation in rural Patna early Friday morning, officials said. This is the third such incident in the last 24 hours during which police teams were also attacked in Muzaffarpur and Sheohar districts.In the Patna incident, according to station house officer of Ranitalab police station, Bimlesh Kumar Paswan, who himself was injured, a police team was attacked by around 15 members of sand mafia operating in Barertola village. An assistant sub-inspector, four constables, a chowkidar and a jawan were also injured in the attack, and were currently undergoing treatment.Additional forces were rushed to the spot, but the miscreants managed to flee by then, police said.Patna City superintendent of police (West) Ashok Kumar Mishra said the entire village is involved in illegal sand mining as it is situated just beside river Sone.“Police also raided the house of two sand mafia members and recovered countrymade firearms and liquor bottles from their houses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/8-cops-injured-in-attack-by-sand-mafia-in-rural-patna-101629479286579.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||UK and UP have a lot to do together, says British envoy||LUCKNOW British high commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, said that the United Kingdom and Uttar Pradesh had a lot to do together, after his meeting with chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow on Friday.Later in the day, Ellis also met Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav. “Had a good discussion with the chief minister Yogi Adityanath on education, investment, sustainability and crafts. UK and UP have to do a lot together,” Ellis tweeted along with a picture of the meeting.“The UP government came in for huge praise from Alex Ellis, the UK high commissioner in India, for exemplary work done in controlling the second wave of Covid effectively besides registering achievements in the field of women’s empowerment, education of girls, implementation of several women welfare schemes and assistance to local artisans,” said a statement issued by the UP government. The CM explained to the British high commissioner in detail about the measures his government had taken to contain the pandemic. He also pointed out that the UP government had already administered seven crore vaccine doses and conducted six crore Covid tests, the most in the country, it said. Ellis, who called on chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the latter’s official residence, desired to work in tandem in areas related to health, defence, environment, designing and packaging, especially with regard to One District One Product (ODOP). Identifying opportunities of investment in the field of health, education, MSME, defence, food processing, animal protection and homeland security, the British high commissioner was particularly keen to have mutual cooperation to boost bilateral trade in these areas, said the UP government statement.Ellis also told Yogi Adityanath that UP had immense potential for export of textile and leather goods to the United Kingdom. Some British companies had already invested in UP and were keen to expand their presence in the state, the statement said. He also mentioned that the two countries had collaborated in making of masks and health equipment during corona times.The British envoy said the education sector was the one where both the countries could collaborate by way of curriculum, pedagogy and other aspects of the universities of the UK, added the UP government’s statement.During his day-long visit, Ellis also visited the premises of a company engaged in producing khadi textiles while protecting the environment. The envoy took keen interest in solar charkhas through which Khadi cloth is weaved. He also wanted to know if his country could promote the use of these solar charkhas among local folks in order to produce green clothing. Alex Ellis recalled his last visit to Varanasi about 25 years ago. He told the CM how he was enamoured with the spirituality and religious fervour of the ancient city. He was happy to note that Varanasi, the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had gone through a sea change in terms of development and systematic approach to improve civic amenities, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uk-up-have-to-do-a-lottogether-british-envoy-101629479285438.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||Cong holding chaupals, lending ear to villagers’ problems||LUCKNOW Congress leaders and workers are going door to door and telling people – “We are here to listen to your problems” – as part of the three-day ‘Jai Bharat Jansampark’ mega campaign launched by the party in UP from August 19 to 21. As many senior leaders, including former union ministers, former MPs and sitting/former legislators are leading the campaign in many districts, the elders recognize them instantly. But others, who are new in the party, have to introduce themselves to people before starting the conversation. If senior Congress leaders are to be believed, the party leaders are getting a good response. “We are going door to door, covering all houses in villages and getting a good response. As we interact with the people and hold ‘chaupal’, people are now coming forward to vent their ire against the BJP. They have begun considering the Congress as an alternative to the BJP,” said Pradeep Mathur, former BJP MLA, who has been leading the campaign in Mathura. The UP Congress Committee (UPCC) has launched a number of agitations and campaigns in recent months, and according to UPCC spokesman Ashok Singh, criminal cases have been registered against more than 50,000 party leaders and workers for taking up the cause of people. Following directives from Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, the UPCC has sent about 15,000-20,000 party leaders and workers to villages with a target to connect with 9 million people. Priyanka also asked them to honour freedom fighters, their families, farmers and others there. “About 20,000 leaders, office-bearers and workers have been sent to visit villages and wards. Party leaders will camp and connect with about 9 million people in about 35,000 villages,” said Ajay Kumar Lallu, UPCC president, from Gorakhpur. “We are holding ‘chaupals’ in villages, listening to problems of people and honouring families of freedom fighters, teachers, advocates and workers in villages,” added Lallu. Apart from Lallu, those leading the Congress’ mega campaign in villages and urban areas include Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’ (Pratapgarh), former UPCC president Nirmal Khatri (Ayodhya), Pradeep Jain ‘Aditya’ (Jhansi), former MP Rajesh Mishra and party leader Ajay Rai (Varanasi). “We got a good response in Lucknow, where party MLC Deepak Singh led the campaign,” said Onkar Nath Singh, UPCC spokesman. “People know elections are round the corner and the mega campaign is a poll stunt by the Congress. The party should have done all this earlier,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University.Besides launching agitations on various issues, the UPCC had recently launched “BJP Gaddi Chhodo” campaign from August Kranti Divas (August 9) and the party’s legislators had marched from GPO Park to Vidhan Bhawan in Lucknow to press their point about freedom of expression. UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu and CLP leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’, who led the march, said the BJP government was registering criminal cases against those launching any agitation and raising their voice. “We wanted to convey to the state government that the party leaders are ready to get arrested for raising people’s voice,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-holding-chaupals-lending-ear-to-villagers-problems-101629479105928.html
20-08-2021||Patna||CUSB joins hands with Japan organisation for research on material science||The Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) has signed an agreement with Japan-based KEK High Energy Accelerator Research Organisation to study and research on material science, officials concerned said on Friday.The research work is a part of global science project in which more than three thousand scientists from 150 institutions across the world will do research together, said CUSB officials.The varsity has attributed the credit of grabbing the global opportunity to its associate professor (physics) Dr Vijay Raj Singh and his team of researchers, whose work was reviewed and approved by Japan’s research institute. Elaborating details, Singh said, “During our research work, we will get a better understanding of the fundamental factors affecting solid state physics, material science and spintronic devices. Apart from this, we will also be able to discover the hidden secrets of material science which is necessary for dense data storage devices.”CUSB’S public relations officer Muddasir Alam said that the two-year research work is fully funded by Japan’s research institute.The institute’s vice-chancellor Kameshwar Nath Singh and registrar Colonel Rajiv Kumar Singh appreciated the achievement of Prof Singh and his research scholars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cusb-joins-hands-with-japan-organisation-for-research-on-material-science-101629478925354.html
20-08-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Two hardcore Maoists held||The police have arrested two high-ranking hardcore Maoists wanted in both Jharkhand and Bihar in the last two days from different districts, officials said on Friday. The arrested Maoists have been identified as Ramesh Ganjhu alias Ankit Ji alias Azad Ji and Pradyuman Sharma alias Kundan alias Saket, carrying a cash reward of ₹15 lakh and ₹25 lakh, respectively.While Ganjhu, who is accused of killing over 30 security personnel in different incidents of ambush , was arrested in Chatra district on Thursday, Sharma was held in Hazaribagh in the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, police said. Ganjhu, who originally hails from Chatra district, is said to be instrumental in carrying out ambush against security forces over the past two decades across Jharkhand and Bihar, including one in Latehar district, wherein 15 security personnel were killed. “Chatra SP had got information that Ganjhu was on recruitment drive for his front in Lawalong-Chatra area and is based in Barwadih forest area under Lawalong police station. During combing operation, a dedicated team constituted to nab him got hold of one person in the forest who was later identified as Azad,” a statement from the police department said. Police said Ganjhu is named in 46 cases registered with different police stations in Jharkhand and Bihar.In another major catch, Sharma, who originally hails from Jehanabad district in Bihar, was held from forest area under Chouparan police station in Hazaribagh district during a special combing operation on Thursday night. Sharma is facing 90 registered cases and is a member of the Bihar-Jharkhand Special Area Committee of the outlawed CPI (Maoists), police said. “Pradyuman is one of the most significant members of the Magadh zone of CPI (Maoists). He has been in touch with the top leadership of their Eastern Regional Bureau (ERB). He has been active since 1996 and is named in 90 cases in Bihar and Jharkhand,” said Hazaribagh superintendent of police, Manoj Ratan Chothe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-two-hardcore-maoists-held-101629478685781.html
20-08-2021||Ranchi||Soren attends opposition meet; calls for cornering BJP on people’s issues||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) working president and chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday participated in the virtual meeting chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, wherein he called for a cohesive opposition of the BJP and corner the central government on issues concerned with the masses. Sources in the chief minister’s office said the JMM leader underlined that the Opposition needs to “resist anti-people policies of the central government in a cohesive manner.” Speaking at the meeting, Soren said the Opposition needs to raise the pitch for declaring the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic as a national disaster.“We should join hands and push for the demand. The Centre needs to provide adequate compensation to families who lost their loved ones. People were forced to sell their property and jewellery for treatment and they are now facing uncertainties about their future.”The JMM leader underlined that there are enough national and international issues on which the Opposition could corner the BJP. He, however, advised to choose issues with which people connect. “We need to take up burning issues which connect with people. Common people like farmers and labourers hardly connect with issues like Pegasus. The Opposition needs to focus more on issues such as inflation, unemployment and farmers’ issues,” he said. Soren said that the Opposition should also take up issues such as the Parliament fiasco, alleged silencing of democracy and caging of the institutions.The JMM leader also pointed out that the issues of the states are not being addressed. “As part of a collective framework, the Opposition, including all non-NDA ruled states, should immediately take up these issues especially those being faced by non-BJP run states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/soren-attends-opposition-meet-calls-for-cornering-bjp-on-people-s-issues-101629478505559.html
20-08-2021||Other||Sugarcane farmers block Jalandhar-Phagwara highway, rail track; seek ₹200-crore dues||Jalandhar Demanding that the state government clear their dues of over ₹200 crore and hike the State Assured Price (SAP) of sugarcane farmers from ₹310 a quintal to ₹358, farmers of 32 unions blocked the Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of the national highway and rail tracks on Friday. Unions have also claimed that their protest will continue indefinitely. The protest started from Dhanowali village of Jalandhar district and by the late afternoon, the unions had also blocked the rail track near Dhanowali between Jalandhar - Chaheru section. They blocked the movement of trains on the Ludhiana Amritsar and Ludhiana-Jammu tracks. The Ferozepur railway division said movement of 31 trains were hit, with six being cancelled and nine diverted. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) president Manjit Singh Rai and general secretary, Satnam Singh Sahni, said, “The Capt government did not increase even a single penny for sugarcane crop over the past four years. We will continue to block the national highway and the tracks till the time the state government agrees to meet our demands.” On the national highway that connects major cities of Punjab and Jammu, traffic was badly hit, with the police resorting to diversions. “We have conveyed to the CM Capt Amarinder Singh and the cane commissioner of the state to hold meeting with us at the earliest,” said a farm leader. Later in the day, Jalandhar deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, and SSP Naveen Singla met farmers near Paragpur on the national highway itself. Then DC told the farmers that the state government had already increased the sugarcane crop SAP from ₹310 to ₹325; farmers, however, remained adamant on their demand for a higher increase. Farm leader Sahni said, “The Punjab government has forced farmers to block the national highway, which affects the common man. We are also helpless as the state government has left us with no other option.” PASSENGERS INCONVENIENCED IN LUDHIANAThousands of passengers travelling in trains which had to ply through the Ludhiana station faced harassment due to the protest. Officials added six trains were diverted from their usual routes and six were cancelled. The Paschim Express (2925) which runs from Mumbai Bandra to Amritsar was halted at the Ludhiana railway station for over an hour, since it couldn’t get clearance to cross through the Jalandhar station. Chandigarh to Amritsar train was short terminated at Ludhiana junction, with passengers adjusted in other trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sugarcane-farmers-block-jalandhar-phagwara-highway-rail-track-seek-rs-200-crore-dues-101629477725753.html
20-08-2021||Other||Odisha launches special smart card scheme for healthcare||Ahead of the panchayat and urban body elections in Odisha next year, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday launched a health insurance scheme called Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana Smart Card scheme in tribal-dominated Malkangiri district on Friday promising that it would usher in a paradigm shift in the system of healthcare services in India.Handing the first such card to Sukri Dhangda Majhi, a tribal woman from the primitive Bonda tribe, Patnaik said each life was precious and money should never be a hindrance in treatment.“It’s a historic, paradigm shift in the system of healthcare services in India, where a patient will get the best healthcare without any expense. Each family can get treatment cost up to ₹5 lakh per year and women will get benefits up to ₹10 lakh per year under BSKY. This is the first of its kind scheme in the country. It will go a long way in strengthening the health security of people in the state,” Patnaik said while launching the distribution of the smart card.Around 9.6 million families in the state will receive these smart cards that would enable them to avail cashless health coverage across more than 200 empanelled private hospitals in and outside the state. The smartcards with a 64KB chip will have the details of family members and a 12-digit distinctive registration quantity. Each family will be given two cards in case two people fall sick at the same time.In the first phase, the cards will be distributed in Malkangiri, Balangir, Sundargarh, Mayurbhanj and Gajapati districts before covering the remaining 26 districts by November. The beneficiaries can avail healthcare facilities under the scheme from September 1. In Malkangiri, where the health indices are pretty dismal, 1,55,823 smart cards will be distributed between August 21 and 25.The BSKY smart card scheme is a new version of the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Scheme that was first launched in August 2018 to lessen the out of pocket (OOP) expenses which were very high as per the national health accounts estimate for 2016-17. The scheme allowed the convergence of erstwhile Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana, Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana and Odisha State Treatment Fund without any premium contribution by the beneficiary or insurance intermediary. Under the old scheme, over 7.1 million farmer families, as well as people receiving foodgrains under Antoday Anna Yojana, were being given identity cards through which they could get treatment in empanelled private hospitals.State health secretary PK Mohapatra said by November all the 9.6 million families in the state would be covered. From September 1, those who have the smart card would have to produce it at private hospitals for treatment while those who don’t have it can show the NFSA or SFSA card for availing cashless care up to the annual financial limit.Political analysts said the move to issue BSKY smart cards ahead of next year’s local body polls is a welcome step as it signalled the moving away from politics of freebies.“Yesterday, Odisha government announced the creation of over 1,100 posts of nursing officials in various primary health centres, community health centres, the district headquarters hospitals and medical colleges. Today’s launch of the BSKY smart card shows the intent to move toward the politics of infrastructure which was prevalent during Vajpayee’s days when elections were fought over Bijlee, Sadak and Pani. A lot of improvements are needed in the healthcare system of the state and this is a step in the right direction,” said Gyanaranjan Swain, a political science professor.But opposition BJP said the scheme is a scam. “Nothing has changed. Even under the old BSKY, beneficiaries were not being treated at the empanelled private hospitals as those hospitals had over ₹50 crore outstanding. During the Covid wave, several people were refused treatment in private hospitals. The government never gives any information on how many people were treated under BSKY whenever RTI applications are filed. The government just loves to keep everyone in dark,” said BJP spokesperson Lekhashree Samantsinghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-launches-special-smart-card-scheme-for-healthcare-101629475805208.html
20-08-2021||Other||SPPU students conduct public transport survey, will submit findings to GoI||PUNE: In a bid to study the current public transportation situation in the city and provide better solutions for the same, students of the sociology and women’s studies departments of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) have started a survey of the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas.As part of the survey, a team of 21 students will form groups to visit major bus stands in both cities, talk to the commuters there, and get feedback on their experience travelling on Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses.Madhura Gunjal, a member of the team, said, “We are participating in the ‘Transport4All Digital Innovation Challenge’, a government of India initiative to develop solutions that improve public transport to better serve citizens’ mobility needs. Through this survey, we are trying to understand the transport needs of passengers. The responses given by passengers are important and will help us make public transport safe, affordable, and more reliable.”Shruti Tambe, head of the sociology department of the SPPU, said, “Three thousand passengers from Pune city and 2,000 passengers from Pimpri-Chinchwad will be surveyed. We are asking about the issues and challenges faced by passengers in their daily commute. We are also welcoming new ideas and solutions from them. After completion of the survey, we will submit our findings to the government of India.”Professor Nitin Karmalkar, vice chancellor of the SPPU, said, “If public transportation is enhanced and is of better quality, obviously the number of private vehicles will reduce and this will be beneficial for the environment. And our university students are conducting the survey for this which is a matter of pride for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-students-conduct-public-transport-survey-will-submit-findings-to-goi-101629475324502.html
20-08-2021||Other||MVA launches “catch the rain” campaign to beat summer droughts||PUNE To solve drinking water problems in rural areas during the summer, the state government, on Friday, announced a “Catch the Rai” campaign, under the Meenatai Thackeray Gramin (rural) water storage scheme. The campaign aims to ensure that under the scheme, district administrations, including Pune, construct ponds, underground storage tanks, and overground storage tanks, all to collect rain water.The state’s ground water survey and development agency (GSDA) has developed the plan to store rain water with the help of underground and overhead tanks.Chetan Nikam, upper secretary of the water supply and sanitation department, issued an order to all district administrations to construct the storage tanks.The order includes designs and instructions on how to construct the tanks and create water bodies, apart from maintenance of the same.In 2016, the BJP-Shiv Sena coalition government introduced a farm pond scheme. Now, the Shiv Sena- led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has introduced this “catch the rain” campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mva-launches-catch-the-rain-campaign-to-beat-summer-droughts-101629475144495.html
20-08-2021||Other||Army Sports Institute stadium to be named after Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra||PUNE The Indian Army has decided to name the stadium at Army Sports Institute (ASI), Pune, after Tokyo Olympics gold medallist in the javelin throw, Subedar Neeraj Chopra.Defence minister Rajnath Singh will preside over the naming ceremony at the institute on August 23. The stadium will be known as the “Neeraj Chopra Army Sports Stadium, Pune Cantt”.Singh will also felicitate 16 Olympians of the Indian Army on the occasion.After being recruited by the Indian Army under the sports quota, Chopra (23) from Panipat in Haryana, trained at the ASI, the premier sports training institute of the Indian Army.The ASI was set up in 2001 under the Mission Olympics programme. ASI is a multi-disciplinary sports training institute. It imparts training in seven fields: archery, athletics, boxing, diving, wrestling, fencing and weightlifting.Defence minister Singh will be on a one-day visit to Pune on August 23, when he will preside over functions at the Defence Institute of Advanced Technologies (DIAT) and the ASI. Army chief General M M Naravane and Southern Army Commander Lt Gen J S Nain will also be present for the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-sports-institute-stadium-to-be-named-after-olympic-gold-medallist-neeraj-chopra-101629474904449.html
20-08-2021||Other||3.7%: Pune district at its lowest weekly Covid-19 positivity rate||PUNE With a 3.7% positivity as of August 20, Pune district is at its lowest weekly Covid-19 positivity rate since the pandemic began in 2020, said district officials on Friday.However, despite a drop in the positivity rate, the district still has the highest number of active cases in the state, accounting for 22% of the state’s active Covid-19 cases. As per the state health department, Pune has reported 12,558 active cases in the district as of Thursday, the highest in the state, accounting for 22.64% of the state’s active case load.This is followed by Thane with 7,022 active cases and Mumbai with 3,030 active cases.Zilla Parishad chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad said, “At 3.7%, this is the lowest weekly positivity rate, reported in the district since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020. This is because of the drop in the number of cases from rural areas as well. The overall drop in the number of cases has led to a drop in the positivity rate and we have kept testing numbers high.” As per the district report, Pune saw its highest positivity rate of 25.2% in April this year.The case fatality rate of the district stands at 1.5%, with 92 deaths reported from August 12-18. There has been a slight rise in the number of deaths reported as in the previous week the district reported 86 deaths. Between July 22-28, the district saw 76 deaths, and between July 15-21, 63 deaths were reported. Satara has 6,658 active cases, Ahmednagar has 5,709 active cases, Sangli has 5,210 and Solapur has 4,580 active cases. Of the six districts in the state with highest active case load, five are from Pune division. 17-year old brain dead girl donates organs to save three lives On Thursday, Pune saw its 21st multi-organ donation this year, after the parents and close relatives of a 17-year old brain dead girl admitted to DY Patil Hospital and Research Centre in Pimpri, consented to donate all her organs. While the lungs were flown to KIMS Hyderabad, her liver and one kidney was allocated to a patient from DY Patil Hospital. Her other kidney was allocated to a patient in Jehangir Hospital. The organs donated were allocated as per criteria laid down by the government bodies at the State level (SOTTO) Regional level (ROTTO) and National Level (NOTTO). The ZTCC Pune and DY Patil Hospital were able to facilitate this donation due to the continued support of the Pune Airport Authorities and traffic police of Pune and PCMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/37-pune-district-at-its-lowest-weekly-covid-19-positivity-rate-101629474724506.html
20-08-2021||Other||54 post-vax Covid fatalities had serious comorbidities: dist health office||PUNE Of the 10, 206 infections reported among people who have had at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, Pune district has reported 54 deaths.Of the 54 deaths, Pune city saw 41 deaths and PCMC saw 13 deaths. Pune rural did not report any death among those vaccinated. Health officials added that while the deceased did get infected with Covid-19, they also had serious comorbidities. The district has also seen a nominal, 0.16%, of breakthrough infections in people fully vaccinated. As of August 20, 0.14% have been infected after the first vaccine dose.Of the seven million people who have either one and/or both shots of the vaccine, 0.15% contracted Covid-19.As per the district health office, the 54 deaths accounts for a smaller percentage of deaths vis-a-vi the number of deaths among those unvaccinated. Experts have repeatedly said that while there is a possibility of infection even after vaccination, symptoms are less severe. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said, “The deaths reported among those who got the vaccine were of those who had serious comorbidities like cancer, severe infection, uncontrolled diabetes, hypertension, comorbidity and most of them were above the age of 60 years, which makes them a vulnerable group.”The district health office has reported 7,124 of 5.14 million people who got their first dose got infected; and 3,082 reported breakthrough infections, defined as Covid-19 infections after both doses of the vaccine.The district also saw 550,455 who got vaccines under the special category, including those who got it at the workplace (3,09,880), those specially abled (22,045), students wanting to go abroad (9,695), pregnant women (1,460), bed-ridden citizens (990), third genders (570) and others (205,815).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/54-post-vax-covid-fatalities-had-serious-comorbidities-dist-health-office-101629474544467.html
20-08-2021||Other||Longowal death anniversary: Farmers oppose leaders’ presence, Sukhbir skips SAD’s religious event||Longowal (Sangrur) With political parties cancelling their conferences on the 36th death anniversary of former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sant Harchand Singh Longowal in Longowal village of the district on Friday, in deference to the farmers’ agitation against the three Central farm laws, it was a day when farmers, under the banner of Kirti Kisan Union, opposed political leaders. The state government had organised a function adhering to Covid norms at the Longowal grain market, where school education minister Vijay Inder Singla and forests minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot paid tributes to the leader. Scores of farmers under the Kirti Kisan Union opposed the ministers. Bhupinder Singh Longowal, state leader of Kirti Kisan Union, said, “We showed black flags to Congress ministers at the grain market. We also opposed the gathering of leaders outside Gurdwara Kambowal Sahib, where the SAD had held a religious gathering. Our leaders are busy holding political functions, instead of strongly opposing black laws.”SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal skipped the event held at Gurdwara Kambowal Sahib where ex-Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Gobind Singh Longowal and the acting jathedar of the Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh and other party leaders paid tributes to Longowal. The protesters forced former MP and senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra to return from the gate of the Kambowal gurdwara. Though Chandumajra tried to convince the protesters to let him enter, they started raising slogans and, allegedly, damaged his car. The former MP returned without attending the event.SAD (Samyukt) leader and Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa paid his tributes to Longowal in a separate event at Gurdwara Bhai Mani Singh Ji.Later in the day, Singla, however, claimed that the farmers were not opposing their function but were protesting against the Centre’s farm laws, adding, “Longowal had taken the initiative of Rajiv-Longowal accord for the progress of Punjab. He made a significant contribution to the progress and peace of Punjab and Punjabiyat.” Gobind Singh Longowal condemned the opposition to Chandumajra, adding that the farmers had interrupted a religious event. Punjab being pushed into a civil-warlike situation: Akal Takht jathedarActing jathedar of the Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh, said he suspected that using the three farm laws as an excuse, Punjab is being pushed towards a civil-war like situation and the Centre wanted to impose governor rule in the state.“I suspect that this is a big strategy of the Central government to push Punjab towards a civil-war like situation and prepare the ground for governor’s rule. Those who are protesting are farmers, and those who are being opposed are also farmers. They are not BJP-backed people. All are farmers and the sangat is also farmers.”“In Sikhism, politics is not above religion. Due to human desire, however, politics is dominating as people prefer this,” the jathedar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/longowal-death-anniversary-farmers-oppose-leaders-presence-sukhbir-skips-sad-s-religious-event-101629473105021.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||75 acres land acquired for Ayodhya airport, farmers compensated||LUCKNOW The district administration in Ayodhya has fast tracked UP government’s ‘Maryada Purshottam Sriram International Airport project by acquiring 75 acres land for it and compensating displaced farmers. The land has been acquired in eight villages, including Janura, Ganja, Pura Hussain Khan, Dharampur Sahadat, Nandpur, Kushmaha, Firozpur and Sarethi, of the district. BJP MLA Indra Pratap Tewari played an important role in resolving all issues of farmers, who were earlier reluctant to hand over their land for the project. He met farmers and addressed their issues related to compensation, said officials. On Friday, Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Jha handed over papers of plots and compensation amount to 75 farmers whose land was acquired for the project, they said. “Houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, plots and compensation will be awarded to those whose land has been acquired for the airport project. Today, 75 such farmers were compensated,” said Anuj Jha, district magistrate, Ayodhya. After the centre sanctioned ₹250 crore for the project, the UP government approved ₹321 crore to purchase additional land for the airport. According to the state government, ₹1001.77 crore has been approved for the purchase of 555.66 acres additional land for the construction of the airport. A budgetary provision of ₹101 crore has also been proposed for development work at the airport in the state’s budget 2021-22. On November 6, 2018, CM Yogi Adityanath had announced the development of the airstrip at Ayodhya for large aircraft such as A-320 and B-737 and the construction of a terminal building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/75-acres-land-acquired-for-ayodhya-airport-farmers-compensated-101629472925277.html
20-08-2021||Pune||Pune reports 882 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 882 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths in 24 hours on Monday. This took the progressive count to 1.108 million of which 1.076 million have recovered, 19,155 deaths and 12,558 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 95,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 521 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 339,376 and with two more deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,416. Pune city reported 201 new cases which took the progressive count to 508,570 and one more death was reported which took the death toll to 8,941. PCMC reported 160 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 260,601 and the toll stood at 3,450. Pune also saw 95,634 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Friday and totally 7,207,230 vaccines have been administered in total, including 5,324,750 first dose and 1,882,480 are second dose. A total of 725 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 500 are government and 225 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-882-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-101629472384351.html
20-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand SDRF on alert after IMD’S warning of heavy rainfall for next 2 days||Uttarakhand state disaster response force (SDRF) has asked all its teams to remain in alert mode following the Indian Meteorological Department’s warning of heavy rainfall in the state for the next two days. The IMD on Friday issued an alert of heavy to very heavy rainfall with intense spells likely to occur at isolated places in Uttarakhand. It also warned of thunderstorms accompanied by lightning likely to occur at isolated places in Uttarakhand. Following the IMD’s warning, Navneet Singh, commandant SDRF directed all teams of SDRF across the state to remain alert to deal with any kind of eventuality that may arise of heavy rains such as landslides, cloud bursts and flash floods. The SDRF control room in the state capital has also been kept on alert mode. Meanwhile, rains continued to lash Uttarakhand, disrupting the normal life and movement of people. During 24 hours starting 8.30 am on Thursday, Uttarakhand reported 29.5 rainfall, with a departure of 127% from the normal. Bageshwar district recorded 64.8 mm rain with a departure of 720%, while Chamoli reported 29.4 mm rain, with a departure of 352%. Dehradun reported 33.3 mm rain with a departure of 104%, while Haridwar recorded 26.7 mm rain with a departure of 200%. Since June 1, the state has received 811.1 mm rainfall against normal of 861 mm, registering a deficit of 6 % so far. According to IMD, during the 24 hours, light to moderate rainfall occurred at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall/thunderstorms at isolated places in Uttarakhand. The highest maximum temperature 33.0°C was recorded at Khatima and the lowest minimum temperature 10.0°C was recorded at Nainital. In view of warning of continued rainfall activity in the state, the IMD’s Dehradun centre in its advisory stated there is the possibility of medium/major landslides and road blockages in hills and a significant increase in the water level in rivulets and rivers and waterlogging in low lying areas of plains of Uttarakhand. People are advised to be alert and avoid unnecessary movement, the advisory added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-sdrf-on-alert-after-imd-s-warning-of-heavy-rainfall-for-next-2-days-101629471844843.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Mumbai’s Melting Pot||The glory of Mumbai’s restaurants: Udupi joints serving endless dishes of hot steaming idlis, rawa dosas and medu vadas along with veg Manchurian, American chop suey and Hakka noodles to hungry office-goers; kebab establishments offering butter chicken, Hyderabadi daal and seekh kebabs to happy groups of gourmands; Chinese and Pan-Asian eateries dishing out golden fried prawns, tom yum soups, and Vietnamese noodles for ladies who lunch; pizzerias and sandwich shops listing penne in pink sauce and thin crust Margherita, along with Peri Peri paneer combos for the young and restless; Irani cafes with their brun maska, masala tea and berry Pulao to satiate the lonely traveller; Gujarati chaat houses serving street food like pani puri, made with mineral water; pure veg restaurants with their all-you-can-eat bottomless thalis... How much of a city’s character is defined by its restaurants? Would it be wrong to say that restaurants command the same import as a city’s important cultural elements like its museums, theatres and art galleries? After all, what would some of the world’s great cities be without their restaurants? Paris without its cafes, Rome without its trattorias, Tokyo without its Izakayas, Barcelona without its tapas bars or New York without its neighbourhood delis? *****************************************At their most basic level, of course it’s the convenience restaurants offer that made them such a mainstay of modern life — having someone prepare one’s meal, serve it and wash up after is no mean service, in an age when time and energy are at a premium. The nine-to-five lifestyle of white-collar workers and the fact that more women are working outside their homes, all make the convenience of eating out a very attractive proposition. But that’s just one part of their popularity. Restaurants also provide a level playing field for the more impersonal interactions which are the staple of modern living, such as business meetings, job interviews, first dates and office discussions, where people are required to meet over a meal, to discuss the subject at hand, with little distractions. For tourists, travellers and wanderers, restaurants are a way to experience first-hand a city’s culture; even without dining at a local home, a tourist can feel welcome and experience the rites and rituals of a new city, just by sitting among strangers and partaking of the food. Restaurants are also the go-to places for celebrations — how else to mark a birthday, anniversary or hot date than at one’s favourite restaurant, where for a brief period one is transported away from the everyday and mundane, and is made to feel special and cherished? *****************************************Of course, in today’s food-obsessed world where cuisine has come to represent much more than nutrition and sustenance, restaurants have come to be regarded almost as the temples of modern life, and their celebrated chefs as their high priests. Food and foodies have captured the public imagination in the past two decades as never before. TV shows based on food, food awards and contests and food-related content are an integral part of our lives today. What’s more, food has come to be seen as a community exercise; it’s not as important to have tasted a dish as to have shared it on social media. A popular cartoon in the New Yorker captured the zeitgeist perfectly — a couple goes out to a fancy restaurant and orders their food. As they are about to finish their first course, the server interrupts them and asks, “Pardon me, is everything all right?” The couple is surprised and replies in the affirmative. The server responds, “But, you haven’t even photographed your food yet!” More than the taste on your palate, food today has come to represent a person’s status, style and taste, much the same way as their choice of fashion or vocation does. Often, much of the restaurant-going experience is about being seen at the right place. Patronising a particular eatery sends out messages of who you are and what you aspire to. *****************************************Considering their ubiquity, it is almost difficult to imagine that restaurants across the world are facing an existential crisis today. Perhaps the worst-affected are restaurants in India. Though it employs and provides jobs to thousands, here, the restaurant sector appears to be the favourite punching bag for the powers that be. So, while governments around the world have stepped in to help their local restaurants through the lockdowns in the past year (even paying some of the wage bill in cities like London), Indian restaurant haven’t been afforded the same considerations. Among the first to down their shutters at the start of the Covid-19 lockdown last year, Indian restaurants seem to be the last to open their doors to customers. Last week, in a move that appeared hopeful, their working hours were relaxed till 10pm. However, the city’s leading restaurateurs have been crying foul about the regulation that requires all members of staff to be fully vaccinated, and say the government has unrealistic expectations and is giving them step- motherly treatment (given the shortage of vaccines). When train services, malls and cinemas have been opened, they ask why their particular requirements haven’t been considered. On its part, the government argues that it is for everyone’s safety and that restaurants by definition will have mask-less customers, and the probability of spread is heightened. *****************************************It is too early to say how things will eventually pan out, but given the way things are going, it would not be wrong to speculate if the city’s restaurant scene will ever be the same again. Many cherished establishments have already downed their shutters; the enterprising and agile among them have taken to other forms of business, such as food deliveries and innovative DIY offers. And though some restaurateurs have managed to put on a brave face, each will tell you in private that they are unable to meet their expenses and do not know how long they can survive, if things don’t improve soon. So, will families line up every Sunday outside the city’s chaat establishments for some pani-puri and bhel? Will the kitty party ladies return to their Chinese hang outs? Will locals take their tourist friends to the city’s Malvani and seafood specialty restaurants to eat crab, bombil or prawn koliwada? Will the paparazzi be back waiting for Tiger Shroff outside his favourite Bandra eatery? Will international Michelin starred chefs jet in to conduct celebrated pop ups with their Indian counterparts? Will hordes of teenagers converge at the coffee shops of their favourite five-stars for some after dinner coffee and hi-jinks? No one can say for sure, the proof of the pudding, after all, is in the eating…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-mumbai-s-melting-pot-101629471725488.html
20-08-2021||Other||300 Sikhs, Hindus holed up in Kabul gurdwara plead for evacuation||Amritsar Over 300-odd Sikhs and Hindus, the minority communities, huddled together at the Gurdwara Singh Sabha Karte Parwan in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul are anxious to be evacuated from the war-torn country. Even as Taliban leaders have approached them and assured safety, they are not reassured and still want to leave. Airport access, however, remains a major challenge for them, with armed men of the Taliban militia guarding roads leading to the facility, which remains under the control of US troops. “It takes 20-30 minutes to reach the airport from the gurdwara. This is worrying all the Sikhs and Hindus holed up inside,” a Khalsa Aid volunteer, who is in touch with the persons inside the gurdwara, told HT. The people inside the gurdwara have uploaded a video online where they are appealing to the Sikhs settled in the US and Canada to help them in evacuation. Responding to the situation, the Canadian government had announced, a few days ago, that it would permanently resettle 20,000 ‘vulnerable’ Afghans, including Sikhs and Hindus, who are fleeing amid the Taliban’s deadly takeover of the country. The Indian government has also introduced a new category of emergency electronic visas (e-visas) for Afghan nationals. Sikhs open shops outside Gurdwara Nanak Darbar in JalalabadIn stark contrast to the situation in Kabul, Sikh shopkeepers in Jalalabad, around 150km away, have opened their shops near Gurdwara Guru Nanak Darbar. In a video that Jasbir Singh, the head granthi of the gurdwara, has uploaded on social media, shops are open outside the gurdwara and everything appears normal in the market. “There is much misinformation floating around the situation here (Afghanistan). You can, however, see that everything is normal and we feel safe,” Jasbir says in the video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/300-sikhs-hindus-holed-up-in-kabul-gurdwara-plead-for-evacuation-101629470885229.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Emblems of empowerment: Innovation with tradition, weaving a success story||Shaheena Akhtar, 34, an award-winning Kani shawl entrepreneur based in Srinagar’s Old City, not only weaves trends into tradition but also helps weavers in distress, most of them women. Of the six siblings born in a modest family, Shaheena is the only one with a college degree in arts, but she had to drop out due to the family’s economic condition in 2004. “I started learning shawl weaving from my elder brother, while our father, Ghulam Ahmad Rather, used to tin-coat (kalai) copper utensils,” she recalls. Four of her siblings, including two brothers, became shawl weavers but her penchant for innovation began getting her business and recognition. In 2014, she received the Jammu and Kashmir’s exemplary entrepreneur award for her Kani shawls. In 2017, she was felicitated by Hindustan Times at its sixth edition of 30 young achievers from the region. Opportunity in adversity All was well until her marriage in 2017 to an abusive husband, who forced her to quit weaving. After 15 difficult months, she got divorced but was not welcomed back by her brothers. She started from a scratch again, this time with some personal savings. “I wouldn’t have been here in the first place had my brothers not supported me. But then things change. After the divorce, I became a stranger in my own house,” she says. “I decided not to give up. I had started from zero and was back to zero. I took it as a challenge and with the help of neighbours have succeeded again,” she says. Shaheena started living with her mother in a part of their ancestral house and travelled to Amritsar in 2019 to participate in a handicraft exhibition. She took a loan to put her business back on track and today it’s flourishing despite the Covid-19 restrictions. Know your customer Weaving the Kani shawl is a traditional and intricate art, but artisans rarely get the returns for middlemen pocket the gains. After registering with the J&K handicrafts department in 2008, she went for an exhibition the next year that was the turning point. “Few educated women join the shawl sector. That exposure gave me the confidence and insight into the demand,” she says. “People abroad prefer tone to tone shawls instead of colourful ones. Once I even saw my shawl displayed in a showroom in Italy!” she says. Shaheena recalls how one of her uncles was on the brink of bankruptcy. “He had woven shawls on traditional patterns but there were no takers. He didn’t know the trend. Weavers hardly do, but with a little help, he started getting good returns,” she says. She credits her knowledge about customer preferences to her travels to handicraft exhibitions in different cities, including Delhi, Jaipur and Amritsar. “Now, there are several export offers, too,” she says. Help others to help yourself Shaheena is invited by the handicrafts department to give motivational speeches to women artisans. “I’ve given over 100 motivational speeches at awareness camps. More women are joining the handicrafts business. They realise that a woman is not insecure when she leaves home to do something in life,” she says. “Girls can take on any challenge. I work more than my brothers,” she says. At present, she provides employment to about 1,000 people, including Pashmina spinners, weavers, dye givers and washermen and women. Every year, she produces about 100 shawls, including plain Pashmina, Kani and Sozni. “I keep innovating. I’ve started a readymade garment business of pherans and stoles in addition to the shawls,” she adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/emblems-of-empowerment-innovation-with-tradition-weaving-a-success-story-101629470344833.html
20-08-2021||Other||Decision to offer a ride proves deadly for 50-year-old Goan man||The decision to offer a ride on his two-wheeler proved deadly for 50-year old Chandrakant Bandekar who was found stabbed at an isolated area in North Goa on July 2, officials said.More than six weeks later, the Goa Police claimed to have cracked the case and arrested a man who hails from Gujarat The man asked Bandekar for a ride and then decided to steal his gold chain, North Goa Superintendent of Police Shobit Saksena said.The accused, identified as Jaypuri Gosai, was arrested from Ahmedabad, Gujarat, on August 20 and is being brought to Goa.The case came to light after Bandekar’s body was found in a forest area close to the Goa border with Maharashtra with multiple stab injuries on July 2. The victim worked as a sand miner and was found dead with his two-wheeler at the spot.Initially, the police could find no eye-witnesses and had to rely on the sole clue - a short clip of CCTV footage that they chanced upon while trying to crack the case. In the footage, the deceased was seen giving a ride on his Activa motorbike to an unknown, unidentified person.“Several teams were formed to scour through the area for clues and also collect CCTV footage and carry out questioning of suspicious persons. After an intensive analysis of technical and human intelligence, a suspect was traced in Amravati, Maharashtra. Finally, on conclusion of a-48 hour-long interstate operation, the main accused, identified as Jaypuri Gosai, was apprehended in Ahmedabad, Gujarat,” Saksena said.Upon interrogation, Gosai revealed that he had come to Goa in June 2021. When he ran out of money, he decided to return to Ahmedabad and while on his way back, he tried hitchhiking his way and came across Bandekar near Patradevi. Upon seeing his gold chain, he was tempted to rob it, thus stabbed him and fled with his valuables.Gosai also told the police that he has no fixed profession and does odd jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decision-to-offer-a-ride-proves-deadly-for-50-year-old-goan-man-101629468366102.html
20-08-2021||Other||I am with protesting farmers; Centre asked me to stop them in Punjab, I refused: Capt||AnandpurSahib Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday pledged his continued support to farmers agitating against the three Central farm laws, adding that the Centre had turned the issue into one that impinged on its prestige. “My heart is with the farmers protesting on the borders of Delhi. The Centre had asked me to stop these farmers in Punjab and not allow them to come to Delhi, but I refused to do this,” he said, after launching a ₹520-crore debt relief scheme for 2.85 lakh farm labourers and landless farmers in the state. He dedicated the scheme to the state on the 77th birth anniversary of his friend, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.“Like every Indian, farmers also have the right to democratic protest in the national capital. These small farmers are not fighting for themselves, but for their coming generations,” he said, questioning the Centre on its failure to see the pain of protesting farmers. “We have amended the Constitution 127 times, so why are we not doing it now? Why is the Centre turning the farm laws into an issue involving its prestige,” he questioned, adding that he had categorically urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to repeal the laws.He added that the Centre need to protect the Minimum Support System (MSP) and the market system as well as the traditional relationship between the farmers and the arhtiyas in the country’s interest.Elaborating on the loan waiver scheme, the CM said his government was waiving loans amounting to ₹520 crore of farm labourers and landless farmers, with respect to the principal amount against their cooperative debt as on July 31, 2017, and simple interest levied of 7% per year on the above amount till March 6, 2019. Previously, his government had waived ₹4,700 crore worth of loans (up to ₹2 lakh of crop loan each) for 5.85 lakh small and marginal famers.On Friday, Amarinder handed over cheques to 21 farm labourers and landless labourers, with ministers and MLAs set to disburse cheques to others over the next few days.Responding to assembly speaker Rana KP Singh’s concern on the plight of small traders and urban shopkeepers amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the CM said the government will support them too. He ruled out any further lockdown, with the hope that the state would be spared the third wave of Covid. Addressing the gathering, MLA Raj Kumar Verka and MP Manish Tewari termed the debt waiver of farm labourers and landless farmers as a historic step towards the realisation of Rajiv’s vision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/i-am-with-protesting-farmers-centre-asked-me-to-stop-them-in-punjab-i-refused-capt-101629467884909.html
20-08-2021||Kolkata||CBI seeks case records on post-poll violence from Bengal police||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday sought details of all cases of alleged murder, attempts to murder, and rape reported during the post-poll violence in West Bengal this year from the state police, people familiar with the development said.The Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered separate probes by the CBI and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged violence. A five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal said the CBI will probe the serious allegations of rape and murder and a three-member SIT those of arson and loot under the court’s supervision.Officials said the CBI has sought all the case records from the state police so that post-mortem reports, details of the sequence of events, statements of suspects, and witnesses, if recorded, can be examined.Four special CBI teams, comprising seven members each, have been formed to investigate the alleged violence. They will be assisted by local officers from the agency’s Kolkata office. Each special team is headed by joint directors – Anurag, Ramnish, Vineet Vinayak, and Sampat Meena. The teams will be under the overall supervision of additional director Ajay Bhatnagar.Virendra, the West Bengal police chief who is due to retire on August 31, could not be contacted.A state police officer, who did not wish to be named, said they will follow the orders of the Calcutta high court and cooperate with the CBI. “I cannot comment right now on whether the state government will move the Supreme Court challenging the high court order.” He added the state police can hand over papers only for those cases in which official complaints were registered. “We cannot do anything about the allegations made before the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC).”Soon after the results of the elections were declared on May 2, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made allegations of widespread post-poll violence from across the state. The NHRC carried out an investigation and submitted its final report on July 13, recommending a CBI probe, and that trials should be held outside the state.In its report, the NHRC panel slammed the state government saying the violence “shows a pernicious politico-bureaucratic-criminal nexus”. It added at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged between May 2 and June 20. These included 29 murder charges, 12 complaints relating to rape and sexual assault, and 940 complaints of loot and arson. The report said that out of the 9,304 people named as accused, less than 3% are in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-asks-bengal-police-to-share-files-in-alleged-post-poll-violence-cases-101629463865699.html
20-08-2021||Jaipur||BJP cannot tolerate criticism, considers it sedition: Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government, saying it cannot tolerate criticism and considers it sedition. “In a democracy, criticism is welcomed but these people (BJP) cannot tolerate criticism...” he said while speaking at an event to mark the late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s birth anniversary.He said Rajiv Gandhi believed that democracy should remain strong, and the country’s future should be bright. He added for this, he ensured the right to vote to people above 18. Gehlot referred to BJP leaders, who question what Congress has done over decades of its rule, and said the party kept democracy intact and the country undivided. He added there has been no military rule like Pakistan in India. “...governments in the country keep coming and going. The present government too was formed only because the roots of democracy were strong. These people forget this,” said Gehlot. He added it is very easy to say what has been done in 70 years.Gehlot said two prime ministers Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi sacrificed their lives for the nation. “Our leaders made sacrifices and went to jails, and it was because of their sacrifices and struggle, the country got independence,” Gehlot said.Also Read | Rajasthan Congress MLA’s son alleges threats by father’s core teamBJP leader Mukesh Pareek responded to Gehlot’s comments saying the BJP believes in democracy and the Constitution of India, and the central government is working accordingly. “Unfortunately, it is the Congress which has failed in working as an effective Opposition.”Gehlot announced the state government will start the Rajiv Gandhi Innovation Awards for younger people with achievements in the field of start-ups. “ ₹2 crore will be given as a first prize, ₹1 crore as second prize, and ₹50 lakh as third prize.” Gehlot also announced the Rajiv Gandhi Scholarship for Academic Excellence for 200 meritorious students of the state to study at educational institutions in the country and abroad. He said about ₹100 crore will be spent every year on this scheme.Congress leader Sam Pitroda, who addressed the virtual event titled “Rajasthan Innovation Vision-IT for Good Governance”, said it is mainly because of Rajiv Gandhi that India is in a leadership position globally. “His idea was to improve the health system, education, justice, financial system through e-governance. It really improved productivity while using modern technology and tools.” Pitroda said there is still a long way to go. “I am concerned that institutions are being captured. Civil society has very little role to play and scientific temperament is not encouraged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-cannot-tolerate-criticism-considers-it-sedition-gehlot-101629461824917.html
20-08-2021||Patna||ICAA to write to Bihar govt, CAG, V-Cs regarding financial mismanagement in varsities||The Indian Chartered Accountants Association (ICAA) will write to the Raj Bhavan, Bihar government, Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) as well as vice-chancellors of all state universities and other stakeholders regarding alleged financial mismanagement and ad hocism in the institutions in the light of a Patna high court direction.Patna high court, earlier this month, disposed of a petition seeking a probe into the non-maintenance of annual accounts as mandated under law by the state universities of Bihar with a direction to the petitioner to approach the authorities concerned within four weeks for redressal of his grievances. “The authorities shall consider and dispose of the petition expeditiously by a reasoned and speaking order preferably within a period of three months from the date of filing,” said the bench comprising chief justice Sanjay Karol and justice Sanjay Kumar on a petition from Sanjay Kumar Jha, president of ICAA.Also Read | Two Bihar cops suspended after video of them thrashing a man goes viralThe petitioner, a chartered accountant, had prayed for a probe by a high-level committee of experts into “mass irregularities, lack of proper information, mismanagement of allocated fund, UGC grant, misappropriation of grants meant for various schemes of the Centre, non-maintenance of annual accounts, as directed by the UGC, prescribed rules, regulations and laws.”The bench has given the petitioner the liberty to approach the court, if the need so arises, and request priority listing of the matter. “We have not expressed any opinion on merits and all issues are open,” it observed. Citing CAG reports, the petitioner, who made all V-Cs, the Centre and state governments as well as the University Grants Commission parties in the case, also underlined that compliance of Income Tax laws as well as other laws applicable to universities and colleges to ensure financial benefit had left a lot to be desired, causing a huge loss to the government. Several university teachers in Bihar were in a fix earlier this year after receiving notice from the income tax department regarding identification of high value information, which did not appear to be in line with their income tax return filed for assessment year 2020-21 (relating to financial year 2019-20). They were asked to revise their ITR and submit an online response on the compliance portal, while the teachers maintained the high value information was their provident fund deposit, which the universities in Bihar deposit in the savings bank account as an old practice, not in the general provident fund (GPF) account, to avail IT relief. “A loss of ₹12 crore was reported earlier in JP University (Chapra), which is shocking. There were no proper registers of the salary, pension, allowances and advance paid or to be paid by the college and universities maintained in electronic or other prescribed forms. The balance sheet (along with fixed asset register), income and expenditure account (pursuant to ICDS as notified by Central government) of universities and colleges as per accounting standards, guidance note, rules prescribed by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) were not found to be prepared,” the petitioner said. Jha said that the association had approached the authorities earlier also, but after lukewarm response it approached the court. “Now we will submit petitions to all of them again in the light of the court order. We have got four weeks’ time,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/icaa-to-write-to-bihar-govt-cag-v-cs-regarding-financial-mismanagement-in-varsities-101629461765126.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||L-G again rejected request for panel to probe O2 deaths: Delhi Dy CM Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal has once again rejected the Delhi government’s request for approval to set up an expert committee to investigate instances of deaths caused by shortage of oxygen in Delhi during the last wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April and he accused the central government of “mismanagement”.“It is irrefutable that there was an oxygen crisis across several states, including Delhi, during the Covid-19 wave in April-May ...and it needs to be investigated... But the L-G has once again refused to give approval for setting up an expert committee to investigate death caused by oxygen shortage... While the Centre is collecting data from states on deaths because of oxygen shortage, they are not letting states investigate such deaths. It only shows that the Centre is trying to run away from the issue to hide its own mismanagement, which led to the oxygen crisis in the first place,” said Sisodia in a video press briefing on Friday.On August 16, Sisodia sent a file to Baijal’s office for the second time, seeking approval for setting up an expert committee to probe cases of Covid-19 deaths caused by oxygen shortage and sought Union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention.Also Read | Delhi reports no new Covid-19 related deaths on Friday, 11th time in second waveAt its peak, Delhi recorded around 28,300 cases in a day and the positivity rate exceeding 36% on April 20 and 22. Around that time, at least 31 people are believed to have died because of oxygen shortage in two separate hospitals – Jaipur Golden and Batra hospitals.On May 4, the Delhi government told the Delhi high court that an expert committee could not ascertain whether 21 deaths at Jaipur Golden Hospital had happened because of oxygen shortage. Later, health minister Satyendar Jain said it was a “preliminary report”.In June, the Delhi government proposed another expert committee to ascertain the number of deaths caused by oxygen shortage in the Capital during the last wave of the pandemic but Baijal did not give it approval, citing a similar committee set up by the Union government – eventually leading to a tussle between the elected government of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Delhi and the L-G, who is an appointee of the Centre.On July 20, the Centre told the Parliament that states recorded no specific cases of deaths caused by oxygen shortage during the Covid-19 pandemic. With that, the AAP government in Delhi revived its demand for setting up its own expert committee on the matter.However, dismissing Sisodia’s claims as “misleading”, a senior official in the L-G office said: “The statements made by the Deputy CM are misleading. Neither the L-G nor the Government of India has said that deaths due to oxygen shortage should not be probed. What has been said earlier on 6.7.2021 and repeated on 19.8.2021 is that a high level committee constituted as per SC directions, where apart from senior and reputed doctors, the ACS (health), the government of national capital territory of Delhi is also a member, is already looking into the matter. It has submitted its interim report and is working on the final report. The L-G as well as the health minister, GoI, have reiterated that the said committee should be allowed to do its work. Setting up another committee for the same purpose will only create confusion. The government has also been advised to follow the directions of hon’ble courts in the matter.”This story will be updated when the BJP and the Centre react to Sisodia’s claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lg-again-rejected-request-for-panel-to-probe-o2-deaths-delhi-dy-cm-sisodia-101629461524417.html
20-08-2021||Dehradun||Monsoon session: Cong to raise Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, land law issues||The upcoming monsoon session in the Uttarakhand assembly in Dehradun is likely to be a stormy one with opposition Congress bracing up to attack the BJP led government by raising the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Act and land law issues.Congress MLAs, led by the new leader of opposition, Pritam Singh, would be moving private bills on the same during the session which will commence from August 23 to August 27. After the demise of the former leader of opposition, Indira Hridayesh, Congress would be with only 10 MLAs in the House having a strength of 70.Congress MLA from Ranikhet, Almora and deputy leader of Opposition, Karan Mahara talked about the party’s preparations for the assembly session which would be the last one before the state goes to poll early next. “Our MLAs are fully ready for the session armed with various important issues to attack the government which has done nothing for development in the last four and half years of its tenure so far,” he said.“We would be aggressively raising the issues of unemployment, women’s safety, health, education, farmers rights and others that are relevant to the state. Apart from these, we would also be attacking the government on the issues of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Act and the demand for new land law in the state,” said Mahara.Emphasising the importance of the above-mentioned two issues, he said on the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Act, the priest community of the four highly revered shrines are already protesting for the last many months.“They have been demanding the government to repeal it. We too support them in their demand as it is totally against the age-old traditions of the four shrines and the rights of the priests. We have already said that, if voted to power, we would immediately abolish it. Secondly, the other issue regarding the demand for the new land law has also become an important one after previous CM Trivendra Singh Rawat allowed people from other states and industrialists to buy as much land as they can especially in the hilly areas. It is totally against the rights of the state’s residents. We will raise it with all might,” he said.The deputy leader of opposition added that the opposition would also move two private bills on the same.“Party’s Dharchula MLA Harish Dhami would be moving the private bill on Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Act while Kedarnath MLA Manoj Rawat will bring one on the land law issue in the House. Despite being low in number, we will try to attack the government with full force seeking answers on the important issues,” said Dhami.Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, meanwhile, while speaking to the media persons on the upcoming monsoon session in the House, said that the government will “welcome productive debate on the issues concerning public interests.”“We want a healthy debate on the issues related to the development of state and would seek cooperation from the opposition for the same. We will also answer the opposition on all the issues to be raised by it and later work on them in a positive manner,” said Dhami.Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, carrying a negative RT-PCR report for all including the MLAs would be mandatory to enter the House. However, those fully jabbed would be exempt from it if they produce the vaccination certificate at least 15 days old............||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/monsoon-session-cong-to-raise-char-dham-devasthanam-management-act-land-law-issues-101629461404390.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||13 labourers killed as truck overturns in Maharashtra’s Buldhana district||At least 13 labourers working on Samriddhi Highway project were killed after the vehicle carrying them overturned in Maharashtra’s Buldhana district on Friday.According to the highway police, the accident took place at noon when the dumper carrying the labourers and iron rods allegedly slipped and overturned, burying 16 people underneath the rods. Thirteen of the 16 have died while the remaining three sustained injuries.Also Read | Delhi reports no new Covid-19 related deaths on Friday, 11th time in second waveWhile eight labourers died on the spot, the other five were rushed to the hospital in Jalna where they died during treatment.Sanjay Pandey, DySP, Nagpur said he visited the spot after he received information about the incident.Officials said the labourers were being ferried to work at the Samriddhi Highway project near Tadegaon. “Prima Facie, the accident seems to have occurred due to a slippery road following heavy rains. However, we are investigating the case and have detained the driver of the dumper,” said a police officer from highway police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/13-labourers-killed-as-truck-overturns-in-maharashtra-s-buldhana-district-101629459484424.html
20-08-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: August 20 to August 26||Papier-mâché Ganesh idolsHandmade Papers presents a sustainable way of celebration and helping rural artisans usher in the Ganesh festival in a sustainable way, by making papier-mâché Ganesh idols that are 100% eco-friendly, sturdy and recyclable. These traditional looking idols consist of 90% handmade paper pulp, 10% shaadu maati and adhesive, and hence, are incredibly lightweight - a nine-inch idol weighs just 500gms. It can be a wonderful home activity, especially for children, to paint-it-yourself and make “Bappa” your own way.To register email @punehandmadepapers When: August 20Where: Pune Handmade Papers, KB Joshi road, Next to Agriculture College Campus, ShivajinagarStudy in the UK: the virtual fairThe British Council, the UK’s international organisation for educational opportunities and cultural relations, is hosting this year’s ‘StudyUKVirtualFair’. A semi-annual event, it is the most comprehensive one- stop source of information for studying in the UK.Seminar schedule: Student visas: 2.30pm to 3pm; Studying and living in the UK and scholarships: 3.15pm to 3.45pmTo register go to https://www.britishcouncil.in/study-uk/events/virtual-fair-2021When: Saturday, August 21; 1:30 pm to 5:30 pmWhere: OnlineSaturday night ‘live’ @ High SpiritsThis Saturday night we have a wide variety of genres to please all your musical palettes across pop, rock, R&B & Blues by a power-house collective of Pune’s local legends - Groove Junktion. Groove Junktion is a Pune- based band comprising the city’s top sessions musicians. When: Saturday, August 21; 7pm onwardsWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon ParkKavyanjali: poetry competition‘Unvoiced’, the media and entertainment group, has organised a poetry competition for innovative creators/poets. Poetry can be of in Hindi or English.Two winners will be selected in both languages and will be given a “Certificate of Appreciation” and “Certificate of Participation.To register call +91 7700826177 or email admin@unvoicedmedia.inWhen: August 21, 4pmWhere: OnlineLearn roboticsThis online workshop on robotics teaches how to build a re-configurable framework for robotic applications. The course covers working on Linux ROS Ecosystem and ROS programming modelling tools building/ designing a ROS-based robot with sensors for obstacle avoidance applications.To register call 9663367198When: August 20, 21; 11am to 2pmWhere: OnlineKrishna festival onlineKrishna festival is a celebration of Krishna Janmashtami. It is also the 125th birth anniversary of Srila Prabhupada, founder acharya of ISKCON. Register for free on www.krishnafest.inWhen: Sunday, August 22; 7am Where: OnlineReject your fears: the workshop‘Reject Your Fears and Rescript Your Story’ by Monica Sodhi. Fear weakens our immune system and can cause cardiovascular damage gastrointestinal problems such as ulcers and irritable bowel syndrome and decreased fertility. It can lead to accelerated aging. Let’s understand how we can cope with fear remove it from our life and rescript our own life stories.To register go to https://bit.ly/3laOFhVvWhen: Sunday, August 22; 11am to 12:30pm Where: OnlineKnow your rights Raina Khatri Tandon, founder Right2rise; Vandana Teji, founder, Unicorn people; Simantini Baruah, lawyer, Gauhati high court; and Chinmoyee Bhuyan, artist and legal Counselor will speak on “What does freedom mean to you?”To register go to https://forms.gle/Hw72FEefHCqshz6LAWhen August 22, 3pm-5pm Where: Online Comedy 101‘Cafe Comedy’ presents ‘ Comedy’ 101’ - a training on 10 different topics. Understand the structure of comedy and learning the techniques to develop your writing and performance.To register call +91 9512182874 When: August 23, 8pm to 10pmWhere: OnlineCoaching skills Whether you are an associate or executive-level employee, coaching effectively and building your employee skills is one of the most powerful competencies you can develop. Adop a coaching mind-set, and learn tips and tricks to enhance your leadership capabilities through effective coaching.To register go to https://bit.ly/3s3SAhJ or call 919739022490When: August 26, 8.30pmWhere: OnlineWeb series: Sustainable development goalsGerman Academic Exchange Service, also known as DAAD, will host a web series on sustainable development goals, presented by its alumni of German academics from India, Bhutan, Nepal, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka.To register go to info@daaddelhi.orgWhen: Wednesday, August 25; 5pmWhere: Online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-august-20-to-august-26-101629457085062.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Schools in Himachal Pradesh to stay shut till August 28||The Himachal Pradesh government has further extended the reopening of schools in the state with the latest order briefing that the educational institutions will continue to remain closed till August 28. Earlier, the schools except the residential ones were directed to stay shut till August 22.According to the fresh order issued by the revenue department of the state’s disaster management cell on Friday, only teaching and non-teaching staff will be allowed to attend the school.Residential schools, however, will remain exempted from the order while adhering to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols laid down by the state education department. The order stated that residential schools found flouting the norms will be punishable as per law.Also Read | COVID-19: Schools closed till August 22 in Himachal PradeshIn July, the state government had first permitted schools for classes 10 to 12 to function offline from August 2 onwards. At the time, both residential and partially residential schools were allowed to reopen. Students of classes 5 and 8 were, however, allowed to visit schools for doubt clearance only.The schools were later closed in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the state.Himachal Pradesh has as many as 2,663 active coronavirus cases. The state’s total number of recovered patients’ stand at 205,055, with the death toll at 3,559. The cumulative tally of the infections stands at 211,277, according to the data updated by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).Current Covid-19 relaxations and curbs in Himachal Pradesh:1. All persons willing to visit the state need to mandatorily display a Covid-19 negative report or full vaccination certificate. This rule was imposed on August 13.2. Goods carriers – regardless if it is loaded or unloaded, and movement of goods or cargo for exports and inland are, however, exempted from Covid-19 restrictions.3. Daily or weekend commuters, including factory workers, industrialists, service providers, government officials and those visiting for medical issues are also exempted from the restrictions for entering and leaving the state – within 72 hours.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/schools-in-himachal-pradesh-to-stay-shut-till-august-28-101629456493979.html
20-08-2021||Other||Global Village Idiot: What search engine algorithms get right, and wrong, about your queries||The other day I wanted to read what UK newspapers had to say about the India-England Test match. I asked Google, and then asked again, and guess what? The first couple of pages of search results gave me links to Indian media reports. I modified the search to include “UK media” and then I got a few relevant links.Every day I read three English-language national newspapers (physical copy). I also read a Marathi daily and scan a financial paper online. So one could say I get a reasonably well-rounded national and regional perspective on news. When there is a need for a global perspective, I search online for international media opinions - in this case, the UK media since it was a Test match with England. The sports channel coverage already offers me international cricketing perspectives - it is fantastic to listen to Sunil Gavaskar, Shaun Pollock, Michael Holding, Sanjay Manjrekar and Harsha Bhogle.But, I didn’t get the search results I wanted till I specifically searched for UK newspapers by name. I started wondering if Google has decided that I should read news only from the Indian media. Which would mean I have the dubious benefit of not having access to the world on my phone while living in an era where technology can provide me access to hundreds of global media links every second. I changed my default search engine to Yahoo and: the first page was full of links to Yahoo News and Yahoo Cricket News. No real media in the top search results! When I changed the query to include “UK media” it finally gave me some relevant links. Bing as a default engine delivered similar results to Yahoo.So I went back to Google and tried the exercise with other queries. Giant Panda. Lasagna. Biryani. Dubai Biryani. English Premier League. Giant Panda and Lasagna aside, it was a frustrating exercise. (Earlier this week, I searched for Afghanistan since the situation there rapidly evolved, and I got links to India-based media, although what I wanted was reports from Afghanistan).So when it comes to news, search engines seem to prioritise the location’s media and among them there seems to be some sort of further prioritisation. If I want to read info and stats and match reports on the English Premier League, I would expect search results to provide links to the English (as in England) media sites. I would not expect links to Indian media; just as I am not expecting links to European or American media opinions if I queried “Indian Hockey”. The source of my aggravation was expertise and plurality/diversity of viewpoints. Why was I suddenly getting local/regional results as a prioritisation? I queried “Google search results” and then started reading the documentation on search… it’s fascinating and pretty transparent. To quote a part of Google’s documentation: “To give you the most useful information, Search algorithms look at many factors, including the words of your query, relevance and usability of pages, expertise of sources, and your location and settings. The weight applied to each factor varies depending on the nature of your query — for example, the freshness of the content plays a bigger role in answering queries about current news topics than it does about dictionary definitions.”Expertise of sources is an important factor, but so is location, which seems to take precedence. Why am I investing so much time on reading documentation? Because something has changed in my online search experience and I am not getting access to more than one side of an event. I am reading match reports in local media, but I also want to enjoy Test match reports written by someone who understands Test cricket, knows the players and how to weigh the importance of every innings. Like Mike Atherton, a great cricketer and sports writer. Like Jonathan Liew, a well-decorated sports journalist who has this amazing knack to get into the game. (Liew’s pragmatically ironic buildup of Pujara’s 45 on Day 3 of the second Test was just brilliant). What I am saying is that I would like reports on UN events from UN sources and European news from European sources and Singapore technology news from Singapore technology sources and so on, in addition to the local view on those reports. If tech platforms are going to make it difficult for me to get a wider range of results beyond the location, especially for news and information that originates elsewhere, I am in danger of developing a unidimensional perspective to the world based on a diet of non-expert, non-source information.It also stands to reason then, that elsewhere in the world people from other nations are viewing India and Indian events and Indian news from a similar unidimensional diet of non-Indian sources of information. There is something very wrong with such locational prioritisation of news and information since it widens the abyss between peoples and nations. But that’s for another day. For now, I am going to enjoy the victory of the Indian cricket team over England in the second Test. What a hard fought and scintillating match!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-what-search-engine-algorithms-get-right-and-wrong-about-your-queries-101629456664229.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||55% of beneficiaries in Thane city got at least 1st dose of Covid vaccine||In Thane city, 55.64% of the beneficiaries have got at least the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, as per the municipal corporation’s records. From among the eligible population of 1.5 million, around 830,000 have been given the first dose and out of these, around 220,000 which constitutes 15% of the eligible population, are fully vaccinated. However, the drive hasn’t been conducted in the past two days due to a shortage of vaccine doses. There has also been a slight decline in the number of people coming forward for private vaccination. In July, 26,496 were vaccinated at private centres in the first seven days but in August, 23,963 took the jab in eleven days. The fake vaccination scam that occurred in a housing society in Kandivli and the unaffordable vaccine prices could be some of the reasons for more people opting for government vaccinations. Also Read | FIRs against BJP workers for violating Covid norms at Rane’s Mumbai rallyIn Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), 550,000 people were vaccinated in government centres while 280,000 in private centres. Dr Amol Gitte, Medical Director, Sidhivinayak Hospital, Thane, said, “We have an adequate supply of vaccines currently, however if compared to the previous months, the number of people getting vaccinated has come down. In June, there were around 3,000 vaccinations per day. In August, we are vaccinating around 300 per day.” The city has 85 private vaccination centres out of which 20-25 are operational. Meanwhile, the response improved in government centres this month; 25,188 were vaccinated in the first week of July but, between August 1 and 11, 33,551 were vaccinated. “With the new relaxation rules, the demand to get fully vaccinated has increased,” said Dr Khushboo Tawri, medical officer, TMC. In mid- June, a fake vaccination scam in a housing society in Kandivli also led to many housing societies refusing to conduct such drives anymore. “While most high rises have completed their vaccination drives, not many trust private vaccination facilities anymore. This must have also led to a shift in mindset,” said Kasber Augustine, President Thane Citizens Foundation. According to those working in private vaccination centres, the prices could be the reason for fewer people registering for private vaccination. “A family of four will have to shell out more than ₹3,000 which is expensive for many families...It is the unemployed or those staying in single building residences or from lower economic backgrounds who are yet to get vaccinated and they have no option but to prefer government centres,” said a doctor from a private vaccination centre on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/55-of-beneficiaries-in-thane-city-got-at-least-1st-dose-of-covid-vaccine-101629456484422.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports no new Covid-19 related deaths on Friday, 11th time since onset of second wave||The national capital on Friday reported no new Covid-19 related deaths, while 57 more people tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours, a bulletin from the Delhi health department showed. With this, the total confirmed cases reached 1,437,274 cases and the death toll remained at 25,079.Delhi has reported no new fatalities in a time span of 24 hours for the 11th time since the start of the second wave of the pandemic, a report from news agency PTI showed. On March 2, July 18, 24 and 29 and August 2, 4, 8, 11, 12, 13 and 16, there were no fatalities reported due to Covid-19, according to the official data.Also read | Johnson & Johnson submits plea for study of Covid-19 vaccine on adolescentsThe daily new infections witnessed a slight increase in the last 24 hours as there were only 25 new cases reported previously on Wednesday, the lowest in the city since April 15 last year. Meanwhile, the active caseload also witnessed a slight increase from 448 on the previous day to 459 on Friday.While the cumulative positivity rate in the city stood at 5.75%, the case fatality rate (CFR) was recorded at 1.74%, data from the bulletin showed.So far, medical workers in the city have tested 24,983,238 samples for Covid-19 of which 73,718 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The tests per million count stood at 1,314,907, the data also showed.As far as the vaccinations are concerned, 144,929 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the last 24 hours, of whom 106,733 people received their first dose and 38,196 received their second. So far 12,100,127 beneficiaries have been vaccinated with at least one dose, according to the government’s data. Also, 3,429,474 people in the city have been fully vaccinated against the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-no-new-covid-19-related-deaths-on-friday-11th-time-since-onset-of-second-wave-101629455756007.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh ends weekend curfew as Covid-19 cases fall||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday withdrew the weekend curfew on Sunday owing to a fall in the daily tally of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the state. The state reported 29 cases of coronavirus on Thursday, taking the number of active cases to 407. Two fatalities were also reported in the last 24 hours.Earlier this week, the state government had lifted the Saturday curfew and ordered shops and business establishments to remain closed only on Sundays from August 14. The government had issued orders in July asking shops and businesses to remain open from 6am to 10pm on weekdays and continue the weekend closure to keep the pandemic under control.The first set of weekend relaxations had been implemented after chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to consider a partial easing of norms that were imposed earlier this year to contain the spread of the virus. Metro services between Noida and Greater Noida (known as Aqua line) have also resumed.Traders associations in the state had been seeking relaxation of weekend curfew since July, as shutting shops on Saturday and Sundays meant residents of satellite cities like Noida were getting done with their shopping from Delhi. “Markets collect the majority of revenue during weekends, and they will continue to suffer losses as long as the weekend curbs are in place. This not only harms the business, but the revenue also goes to Delhi instead of Uttar Pradesh,” Sushil Kumar Jain, president of Sector 18 Market Association and convener of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) - Delhi-NCR, had told Hindustan Times.With an improvement in the pandemic scenario, the UP government has eased a number of restrictions in a graded manner, including the resumption of physical classes for high school students. Students of classes nine to 12 have started attending school in the state from August 16, while for grades six to eight, schools will reopen on August 23 and for classes one to five on September 1. However, attendance in schools is not compulsory for students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-ends-weekend-curfew-as-covid-19-cases-fall-101629452925270.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal apple rates fall amid glut, low demand||After a lean season last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Himachal Pradesh’s apple growers were hoping business would pick up this time, but their hopes have been dashed as rates in the wholesale fruit market have nosedived in the past fortnight due to a glut amid low demand. In two weeks, apple prices have gone down by ₹800 to ₹1,000 a box. The high grade Royal Delicious that was being sold at ₹3,000 a box of 20kg at the beginning of the season in July is now not fetching even ₹2,000 a box. Also read: Afghan women protest, say haven’t been allowed to work by TalibanThe average rate of the Royal variety of apples has also dropped to ₹1,200 to ₹1,500 a box, resulting in losses to growers. Apple growers say they spend ₹300 to ₹400 a box on plucking, grading, packing, washing and transporting the fruit to the wholesale market. One of the major contributors to the lack of demand for apples in markets is the low disposable income in the middle and lower middle classes. With most industries reporting a cut in jobs due to lack of demand, many people have ended up without jobs. Covid restrictions along with the recent floods and excessive rain are also to blame,” said Abhinav Jaggi, the owner of a private fruit supply chain. Commission agents delaying paymentsThe growers also blamed the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) and the government of inaction as commission agents manipulated prices. Sanjay Chauhan, a former Shimla mayor who is also an orchardist and secretary of the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said the expensive packaging material had dealt a blow to apple growers. “There is loot in the market. Payments are being delayed, loading and unloading charges are being fixed at whim and there is 2.5% bank charge. On top of that, roads are in a bad shape, hampering transportation. Farmers have to pay double for such stretches and some highways are worse than link roads. Last year, there was a landslide at Bhattakufar market, but APMC hasn’t removed the debris even after a year,” said Chauhan. Another orchardist from Thanedhar, Basant Lal, said apple growers were being charged ₹20 at Narkanda market but the APMC was yet to act. “Payments are delayed for months. The government must intervene. The commission agents have increased loading and unloading charges, while payments for sale are being delayed and the agents are now charging bank surcharge. But at the same time, they don’t pay any interest for delay in payments,” said Hardyal Sharma, an apple grower from Rohru. Hail hit crops in lower hills Pratap Singh from Madhavani said orchardists whose crop was hit by hailstorm were the worst hit as their apples are fetching low prices. “This year, the lower elevations had a bumper fruit, but due to the lack of size and colour development, they are not fetching a good price. Apple growing areas suffered one of the worst droughts in years. The rates are not up to our expectations. Apple growers from the middle and even higher reaches have started harvesting due to the drought and this has further caused a fall in the market rates,” Lokinder Singh Bisht, the president of the Progressive Growers Association (PGA). Shimla APMC secretary Om Prakash said if farmers submit a complaint in writing against commission agents flouting norms, action will be taken. He said the APMC has its people deployed in every market. The farmers can directly complaint to them, he added. Apple fact check Apples produced in Himachal Pradesh start arriving in the market in mid-July. Kinnaur apples are last to harvested in October. The ₹6,000-crore apple economy of Himachal Pradesh is the mainstay of 1.75 lakh families. Shimla district produces 70% of the total apples in the state, followed by Kullu and Kinnaur. Apple is produced over 1.25 lakh hectares in the state with a productivity as low as 3-4 tonnes per hectare. The state generally contributes 30-40% of the total apple produced in India, followed by Kashmir, which is at the top with 50% of the produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-apple-rates-fall-amid-glut-low-demand-101629451984581.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Defect of mindset: Rane on Sena workers ‘purifying’ memorial after his visit||In Mumbai for Jan Ashirwad Yatra, Union minister Narayan Rane on Friday addressed the issue of Shiv Sena workers reportedly “purifying” Bal Thackeray memorial after his visit and police registering cases against his rally organisers a day ago. Speaking to the media, Rane said purification will not help if there was a defect in someone’s mindset. As a part of Jan Ashirwad Yatra, the outreach programme of newly inducted Union ministers, Rane visited the memorial which a few Shiv Sainik “purified” later by sprinkling cow urine. Bal Thackeray had expelled Rane for anti-party activities. “The party has its chief minister in Maharashtra, but they could not construct a memorial befitting of their founder. The people who have purified the memorial need to first purify their mind,” Rane said.Also Read | FIRs against BJP workers for violating Covid norms at Rane’s Mumbai rallyWhile speaking on the police action against BJP workers for violation of Covid-19 pandemic guidelines during the Jan Ashirwad Yatra, Rane said Shiv Sena should not forget that BJP rules at the Centre. “We have the entire records of the rallies and meetings organised in the state by the ruling parties. These are not the political rallies. We are going to the people to understand their problems and plights. They should first understand that we are sitting at the top (at Centre) and they are at the state level,” he said.Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said whoever indulged in “purification” did not understand the original Shiv Sena. “It is strange that the Shiv Sena is sharing power with the people who tried to imprison Balasaheb Thackeckeray and are attacking the people who have been paying respects to him. Purification bid is an indication of narrow mindedness of the party. It is not the culture of the Maharashtra,” he said. He was referring to then Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) government’s move to arrest the Shiv Sena founder in 2000 in connection with the 1992-93 Mumbai riots. The two parties are Sena’s allies in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government.Meanwhile, reacting to the episode, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said he does not recognise Rane. “It was done by the local party workers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defect-of-mindset-rane-on-sena-workers-purifying-memorial-after-his-visit-101629448323850.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||Sadya meal: a feast to content the heart||A widely famous harvest festival of Kerala, Onam is incomplete without food. The revelries include a spectrum of cultural events, and the sumptuous Sadhya Thali is one of its highlights. “The popularity of the Sadhya meal in metro cities is rising, as food lovers celebrate Onam with choicest of dishes. The tempting aroma of the vegetarian delights lavishly spread on sparkling banana leaves garners an appetite for all,” says Vetri Murugan, head chef at Zambar, which is organising Zambar Onam Sadhya from August 20 to 22.The celebratory grand thali includes Uepperi (salted banana chips), Shakara Varratti (jaggery chips), Inji Curry (ginger curry), Mango Curry, Parippu with Ghee (yellow daal), Sambar, Olan (pumpkin curry), Pulissery (a dish of pumpkin and yoghurt), Ellisheri (a mix of pumpkin and lobia), Avial (mix veg), Chor (rice), Kaalan (raw banana curry), Moru Kachiyathu (buttermilk), Rasam, Pachadi (mix veg raita), Pappadam (crackers) and other food items. “Traditionally, 26 multi-course vegetarian dishes are served during lunchtime on the festive occasion. There used to be an era when 60 food items were served but gradually, the count has gone down,” says Gaurav Lavania, executive chef at WelcomHotel Sheraton, which is hosting The Grand Onam Feast, from August 20 to 22 at Dakshin.Rice, seasonal vegetables, coconut shavings, grated coconut, coconut milk and coconut oil are the basic ingredients used in the preparation of most of the dishes. “Kerala is a land of coconut trees and it is found in abundance in the state. Also due to the health benefits and ease of accessibility, it is widely used in cooking preparations,” says chef Reetu Uday Kugaji.“A banana leaf is placed in a particular manner and direction and the meal is served and consumed in a sequence,” says executive chef, Arun Sundararaj, Taj Mahal. The tip of the banana leaf must be towards the left side of the person consuming it. “It begins with salt, chips, papad, banana pickle, avial, and then small amounts of dal (boiled), ghee, rice and much more,” he adds. Onam Sadhya has several health benefits. “Banana leaves are packed with natural antioxidants, and when warm food is served on it, the antioxidants get absorbed into the food. Moreover, eating with hands benefits us in attaining emotional and physical well-being,” says Lavania.The food is eaten with the right hand, without any cutlery. “The dishes in the meal are served from left to right but they are eaten from right to left. The Sadhya can be concluded by drinking rasam or buttermilk,” says chef Kugaji. When one is done relishing the meal, one should fold the upper half of the banana leaf towards the lower half. “It denotes that the person who has consumed the meal is satisfied with the delectable food. And if it’s folded other way, it expresses the discontentment,” says Kugaji. Recipe of Pineapple PachadiIngredientsPineapple Cubs -200 gmsBeaten Curd-60 GmsFresh Coconut Paste-80 gmsGreen Chilli -1 nosMustard seeds-2 gmsCumin seeds-4 GmsTurmeric Powder-PinchJaggery- Small sizeCoconut oil-10 MilCurry Leaves-fewSmall dry red Chillies -1 nosSalt - to tasteMethod· Make a smooth paste of Coconut and green Chilli, Mustard, Cumin· Keep the pan on low flame cook Pineapple with little water andJaggery (do not overcook).· Then add the ground coconut paste, season with salt as per the taste.· Mix well, simmer and cook for two minutes on a low flame, let themixture cool down at room temperature.· Add beaten curd, mix very well.· Heat coconut oil in small frying pan add pinch of mustard, allow tocrackle then add one small dry red chilli and few curry leaves (donot burn them).· Pour the tempering in the Pachadi mixture.· Mix well and serve cold.By executive chef Gaurav LavaniaAuthor tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sadya-meal-a-feast-to-content-the-heart-101629446350239.html
20-08-2021||Patna||Two Bihar cops suspended after video of them thrashing a man goes viral||Two police officers, including a station house officer (SHO), in Bihar’s Bhagalpur district were suspended after a video showing them thrashing a man in custody went viral on social media. The viral clip shows the policemen roughing up a man after pinning him down on the road. The video triggered uproar on social media.According to a complaint lodged by one Gudia Devi before the Bhagalpur range DIG on August 2, the SHO of Bakharpur police station Bijendra Paswan, assistant sub-inspector Lal Babu Yadav and SAP (special auxiliary police) jawans assaulted 32-year-old Neeraj Yadav in front of his children. The complaint alleged that the policemen also falsely implicated him in a case under the Arms Act. Also Read | Police find abducted toddler in Bihar village; kidnappers escapeDIG Sujit Kumar asked the sub divisional police officer (SDPO) of Kahalgaon to investigate the matter and submit a detailed report. Following the DIG’s instructions, the SDPO found that Yadav was accused in an SC/ST related case and a police team led by Bijendra Paswan used force when they raided his house to nab him. “Both the policemen were in uniform. It is disgraceful to the police department,” read the SDPO’s report submitted on August 14. DIG Sujit Kumar told HT that the accused policemen had been suspended late Thursday evening after the department received the inquiry report. “The SHO and ASI have been suspended for their unacceptable behaviour. It was a disgusting and condemnable act of indiscipline. All the SAP jawans of police station were shifted from field duty to the police lines,” he added. However, the suspended SHO has claimed that Yadav first assaulted and abused the constables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-bihar-cops-suspended-after-video-of-them-thrashing-a-man-goes-viral-101629445083447.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bus service launched from Kharghar rly stn to Tata Memorial Centre||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) has started electric bus services from Kharghar railway station to Tata Memorial Centre, Advanced Centre for Treatment, Research and Education in Cancer (ACTREC), at Kharghar, sector 22 this week. The distance between the railway station and ACTREC is 6.2 km. However, auto drivers charge anything between ₹60 and ₹150 for ferrying passengers. With these buses in place, commuters can travel the same distance in ₹13. NMMT general manager Shirish Aradwad said, “As of now, we have allotted two buses in the morning and two in the evening on that route. The buses leave from the depot outside the station and go directly to the ACTREC campus. We may think of increasing the services at a later stage.” The buses halt at Hiranandani Complex, Gharkul, Raghunath Vihar, Shilp Chowk, Jalvayu Vihar, Krishna Temple, Central Park and Pandavkada. ACTREC is a comprehensive cancer treatment and research centre in Navi Mumbai that operates under Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH) at Parel. “We have a hospital with 116 beds and multiple research groups led by 19 principal investigators,”said an official from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bus-service-launched-from-kharghar-rly-stn-to-tata-memorial-centre-101629444663569.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||FIRs against BJP workers for violating Covid norms at Rane’s Mumbai rally||The Mumbai Police on Thursday registered 19 First Information Reports (FIRs) against Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and organisers of Union minister Narayan Rane’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra for allegedly violating Covid norms. Four Union ministers from Maharashtra started the yatra in the state on Thursday. The newly inducted ministers in the Union Council ministers are holding these tours across the country as Prime Minister Narendra Modi was unable to introduce them in Parliament due to protests by the Opposition.Also Read | Member of HC-appointed panel seeks to halt reclamation work near Mumbai’s Powai lakeBJP leaders Devendra Fadnavis, Pravin Darekar participated in Rane’s yatra in Mumbai on Thursday. BJP leader Keshav Upadhye called the registration of FIRs biased. “Political functions are being organised across the state by all the parties including (ruling) Shiv Sena. A large number of people are gathering in those events too, but no cases are registered against members of the ruling party.” He said the BJP is regularly asking its workers attending the yatra to follow Covid protocols and is also distributing masks.“As Jan Ashirwad Yatra is receiving overwhelming response from the people, the state government has taken this action against the party workers. But we will not stop...”Mumbai police spokesperson Chaitanya Siriprolu said notices were being served and further action would be taken as per the procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/firs-against-bjp-workers-for-violating-covid-norms-at-rane-s-mumbai-rally-101629443523804.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Thaw in Capt-Sidhu ties, strategic policy group set up in Punjab||In what is being seen as the first sign of thaw in their strained relations, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday agreed to set up a 10-member strategic policy group for better coordination between the party and the state government. Also read: Punjab minister Sukhjinder Randhawa guns for officials after Saini fiascoAmarinder also directed his cabinet ministers to sit at the Punjab Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh to interact with public and party cadre on the request of Sidhu, who met him at his farmhouse at Siswan near Chandigarh. Good optics after public sparring The meeting is an attempt by the party leaders towards “good optics” after their public sparring for weeks even as the opposition parties, particularly the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party, are working hard to get their act together ahead of next year’s assembly elections in the state. “Have deputed all my cabinet ministers to be present for three hours from 11am to 2pm at @INCPunjab office daily beginning Monday, as per the roster, to interact with public and party cadre,” the chief minister tweeted along with a schedule for the ministers for the next four months. According to the roster, one cabinet minister will be present at the state Congress office for three hours daily as per his turn. The 10-member strategic policy group, which will ensure better coordination between the ruling party and the state government, will be headed by the chief minister. It will have local government minister Brahm Mohindra, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and social security minister Aruna Chaudhary as members, along with Sidhu, four party working presidents, Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Pawan Goel, besides general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh. It will also work to expedite the implementation of government programmes and reform initiatives. Prompt response to proposal Sidhu was accompanied by PCC working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh. “Highly positive coordination meeting on proposal for roster of ministers to sit at Punjab Congress Bhawan!,” the PPCC chief tweeted along with their photo with the chief minister. After the meeting, Nagra said the chief minister was prompt in accepting the proposal of the state unit. “The ministers will lend an ear to concerns of party cadres and inform them about the achievements of the state government,” he said, playing down differences between the two leaders. Friday’s meeting was the second between Sidhu and Amarinder, who have been locked in a battle of wits since the former’s elevation as the state unit president last month despite strong opposition from Amarinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thaw-in-capt-sidhu-ties-strategic-policy-group-set-up-in-punjab-101629442263454.html
20-08-2021||Patna||Police find abducted toddler in Bihar village; kidnappers escape||Rohtas police recovered a one-and-a-half-year-old kidnapped boy from Ramdihara village under Amjhor police station limits of the Bihar district late on Thursday.The boy is the son of an auto-rickshaw driver and was kidnapped from his home on July 4. The parents were sleeping in their thatched hut in a slum near Tarbangala turning at Dehri-on-Sone alongside their one-and-a-half-year-old twins. Also Read | Grocer shot dead in Bihar’s Supaul; locals demand justiceThey had left the door ajar as it was quite warm that day. At about 3.30am, the father woke up to see that one child was missing. A case under sections 363 and 365 of Indian penal Code was registered against unknown criminals and police suspected it to be the handiwork of a relative or child traffickers, superintendent of police, Ashish Bharti said.The SP formed a special team under probationer DySP-cum-SHO Dehri, Ajit Pratap Singh and police on Thursday got a tip off about the child’s presence in Ramdihara village. The boy was recovered from an abandoned house as the kidnappers succeeded in escaping.Police said the criminals had been identified and one of them is a close relative of couple. Raids were on for their arrest, SP Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/police-find-abducted-toddler-in-bihar-village-kidnappers-escape-101629440822987.html
20-08-2021||Other||Don’t seek caste identity of students except in certain cases: Assam minister||Assam education minister Ranoj Pegu on Thursday directed colleges against seeking caste details of prospective students other than those belonging to Other Backward Class, Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes, which have quotas in educational institutions and jobs, during the admission process.“Apart from mentioning whether on belongs to scheduled caste, scheduled tribe or other backward castes, details on caste identity are not required during admissions to schools and colleges,” Pegu tweeted.“There has been no such direction from the government (for seeking details of caste identity). If any educational institution has sought such details, then I request them to waive off such requirements.”The minister’s direction came after it came to light that at least three prominent colleges in Guwahati sought caste details from prospective students in admission forms.Also Read | ‘Didn’t compromise my father’s ideology’: Sushmita Dev after reaching home as TMC member“At a time when humans have scaled the peak of civilisation due to advances in science and technology, such a step (seeking details of caste) is regressive,” said Asom Jatiya Parishad, a recently floated political party, in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-seek-caste-identity-of-students-except-in-certain-cases-assam-minister-to-colleges-101629440703279.html
20-08-2021||Patna||Grocer shot dead in Bihar’s Supaul; locals demand justice||A grocery owner was shot dead late on Thursday evening in Bihar’s Supaul, said police on Friday. This is the second such incident within six months in the district.The incident took place when Binod Choudhary was about to close his store at about 8pm. Four armed criminals on two bikes reached the shop at Shyamnagar market and demanded cash from him.“The criminals shot the owner in his chest, killing him on the spot,” police said, adding, “He was taken to Pipra primary health centre (PHC) where the doctor declared him dead.”Supaul superintendent of police (SP) Manoj Kumar said, “The gang has been detected and one member of the gang has been arrested.” He added, “Massive raids are going on at all possible hideouts.” Also Read | Guv appoints 4 V-Cs, 4 pro-V-Cs in Bihar varsitiesMeanwhile, protesters blocked Pipra-Supaul Road on Friday morning, to protest against the incident and demand immediate arrest of the criminals. Till the filing of this report, a First Information Report had not been lodged. However, police have started investigation on the basis of the statement of the son of the deceased and a bike the criminals left behind when locals raised an alarm right after the incident.Earlier, on August 6, police had to fire rubber bullets when a group protesting against the killing of a young man turned violent in a minor dispute at Abhuar village under Kishanpur police station of Supaul district. Several police personnel sustained injuries.In February, a grocery owner was shot dead and three others were injured when armed criminals fired at them indiscriminately at Maheshpur Chowk under Pipra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/grocer-shot-dead-in-bihar-s-supaul-locals-demand-justice-101629439083307.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||In UP, Opposition flays BJP for Jan Ashirwad Yatras by ministers||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Jan Ashirwad Yatras, led by its newly appointed Union ministers, have begun generating political heat in Uttar Pradesh where assembly elections are due in about seven months.The yatras, covering 3,500 kilometres, touching over 120 assembly constituencies, have been criticised by the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress, who claim that they showcase BJP’s misplaced priorities. The BJP has responded by releasing a “farq dikhta hai (the difference is evident)” poster series on the party’s twitter handle @BJP4UP, that show chief minister Yogi Adityanath as a doer and the Opposition leaders as “power hungry”. “Since elections are around the corner, these yatras help us get a sense of the mood on the ground. It is mandatory for all lawmakers to accompany the yatra in their areas. So, we are gaining insights into the public mind,” a BJP leader said. Meanwhile, the BJP has also launched a survey on the NaMo App. The survey “Bataiye aapki rai (tell us your view)” has queries such as which issues would be important in the assembly elections and lists several options. Yet another query seeks the people’s response on what issues would dominate their mind during voting. “We are seeking the people’s feedback ahead of 2022 UP polls. This feedback would also help us in finalising tickets and prepare our manifesto,” a BJP leader said. The yatras would touch upon virtually all the major religious centres in UP, cover Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, and help showcase BJP’s bonding with allies as one of the seven yatras is being led by Union minister and Apna Dal (Sonelal) leader Anupriya Patel. At the start of her yatra, Patel flagged the demand for caste census and a separate OBC ministry, one which has found favour with several OBC MPs of BJP such as Lok Sabha member from Badaun, Sanghamitra Maurya, daughter of UP’s labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya. Of the seven new ministers of state from UP leading these yatras, three each are OBCs and Dalits, the two dominant political communities in the state while one is a Brahmin, the influential community which is being wooed by all political parties in the state.Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has questioned the rationale of seeking “jan ashirwad” (blessings from the people) after causing them “hardship”. “Farmers, women, youths, Dalits, and other backward communities have been harassed. There were deaths due to scarcity of oxygen. There is rising unemployment and prices of gas cylinders and essential commodities are on the rise. Yet BJP is in celebration mode,” he said during a party protest recently.BSP chief Mayawati too was critical of the yatras. She tweeted: “When a large part of the state battled flood and many people needed to be rescued, the BJP decided to take out the yatras instead. It would have been better if instead of engaging in propaganda, the BJP concentrated on helping the flood-hit.”UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said, “It is not jan ashirwad but a jan apman yatra (public insult procession).” “The BJP should instead take out a kshama yachana yatra (apology procession) to seek an apology from everyone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/in-up-opposition-flays-bjp-for-jan-ashirwad-yatras-by-ministers-101629438062765.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab minister Sukhjinder Randhawa guns for officials after Saini fiasco||Punjab jails and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has demanded the removal of advocate general Atul Nanda, home secretary Anurag Agarwal and Vigilance Bureau chief director BK Uppal over the fiasco in former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini’s arrest by the bureau. Also read: Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini freed from VB custody at 2amRandhawa tweeted, “In view of the fiasco in Sumedh Singh Saini case, I urge chief minister @capt_amarinder to immediately remove Advocate General, Home Secretary and Chief Director Vigilance, for their professional incompetence”. He also tagged former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu in his tweet. Responding to Randhawa’s remarks, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh advised all cabinet and party colleagues to check facts before issuing statements. “I suggest they should discuss all issues, specially sensitive ones, either with me or on the @INCPunjab platform before going public,” the CM said in a tweet posted by his media adviser. Saini walks free after HC intervenes Randhawa’s scathing comment came after the Vigilance Bureau was ordered by the Punjab and Haryana high court to release the former DGP, just over 24 hours after he was arrested. Saini was arrested by the bureau in a land fraud case on Wednesday night. He had gone to the bureau office to join investigation in a corruption case as directed by the high court. His immediate release was ordered around midnight by the bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi in an application moved in a 2018 petition. Saini walked free at 2am on Friday. Critical of CM for delay in sacrilege cases Randhawa has been critical of Capt Amarinder Singh and his aides over unfulfilled poll promises, particularly the delay in action in the 2015 sacrilege and police firing cases. He is among the senior ministers who had backed Sidhu in his tussle with the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-minister-sukhjinder-randhawa-guns-for-officials-after-saini-fiasco-101629437582571.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini freed from VB custody at 2am||Former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini walked free at 2am on Friday after waiting for 14 hours in the courtroom of the Mohali chief judicial magistrate following the Punjab and Haryana high court’s midnight order for his release from the Vigilance Bureau’s custody in a land fraud case. Following the high court’s directions, chief judicial magistrate Pamelpreet Grewal Kahal issued orders to release Saini at 12.15am, but Saini walked free two hours later once legal formalities were completed. Also read: Taliban wanted India to retain its diplomatic presence in AfghanistanThe former director general of police (DGP) was arrested by the Punjab Vigilance Bureau in a 2018 land fraud case on Wednesday when he had gone to the VB office to join investigation in a corruption case as directed by the high court. Saini’s release was ordered at midnight by the bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi after two rounds of hearing. The VB had taken Saini to the Mohali court around 12.30 pm on Thursday when information of an application being moved by his lawyers before the high court was received. The hearing was deferred till 4pm. But Saini was made to sit in the courtroom for nearly 14 hours till the high court order of his release was received. Abuse of the process of law: Lawyers “The high court has termed his arrest an abuse of the process of law. He was arrested in violation of three high court orders. The court had ordered that in the event of his arrest in the land fraud and corruption cases, seven days notice has to be given,” said his lawyer, HS Deol. The case was taken up by justice Tyagi at 11.30am and after 30 minutes of hearing, he summoned records pertaining to the arrest and first information report details by 3pm. The hearing continued in the evening for three hours. The state had roped in a battery of lawyers, including Supreme Court senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, who was assisted by five others. Senior advocate APS Deol appeared for Saini. In March, the court had sought details of FIRs in the cases in which Saini’s involvement is being probed and further ordered that if the former DGP was to be arrested in a criminal case pertaining to his service period, he be given an advance notice of seven days. Plea to advance hearing filed on day of arrest As the hearing began on Thursday morning, Punjab government lawyers sought time from the court to respond to the plea for pre-poning of hearing in the 2018 plea. However, the court did not agree. It noted that the preponement plea was filed on August 18 and the same evening Saini was arrested. “It is expected that parties will maintain status quo and will not disturb the same whether the case be on criminal side or civil side without approaching the court for appropriate directions,” the bench said, expressing its displeasure over the VB action. The observation comes in view of the fact that the case could not be taken up due to the Covid-19 pandemic and that there was a general order from the high court chief justice, extending the status quo during this period in all matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-freed-from-vb-custody-at-2am-101629433202841.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Rainfall likely over next five days, says IMD||After a long break of 10 days, the monsoon is expected to revive from Friday night with thundershowers likely, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD in its forecast for today had said that gradual increase in rainfall activity over northwest India, including Delhi, Haryana and Punjab is likely over the next five days. The monsoon entered a break phase in Delhi on August 9 since when there has been no rainfall in the city so far. According to MeT officials, the monsoon trough is close to Delhi, with which the moisture-laden easterly winds have already started blowing, which are likely to bring rain activity in the region. The raun and thunder activity on Friday night is expected to mark an end to the break phase while paving way for its revival. “It has reached Haryana and some parts of Faridabad even received light rainfall on Thursday. Thundershowers are likely on Friday night while a moderate spell of rainfall is likely on August 21, which may also lead to a drop in temperatures over the weekend,” said an official. The official added that soon after the rain spell, the maximum temperature can drop by five to six notches over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-rainfall-likely-over-next-five-days-says-imd-101629431042409.html
20-08-2021||Patna||Guv appoints 4 V-Cs, 4 pro-V-Cs in Bihar varsities||Governor Phagu Chauhan on Thursday appointed four vice-chancellors (V-C) and an equal number of pro-V-Cs in the state’s four universities, which were under additional charge for a long time.Days ahead of Election Commission notification for the Bihar assembly election, the Governor had appointed six V-Cs and eight pro-V-Cs in the state universities. Even after the new appointments, some vacancies remain unfulfilled.The notifications were issued following consultation between the Governor and chief minister Nitish Kumar earlier in the day at the Raj Bhawan. This time, candidates from Bihar got preference in the appointments on the top academic posts.“The appointments have been made on the recommendation of names by the respective search committee constituted for universities following effective and meaningful consultation with the state government,” said the notifications.Patna University retired professor of mathematics, Prof KC Sinha, a recipient of the state’s highest education award ‘Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Shiksha Puruskar’, has been made the V-C of Nalanda Open University. The position was lying vacant since November. BRA Bihar University (Muzaffarpur) V-C Hanuman Prasad Pandey held the additional charge following the resignation of former V-C HN Prasad.Former principal of JD Women’s College, Prof Shyama Roy has been made the V-C of Munger University, where the position was vacant since the term of its founding V-C Ranjit Kumar Verma ended on March 22 this year. Since then, the university was under the additional charge of Bhagalpur University V-C Neelima Gupta. Prof Jawahar Lal of BD College has been made the pro-V-C of Munger University.Prof RN Yadav, pro-V-C at Purnea University, has been elevated as the V-C of Purnea University. He was the acting V-C of the university after the resignation of former V-C Rajesh Singh in September last year for a new assignment in UP. Now, Purnea University has a vacancy for pro-V-C.Prof Md Quddus of College of Commerce under Pataliputra University has been made the V-C of Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University. The university was under the additional charge of LN Mithila University V-C SP Singh, who also held the additional charge of two more universities.Besides, Prof Sidharth Shankar Singh has Been made pro-V-C of Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University, while Prof SC Choudhary has been made the Pro-VC of Veer Kuer Singh University (Ara) and RC Mallik, a professor of English at BN Mandal University, the pro-VC of Pataliputra University, which does not have a V-C and remains under additional charge. The position of V-C in Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) also remains vacant after its advertisement was cancelled twice..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/guv-appoints-4-v-cs-4-pro-v-cs-in-bihar-varsities-101629428821790.html
20-08-2021||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot to launch virtual incubation program for start-ups in Rajasthan||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot will on Friday launch the I-Start Virtual Incubation Program on the theme of “IT for Good Governance”, officials have said. According to an official statement, funds will be provided to 21 selected startups at different places across Rajasthan during the event. The statement said a virtual event of the Rajasthan Innovation Vision (Rajiv-2021) program will be organised on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.Discussions will take place with regard to the innovations made in the field of Information Technology (IT) in Rajasthan along with its benefits to the common citizens, the statement added.“On the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Shri Rajiv Gandhi, a virtual program of Rajasthan Innovation Vision (Rajiv-2021) program on the theme of Good Governance through Information Technology (IT for Good Governance) will be organised tomorrow at 11am. Various IT services will be launched during the program,” chief minister Gehlot’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री स्व. श्री राजीव गांधी जी की जयंती पर कल शुक्रवार को प्रातः 11 बजे सूचना तकनीक से सुशासन (आईटी फॉर गुड गवर्नेंस) थीम पर राजस्थान इनोवेशन विजन (राजीव-2021) कार्यक्रम का वर्चुअल आयोजन किया जाएगा। कार्यक्रम में विभिन्न आईटी सर्विसेज़ को लॉन्च करेंगे।Sam Pitroda, the public information infrastructure and innovations advisor to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, is a key speaker at the event and will also talk about Rajiv Gandhi’s contributions to the country.Friday’s event comes after chief minister Gehlot said on August 10 that providing good governance and access to all services of governments with the use of information technology was crucial for the Congress-led state government. Chairing a review meeting of the state’s department of IT, he instructed officials to ensure online delivery for all kinds of citizen services.Gehlot also said his government was giving priority to start-up activities, but they are limited to only big cities of the state. Officials were further told to start Rural I-Start, similar to the government’s I-Start initiative and connect students of the government’s English medium schools, rural entrepreneurs, women self-help groups (SHGs) in rural areas and innovators.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ashok-gehlot-to-launch-virtual-incubation-program-for-start-ups-in-rajasthan-101629420921621.html
20-08-2021||Patna||Nitish to meet PM on Aug 23 to discuss caste-based census||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will head an all-party delegation from the state to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to discuss the demand for a caste-based census.“I had sought time from the PM to meet him with a delegation. The PM has given time of August 23. Many thanks to him “ Kumar tweeted on Thursday.The CM, who called on governor Phagu Chauhan in the afternoon, said the names of delegation members would soon be finalised and sent to the PM. “Tejashwi Prasad Yadav (of the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal) will also go. He along with other members of the Opposition met me on this issue during the monsoon session. It is an issue on which all the parties are one. The BJP is also finalising the name (of its representative in the delegation),” he added.Yadav, leader of Opposition in the state, confirmed his presence at the meeting.The Bihar assembly has passed two resolutions seeking a caste-based census, something the Union government has sought to avoid, given the sensitivity of the matter.The demand for a caste-based census comes from a belief that the current reservation (or quota) regime is skewed and not representative of the current composition of the population.Earlier this week, Kumar praised the PM for removing the confusion on a state’s right to decide on other backward classes (OBCs) and said he was hopeful of getting him to discuss the matter related to caste-based census as well. His reference is to the 127th Constitution Amendment passed by Parliament in the monsoon session that concluded last week, and which restores the rights of states to identify and maintain a list of backward classes.“In Bihar, then CM Karpoori Thakur created a separate category for extremely backward classes (EBCs). Different states have done it differently, as they were empowered to do so. There was, however, some confusion for the last few years. After the court order, the Centre decided to clear it that states continue to have the right,” he said.He said that any decision on a caste-based census would be taken only after discussing the matter with PM. “Doing it at the state level will not be census. It will be counting only, as some states did in the past,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-to-meet-pm-on-aug-23-to-discuss-caste-based-census-101629414417122.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||Disbursed ₹52.26 crore aid, gave ration during lockdown: DSLSA||The Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) has disbursed ₹52.26 crore between January 2020 and March 2021 as compensation to several victims on various accounts, and provided ration to 33,0197 people during the lockdown.According to the data given in its 57th statutory meeting held on August 18, the DSLSA has said that it has extended its legal services to 100,028 people whereas 2,645 victims benefited under the victim compensation scheme.The body also extended legal help to 7,032 women who suffered domestic violence, and settled 824 matrimonial disputes.Justice Vipin Sanghi, Delhi high court judge and executive chairperson, DSLSA, appreciated the work by DSLSA.Gautam Manan special secretary, DSLSA, said: “We are committed to providing free and competent legal service to the weaker sections of the society to ensure that opportunities for securing justice are not denied to any citizen by reason of economic or other disabilities. We will continue our endeavours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/disbursed-52-26-crore-aid-gave-ration-during-lockdown-dslsa-101629410259325.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||3 bank officials held for duping former Religare promoter’s wife||Delhi police on Thursday said they have arrested three bank officials for allegedly conniving with a jailed inmate and two jail officers to dupe the wife of Shivinder Singh, the former promoter of Religare Enterprises who is currently in jail. Police said Shivinder’s wife, Aditi Singh, was allegedly duped of an undisclosed amount by people posing as officials who promised to bail him out.Police identified the three suspects as Komal Poddar, manager of RBL Bank in Connaught Place, and his two associates, Avinash Kumar and Jitender Narula, and said they were in cahoots with the mastermind, jailed inmate Sukesh Chandrashekar, who was earlier arrested in 2017 for duping a senior AIADMK politician.Rohini jail deputy superintendent Dharam Singh Meena and assistant superintendent Subhash Bhatra were also arrested.Additional commissioner of police (economic offences wing) RK Singh said the three bank officers had allegedly helped to facilitate dubious fund transfers. Police did not specify the money involved.Shivinder was arrested in October 2019 in a case pertaining to alleged misappropriation of funds at Religare Finvest Ltd.RK Singh said police had registered a case in June last year after Aditi complained that some people had posed as officials from ministry of law and offered to bail her husband out.“On August 7 and 8, we arrested two men who had come to take the money. The two then revealed that Chandrashekhar was running this racket from the prison. Chandrashekhar had spoofed the landline number of the ministry to make the victim believe that she was speaking to a senior ministry official. In this case, we had also arrested Meena and Bhatra,” the additional commissioner added.On April 11, HT had reported about transfer of five officers from Rohini jail, after they were found to have helped inmates, especially Sukesh Chandrashekhar, smuggle cell phones inside the prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-bank-officials-held-for-duping-former-religare-promoter-s-wife-101629407560917.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal board making efforts to provide 24X7 water, says Jain||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) chairman and water minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday inspected the ranney well in east Delhi to examine an ammonia removal plant that is being constructed in the area.“The plant which has a capacity of one million gallons per day (MGD) is sufficient for providing water to 7,000 households, as it adds clean water directly to the underground reservoir for supply,” Jain tweeted on Thursday.He said that more such plants are being installed around the national capital for augmenting water availability.“DJB is making rigorous efforts to ensure that we have the complete infrastructure for providing 24/7 water supply by next summer,” said Jain, in a statement issued by his office.Besides, he added, that unique water extraction and ranney wells are being built around Delhi to ensure 24X7 water supply.Ranney wells use riverbank filtration , as they draw raw water through the sand and gravel aquifer, removing turbidity and most other contaminants, including surface waterborne organisms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-making-efforts-to-provide-24x7-water-says-jain-101629406358947.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||High court orders ex-Punjab DGP Saini’s release from vigilance custody||In a major relief to former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini, the high court on Thursday ordered his release from the vigilance custody. The former DGP was arrested by the vigilance bureau in a land fraud case on Wednesday. Saini had gone to the bureau office to join investigation in a corruption case as directed by the HC when he was arrested. The ex-DGP’s release was ordered around midnight by the bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi, after two rounds of hearing, in an application moved in a 2018 petition, said lawyers associated with the case. “The court termed his arrest as abuse of process of law and observed that he was arrested in violation of three HC orders. The court has ordered that in the event of his arrest in this case and corruption case, a seven-day prior notice must be given,” said Saini’s lawyer, HS Deol. The case was taken up by justice Tyagi at 11:30 am and after around 30 minutes of hearing he summoned records pertaining to the arrest and FIR details by 3 pm. The hearing continued in the evening for nearly 3 hours. The state had roped in a battery of lawyers, including Supreme Court senior advocate, Sidharth Luthra who was assisted by five others. Senior advocate APS Deol appeared for Saini. In the fresh plea filed on August 18, Saini had expressed apprehension of false implication in criminal matters on account of “malice, malafide and ulterior motives”, attributed to the political party in power in Punjab. The 2018 plea was filed for transfer of FIRs, which have been registered against him, to the CBI. In March this year, the court had sought details of FIRs in the cases in which Saini’s involvement is being probed and further ordered that if the former DGP was to be arrested in a criminal case pertaining to his service period, he be given an advance notice of seven days. Due to pandemic, the case could not be taken up and was listed for hearing in November. As the hearing began in the morning, the Punjab government lawyers sought time from the court to respond to the plea for pre-poning of hearing in the 2018 plea. However, the court did not agree. It noted that preponement plea was filed on August 18 and the same evening Saini was arrested. “.. it is expected that parties will maintain status quo and will not disturb the same whether the case be on criminal side or civil side without approaching the court for appropriate directions,” the bench said while expressing its displeasure over vigilance bureau action. The observation came in view of the fact that the case could not be taken up due to pandemic and that there was a general order from chief justice extending status quo during this period in all matters. The vigilance took Saini to Mohali court around 12.30 pm. However, when the message was received about the HC order, the hearing was deferred till 4 pm. Saini was in the court till the filing of the report as the detailed order from the HC was awaited. The HC also took up another plea filed on Thursday by Saini’s wife, alleging illegal detention by the vigilance bureau. It was taken up in the morning by the bench of justice Vikas Bahl and ordered listing before justice Arun Kumar Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-orders-ex-punjab-dgp-saini-s-release-from-vigilance-custody-101629403872277.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||7 AAP workers booked after clash with Congmen in Tarn Taran||Seven Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers and around 50 others have been booked for attempt to murder and rioting as they allegedly opened fire during a clash in Muradpura locality of Tarn Taran on Wednesday night. The alleged clash took place between the workers of the AAP and the Congress when they were propagating ‘free electricity’ promises of their respective parties ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. The AAP workers who were booked have been identified as Gurdev Singh Sandhu, Gurwinder Singh Fauji, Sukhdev Singh, Rehmat Sandhu, Navneet Arora, Anju Verma and Daljit Gandhi. The other accused are yet to be identified. The case was registered on the complaint of Punjab Police inspector Jaswant Singh. “I, along with other police personnel, was present near the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM)’s office when information was received that some armed AAP workers were rioting in Muradpura locality. One Himanshu of Muradpura received a bullet injury,” he said in his complaint. Himanshu is the son of a Congress worker. According to the information, AAP workers were campaigning in the locality when some Congress workers also gathered there, leading to a clash. Police said the AAP workers resorted to firing, a charge denied by the accused who said Congress workers attacked them. Police said efforts to identify other accused are on. The case was registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 160 (affray), 336 (endangering human life), 283 (obstructing public way), 148 (rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly) of the Indian penal code (IPC) and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at Tarn Taran city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7-aap-workers-booked-after-clash-with-congmen-in-tarn-taran-101629403868548.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Delay in machine repair: Fix responsibility, compensate for ₹100-cr loss, BBMB tells PSPCL||The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has urged the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to fix responsibility for the delay in overhauling of a 157MW power generation unit that caused a loss to the tune of ₹100 crore. In a communication to the PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Prasad, BBMB’s financial adviser-cum-chief accounts officer Rajinder Kumar said a power-generating machine was handed over to private firm Gogoal Hydro Private Limited in October 2020, and as per the contract, the overhauling was to be completed by March 2021. “However, the machine of unit 7 has not been handed back to BBMB, leading to generation loss of ₹100 crore at a rate of ₹66 lakh per day. The happened during the peak load in the wake of paddy sowing season. The loss has to be borne by the PSPCL and other partner states,” Kumar wrote. Prasad, however, said he was not aware of any such communication. “I am writing to PSPCL because it’s a major partner of the BBMB and such lapses cause maximum loss to the state (Punjab),” reads the communication. The BBMB has brought on record that this is a case of gross mismanagement because BBMB chief engineer (generation) Rahul Modi and a deputy chief engineer (not named) from the PSPCL didn’t flag the issue. “The matter came to light only when a case was moved for additional cost of ₹37.75 lakh for the machine’s repair, which was over and above the contract value of ₹1.68 crore. “Truth is not being revealed,” Modi told HT, adding that the additional cost was proposed with a malafide intention to compensate the private firm for the ₹34-lakh penalty imposed on it. It is learnt that the BBMB management has been conveyed that the machine is beyond repair and a new will cost ₹25 crore. Kumar suggested that the losses should be recovered from the officers responsible and the private firm undertaking the work. The Bhakra dam has 10 power generation units. With another unit also under repair, only eight are functional at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delay-in-machine-repair-fix-responsibility-compensate-for-100-cr-loss-bbmb-tells-pspcl-101629403867604.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||Probe panel gives clean chit to police in killing of Vikas Dubey, others in encounters||A three-member inquiry commission’s report has said there is no suspicion or doubt about the police version of the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey and other members of his gang in encounters after the Bikru ambush in Kanpur in July last year as nobody from the public or the media came to contradict the police claim and no evidence was filed in rebuttal.It also said there was sufficient material on record to show that Dubey and his gang had the patronage of the local police, revenue and administrative officials.Uttar Pradesh parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna tabled the report in the state assembly on Thursday.Eight police personnel, including deputy superintendent of police, were killed during a raid on Dubey’s house at Bikru village in Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh on the night of July 2-3, 2020.Later, Dubey was killed in an encounter when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from custody, the police had said.The commission headed by Justice (Retd) BS Chauhan also stated in its report that the evidence and post-mortem reports supported the police version of the killing of Dubey and other members of his gang.The commission Richa Dubey, the wife of Vikas Dubey, had filed an affidavit, calling the incident a fake encounter, but she did not appear before the commission.In such an eventuality, there was no suspicion or doubt about the police version of this incident and the magisterial inquiry report conducted by CMM (chief metropolitan magistrate) Kanpur had a similar finding, the commission observed. The commission comprised Justice (Retd) BS Chauhan, Justice (Retd) SK Agarwal and former UP director general of police KL Gupta. It had submitted a 824-page report to the state government on April 21. The report also stated that if any person lodged a complaint against Dubey, the complainant was humiliated by the police.The inquiry commission report observed that though Dubey’s name appeared on the list of top-10 criminals in the police circle, he was not on the list of top-10 criminals of the district. Rather, members of his gang were included in a peace committee to resolve communal disputes, it noted, adding that the family members of Dubey were elected to local bodies. Most of the family members were granted arms licence, passport and fair price shop on the recommendations of the competent authorities, the report further stated.Investigation in any case lodged against the members of the gang was never impartial, the report said.Dubey and his associates got bail orders easily as there was no serious opposition by state authorities, it further said. There was total failure of the intelligence unit in Kanpur in gathering information about the possession of sophisticated weapons by Vikas Dubey, the commission report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/probe-panel-gives-clean-chit-to-police-in-killing-of-vikas-dubey-others-in-encounters-1629402545304.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi gurdwara panel polls on Aug 22||Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections will be held on August 22, according to a notification issued by the government’s Gurdwara Election Directorate. The polls were to be held on April 25, but were postponed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Twenty-three returning officers have been appointed for all 46 gurdwara wards in Delhi. Voting will be done at 546 polling stations set up in government schools across the city. A total of 312 candidates, including 132 Independents, are in the fray. The counting of votes will take place on August 25. As many as 3.42 lakh Sikh voters are eligible to participate in the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-gurdwara-panel-polls-on-aug-22-101629401831988.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Rain damages portion of Ambala-Panipat highway||Incessant rains in the northern part of Haryana have left a substantial portion of National Highway-44 between Ambala and Panipat damaged. As per a statement issued by officials of the meteorology department at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University in Hisar on July 29, Haryana has received 23% more rainfall this season. The rains have created multiple potholes while several small portions of roads have caved in after gradual soil erosion on both sides of highways, posing a threat to commuters. As a preventive measure, the National Highways Authority of India has created diversions by placing spring posts at such points, mostly on flyovers, said Bhanu Pratap, section engineer with NHAI in Ambala. However, commuters have complained of damage to their vehicles because of deep potholes and gaps in metal bars on the flyovers. Malak Singh, a weekly commuter between Karnal and Patiala, said due to the diversions, risk of accidents looms large when a driver is trying to overtake. “It’s been weeks that such pillars were put, but I haven’t seen any repair activity at these points. Rather, these lead to traffic jams. The authorities should complete the repair work at the earliest ,” he added. Meanwhile, Pratap said the number of potholes has decreased in the past few days as at least four construction vehicles have been pressed into service on the highway to plug the gaps. “Our teams are already repairing the section between Pipli and Ambala, while the rest of the area has been covered. Now, almost 80% work is complete on the entire stretch and diversions have been removed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-damages-portion-of-ambala-panipat-highway-1629401282797.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of Patiala woman killed in accident awarded ₹14.5L compensation||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) has awarded ₹14.54 lakh to a Patiala-based family, which lost one of its members in a road mishap in 2018.Amrik Singh, 52, and his two children from Nilpur village had filed a claim petition against Balvinder Singh of Ambala and United India Insurance Company Limited, Chandigarh. He said his wife Jaspal Kaur had died after falling from the bike driven by Balvinder Singh. It was mentioned in the petition that on February 26, 2018, Jaspal was going from Anandpur Jalbera village in Ambala to Rajpura. She was riding pillion on Balvinder’s bike, which was being driven in a rash and negligent manner. They were followed by Jaspal’s husband Amrik in a car.Balvinder lost control of the bike, leading to an accident. Jaspal sustained head injuries and was referred to PGIMER in Chandigarh, where she succumbed on March 17, 2018.Balvinder did not appear before the tribunal and was proceeded as ex parte. Meanwhile, the insurance company submitted that Balvinder was neither the driver of the alleged motorcycle nor had any valid licence and registration certificate besides other documents as required under the Motor Vehicles Act. After hearing the arguments, the tribunal observed, “It has been proved that Jaspal Kaur had died in an accident due to rash and negligent driving of above said motorcycle by Balvinder Singh.”Thus the owner/driver and insurer of offending motorcycle are jointly and severally liable to pay the compensation amount of ₹14.54 lakh, it said. Jaspal’s husband Amrik will be entitled to get 50% share out of the total amount of compensation while her two children will be entitled to remaining share in equal amounts, the tribunal said. They will also be entitled to get interest calculated at 8% per annum on the said amount from the date of filing of petition till payment thereof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kin-of-patiala-woman-killed-in-accident-awarded-14-5l-compensation-1629401283262.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Land acquisition for new link road begins||Moving ahead with land acquisition process for 6km long and 200ft wide link between the Airport Road and Kharar-Landran road, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has issued a notification under Section 19 of the Land Acquisition Act for 73 acres. The acquisition process will be completed by the October end. Section 19 of the Act refers to the amount to be determined as compensation. The link road, which was proposed five years ago, will improve connectivity from the Airport Road to Kharar. With some major townships such as TDI, Ansal, and Gateway City adjoining it, the road will divide sectors 116 and 92 and sectors 117 and 74A to pass through Chappar Chiri Khurd, Chappar Chiri Kalan, Chajju Majra, Baliali and Ballomajra before connecting to the Kharar-Landran road near Swaraj factory. The road is a part of the Mohali master plan. A senior officer of GMADA said, “We have issued a notification under Section 19 of the Land Acquisition Act and will be completing the acquisition process by October end this year.” Umang Jindal, founder, Homeland Group, said the link road will be a better alternative to people travelling between Chandigarh and Kharar. “The stretch will also help the people residing nearby as at present, a link road is missing and commuters have to take a long route,” he added. GMADA chief engineer Devinder Singh said, “We will float the tenders for construction once the land acquisition process is over.” Extension of Airport Road 75% complete The 75% work of extension of the 200ft PR7 road, commonly known as the Airport Road, has been completed. The extension begins from the dividing road of sectors 120/125 (NH 5), Sunny Enclave and connects the PR4 road in New Chandigarh (Mullanpur). The work was allotted at a cost of ₹121 crore and will be completed by December this year. The road extension will reduce the distance between Mohali and New Chandigarh and is expected to save 15-20 minutes of travelling time between the two towns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-land-acquisition-for-new-link-road-begins-1629401277963.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s wait for upgraded waste plant to get longer||City’s garbage woes are unlikely to get over soon as the work to upgrade the lone solid waste processing plant in Sector 25 is not expected to start this year.With the code of conduct for Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) election set to be imposed mid-November and Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar to submit the detailed project report (DPR) and request for proposal (RFP) for plant upgrade only in September, the tendering process is unlikely to be completed in the next six months. The allotment of tenders will be finalised only after the new MC General House is constituted, which is January 2022.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “IIT Ropar will submit the DPR and RFP in September. This is likely to be tabled before the MC General House in September-end for its approval. The floating of tender and inviting firms for upgrade is likely to take another month.” The process will still be in works when the code of conduct for the MC election comes in force in November for the polls to be held in December.Notably, IIT Ropar has sought three months for the preparation of DPR and RFP. The MC General House had on July 29 decided to allot the contract for preparation of the twin documents to IIT Ropar.Earlier, the MC had sought quotations from Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, IIT Ropar, and Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala. Thapar university didn’t participate, but PEC and IIT submitted their quotations. The MC opted for IIT Ropar’s bid as it was lower than PEC’s.Setback for BJP?The city produces 550 to 600 metric tonnes (MT) of waste daily. Of this, around 200 MT is dry waste, 150 MT is wet (kitchen) waste, 75MT is mixed and 100 to 125 MT is horticulture. However, the plant’s current waste processing capacity is only 70 to 80 MT. In June last year, the civic body had taken over the plant from Jaypee Group due to its inability to process the waste completely. But since then, the MC has neither improved the plant’s working nor upgraded the technology and most of the daily waste is still being dumped at the Dadumajra landfill. The BJP was hoping to project the revamp of the plant as one of its major achievements in the last five years for the MC election due in December.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma has repeatedly assured, both within the House and outside, that the work to upgrade the plant would start before the MC election.“The BJP-ruled MC took over the reins of the plant more than a year ago. But instead of improving it, almost no processing is taking place at the plant now,” said Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councillor and leader of opposition in the MC. “The garbage is being dumped without getting processed at the Dadumajra ground. The BJP had assured that work on the new plant would start this year. But now, it is unlikely to be the case. People are tired of BJP’s repeated failures to keep its promises. It will be a key election issue,” he added.Assuring that the work allotment would be done by October, the mayor said, “We have asked IIT Ropar to submit report by September 15. We will immediately call special MC House meeting and by October, would float the tender. By the end of October, the tenders will be alloted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-wait-for-upgraded-waste-plant-to-get-longer-1629400499244.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Criminal cases against MPs, MLAs: Expedite probes or face music, high court tells officers||The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that if steps are not taken to expedite probes in criminal cases against MPs/MLAs, it will have to summon the supervising officers. Taking up a suo motu plea initiated on the Supreme Court orders to monitor probes in criminal cases against legislators and parliamentarians, the high court bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh said: “This court has no hesitation in making it clear that in case needful is not done, it has no option but to seek personal appearance of all senior officials who are entrusted with supervising the stage of pending investigations/trials.” Earlier, amicus curaie in the case, senior advocate Rupinder Khosla told the court that in all those cases where stay is operating, respective investigating/prosecuting agencies need to move an application for vacation of the same in view of Supreme Court order. Lawyers representing investigating agencies and states of Punjab and Haryana had assured the court that the issue raised by Khosla would be looked into and all efforts would be made before the next date of hearing.Earlier, the Punjab government counsel had failed to give details of criminal cases against MLA Simarjit Singh Bains even as the court had sought details of the same on the last date of hearing on July 27. The bench said it was not inclined to grant more time but was granting him one opportunity. Posting the matter for September 3, the high court also asked its registry to supply list of cases pending against MPs/MLAs. As per initial details, Punjab has said that at least 163 cases are pending against sitting or former MPs and MLAs in the state while a total of 21 cases, including eight against ex-MLAs in Haryana, are pending.On the high court orders, both the states and Chandigarh have appointed nodal officers to monitor and supervise probes. The court started monitoring the probes in February 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/criminal-cases-against-mps-mlas-expedite-probes-or-face-music-hc-to-officers-1629400496892.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Online portal closes for Class 11 admissions||The online portal for students to apply for Class 11 admissions in 42 government schools in Chandigarh closed on Thursday.For 15,355 seats, 18,444 students have applied online and paid the registration fee. The provisional common merit list will be displayed on August 25, and after taking up objections, the final list will be out on August 31. The fee has to be deposited online by September 2 and classes will begin on September 4. Last year, 12,815 seats were available in Class 11. The number was increased this year after government schools witnessed increased applications. According to officials, many students shifted to government schools from private ones after Class 10 owing to Covid-induced financial stress in their households.This year, there are 3,080 seats available in the sciences stream (both medical and non-medical), 3,900 in commerce, 6,600 in humanities and 1,775 seats in vocational courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-online-portal-closes-for-class-11-admissions-101629400027534.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder launches helpline to provide citizen-centric services||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday virtually launched “Unified State Helpline Number 1100” to provide citizen-centric services and redressing grievances, besides extending the “State Admission Portal” (https://admission.punjab.gov.in) till August 31 to enable students desirous of getting admissions in government colleges across the state in a hassle-free manner. Amarinder said nearly 42,000 students have already enrolled on the portal. With this common admission portal, 100% admissions would be contactless as applicants would not have to present themselves physically. On the unified helpline number, the CM said it would help the people in making their life much easier by just clicking a button to avail numerous benefits of these services. He said this newly launched helpline would be soon supported by features like chat, email, WhatsApp and SMS. He also directed the administrative secretaries to regularly conduct a weekly review of the functioning of their departments and also asked the chief secretary to monitor functioning for ensuring prompt delivery of the citizen services. Higher education minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who also spoke on the occasion, said a long-pending demand of students had been met with the launch of state admission portal to enable them to apply through single application from multiple colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-launches-helpline-to-provide-citizen-centric-services-101629400024762.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: No user charges for bicycle sharing project till Sept 12||No user charges will be imposed in the public bicycle sharing project till September 12.The Chandigarh Smart City Limited has directed the company operating the cycles to suspend the fee and offer the cycles for free to users till all glitches are removed.NP Sharma, chief general manager, CSCL, said: “There were several instances where the smart bike app wasn’t working properly, because of which people could not use the cycles. There were also issues with recharging of the e-bikes. Consequently, we have asked the firm managing the project to offer the cycles for free till September 12.”During this period, the CSCL will check whether the glitches have been removed or not. The first phase of the project was launched with 1,250 bicycles at 155 docking stations on August 12. Users are being charged at ₹10 per half an hour. Those with annual membership of ₹500 have to pay ₹5 per half an hour.The project has received tremendous response since its launch. “More than 11,800 new registrations have been made in six days. This is in addition to more than 54,000 registrations during the Cycle4Change competition. As there 1,250 cycles in the first phase in comparison to 225 in the Cycle4Change competition, the number of glitches being reported has increased. But, these would be rectified by September 12,” said Sharma.In total, 5,000 bicycles will be provided in the city along with a network of 617 docking Stations spread throughout the city giving last mile connectivity to the users.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-no-user-charges-for-bicycle-sharing-project-till-sept-12-101629399846977.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Drugs supply chain busted, Nigerian national, aide held in Tarn Taran||Police on Thursday busted an inter-state heroin supply chain with the arrest of a Nigerian national and his aide after laying a trap in Tarn Taran.Those arrested have been identified as Delhi residents, Patrick of Vikaspuri and his aide Gurmel Singh, alias Gill, of Khyala. Police have also recovered 630gm of heroin from their possession. They used to bring heroin from Delhi and supply it in Punjab, said the police. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said they had arrested one Satwant Singh, alias Sabi, of Baba Bakala in Amritsar with 225gm of heroin on Monday. “During interrogation, Satwant disclosed that he was in touch with a Nigerian national living in Delhi for the supply of heroin. A team of Tarn Taran police led by city station house officer Jaswant Singh conducted a raid in Delhi, but the accused managed to escape,” he said. “Our team then laid a trap by involving Satwant to make a fake deal for drug supply with Patrick, who told the former that he was in Punjab and could supply the contraband in Tarn Taran. A trap was laid and they were nabbed.”A case under various Sections of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at Tarn Taran city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drugs-supply-chain-busted-nigerian-national-aide-held-in-tarn-taran-101629399852802.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab hikes sugarcane SAP by ₹15 per quintal||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday approved the hike of ₹15 per quintal in the state agreed price (SAP) of all sugarcane varieties for the 2021-22 crushing season. With this, the SAP of sugarcane has gone up from ₹310 to ₹325 for early variety, ₹300 to ₹315 for mid-variety and ₹295 to ₹310 per quintal for late maturing variety, according to an official release. Approximately, 1.10 lakh hectares is under sugarcane production in the state and about 660 lakh quintals of cane would be crushed by the sugar mills. With the increase in sugarcane rate, additional benefit to the tune of ₹230 crore would accrue to the farmers of the state. On the demand of the cane growers, sugarcane variety Co-0238 would also be purchased at 325 per quintal, the release said. Chairing a meeting of the Sugarcane Control Board through video conferencing, the CM also constituted a Cane Development Group headed by cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, besides other members, including Rana Sugars CMD Rana Gurjit Singh, Punjab State Farmers’ Commission chairman Ajay Vir Jakhar, cane commissioner Gurvinder Singh and PAU Sugar Research Centre, Kapurthala, director Dr Gulzar Singh. The group has been mandated to find ways and means to enhance the production of sugarcane and promotion of advanced cultivation technologies so as to ensure remarkable improvement in sugar recovery. The CM also asked the agriculture department to work closely with farmers for brining far more area under sugarcane so as to improve the viability of sugar mills, besides giving push to state government’s ambitious programme of crop diversification. Cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa emphasised the need to modernise cooperative sugar mills so that the cost of production could be reduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-hikes-sugarcane-sap-by-rs-15-per-quintal-101629399783894.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-MLA Sukhpal Nannu quits BJP over farm laws||BATHINDAFormer chief parliamentary secretary (CPS) and two-time Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) legislator from Ferozepur City Sukhpal Singh Nannu on Thursday resigned from the party in protest against the Centre’s three farm laws.Nannu is the first key BJP leader from southern Punjab to quit the party ahead of the state elections.He was elected to the state assembly in 2002 and then again in 2007. He remained the CPS in the SAD-BJP government in 2007.Nannu said his supporters were upset over him being sidelined in the party and central government’s stand on farm laws.He squarely blamed the BJP leadership for undermining a strong undercurrent in rural and urban voters against the party.“The Punjab unit of the BJP failed to convey strong resentment against the party. Leaders and workers in the region feel unsafe even to step out of their homes due to prevalent anti-BJP sentiment among people,” said Nannu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exmla-sukhpal-nannu-quits-bjp-over-farm-laws-101629399668426.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Member of HC-appointed panel seeks to halt reclamation work near Mumbai’s Powai lake||A member of the high court-appointed wetlands grievance redressal committee has written to the authorities in Maharashtra and the Centre, seeking an immediate stoppage of construction works around the boundary of Mumbai’s Powai Lake – near Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) – for the purpose of building a cycling track. The work is being together carried out by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC). The work has now invited objections from environmentalists, who said that forest and wildlife clearances for the project have not been granted despite being mandatory. In their letter on Thursday, addressed to officials from the Union environment ministry, the central and state pollution control bodies and the state forest and wildlife departments, Stalin D, wetlands committee member and director of non-governmental organisation (NGO) Vanashakti, wrote, “The lake is home to the Indian marsh crocodile, a Schedule 1 protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972... the National Board for wildlife and forest departments have not given any clearance... for this activity.”Stalin also pointed out that site of the ongoing work is “very much inside the lake waters”, specifically in the spillover zone adjoining the IIT-B jetty. He drew the officials’ attention to the past orders by the Supreme Court and the Bombay high court which explicitly prevent any construction work or reclamation within the boundaries of wetlands identified in the National Wetlands Atlas, of which Powai Lake is one. Construction work in the region, the letter points out, will impact the availability of water to the dense natural forests which line the periphery of the lake.“Instead of keeping the boundaries of the lake inviolate... the lake is being capitalised by using the area for construction,” the letter stated, warning that legal action will be initiated against the ongoing work if construction is not stopped, and the area not restored. Earlier this month, Omkar Mahadeo Supekar, a researcher with IIT-B, had written to the Union environment ministry, filing a complaint against the ongoing work, stating that it had resulted in the felling of trees and poses a threat to biodiversity of the lake. The Union environment ministry subsequently directed the complaint to the state forest department asking that the complaint be resolved. The latter is yet to submit a report on the same, as directed by the Union environment ministry.BMC officials were unavailable for comment. Officials from forest and wildlife departments said they will look into the matter and take necessary action accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/member-of-hc-appointed-panel-seeks-to-halt-reclamation-work-near-mumbai-s-powai-lake-101629399368532.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||UP assembly: Bill passed, Saharanpur State Univ to get deity Shakumbhari Devi’s name||The Uttar Pradesh assembly on Thursday passed the Uttar Pradesh State Universities (Amendment) Bill 2021 that provides for renaming the Saharanpur State University, Saharanpur as Maa Shakumbhari University, Saharanpur.In the statement of objects and reasons for presenting the bill, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said, “The ancient temple of Goddess Shakumbhari Devi is situated in Saharanpur district, which is one of the famous Shakti Peeths of India. The general public has an unwavering reverence for Maa Shakumbhari Devi. Dedicating the Saharanpur State University, Saharanpur, established by the state government to Maa Shakumbhari Devi, it was decided to name the said university after her name in accordance with the sentiments of the general public.”The bill, when it becomes law, would replace the Uttar Pradesh State Universities (Amendment) Ordinance 2021 that governor Anandiben Patel promulgated on August 3, 2021.The assembly also passed the Uttar Pradesh Private Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021. This bill will replace the Uttar Pradesh Private Universities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, promulgated on April 12, 2021, to amend certain provisions to set up United University, Prayagraj, FS University, Shikohabad (Firozabad) and Maha Yogi Gorakhnath University, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-bill-passed-saharanpur-state-univ-to-get-deity-shakumbhari-devi-s-name-101629399481104.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu appoints Mustafa as his principal strategic adviser||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday appointed retired IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa as his principal strategic adviser with immediate effect. The appointment was announced a week after Mustafa had declined to take up the role of an adviser to the state Congress chief. Sidhu had on August 11 named the former IPS officer as one of his four advisers, but Mustafa turned the offer, stating that he did not fit the role. In a release, the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) said he would also act as a PCC coordinator with the All India Congress Committee (AICC) on issues pertaining to his domain and any other matters that the president may deem fit. “Love to be associated with Razia Ji and Mustafa sahib,” Sidhu posted on Twitter along with his photo with the couple. Mustafa’s wife Razia Sultana is a cabinet minister. A retired IPS officer of the 1985 batch, Mustafa was among those superseded by 1987-batch officer Dinkar Gupta when the latter was appointed the state police chief by the Amarinder Singh government in February 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-appoints-mustafa-as-his-principal-strategic-adviser-101629399426549.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Praveer Ranjan takes over as DGP||Praveer Ranjan joined office as the director general of police, Chandigarh, on Thursday. A 1993-batch Indian Police Service officer of the AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram, Union Territory) cadre, he was earlier posted in Delhi.Baniwal given farewellRanjan took over charge from Sanjay Baniwal, who has been repatriated to Delhi after over three-year tenure in Chandigarh. Baniwal was given a farewell at the police lines in Sector 26. A few of the initiatives taken by him include the installation of an eBeat book system and emergency response support system (Dial 112).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-praveer-ranjan-takes-over-as-dgp-101629399362295.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Ex-Maharashtra home min: Will appear before ED after completing legal recourse||After skipping multiple summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the alleged money laundering case, former home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday issued a statement saying that the Supreme Court has accepted his petition against the ED action, which is expected to be heard very soon. The Apex court has also given him the liberty to appeal in the lower court and he will appear before ED after completing legal recourse. “The Supreme Court has accepted my petition against Enforcement Directorate action and is expected to hear the same very soon. The Apex court also allowed me to appeal in the lower court. Once the process of legal recourse is completed, I will appear before the Enforcement Directorate and extend full cooperation. In my entire political and social life, I have always followed high standards,” Deshmukh said in a statement released on Thursday. On Wednesday, the senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader skipped the summons issued by ED in connection with the allegations of corruption and extortion against him. It was the fifth summons issued by the central investigation agency. ED had issued fresh summons a day after the Apex court refused to grant any interim relief to Deshmukh. ED has registered a money laundering case against Deshmukh after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21. So far, Deshmukh has maintained that the allegations against him are false. The central agency has alleged that while serving as Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze – who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder case – collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/exmaharashtra-home-min-will-appear-before-ed-after-completing-legal-recourse-101629398999682.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 1 death, 63 fresh Covid cases||ChandigarhOne more person died from coronavirus in Punjab on Thursday as 63 fresh cases took the state’s infection count to 6,00,123, according to a medical bulletin. So far, the virus has claimed 16,347 lives in the state. The death toll includes one death, which was not reported earlier.The number of active cases rose to 571 from 545 on Wednesday. Jalandhar and Pathankot reported nine cases each, followed by seven each in Amritsar and Mohali. With 35 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,83,205, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-1-death-63-fresh-covid-cases-101629398939716.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: FCI manager held for taking ₹2 lakh bribe||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested a manager of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and a businessman for exchanging ₹2 lakh bribe to extend favours in foodgrain procurement. The manager, identified as Gagan Negi, was working at the FCI’s regional office for Punjab in Chandigarh. The businessman, Ravinder Singh, alias Bunty, is from Amritsar. He owns a private firm, Bunty Enterprises, which deals in sale and purchase of rice. The two were caught red-handed during a raid at the Industrial Area, Chandigarh, following a tip-off. They were produced in the CBI special court on Thursday and sent to judicial custody. The FCI is a statutory body under the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution, and among other functions oversees sale of surplus foodgrains in Punjab through e-auctions. According to sources in the CBI, Bunty was obtaining undue business from the FCI by manipulating the process of procurement and e-auction of foodgrains. He was operating several bidder IDs generated in the name of his firms to place multiple bids in e-auctions, and was paying Negi to look the other way. According to the FIR, Negi had favoured Bunty in getting an FCI tender at Makhu in Ferozepur, delaying special procurement at Patti in Tarn Taran, and delaying the inspection of his firm in Amritsar to give him time to reconcile his accounts. In the past few weeks, Negi had allegedly made several calls to Bunty to seek the bribe, and finally they had decided to meet near a mall in the Industrial Area in Chandigarh three days ago, where they were arrested. The CBI also conducted searches at various properties of the duo in Chandigarh, Zirakpur and Amritsar. According to the investigating agency, this is not the first time that Negi had received bribe from Bunty and is habitual of obtaining illegal gratification from many other mill owners in lieu of rendering undue favours. A case has been registered under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 7 (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) and 12 (punishment for abetment of offences defined in Section 7) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. If found guilty, they face imprisonment for a term not less than six months and extendable up to five years and will also be liable to pay fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-fci-manager-held-for-taking-2-lakh-bribe-101629398759077.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray seeks to play role on national stage||With Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray keen on playing an important role on the national stage ahead of the 2024 general elections, the party is trying to get a foothold in national politics. On Friday, Thackeray will participate in a virtual meeting convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi with all chief ministers from the Opposition and key leaders to discuss on how to go ahead for the next general elections, Raut said. Besides Thackeray, other CMs of non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled states, including West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren, among others, are expected to participate. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar also may participate in the meeting. Over the past few weeks, the Shiv Sena has been an active part of the Opposition’s camp and vocal in targeting the Centre. This is a deviation from the party’s policy as the party founder late Bal Thackeray chose to concentrate on Maharashtra and not get too involved at national-level politics. With the change of guard in the Sena, the party did not get the scope to spread its wings in the alliance with the BJP, although it has been putting up candidates in the Assembly polls outside Maharashtra, but without any success. The BJP stifled the regional party’s growth in the alliance. Now, Thackeray is looking to expand its base for the future. Political experts and observers pointed out the Sena is in a better position to get a good bargain on the national stage than it could have got with the BJP, as the Congress is weaker and is looking to stitch together an alliance to defeat the BJP in 2024. However, the party’s approach is a mixed one. It intends to play a bigger role in shaping national politics by becoming more active in the Congress-backed Opposition front, at the same time, continue to expand its base in electoral terms by fielding candidates in the Assembly elections in other states. The party plans to field candidates in Uttar Pradesh elections slated for February-March 2022. In states where it can dent the chances of BJP candidates, it is expected to put up its candidates. They may decide not to field candidates in some states where it could damage the regional party, like they did in West Bengal state polls earlier this year. Raut, who was the co-architect of the Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), is trying to make space for Thackeray in the opposition camp at the national level. In the last one month, Raut has been taking on the BJP over the Pegasus snooping issue and had been a part of key Opposition party meetings chaired by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Incidentally, poll strategist Prashant Kishor, who is now working with the Congress to build an opposition coalition, was an advisor for the Sena ahead of the 2019 Assembly elections. “The country definitely needs a strong leader like Uddhav ji, but that doesn’t mean that he will go and sit in New Delhi now. Now leaders like us are there [in Delhi]. But if we speak of the future, then Uddhav Thackeray ji will have to play an important role in national politics,” Raut said. The Rajya Sabha MP added that the Sena has always played a role in national politics and that the party’s opinions have always carried weight in New Delhi. “We have had ministers in the Centre, a Lok Sabha Speaker and governments have been formed with our support. As our numbers grew in Parliament, we have always played a role in Delhi. Besides, the Shiv Sena has taken a stand on several national issues, which the country has also agreed. Today, we are not a part of NDA or UPA, but we are there on the national stage. Our opinions have always carried weight, whether it is through Saamana or when Uddhav ji speaks.” Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “The party is projecting Thackeray as an able and strong leader. Popularity surveys have showed Thackeray among top five leaders and Raut has said that next year, he will be number one. Under Bal Thackeray, the party did not play a big role. The Congress and BJP were national parties then, but now only the BJP is that powerful. So they have a better chance to get a bigger role on the national stage.” Surendra Jondhale, political analyst and former professor of political science at Mumbai university, said, “It is also a political compulsion for the Shiv Sena, as it has to grow stronger in Maharashtra and outside. What we are seeing now with Raut meeting Congress leaders are political parlays, which will lead to something as we get closer to 2024. The Sena is a regional party and all such parties have national ambition. The Sena is looking at following in the footsteps of Mamata Banerjee and Sharad Pawar.” Meanwhile, the increasing camaraderie between the Shiv Sena and Congress will make Thackeray more secure in the CM’s seat. Since the MVA was formed, it was rumoured that Rahul Gandhi was against the alliance with the Sena, a former BJP ally. Earlier this month, Raut held a one-on-one meeting with Rahul Gandhi, cementing the relations between the two allies. Significantly, Raut remarked that the Congress and Shiv Sena are working “hand-in-hand, but now that hand has come on the shoulders”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-seeks-to-play-role-on-national-stage-101629398580372.html
20-08-2021||Other||10 priests of KV temple removed for charging extra money from devotees||Ten shastris (priests) of Kashi Vishwanth (KV)Temple were removed from the duty of conducting prayers at the temple late on Wednesday. The action was taken following the complaints against the shastris for seeking extra money (other than the prescribed fee) from the devotees, officials said. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal cancelled the passes of 10 shastris which means that they won’t be able to conduct religious ceremonies anymore at the temple. Explanation has also been sought from two shastris and assistant public relations officer of the KV temple. Divisional commissioner took action during the meeting of officials of the temple administration on Wednesday evening when he was informed that the temple administration received complaint that the shastris who are also known as “nishulk shastris” (priests who get rituals performed without charging any fee) demanded money from the devotees. There were also complaints of misbehavior against them. As per the system, the devotees wanting to get a religious ritual performed have to pay a prescribed fee after which the priests perform the ritual free of cost. “There is no place in the temple for any such employee, who tarnishes the image of the temple and does not work according to the dignity of the temple. Therefore, action has been taken against them. We will take action if complaints are received in future too,” Agarwal said. Sunil Kumar Verma, chief executive officer of the temple congratulated the temple staff for doing good work during the month of Shravan that Hindus consider as pious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-priests-of-kv-temple-removed-for-charging-extra-money-from-devotees-101629398519864.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man told to remove 12 dogs from his house||Taking up a complaint of “nuisance and inconvenience” owing to 12 dogs kept in a house in Chandigarh’s upscale Sector 8, the area subdivisional magistrate (SDM) has ordered the owner to immediately remove the canines.The house owner in question is Rajbir Rai, a businessman. He has kept three German Shepherds and a Lhasa Apso as pets and is also giving shelter to stray dogs. He was earlier staying in Sector 15 and moved to Sector 8 about two years back. The order came after 10 people living on the same lane approached SDM (central) Tejdeep Saini, complaining that the canines fight all day and keep barking at night, disturbing the peace in the area.In the show-cause notice issued on August 11, Rai has been told to “remove the dogs from the area and shift them to some other convenient place”. He has also been asked as to why the order should not be enforced and cost be taken from him. In the case of non-compliance, he has been directed to appear before the SDM on September 1. Even Chandigarh Registration of Pet Dogs Bylaws allow residents to keep a maximum of four canines, at least two of whom should be adopted street dogs. Any violation can lead to penalty, and even criminal proceedings if dogs bite anyone. What neighbours say “For the past two years, we have been facing inconvenience due to these dogs, who keep fighting with each other and howling through the night, making it difficult for us to sleep. We have been requesting Rai to do something about it, and despite all assurances, he has failed to shift the dogs,” said Surjit Singh Kohli, one of the neighbours who made the complaint. Area councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said the residents had been complaining for long about Rai keeping dogs beyond the permissible number. “There are a number of senior citizens staying in the area, who have been objecting to it,” he said.RS Gill, president of the residents’ welfare association, Sector 8, said: “A crying dog is considered a bad omen, and we are staying in a locality where it happens every night. We had earlier lodged a complaint with the municipal corporation, and after the officials visited Rai’s house, he had promised to shift the dogs. We had even lodged a complaint with police, but no action was taken.” Frivolous complaint: Rai Rai on his part termed the complaint frivolous, denying that he has kept 12 dogs at his house. He admitted to having four pets besides three stray dogs that he had rescued from a construction site in the neighbourhood. “Periodically, dogs walk into my house, and I feed them,” he said, claiming that he has been working for animal welfare. Rai alleged the present complaint was the result of a complaint of animal cruelty pending against one of the neighbours. “It is only to bully me. I will take it to its logical end and will not get bullied,” he said, while adding that he is awaiting a copy of the complaint and no one visited his house before issuing the notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-told-to-remove-12-dogs-from-his-house-101629398338117.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ashu directs officials to expedite work on devp projects in Ludhiana||With the assembly elections coming up in 2022, Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Thursday directed officials to expedite development projects including the laying of a new athletics track at Guru Nanak Stadium.He was reviewing the progress of various developmental projects under Ludhiana under Smart City, National Clean Air Programme and Ludhiana Improvement Trust at the MC’s Zone-D office. The meeting was attended by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, councillor Mamta Ashu and municipal commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal among others.Ashu said he has been monitoring the progress of all the projects every week and warned officials of strict action if there are any lapses on their behalf.Ashu said that efforts are being made to increase green cover in the city. Several new green belts and leisure valleys have already been developed on over 50 acres of land in Ludhiana city alone, while many more are either under construction or in the pipeline, he added. He also directed MC officials to undertake a massive plantation drive on vacant plots in the city.He said that a green belt has been developed at the Sidhwan Canal waterfront project site. Also, a leisure valley has come up opposite DAV Public School in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar and another one is under construction at Haibowal. Green belts are being developed properly on both sides of old GT Road, starting from Sherpur Chowk till Jalandhar Bypass Chowk, the minister said.Ashu directed the officials to ensure timely completion of all ongoing projects and reiterated that there should be no compromise when it comes to quality.He said that proper mapping of existing sewer lines should be carried out so that they can maintained effectively. He also directed that all MC vehicles be fitted with GPS devices to ensure their optimum utilisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ashu-directs-officials-to-expedite-work-on-devp-projects-in-ludhiana-101629398288221.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Railways portion of RUB-2 to be completed by Aug 31||Punjab minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Thursday said that the railways portion of the Pakhowal Road rail underbridge (RUB)-2 will be completed by August 31 and the construction of the approach road will start within this week. The RUB-2 will be used by vehicles coming along the Sidhwan Canal and going towards Sarabha Nagar (near skating rink).Ashu visited the construction site and was accompanied by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, MC councillor Mamta Ashu, MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, deputy chief engineer (construction division) of the Northern Railways Williamjit Singh and other senior MC officials. He said that the senior officials of railways department have assured that they will complete their part of the RUB-2 by August 31, 2021. Singh said that during the second Covid wave, the construction work got delayed as there was no supply of oxygen cylinders that are needed to cut steel.Ashu added that the construction of the railway over bridge and RUB-1 are also on in full swing.The construction of an ROB and two RUBs on Pakhowal Road have been a long pending demand of residents. This joint project is worth around ₹120 crore and will provide much-needed respite from traffic congestion.Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project to get shot in the armWater resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria will kick start the work of releasing 200 cusecs of fresh water through Neelon Drain of Sirhind Canal into the Budha Nullah on Sunday, Ashu said.He added that this work is part of the Punjab Government’s ambitious ₹650-crore Budha Dariya rejuvenation project. He said the entire project will be over by December 2022.He said that the project has been initiated to check the free fall of domestic water into the Budha Nullah throughout its entire length 14-km passing through municipal limits and ensure only treated water flows into the stream.Ashu said that the project includes setting up of two new sewage treatment plants (STPs) for treating domestic waters with total capacity of 285 MLD (Jamalpur, 225 MLD and Balloke, 60 MLD), rehabilitation of existing STPs with a treatment capacity of 418 MLD, two effluent treatment plants (ETPs) for treatment of six MLD wastewater from two dairy complexes in Tajpur and Haibowal, six intermediate pumping stations and laying of 10-km pipelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-railways-portion-of-rub-2-to-be-completed-by-aug-31-101629398281335.html
20-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Duo posing as PSPCL staffers held for extortion bid||Two residents of Sarpanch Colony were arrested on Wednesday for impersonating as Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) staffers and trying to extort the owner of an under-construction house in Gurubagh Colony, Jivan Nagar. The accused have been identified as Vijay Kumar and Sanjay Kumar.The complainant, Sanjay Jaiswal of Urban Estate, Focal Point, said that the duo claimed they were junior engineers from PSPCL, accused him of power theft and threated to penalise him. Jaiswal said he was not stealing power and when he asked them to show their identity cards, they tried to flee.Then, he nabbed them and informed the police. He added that the two men were in an inebriated condition. Inspector Davinder Sharma, SHO at Focal Point police station, said the police reached the spot and initiated investigation. They also cross checked with PSPCL officials and confirmed that the accused are not employees of the corporation.A case under Sections 451, 323, 341, 170, 506 and 34 of Indian Penal Code has been registered. The police are also investigating to find their past criminal record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-duo-posing-as-pspcl-staffers-held-for-extortion-bid-101629398280207.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants relief to Sanjay Bhansali, Alia Bhatt||The Bombay high court recently granted an interim stay on the criminal defamation proceedings against producers of the film Gangubai Kathiawadi and actor Alia Bhatt. The film is based on a book on the women who were part of the Mumbai mafia and the underworld. In another petition filed by the alleged adopted son of Kathiawadi, HC refused to grant a stay on the release of the film. The son had sought the stay claiming that it would defame his late mother’s reputation. However, HC’s decision was taken after it was informed that there was nothing on record to prove the claim that he is the adopted son. The single judge bench of justice Revati Mohite-Dere, while hearing the criminal application by Bhansali Productions Pvt Ltd, Sanjay Leela Bhansali and Bhatt, was informed that the application challenged the summons issued to them on March 15 by the Mazgaon magistrate court in a defamation complaint filed by Babuji Rawji Shah against them. Senior advocate Aabad Ponda for Bhansali Productions, was making submissions submitted that the film Gangubai was based on a book authored by Jane Borges and Hussain Zaidi, which was published in 2011. He added that the film was based on a part of the book and they were not aware of Shah’s existence. Ponda also informed the bench that a civil court had dismissed a suit filed by Shah, wherein he had sought a permanent injunction against the authors of the book from publishing, selling or creating any third party rights in relation to the book. Ponda added that as Shah had failed to furnish details of the same to the magistrate in his criminal complaint, the summons issued to his client should be set aside. After hearing the submissions, the bench issued a notice to Shah and stayed the proceedings before the trial court till the next hearing of the application on September 7.Meanwhile on July 30, the single judge bench of justice Nitin Sambre, while hearing an appeal filed by Shah – wherein he challenged the dismissal of his suit – had refused to restrain the authors from publishing, selling or creating third-party rights on their book.Advocate Narendra Dubey for Shah had also sought an interim order from HC, seeking temporary injunction of restraining the makers of the movie from releasing the film.However, advocate Mayur Khandeparkar for the producers had submitted that the civil court had rightly held that a suit at the behest of the legal heir of the person alleged to be defamed was not maintainable. He added that as Shah was not able to demonstrate or get a declaration to prove that he was the adoptive son of Kathiawadi, he did not have legal rights and therefore, the prayer for injunction was liable to be rejected.While disposing of the appeal, justice Sambre held, “In a case of claim for defamation, action can be brought by a person in court of law provided he claimed to be defamed. Merely because the appellant is claiming to be son of such person cannot be prima facie inferred to have the legal right to show indulgence. Temporary injunction as prayed cannot be granted and as such prayers stand rejected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-relief-to-sanjay-bhansali-alia-bhatt-101629398044365.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Court allows PNB to sell Nirav Modi’s properties worth ₹440 crore||Punjab National Bank (PNB), which faced the brunt because of the alleged fraud committed by Nirav Modi, will be able to recover at least part of its dues, as the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court has ordered to release part of the properties belonging to the fugitive Diamond trader worth ₹440 crore, which were mortgaged by Modi’s firms with the nationalised bank.The special PMLA court last week allowed two applications filed by PNB seeking to release properties mortgaged by the bank against the credit facilities extended to Modi’s two firms —Firestar Diamond International Private Ltd (FDIPL) and Firestar International Ltd (FIL).As per the detailed order released on Thursday, the bank had sought release of properties of FIL worth ₹108.3 crore and properties of FDIPL worth ₹331.6 crore. While releasing these properties, the court said, “The claimant’s (bank’s) quantifiable loss has been recognised by Debts Recovery Tribunals (DRT) who has passed judgments in their favour.”As per the orders released on Thursday, the total outstanding debt payable by FIL to PNB consortium is in excess of ₹1,264.62 with costs and interest at 16.45% per annum from July 24, 2018. The total outstanding debt payable by FDIPL to United Bank of India (UBI) consortium is in excess of ₹232.15 with costs and interest from July 27, 2018.During the probe, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had attached several properties owned by Modi though his family members and also through these companies. The court noted that several of these properties have been ordered to confiscate after Modi was declared a fugitive economic offender.During the proceedings for confiscation of Modi’s assets, several properties were exempted from confiscation after the interested parties had raised objections. The banks and its consortium, too, had objected to confiscation of properties mortgaged with them against which Modi and his firms availed several credit facilities in the form of Letter of Understandings (LOUs).The bank hence approached the court earlier this year for release of these mortgaged properties, a majority of which are shares and debentures that were not exempted from confiscation but were attached by ED.ED, which was party to the hearing, had contended that it would take an undertaking from the applicants to return the said amount with interest in case the court at any point in time deems it fit.“No prejudice shall be caused in restoring the assets to the applicant, as upon confiscation of these assets on conclusion of the trial, the same are anyway liable to be restored to the applicants,” ED had contended.After considering all the aspects, the court has allowed the pleas of PNB and has directed the bank to give undertaking saying it would return the properties or its equivalent value when directed by the court. Further, ED is directed to make a list of the properties which would be released to the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-allows-pnb-to-sell-nirav-modi-s-properties-worth-440-crore-101629398040111.html
20-08-2021||Mumbai||Praja report: Performance of 90% Mumbai’s corporators poor; Congress fares best||Ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls early next year, a report by non-government organisation (NGO) Praja has revealed that around 90% of city corporators have performed poorly, as per the parameters set by it. The current set of corporators were elected in the year 2017. According to Praja’s report, only two corporators have scored A grade, while around 90% (198) have received C, D, E and F grades in the overall performance from 2017 to 2021. The report by Praja stated that their report goes on to show that there is a need for major improvement in the performance of corporators. Owing to the pandemic, the NGO, instead of publishing the annual results, took into consideration the overall performance of the ongoing tenure. The NGO assessed the performance of the elected representatives on indicators such as attendance in the civic house and committee meetings, questions raised and funds spent on public amenities in the electoral wards. According to the report, the overall average score of corporators in the current term is 55.10% whereas, in the last term (April 2012-March 2016), the average score was 58.92%. In the April 2017-March 2021 period, of 220 councillors, 71 councillors got E and F grades, while only two have been graded A. Twenty corporators have received B grade, while a majority (127) councillors have received C and D grades.In terms of party-wise performance, the Congress with 28 corporators is the top performer, having scored 57%, followed by Shiv Sena (55.88%) that has 92 corporators. The Samajwadi Party (SP) with six corporators ranks third at 55.05%, while BJP with 81 corporators ranks fourth by scoring 55.01%. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) that has eight corporators ranks fifth by scoring 51.78%.Shiv Sena corporator and group leader in BMC Vishakha Raut said, “No party has worked hard like how the Shiv Sena has worked and touched the lives of citizens during this difficult phase of Covid-19. In the upcoming BMC elections, voters will give their verdict by placing their trust in us again, and that’s what matters for us.”Vinod Mishra, BJP’s party leader in BMC, said, “There’s so much corruption in BMC and in all this, if the Congress is the best performer, then I don’t have to say anything. Also, we believe that in the upcoming elections, public will give us a certificate in the form of votes and we will be able to have the majority.” SP corporator and group leader in BMC Rais Shaikh said, “We have been working really hard for our voters. Somehow, I feel the parameters by which NGO Praja analyses our performance should be relooked. I feel there should be a third-party assessment of our performance.”The attendance of corporators in committee meetings also has dropped from 82.15% in April 2017-2018 to 73.70% in 2019-20. The report further revealed that only 18% of corporators contributed to 45% of the total 8,609 number of questions asked between 2017 and 2021.Congress corporator and opposition party leader in BMC Ravi Raja was ranked as the best-performing corporator, followed by Shiv Sena’s Samadhan Sarvankar and BJP’s Harish Chheda. “The hard work done by the Congress and myself has been highlighted again in the findings of NGO Praja. Though we are small in number, we are very effective, and this is one reason for our success. Hard work and persistence never go unnoticed,” said Raja. Speaking on his ranking, Sarvankar said, “There is nothing different that I do but actual ground work by being available to citizens. The voters in my area are also quite active and my party has been very supportive. Also, having the Yuva Sena background helps.Chheda said, “In the previous reports also, Praja has given me several ranks and I am grateful for it. However, the real test for me is the votes, and I’m sure that the way I have worked for my voters and the fact that I have remained easily accessible for them, they will elect me again in the upcoming election.”Meanwhile, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) corporator from Bharatnagar area in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) Gulnaz Qureshi, stood at the last position. In the top 10 corporators’ list, the highest (four) corporators are from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), followed by three corporators each from the Shiv Sena and the Congress. The report has stated that technology used during the pandemic has resulted in the number of increased meetings. In this context, the report stated: “Technology was used to facilitate ward committee meetings during this pandemic. We saw that four more meetings per month were being held during this time as compared to the monthly average of the previous year. From April 2019 - March 2020, the monthly average was 22 ward meetings whereas, when technology was used from October 2020- March 2021, the monthly average went up to 26 meetings.”The report has also stated that there is no improvement in the quality of questions over the years. Milind Mhaske, director, Praja Foundation, said, “As citizens’ representatives, it is expected that corporators would raise questions to the municipal corporation on the complaints made by the citizens. For the efficient running of the committees and to be able to address citizens’ issues in a systematic and efficient manner, we need more councillors in transition to A, B, C and D grades, while completely eliminating E and F grades of performances.”Nitai Mehta, founder and managing trustee, Praja Foundation, said, “Now that BMC elections are around the corner, we need to understand how our current elected representatives have performed in the last term and this can act as an opportune moment to introspect on the performances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/praja-report-performance-of-90-mumbai-s-corporators-poor-congress-fares-best-101629397802849.html
20-08-2021||Noida||Greater Noida plans to treat village sewer||The Greater Noida Authority will lay sewer lines in all urban villages and move to let only treated water flow into the Hindon and Yamuna rivers.Currently, lines from at least 124 urban villages in Greater Noida area is not connected to the city’s master sewer line. As a result, it is dumped into the city’s drains that flows directly into the rivers.“Once complete, the lines will be routed to our existing sewage treatment plant in Kasna that has the capacity to treat 137 million litres a day,” said Narendra Bhooshan chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The authority will start by laying lines for villages like Chipyana, Haibatpur, Kheri Bhanuta, Saini, Sunpura, Ladpura, Devta, Chamroli and Kulipura among others. It will then move to villages such as Sutyana, Kulesra, Malakpur and Birondi that already have sewer lines, but are not connected to the master sewer line.“The authority has been talking of laying sewer and connecting it with master plan for a long time but nothing has happened so far. We hope that the authority will provide basic civic amenities in villages at par with sectors,” said Mukesh Chaudhary of village Khedi Bhanauta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-plans-to-treat-village-sewer-101629397501698.html
20-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad takes step to increase second dose vaccination coverage||In order to increase the coverage of fully vaccinated individuals, the Ghaziabad health department has allowed all adults requiring their second dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to walk-in and get their shot in addition to online slot booking facility available on Co-Win. This will be in addition to the Uttar Pradesh government’s order last week to reserve Saturdays, called “second dose day”, for only second dose beneficiaries.According to Co-Win, the district till Thursday had administered over 1.7 million doses of which only 19% (or 342,575) were second doses. The health department’s data till August 15 showed that nearly 26% of those in the 45+ age group population (estimated at 878,250) in Ghaziabad got their second dose, while this was 43% of the population in the 18-45 age group (1.8 million).“We have allowed walk-in facility, in addition to the online booking facility, for second dose beneficiaries with a preference for senior citizens, persons with disabilities, women and pregnant women.The walk-in facility was already available to those of 45 years,” said Dr Neeraj Agarwal, additional CMO and nodal officer for Covid vaccination.The district is already making calls from the Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre (ICCCC) and the chief medical officer’s (CMO) office to beneficiaries whose second dose is due.“People often forget the due date for their second dose, and many also wonder whether they have to register again. So, we have a dedicated team at our office that calls 1,000 people every day to inform them,” Dr Agarwal added.The state of UP has so far administered 62 million doses, which includes 9.7 million second doses- a coverage of about 15.61%.On the first day “second dose day” on August 14, Ghaziabad could administer only 7,534 doses. Officials attributed the low figure to low supply of vaccine. The same day, Uttar Pradesh had administered 338,801 doses, which included 243,320 second doses.“Getting a second dose is must and beneficiaries must get the second dose in order to get maximum protection against the Covid. There should be more awareness campaigns and special drives should also be conducted to increase second dose coverage. But for this, vaccine availability should also be ensured,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-takes-step-to-increase-second-dose-vaccination-coverage-101629397088807.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||No evidence to convict Shashi Tharoor in Sunanda Pushkar’s death, says court||Criminal trials require evidence and there was none to convict Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, according to a Delhi court that acquitted the MP of charges that included abetment to suicide of his wife Sunanda Pushkar in its order released on Thursday.The court said it found no material against the politician to establish that his actions led to instigate or aid her in committing suicide, assuming it as the cause of Pushkar’s death, who was found dead in a luxury hotel in south Delhi in January, 2014.In the 176-page order released on Thursday, the court held that the material produced by the prosecution was “wholly or absolutely insufficient” and that even prima facie, there was nothing to show that Tharoor subjected Pushkar to mental cruelty of a degree that would lead to suicide.Even though the statement of the witnesses indicated Pushkar was “agitated”, “distressed”, “felt betrayed” and “cheated” due to an alleged affair of Tharoor had with Pakistani journalist Mehr Tarar, there was nothing shown by the investigating agency to demonstrate that the former minister had provoked, incited or induced her to commit suicide, the order said.It said that none of the medical boards had concluded that the death had happened due to suicide.“In the present case, the deceased (Pushkar) might have felt distressed or mentally disturbed with the alleged extra marital relation of the accused but mental disturbance does not constitute the offence of abetment…,” the court said.Pointing out holes in the prosecution’s case, the court said that while once it contended that the death was homicidal, at another instance, they argued that the death had taken place due to suicide.“Suffice it to say that none of the reports either of medical doctors or of Psychological Autopsy Board had confirmed that the death was a suicide. Even if it is presumed that the deceased had suicidal ideations and she had committed suicide or caused grave injury or danger to life, limb or health as per the case of the prosecution…., there is nothing, even prima facie, to suggest that there was any wilful conduct on the part of the accused (Tharoor) of such a nature as was likely to drive Pushkar to commit suicide or to cause injury or danger to life, limb or health,” the court said.It said the charge sheet was filed with a hope that perhaps the court would find some material to proceed with the trial, but “criminal trials require evidence”.“No doubt a precious life was lost. But in the absence of specific allegations and sufficient material to make out the ingredients of the various offences and on the basis of which the court could, at this stage presume that the accused had committed the offence, the accused cannot be compelled to face the rigmaroles of a criminal trial”.The court found a similar lack of material to convict Tharoor under section 498-A of the IPC, which was invoked by the prosecution. The section punishes convicts for abetting the suicide of a woman by harassing for dowry.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa for Tharoor had argued that as per the studies on rats referred to by the medical boards, more than 2,000 tablets of alprax would have been needed to cause the death of the deceased whereas there was nothing in the instant case to show that she had even consumed 27 tablets at one go.Pushkar was suffering from various problems including lupus, an autoimmune disorder and was on medication for it, the court said, noting the statements of some of the witnesses who also added that Pushkar would not live long.“The statements of the witnesses also point to the fact that she was disturbed over her health though she was more distressed over the alleged affair of the accused with Mehar Tarar,” it said.The court took note of the AIIMS Autopsy Board report which had maintained that the cause of death was poisoning and due to excessive ingestion of Alprazolam. It had not stated about the death being homicidal or suicidal or accidental.“The Board constituted by the Director General of Health Services had also stated that no definite opinion could be given in this regard. The Psychological Autopsy Board in the first report had stated that the death was not homicide or suicide while in its second report had stated that the deceased had suicidal ideations but did not state that it was a suicide nor there is any other material to confirm the same. As such, none of the Boards had confirmed that the death was a suicide,” it said.The court also said that there is no “quantitative analysis” to show that Pushkar consumed 27 Alprax (a sedative) tablets at one go. “…as per the record itself and as stated by Manishi Chandra, member of the SIT on a query put to him during the course of arguments, there are no studies which could show what quantity of alprazolam would be sufficient to cause death and the same varied from individual to individual.”The court also said that Tharoor did not make any effort so that the messages of his alleged affair with Tarar would be seen by Pushkar, so as to make his conduct “wilful” as was contended by the police.Pushkar’s death January 17, 2014 quickly grabbed national headlines and sparked a political tussle between the then ruling Congress party and its primary challenger, the Bharatiya Janata Party, months before general elections.Delhi Police registered the first FIR on January 1, 2015 against unidentified persons. It questioned Tharoor and others, and conducted a polygraph test on six people, including the minister’s help and staff. Tharoor denied all charges then, calling them “preposterous and motivated”.On Wednesday, the Congress leader said his faith in judiciary stood vindicated and the ruling brings a “significant conclusion to the long nightmare”.“I have weathered dozens of unfounded accusations and media vilification patiently, sustained by my faith in the Indian judiciary, which today stands vindicated,” the former Union minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-evidence-to-convict-shashi-tharoor-in-sunanda-pushkar-s-death-says-court-101629396478349.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||Building layout plans to be sanctioned online only: SDMC||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has developed an online module to for sanctioning building layout plans that will applicable to all three civic bodies in the city, the SDMC said in a statement on Thursday.Developed under the ‘ease of doing business’ rules, the module is expected not only to streamline the system but also bring greater transparency in the sanctioning process, the statement said. The corporation plans to shift the layout approval process entirely online.“It will also reduce manual interference as the applicants will get their layout plans sanctioned without visiting offices. Applications for sanction of layout plans will be processed only online now,” the statement said.The town planning department, which sanctions layout plans, will accept soft copy of the layout online at mcdonline.nic.in“No hard copies of documents will be accepted. File will be accepted with certification of zero-error generated through the online software of the department. Approval and release of layout will also be done online. The files of layout plans which are currently under process in the department may be continued as per the present procedure,” the statement said.In case the plan submitted currently is rejected, the applicant will have to re-apply through the online module along with the requisite fee. The proposal for categories such as private land policy (PLP) will continue to be submitted and dealt with in its present form, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/building-layout-plans-to-be-sanctioned-online-only-sdmc-101629396384502.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||Woman gang-raped in moving car; 2 held||The city police arrested two men who allegedly gang raped a 22-year-old woman in a moving car for over an hour before dropping her off in northeast Delhi’s Shastri Park area and fleeing.Police said the woman alerted the cops immediately after the incident happened on Monday afternoon, following which the investigators nabbed the suspects.A senior police official said that the woman, a house help from Noida, was looking for a job since the pandemic had affected the earnings of her husband, who worked as a mechanic.The official said that one of the suspects, identified only by his first name Rohit, who is also from her locality and was known to the victim for the last two weeks, called her on Sunday and promised her a job at his cousin’s shop in Delhi. He also promised to take her to the job location in Delhi the next day.After picking her up on Monday, Rohit was also joined by his friend, Nitin, a kilometre away.Police said they then allegedly raped her inside car while driving towards northeast Delhi’s Shastri Park.She further said that when she tried to scream for help, the suspects allegedly threatened to kill her if she did not keep quiet.After her hour-long ordeal, the suspects allegedly warned her against informing anyone about the incident and dropped her off in the Shastri Park area.Although traumatised, police said the woman called up the police control room and shared her location.A PCR van took her to the police station where her complaint was lodged, her statement recorded and she was counselled.The woman was also medically examined after which a case was registered under sections 376 (D) (gang rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.“While the woman was being examined, she said that she recalled the number of the vehicle they were travelling in. Using this information, our teams traced Rohit and through him, Nitin. It was found that they had borrowed the car from someone,” said deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Sanjay Kumar Sain.Police seized the car used in the crime and said that the suspects hailed from Noida. “Rohit and Nitin have been friends for quite some time...,” said a police official.The suspects -- jobless but not from poor families, according to police -- were both sent to judicial custody.“The two did not have any case registered against them in the past,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22yearold-gang-raped-in-moving-car-in-northeast-delhi-2-arrested-101629396362317.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||Suspects in Israel embassy blast case may not be charged||he Delhi police are likely to not file a charge sheet against the four men from Kargil, who were arrested for their alleged role in the blast outside the Israel embassy on January 29.,2021.Nazir Hussain, 26, Zulfikar Ali Wazir, 25, Aiaz Hussain, 28, and Muzammil Hussain, 25 – all residents of Thang village in Kargil district of Ladakh, were arrested in a joint operation by Intelligence Bureau, Kargil police and the Delhi police’s special cell from their village on June 24.Police file their charge sheet within 60 days and 90 days, depending upon the Indian Penal Code sections used, from the date of arrest.Officials’ privy to the case details said the police were yet to find any incriminating details, and the four suspects have also cleared the polygraph test conducted in June last week. To be sure, the lie detector test is not admissible evidence in court.In the coming months, if other agencies also do not find any evidence against them, the Delhi police are likely to file an application to the court seeking their discharge.“The police did not recover any incriminating evidence or material from them. Only the circumstances and their activities during their day, such as them switching off their phones, speaking over a virtual private network or supporting a group rival to Israel, made the investigating agencies suspects. But the rival group too is not a terror group,” an official said.However, no senior officer commented on the further course of probe in the case.Also, one of the four suspects, Nazir Hussain was staying with his parents at their home in Kargil hasn’t visited Delhi.The four were released on bail by a city court on July 15The National Investigation Agency is probing the case, and the special cell arrested the suspects on the basis of an FIR registered on February 1 under the Explosives Act and seized their phones and laptops.Officials privy to the investigation by the NIA said the agency too has also not found any evidence against the men, apart from the one fact that a seemingly fair man, who resembled one of the four arrested men, was seen in the CCTV footage. “If the police do not file a charge sheet, and if NIA also does not find any evidence, it is likely that Delhi police may even file a discharge report before the court under section 169 of CRPC,” one officer said.On June 15, the NIA released photographs of two suspects involved in the case and announced a reward of ₹10 lakh each on their arrest. NIA is yet to arrest any person in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/israel-embassy-case-charge-sheet-against-4-suspects-unlikely-101629396306570.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||Permission to cut, transplant 6,000 trees for third Ring Road in Delhi||The Delhi government has granted permission to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to cut and transplant over 6,600 trees for the construction of Urban Extension Road-II, according to a notification by the environment department.The notification issued by Delhi’s environment department on Monday said that around 4,365 trees will be transplanted, and 2,314 cut for the UER-II project by the NHAI. The trees will be cut and transplanted to make way for five stretches under the project, Delhi government officials said.The four stretches (referred to as packages in the permission letters) covered under the project are NH-1 intersection to Karala-Kanjhawala road; Karala-Kanjhawala road to Nangloi-Najafgarh road; Nangloi-Najafgarh Road to Sector-24, Dwarka. Additionally, links to Sonepat bypass, and Bahadurgarh bypass will also be made.The Urban Extension Road-II, also termed as the third Ring Road, which will connect four national highways ( NH-1, 10, 8 and 2) and provide seamless access between north, northwest Delhi and IGI airport and Gurugram. The Delhi government has earmarked an area of 36.45 hectares for construction of (UER)-II in five packages.In December last year, the Delhi government notified the tree transplantation policy under which the construction agencies need to transplant at least 80% of the trees being removed for their project work.According to the policy, 10 saplings are to be planted for each tree transplanted or felled, and the state forest department will maintain a record of applications approved for tree felling on its website.“The benchmark tree survival rate at the end of one year of tree transplantation is 80 per cent. The final payment of the technical agency will be linked to the tree survival rate achieved with a provision for a penalty for tree survival rate below the benchmark rate,” the policy said.Environment department officials said that in lieu of the trees that will be removed, the NHAI has been directed to plant 66,790 saplings of Neem, Amaltas, Peepal, Pilkhan, Gular, Bargad, Sheesham, Arjun and other native species at Aravali Biodiversity Park, Tughlakabad Biodiversity Park, West Delhi Biodiversity Park, Northern Ridge Biodiversity Park and the Yamuna floodplains.The construction agency has also been asked to transplant the 4,365 trees “within the project site at vacant area UER-II along the road proposed to be constructed with their own funds”, the notification said.UER-II was proposed in the Master Plan of Delhi 2021. The DDA, which had planned the initial project, couldn’t implement it due to land acquisition-related issues mainly in Kanjhawla, Najafgarh and other rural villages.To decongest the city, especially the Ring Road and Outer Ring Road, experts say that it is important to develop road infrastructure in urban extensions so that traffic coming from north and northwest Delhi doesn’t have to take Ring Road to reach south Delhi or the Delhi airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-allows-to-cut-transplant-over-6600-trees-for-third-ring-road-101629396117693.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||In Delhi for treatment, Afghans face rising bills and uncertainty||Fifty-three-year-old Shukriya arrived in Delhi with her son from Afghanistan’s Baghlan province on a medical visa in March to treat her stomach and back cancer. Five months later, her family -- her husband Khalil (63) arrived nearly a month ago -- is staring at an uncertain future as they have exhausted most of their money on the ongoing treatment and the crisis in their homeland, which has been taken over by the Taliban, has dashed their hopes of a better future.“Everything has collapsed back home. We have exhausted whatever money we had and our family members back home cannot send money due to the turmoil that has engulfed the country. My wife’s treatment had to be called off since we can no longer afford the expensive treatment. She is surviving on medicines,” said Khalil, pointing towards a frail Shukriya, who sat on a bed with great difficulty in a poorly lit two-room house in Lajpat Nagar’s Kasturba Niketan they have rented for ₹18,000 per month.Shukriya is among the hundreds of people who have arrived in India from Afghanistan for treatments over the last few years, a period which has also seen a steady growth of medical tourists attracted by the relatively lower cost of treatment here.Since March, Shukriya has been shuttling between private hospitals in the city. Drained by the exacting nature of the treatment and mounting financial pressures, the mother-son duo asked Khalil to come over to India in the hopes that their challenges would ease with financial and moral support. But that was not to be.“We have no money left for treatment or the rent. There are no flights. We are stuck and can only wait and watch,” said Khalil, who is still processing the swift victory of the Taliban.“Everything was okay till a month ago. I had never imagined that the Taliban would take over so soon. We don’t know what the future holds for my wife and family and if we will be able to continue with the treatment,” he said, adding that given a choice, he would prefer to stay in India than return.The ongoing political churning in Afghanistan has thrown the fates of many such medical tourists into uncertainty, with banks in the strife-torn country running out of money and people stepping out sparingly there.Among them is Ataullah (58), a native of Afghanistan’s Ghazni province, who came to Delhi July 29 for his wife’s heart surgery at a private hospital. Amid the crisis “People back home say that there is no money in the banks. I have already spent USD7,000 on the surgery and don’t know how we will be able to sustain ourselves in the country. Besides the treatment cost, rent needs to be paid here. Translators also charge a lot. We are left without resources,” said Ataullah, who too stays in a rented accommodation in Lajpat Nagar II.While many are sceptical about returning to their country, some say they are stuck in Delhi due to the absence of flights. Fear of visa expiry -- medical visas are usually given for a period of 60 days and can be stretched for a maximum of six months -- too weighs on their minds.Mashuqullah Niazai (45), who came to Delhi with his wife for infertility treatment in March, was looking forward to return home but his flight on August 16 was cancelled. “There is a lot of uncertainty since there are no flights. I want to go back but since there is no clarity on flight status, I will have to get the visa extended,” said Niazai.Ahmed Zia Ghani, head of the Afghan solidarity committee, a representative body of the community in India, said that the return of the Taliban had compounded troubles for Afghans everywhere. “Majority of the Afghans who have come to India in the recent months are on medical visas. Those who came here for long-term treatment have run out of money or are on the verge of exhausting their savings. They are unable to receive support since the central banking system back home has collapsed,” he said.According to Ghani, there are around 22,000 Afghans in India, with over 90% of them located in Delhi.“While people are suffering back home, Afghans in India are also in need of food, shelter, and jobs,” he added.Meanwhile, private hospitals that receive patients from Afghanistan said that it was too early to say how the developments in Afghanistan will impact the medical tourism in the country. “Over the last decade, Indian hospitals have witnessed a significant inflow of patients from Afghanistan and adjoining countries, who sought the superlative medical treatment and care available in India. We hope that the recent developments in Afghanistan do not impact those in need of treatment and patients can continue to travel to receive the best medical services in India,” said Anil Vinayak, Group COO, Fortis Healthcare Ltd.A spokesperson from Indraprastha Apollo hospital said there had been an overall dip in the number of international patients owing to the pandemic, including from Afghanistan, over the past year. “It will be difficult to ascertain any change in the numbers owing to the current crisis in Afghanistan,” the hospital said.In a stunning rout, the Taliban seized nearly all of Afghanistan in just over a week, despite the billions of dollars spent by the US and NATO over nearly two decades to build up Afghan security forces. Just days earlier, an American military assessment had estimated it would be a month before the capital would come under insurgent pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-delhi-for-treatment-afghans-on-medical-visa-face-rising-bills-and-uncertainty-101629395938301.html
20-08-2021||Other||Purported audio of Congress MLA hurling abuses goes viral on social media||An audio clip in which a Chhattisgarh Congress MLA is purportedly heard abusing a deputy collector posted in Balrampur district went viral on social media on Thursday.MLA Brihaspat Singh, however, refuted the charges against him and claimed that the opposition party members and senior leaders of his party are hatching conspiracy against him.Prafull Rajak, who is posted as the deputy collector of Ramanujganj in Balrampur, alleged that he got a call from the MLA on Wednesday evening and that the latter abused him on phone.The main opposition Bhartiya Janata Party issued a press note on Thursday evening and demanded the state assembly speaker to take cognizance of the issue and sack Singh from the post of MLA.“I have informed the collector and other senior officers of the district about the incident. I will file a written complaint with the police after taking legal advice,” Rajak told HT.Rajak further said that the issue was between two groups seeking lease for fish rearing in the pond. Rejecting the allegations, the Congress MLA told reporters that the voice in the audio clip is not his.“The audio clip did not belong to me and it is not my voice. Some people, including a national level leader of the opposition and some senior Congress leaders who are in the government, are hatching conspiracy against me,” said Singh.The MLA was recently in the news when he alleged that his convoy was allegedly ‘attacked’ at the behest of state health minister TS Singh Deo in Surguja district.Singh alleged that the reason behind the attack was that he had praised chief minister Bhupesh Baghel as he said that Baghel will continue to be the CM of the state due to which Singh Deo had a grudge against him.Later, he apologised for his statement against him and claimed that it was an emotional outburst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/purported-video-of-congress-mla-hurling-abuses-goes-viral-on-social-media-101629395944375.html
20-08-2021||Other||Flag-hoisting row: Protest in support of Agra Shahar Mufti||Agra Muslims marched in the city on Thursday to protest registration of a case against the Shahar Mufti and his son over the controversy related to hoisting of the national flag at Jama Masjid on Independence Day. The Agra police registered a case against the protestors for violation of Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code and Epidemic Act. “There is discontent and anger among Muslims after a case was registered against the Shahar Mufti and his son for no valid reason. The Shahar Mufti had not opposed hoisting of the national flag on Independence Day and had merely suggested that such flag hoisting should not be at a ‘sacred space’ of the Masjid where ‘namaz’ is offered,” said Haji Jamiluddin Qureshi, who led the protest march. “Shahar Mufti Mazdul Kuddoos Khubaib Rumi has been framed in a wrong and false case when in fact the fault is on the part of organisers of the event, including Haji Aslam Qureshi, chairman of Local Islamia Agency and Ashfaq Saifi, chairman of UP Minority Commission who was chief guest at the event organized at the madarsa within Jama Masjid on Independence Day,” alleged Haji Jamiluddin Qureshi, national vice president of All India Jamait-ul-Quresh. “We have requested SSP Agra Muniraj G to get a case registered against Haji Aslam Qureshi and Ashfaq Saifi who have poisoned the peaceful atmosphere of the city,” added Haji Jamiluddin Qureshi. Sources revealed that senior Muslim leaders in Agra had made efforts on Wednesday night to end the controversy by calling the opposite parties but Haji Aslam Qureshi on Thursday denied withdrawal of the case registered against Shahar Mufti. “The Independence Day event was opposed and Tricolor was insulted merely because the chief guest and chairman of minority commission was from the BJP. I appeal to register a case of sedition against the Shahar Mufti,” said Haji Aslam Qureshi, adding that young boys were called to be part of the protest march in favour of the Shahar Mufti. Police was deployed in sensitive areas of the city as a few markets were also closed in protest. Meanwhile, a case was registered at Mantola police station against those leading the protest and other unidentified people who were part of the march, for violation of Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code. “A case was registered against those who staged the protest on Thursday for violation of Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code and Epidemic Act,” said Vinod Kumar, the in charge of Mantola police station in Agra. It may be recalled that Mazdul Kuddoos Khubaib Rumi, the Shahar Mufti and his son, Hammadul Kuddoos, were booked on Wednesday for objecting to the flag hoisting ceremony organised on Jama Masjid premises in Agra on Independence Day. Organiser of the event, Haji Aslam Qureshi, chairman of Local Islamia Agency, lodged the case at the Mantola police station of Agra. The case was registered under Section 3 of Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971 and sections 153-B, 505, 505 (1)(b) and section 508 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flaghoisting-row-protest-in-support-of-agra-shahar-mufti-101629395578072.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||No hunger death due to free distribution of ration: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said people in large numbers had died of hunger during pandemics in the past and this was the first time that no hunger death took place due to free distribution of ration in fight against the Covid pandemic.Replying to issues raised by the members during a debate on supplementary budget in the state assembly, he said people had died in the pandemic in the past. He said a record number of deaths were reported in the world during the Spanish Flu from 1918 to 1926-27. He also referred to the “Sannyasi Vidroh” (Sannyasi rebellion) that later led to the coining of “Vande Mataram” by Bankim Chandra Chatterjee to make his point that the situation of that time reflected on the insensitivity of the then government leading to large number of deaths due to hunger. Yogi said he was thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi who worked for protecting lives and livelihoods. He said this was the first time that no one had died of hunger during the pandemic.He gave statistical details about total world population and population of the USA, the UK, Brazil, India and Indian states like Maharashtra and Kerala and compared them to the state to make his point that Uttar Pradesh’s performance was the best.“I wish all of you continue to remain in opposition though I will have to go for campaigning in your constituency if BJP candidate is fielded there and you know the result. But in this house, I can pray for your continuation in opposition,” the CM said.Yogi pointed towards the opposition parties to make his point that some people (without naming political parties) were supporting Taliban in a shameless manner. “How cruel they (Taliban) are to women and children and they (political parties) should be exposed. They have been protecting a dreaded mafia and sheltering him in jail,” he said.The CM said with efforts made by his government, Uttar Pradesh had become the second largest economy in the country with a significant increase in per capita income and the GSDP in the state. He said there was now a change in the mindset of many, who saw a communal angle in the names of Lord Rama Lord Krishna or Lord Shiva, were now claiming to be their followers. Earlier, leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary said various departments had not released the sanctions despite the large size annual budget of ₹5.50 lakh crore. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Shah Alam alias Guddu Jamali said the state government should not have moved the supplementary budget as a large chunk of funds of the annual budget remained unused.Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra said there was nothing in the supplementary budget that was only empty rhetoric. She said chief minister Yogi Adityanath should announce a fund for the victimised women. Others who spoke included Apna Dal (S) leader Lina Tiwari and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party leader Om Prakash Rajbhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-hunger-death-due-to-free-distribution-of-ration-yogi-101629395336564.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||UP assembly: Yogi announces 11% DA hike for state staff, housing scheme for poor on land freed from mafia||The Uttar Pradesh assembly was adjourned sine die on Thursday after the state government got the mini supplementary budget of ₹7301.52 crore for 2021-22 passed and chief minister Yogi Adityanath made a number of announcements for different sections.The announcements included 11% increase in the dearness allowance (DA) to the state government employees and pensioners with effect from July 1, 2021, a housing scheme for the poor on the land made available by demolishing the illegal buildings of the mafia and the reopening of schools. Besides, tablets/smartphones will be given to one crore youths to make them digitally proficient under a ₹ 3,000 crore scheme.He said schools and colleges from class 9 and above had already started functioning and “classes 6 to 8 are being started from August 23. We are trying that schools of basic education are opened from September 1.”“The leaders of opposition parties were in home isolation during Covid-19…Minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna is saying most of them were in hospitals. But the state government’s offices were working. So, we have decided to increase the DA from 17% to 28%,” the chief minister said, replying to the issues that leaders of Opposition parties raised during a debate on the supplementary budget in the state assembly here.He said 16 lakh employees and 12 lakh pensioners would benefit from the announcement of the DA hike.As the business advisory committee had recommended sine die adjournment of the House at its meeting on Wednesday, no questions were taken up during the question hour. Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit announced that all the questions would be treated as answered with written replies. The assembly’s Monsoon session had begun on August 17.The chief minister said houses would be constructed for the poor on the land made available by demolishing the illegal buildings of the mafia.“We have confiscated/demolished illegal buildings of the Mafia worth ₹1500 crore. We are bringing a housing scheme for the poor at the same land where these buildings of the mafia existed. This is social justice. Those sheltering the mafia had given the state a bad image in the past,” he said.Yogi declared his government was devoting the supplementary budget to the youths and the corona warriors. He read out a couplet calling upon the youths to create a new era.“UP’s youths can now go anywhere and can say with pride that he belonged to this state…We are providing jobs to our youth within the state. We have launched this fund with ₹3,000 crore and we will give tablets/smartphones to (one crore) youths. The youths pursuing the PG and diploma courses will be linked to this scheme. We will also provide digital access to them. We will give allowance to the youths to appear in three competitive examinations.”About the sugarcane dues, he said, “Sugar export is opening soon, and we will clear all the dues before commencement of the new crushing season.”He also said the monitoring committees did a good job amid the pandemic and “anganwadi workers, Asha workers and others worked on lower honorarium in fight against Covid-19. We have increased their honorarium.”He said advocates have been already given social security and the amount given under the scheme has been increased from ₹1.5 lakh to ₹5 lakh. He also spoke about the work his government was doing for the welfare of cows and said six lakh animals of the cow family were in cow shelters.Besides the appropriation bill for the supplementary budget, the House also passed the Uttar Pradesh State Universities (Amendment) Bill 2021 to rename the Saharanpur State University as Ma Shakumbhari University and the Uttar Pradesh Private Universities (Amendment) Bill 2021.Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary, however, targeted the chief minister for his address, saying he had not replied to any of the questions raised by the Samajwadi Party, the BSP and the Congress members in the House.He also alleged villages had turned into cremation grounds amid the pandemic and the chief minister’s speech was an election stunt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-yogi-announces-11-da-hike-for-state-staff-housing-scheme-for-poor-on-land-freed-from-mafia-101629394674731.html
20-08-2021||Lucknow||UP diverted ₹65.87 cr from SDRF to procure equipment for Kumbh, observes CAG||The UP government diverted ₹65.87 crore from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for procurement of rescue equipment for Kumbh Mela-2019 in violation of central government guidelines, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India claimed in a report.The report on general and social sector for the year ending March 31, 2019 was tabled by parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna in the UP legislative assembly on Thursday. According to central government guidelines, the SDRF fund is utilised for providing immediate relief to victims of notified disasters. Rather than diverting funds for procurement of equipment for Kumbh mela, the state government should have made provision from its budget, observed the CAG.The report stated that the state government had mentioned that the Kumbh Mela-2019 organised from January 15 to March 4 2019 at Prayagraj was very successful and over 240 million people visited the Mela. Yet, the expenditure incurred was over and above the government sanctions. As a result, payments to contractors were still pending, it added.There were instances of execution of work at higher prices/cost and non- adherence to the orders of government. Management of solid waste was not adequately addressed.The CAG noticed that the Public Works Department executed six works, costing ₹1.69 crore, related to road repairs and painting of roadside trees without financial sanctions. Besides, the information and public relations department allotted works to the tune of ₹29.33 crore against the allocation of ₹14.67 crore for promotion of Kumbh Mela through electronic and print media.The Kumbh Mela Authority failed to effectively monitor the issue and return of tentage items from various institutions due to which the vendor claimed payment for compensation of ₹21.75 crore on account of missing tin, tent and furniture, stated the report.The urban development department did not adhere to the prescribed timelines due to which 58 permanent and 11 temporary works were not completed by the start of the Kumbh Mela. Due to inefficient procurement process by the home department, fire vehicles, baggage scanners, digital radio HF sets and drone cameras worth ₹7.83 crore procured for the Mela were either not received or utilised during Kumbh.The CAG further noticed that there was over estimation of ₹3.11 crore in estimates for road works, excess expenditure of ₹95.75 lakh on construction of nine roads, short deposit of performance security of ₹6.33 crore by contractors, avoidable expenditure of ₹3.24 crore on barricading works and ₹8.75 crore on fiber reinforce plastic toilet works and excess payment of ₹1.27 crore was made to contractors. Audit scrutiny revealed that three works were awarded to bidders who were not qualified for the bid on the basis of their bid capacity.The management of municipal solid waste (MSW) was not addressed effectively. Due to the inoperative MSW processing plant, there was a massive scrapheap of MSW at Banswar plant site before Kumbh Mela that piled up further during the Mela. Quality assurance in the construction work was unsatisfactory because most of the tests prescribed for quality check were not carried out, the CAG observed.The Kumbh Mela is organized at fixed intervals, the state government may frame norms and standards for quantity and quality of infrastructure and services required for visiting pilgrims.Standard operating procedure for procurement of goods and materials.Expenditure and budegtary controls should be tightened in accordance with rules and laws.Process of selection of contractors/suppliers should be transparent, fair, competitive and in sync with the provisions of financial rules.Waste management, infrastructure and facilities should be augmented at appropriate scale to provide safe, hygienic and healthy environment for visitors during the Mela.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-diverted-rs-65-87-cr-from-sdrf-to-procure-equipment-for-kumbh-observes-cag-101629390834617.html
20-08-2021||Pune||Demolition of middle portion of Pune’s Sus-Pashan bridge begins||PUNE: The demolition of the middle portion of the old Susgaon-Pashan bridge which goes over the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway near Pashan tekdi started on Thursday. Traffic was diverted from the service road on both sides and a portion of the highway was blocked for the demolition work. While traffic moved smoothly in the morning, a few regular commuters felt that traffic would be slowed down during peak hours.Ajay Wayase, executive engineer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said, “It will take 15 days to demolish the middle portion. For a few days, the highway will be blocked from both sides. We will start partial (from one side of the highway) movement once half the demolition work is completed. The decision to block both sides has been taken for purposes of safety.”In March this year, 55% of the construction work was complete with 45% remaining. Due to the second wave of Covid-19, work progressed at a slow pace. As on August 19, 60% of the flyover work has been completed indicating that only 5% work was carried out over the course of five months between March and August.“The remaining work is expected to be complete by March 2022. Work on the middle two stands is remaining. All the work is going on as per the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) guidelines,” Wayase said.The special projects department of the PMC is overseeing the construction of the flyover for the NHAI. The bridge is being built at a cost of Rs40 crore with the proposal having been put forward a few years ago by local corporator Baburao Chandere. The new flyover will measure 18metre in width as against the existing 8metre-wide Pashan-Sus bridge which is proving inadequate given the increase in the number of residences and information technology (IT) companies in Hinjewadi and Sus. The new flyover will connect the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway to Sus and Pashan with a 350metre road from the west side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/demolition-of-middle-portion-of-sus-pashan-bridge-begins-101629388854317.html
20-08-2021||Pune||PMC to raise compound wall to prevent encroachments at garbage depots||PUNE: After failed attempts at preventing encroachments in the Uruli-Devachi and Phursungi garbage depots, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to construct a compound wall to put an end to encroachments in these areas.Ajit Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of the solid waste department of the PMC said, “There are complaints of encroachments in the garbage depots. Hence, we have decided to construct a compound wall to put an end to these. It is a large area and we have limitations in terms of deputing security at the depots.”With urbanisation putting pressure on the city area, people are now encroaching garbage depot land for illegal housing and other activities. The solid waste department of the PMC has found encroachments in some parts of the garbage depot. Despite temporary fencing, people are intruding and stealing metals and parts of machinery.Sudhir Chavan, executive engineer of the solid waste department of the PMC said, “We have fencing for the depot land but it is not up to the mark. We put tin sheets covering the boundary of the depots but people are frequently intruding. We had even registered police complaints but the encroachments haven’t stopped. We have now identified a 1.5kilometre stretch along the railway line from where the encroachments are taking place. We will construct a compound wall taller than 6feet.”“The front side of the depot land has garbage processing plants and sees movement of people so it is secure and no one can intrude from there. However, people are entering easily from the other side of the depot and stealing parts of machinery,” Chavan said.The garbage depots span 163 acre land in the Mantarwadi, Phursungi and Uruli-Devachi villages. The PMC had taken the land for dumping garbage as a temporary arrangement. However for over 25 years now, the corporation is using the land for garbage processing. In 2020, garbage dumping was stopped and scientific landfilling was started on the land.An official of the solid waste department said, “The villages around the garbage depots have merged into the PMC limits and land prices have shot up. With the corporation having stopped garbage dumping, smoke and fire incidents have considerably reduced. Hence, all this open garbage depot land is being encroached as the PMC does not have adequate manpower to protect it. Outsiders have damaged the fencing in most parts.”In 2017, the PMC had assured residents of the Uruli-Devachi and Phursungi villages that it would hand over 25% of the depot land to them. With the corporation using a total 163acre of land, 40acre would be given to these villagers for different purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-raise-compound-wall-to-prevent-encroachments-at-uruli-devachi-phursungi-garbage-depots-101629388011169.html
20-08-2021||Pune||BJP shuts down “Modi temple” in Pune, but NCP’s “protest prayers” still happen||PUNE Following severe criticism, BJP workers late on Wednesday removed a statue of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from a “temple” dedicated to the PM in Aundh. The temple, put together and started by a BJP party worker, was closed to avoid any further embarrassment. On Thursday, members of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) gathered outside the closed “Modi shrine”, seeking blessings from Modi to “bring down inflation and fuel prices”. The sarcasm of the NCP “protest” was more than evident. Mayur Munde, a BJP worker from Aundh, had built the small temple inside his residential premises, saying it was his tribute to the prime minister who “built Ram temple at Ayodhya”, among other things. He installed Modi’s bust inside the temple. Criticism for deification of an individual soon followed. “After becoming PM, Modi has done a lot of developmental work and dealt with issues such as the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir, Ram Mandir temple and triple talaq successfully,” Munde, who is a real estate agent, had said while defending the act. However, when NCP announced a mock agitation in front of temple, Modi’s bust was removed and the temple covered with cloth. NCP leaders, including party city unit president Prashant Jagtap, Pradeep Deshmukh and corporator Baburao Chandere, however, still gathered outside the temple to pray.“One can definitely have loyalty to any leader, but such deification of an individual, no matter who he is, will not be tolerated by a city like Pune,” said Prashant Jagtap||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-shuts-down-modi-temple-but-ncp-s-protest-prayers-still-happen-101629387710950.html
20-08-2021||Delhi||Shoot as many photos as you can: Auditya Vanketesh||Photos always fascinated him as a kid. Today, he has travelled all over the world to capture compelling pictures. Ace photographer Auditya Vanketesh tells us about his love for documenting history, architecture and nature on the go.Question: What was the starting point of your passion for photography and how did you approach it to become the fine photographer that you are today?Answer: In my childhood, we didn’t photograph things as much as we do today, the choicest moments would be documented and became a fun way of reliving those moments. Most of which were times when family got together or we’d travel. I used to sketch a lot younger, and was so fascinated with the medium I would sketch people and then sketch a little negative with it, staple them together and give it to people. So at some point when I wanted to figure what to do with my life, I gravitated towards photography, documenting things I love along the way. Thank you for the kind words, but it’s always a work in progress, trying to learn something new at every opportunity and then apply it when I’m making my next image.Question: Where all have you travelled for photography? According to you, which location is a paradise for photographers and why?Answer: I’m grateful that my interest in photography has taken me all over the world. I’ve gotten to see and experience some incredible things! It’s so tough to pick one place, there’s too much beauty out there! But some of my favourite places have been Sikkim, Gokarna, Rameshwaram, Chikmagalur, The great ocean road, Cappadocia. Like I said it’s really tough to pick one!Question: How important is research on a photography subject?Answer: Very important, as with anything that you want to pursue as a career or serious interest. The beautiful thing about photography though, a lot of the research is in the art of doing itself. The amount you learn from practice and repetition is incredible.Question: Is it important to have right equipment for your subject or you think that passion for the art is enough to create a visual?Answer: Photography is unique as an art, on the one side there’s the creative pursuit of bringing your vision to life, but on the other it’s so tightly wound with technology. So it will definitely make a difference, but that being said your vision is definitely more important. As a professional, it absolutely is easier when you have better equipment, but also as a professional, you learn how to make the best of anything you have.Question: Did you face any difficulty in any of your projects and how did you overcome that difficulty?Answer:All the time, and they are all great learning opportunities. The toughest difficulties have actually not been photography related, but have been things that probably don’t come as naturally to me. Communication skills, learning how to be an entrepreneur, managing money, invoicing, taxes, stage fright, being able to put my vision in words to convince a client, these are things that I still find a challenge in some form or the other every day. The only way to overcome them is to constantly work on it, not be afraid to ask for help, have strong inner circle that can keep you grounded, and constant self-evaluation to make sure that you are you are on the path that aligns with your life goals.Question: What is your take on below mentioned photography myths?•Being a photographer is so easy.I wish it was.•Great photos require expensive gear.Not at all. Like I said earlier, it makes your life easier in some situations, but great photos have been made on basic devices, not so great photos have been shot on the best of cameras. It all comes down to your vision and how your choose to bring it to life with what you have.•Shoot as many photos as you can.Practice definitely helps, and can be a great way to learn. When I was younger and getting to grips with photography, I shot as many options of the same subject/scene as I could to learn. If you think the process is helping you improve then I see absolutely why not. But if you don’t then just take a step back to analyse why. Something that helped me when I felt like that was a neat little trick from Ami Vitale and Ashima Narian in Sri Lanka many years ago, to tape the back of your LCD on your DSLR (of course this doesn’t work with mirrorless cameras because you now have electronic view finders), and shoot as if you were shooting film. You don’t see the images till you come back home, and that teaches you to make the right choices while shooting and not rely on over-shooting without a purpose while hoping to get lucky with one image.•You need a huge portfolio.In my experience, for the kind of work that I do, I’ve found curating the best of your work in 15-20 images works best. And then you have an extended portfolio in case someone wants to see something specific, keep it on stand by so you can get back to them immediately.•Manual mode is the best mode.It gives you absolute control and helps you extract the best out of your camera.•Avoid shooting in bad lighting.Shoot all the time, study light at every opportunity and make light your friend. Of course, some situations will be more challenging than others but that’s the point, to constantly learn so you can make images anywhere.•Always keep the horizon straight.Very subjective, but I always try to.•Don’t put the subject in the middle.Also subjective, it entirely depends on you and what you are trying to show.Question: Any photography advice you want to share with the photographers out there?We’re living in unprecedented times and we’re all figuring things out, so my only advice is to pay attention to yourself and your health, both physical and mental. And don’t pressure yourself to create things you might not want to, to appease the algorithm gods.Question: Your favourite photography quote?You don’t take a picture, you make it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shoot-as-many-photos-as-you-can-auditya-vanketsh-101629386932906.html
20-08-2021||Other||BJP Tripura MLA calls for ‘Talibani style’ attacks on TMC||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday demanded the arrest of Tripura Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Arun Chandra Bhowmik for allegedly asking his supporters to launch “Talibani style” attacks on leaders belonging to the West Bengal ruling party whenever they arrive at Agartala airport.Alleging harassment at a hotel in Agartala on Tuesday night by BJP leaders following Arun’s purported remark, TMC leader Subal Bhowmik said: “Our West Bengal leaders were harassed last night at a hotel in Agartala where they are staying. The incident happened after the BJP MLA’s threatening speech. We demand the MLA be arrested soon,” he said.Subal added that the party plans to file a complaint against the legislator fromAgartala.“We will write to the director-general of (Tripura) police about all the attacks on our leaders and file a complaint against the legislator,” he said.Arun made the purported remarks, a video of which went viral on social media, at a felicitation programme in Agartala. Accusing the TMC of trying to dislodge the BJP government in Tripura, the legislator said: “...we need to attack them (TMC leaders) in Talibani style. We need to attack them once they land... We will protect our government led by (chief minister) Biplab Deb with each drop of blood.”The tussle between the two parties spread to Tripura as the Mamata Banerjee-led party plans to expand its political footprint beyond West Bengal and spread its base in neighbouring Tripura.At least 14 TMC leaders were allegedly attacked by BJP workers and arrested on August 7 when they were on a visit to the state for preparations for the assembly elections next year. The incident had prompted TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee to rush to Tripura along with Bengal minister Bratya Basu, Rajya Sabha member Dola Sen and TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh to bring back the leaders.Prior to that, 23 members of political strategist Prashant Kishor’s Indian-Political Action Committee (I-PAC) team were booked and asked to stay inside a hotel in Agartala for violating Covid-19 norms in July.Reacting to Arun’s remark, TMC leader Ritabrata Banerjee said: “We condemned the way Arun Chandra Bhowmik said to attack our party leaders who are coming from West Bengal in Talibani style. When the Taliban (after returning to power in Afghanistan) being criticised in the entire world, a BJP MLA is asking to attack Trinamool Congress leaders. We want to know whether the BJP supports Taliban and has sophisticated weapons like them.”BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said he was not aware of the legislator’s remarks. HT tried to reach out to Bhowmik but could not get a response immediately.Subal Bhowmik, the TMC Tripura unit leader, said they will file a complaint against the BJP legislator soon. “ We will write to the Director General of Police about all the attacks on our leaders and will file a complaint against the BJP legislator, “ said Subal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjptripura-mla-calls-for-talibani-style-attacks-on-tmc-101629371685248.html
20-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarkashi’s ancient Gartang Gali wooden bridge opened to tourists today||The historic over 150-year-old Gartang Gali wooden bridge located at a height of 11,000 feet in Nelong Valley in Uttarakhand’s Uttarkashi district near the Indo-China border reopened for tourists after 59 years on Wednesday following renovation. Gartang Gali bridge, on an ancient trade route to Tibet, is believed to have been built by Peshawar Pathans. It was damaged over the years and fell into disuse following the Indo-China war in 1962 when it was declared off-limits. Uttarkashi district magistrate Mayur Dixit issued an order in this regard on Wednesday. He said, “The bridge has been renovated by the public works department at a cost of ₹ 65 lakh. Those interested in visiting Gartang Gali bridge will have to register themselves at Bhairav Ghati outpost and follow all the Covid guidelines.” Dixit said the repair and renovation of the bridge was started in September last year and completed in July this year. “It was very challenging to renovate this bridge at such a height, given the extreme weather and high-velocity winds. The labourers were tied with safety ropes while they worked on the bridge”, he said The bridge is located inside the Gangotri National Park and is at a distance of 90 km from Uttarkashi district headquarters. The bridge is 136 metre-long and 1.8 metre-wide.Also Read | Cong to provide ₹200 subsidy on LPG cylinder if voted to power in Uttarakhand: Harish Rawat “From the security point of view, only ten visitors will be allowed at a time and they will have to maintain a distance of one metre from each other. Movement of groups or any other activity, such as jumping, dancing, drinking liquor or carrying inflammable substances are prohibited on the bridge,” the DM said. State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said, “The opening of Gatang Gali trek has added a new dimension to the adventure tourism activities in the state. The bridge has historical and strategic importance and demonstrates the cordial trade relations of the country with its neighbours since ancient times.” Dilip Jawalkar, secretary tourism, said the opening of Gartang Gali is in line with “our strategy to promote rural tourism with better expedition facilities and generate local employment and business opportunities in the associated areas”. Shailendra Matuda, president of the local hotel association, said this will promote tourism activities in the area. “We had been demanding the opening of this bridge since 2017. Now, we are hoping people from across India will come to see it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ancient-gartang-gali-wooden-bridge-101629359864516.html
20-08-2021||Bhopal||BJD MP, 2 others booked in dowry harassment case||Biju Janata Dal (BJD) parliament member Bhartruhari Mahtab, his wife, and their son have been booked for dowry harassment in Bhopal. Ajeeta Nayar, a local police officer said Mahtab’s daughter-in-law Sakshi, 34, filed a complaint against her husband, father-in-law, and mother-in-law at Bhopal’s women police station on Wednesday.Mahtab said his son’s divorce proceedings are pending in a Delhi court for two years after a failure in reconciliation efforts. “The husband and wife hardly stayed together for 4-5 days. She has been staying in Bhopal for the last four years. The dowry harassment case looks like an afterthought and nothing like, what has been alleged, happened,” he said.In her complaint, Sakshi has alleged that her family paid ₹1.5 crore as dowry to her in-laws in 2016 , but they were demanding more money. “She said they used to torture her and later she was thrown out of the house in Cuttack,” said Nayar. Also Read | MP govt calls reduction in number of abandoned children ‘technical error’“Sakshi moved a court and in 2018, it asked Mahtab and his family to allow Sakshi to stay at their house in New Delhi. But when Sakshi went there, she said they did not even open the gate of the house for her. Despite repeated attempts when Mahtab’s family did not accept her, she filed the police complaint,” said Nayar.Police are investigating the matter and will serve a notice to Mahtab and his family, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/dowry-harassment-case-against-bjd-mp-family-filed-in-bhopal-101629349063827.html
