21-08-2021||Bangalore||Minister mistakenly visits serving soldier’s house for condolences||Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment A Narayanaswamy visited the residence of a living soldier, instead of the one who had died, after apparently being misled by local leaders, and announced a government job and land to his kin.The soldier’s family was in tears after the minister offered condolences. The soldier, however, is alive.The Incident took place in Gadag district during the minister’s ‘Jan Ashirvad Yatra’. According to BJP leaders, Narayanaswamy was taken to the house of Ravikumar Kattimani, who is currently posted in Jammu and Kashmir region, instead of taking him to the house of Basavaraj Hiremath, who died in Pune a year ago. As part of the minister’s itinerary, he was scheduled to visit the dead soldier’s family and offer condolences to them. The minister visited the residence of a living soldier, instead of the one who was killed in action, after apparently being misled by local leaders. The minister announcing a government job and land to kin took the family by surprise. Soon after the minister’s announcement, the soldier’s parents started sobbing uncontrollably as they presumed that he had been killed and the minister had come to inform them about this death. “But a local leader soon realised there was something wrong. Since he had the soldier’s number with him, he quickly made a video call and the minister understood the mistake when the video call started. He tried to praise the son in an attempt to control the situation. The BJP leader who had given them false information was taken pulled up later,” said a local BJP leader. In his attempt to control the situation the minister also felicitated the family members before leaving their home. “My husband is working in Kashmir, it has been two months since we got married. The minister coming to our house and inquiring about us caused some confusion, but neighbors’ said he might be coming out of respect to soldiers serving in border areas....when he started assuring job and land, I felt somewhat and told him that- my husband is there and I will have to ask him”, Kattimani’s wife told local media. Noting that someone has given wrong information to the minister, she said the family was relieved only after speaking to her husband. “....it caused unnecessary tension to us and my husband there.” The minister however did not visit the dead soldier Hiremath’s family. “No one came to our house. He (minister) is said to have gone to the house of a soldier who is alive....I only want my son back,” an emotional Hiremath’s mother said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/minister-mistakenly-visits-serving-soldier-s-house-for-condolences-101629570435097.html
21-08-2021||Other||TN Covid curbs extended till September 9||Tamil Nadu government on Saturday extended the ongoing Covid-induced lockdown till September 9 with further relaxations. The announcement comes after chief minister MK Stalin consulted with the health minister, Chennai city police commissioner and senior bureaucrats of other departments on the Covid-19 situation. Theatres have been allowed to reopen from August 23 with 50% occupancy and the owners have been asked to ensure that all workers are fully vaccinated, read the government statement. IT offices can function with 100% workforce. Bars have been allowed to reopen only in resorts and hotels. The state government had earlier allowed reopening of schools from classes 9 to 12 with 50% students starting from September 1 and permitted noon meal schemes by following standard operating procedure (SOP). “The schools will work on a rotational basis,” the order said. “A decision on reopening of schools for Classes 1-8 will be taken after September 15 after monitoring the situation.” Public have been permitted to use beaches and local authorities will have to ensure that beach vendors are vaccinated. All shops which were allowed to function only till 9pm can now stay open till 10pm. Zoos and botanical gardens have also been allowed to reopen. Inter-state public buses can operate to Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Swimming pools are still closed for the general public, but it can be used by those practising for competitions and the ones above 18 years of age have been asked to get themselves vaccinated before using the pools. Earlier, the state government had empowered local administrations to impose restrictions based on the situation and several districts, including Chennai, had closed down large markets and other public places where there was crowding. The Covid-19 cases, however, have been declining in the state. On August 21, the state reported 1,652 new cases with an active caseload of 19,391. Twenty-three people died on Saturday taking the toll to 34, 686.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tn-covid-curbs-extended-till-september-9-101629570432585.html
21-08-2021||Bangalore||‘Waited 2 days for flight’: Afghan returnees on journey back home||Melvin, a resident of Ullal in Karnataka, was stranded at the Kabul airport for two days without food after the Taliban took over the Afghanistan capital. He was working as an electrician at a hospital in Kabul and returned home on Wednesday. “I have been working in Afghanistan for the past 10 years as an electrician in a hospital. Since I was working at a military hospital, my accommodation was near the airport. So, when the message came that the Indian Air Force is operating flights, I was able to get there on time. We had to wait for two days before we could get on the flight,” Melvin recollected. While he was able to get a direct flight to India operated by the IAF, other Indians who boarded different flights were taken to London, Dubai, and Norway, said Melvin. His brother landed in Qatar and is currently under quarantine. “The flight first took us to Jamnagar base in Gujarat and from there I went to New Delhi and reached my hometown,” he said. Though the Taliban had entered Kabul, Melvin said his workplace was secure since it was a military hospital. “I didn’t feel any problems, apart from the anxiety about being able to return home,” he said. While Melvin was able to make it home, families of two Christian missionaries are awaiting their return, said the Dakshin Kannada district authorities. Officials said information about Father Jerome Sequera from Mangaluru and Father Robert Rodriguez from Teerthahalli have been passed on to the nodal officer appointed for coordinating the rescue of Kannadigas stuck in Afghanistan. The Karnataka government on Wednesday appointed a senior IPS official as the nodal officer to coordinate with the Centre to bring back residents of the state from Afghanistan.“As there is a conflict situation in Afghanistan, to bring back Indians stranded there, the central government has already started a helpline. To coordinate with the central government and bring back Kannadigas safely from there, Umesh Kumar, IPS, additional director general of police, CID, Bengaluru, has been appointed as a nodal officer,” an official notification said on Wednesday.According to the information currently available, both the missionaries were trying to reach the Kabul International Airport. However, the situation is chaotic at the airport since the Taliban took control, said the officials based on the families’ interaction with the duo. 35-year-old Deepak Kumar, another man from Karnataka who recently returned from Afghanistan, said they were able to evacuate before the rush began at the airport. Kumar was part of the rescue firefighting crew team of the US and NATO army base in Herat. The resident of Puttur in Dakshina Kannada has been working at the base for the past six years. Unlike Melvin who returned to India after Kabul fell, Kumar returned to India on June 22, since the battle for Herat city had begun much earlier. “We worked with Portuguese and British nationals. Some have joined from Maharashtra and Kerala also. When I worked at a military base, rockets launched by the Taliban used to fall right inside the premises,” Kumar said, adding he wanted to continue working, but the situation was not conducive. “I am in touch with locals of Herat city who worked with me. There is a curfew kind of atmosphere in the entire city. People are not coming out of their houses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/waited-2-days-for-flight-afghan-returnees-on-journey-back-home-101629570431378.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Record single-day August rain for Delhi, highest in 14 years||New Delhi: After a 10-day long, hot, dry spell, the national capital on Saturday received 138.8mm rain in 24 hours, the highest single-day rainfall recorded in August in 14 years and the ninth highest since 1961 during the month, showed the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) rainfall records.The heavy showers and thunder activity that hit the city early Saturday morning submerged key stretches and major underpasses, including Minto Bridge in central Delhi, throwing traffic out of gear.According to IMD officials, between 8.30am on Friday and 8.30am on Saturday, the Safdarjung observatory received 138.8 mm rainfall. The city received a bulk of its rainfall during the spell — the heaviest so far this season — between 2.30 am on Friday and 8.30 am on Saturday, when it rained continuously for six hours.IMD records show that previously Delhi received such a heavy 24-hour spell during the month on August 2, 2007, when the city got 166.6mm rainfall. The highest-ever single-day rainfall recorded during this month was on August 2, 1961 (184mm).“Today’s record is also the ninth highest single-day rainfall since 1961. It is mainly because of a cloud belt passing through the northern and central parts of Delhi. The thunder activity and lightning was primarily on its account. Light rain activity is expected to stay till August 23,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD.The wet spell, however, is likely to be over soon, said weather officials, and the last week of August is likely to be mostly dry.While this August has mostly been dry, with a 10-day break phase, Saturday’s spell has nearly covered the rain deficit for the month. With Saturday’s rain, the total rainfall received this month is 202mm. The normal rainfall count for the month is 247.7mm.August is usually Delhi’s wettest month.Delhi saw a long dry spell with above normal temperatures between August 9 and August 19 because of monsoon’s break phase in northwest India. Before this, Delhi received 15.4mm of showers on August 8.“The monsoon trough was close to Delhi and with a cloud belt passing through its northern and central parts, heavy rainfall occurred in Delhi. This is going to lead to a significant drop in temperatures. Light to moderate showers are expected on Sunday as well. Patchy rainfall will continue till August 23. However, from August 24, the weather again is likely to go dry for at least four or five days, as the trough is again expected to shift away from northwest India,” said a senior IMD official.On Saturday, the maximum temperature was 32.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season’s average. The minimum settled at 23.8°C, three notches below normal for this time of the year.Mahesh Palawat, president, skymet, a private forecaster said that a cyclonic circulation built over east Rajasthan and the trough was also in Delhi’s vicinity, which resulted in Saturday’s heavy spell. “However, weather is again likely to go dry from August 25 to August 30, because of the trough likely to shift to the Himalayan foothills once again,” said Palawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/record-single-day-august-rain-for-delhi-highest-in-14-years-101629570430162.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Rampant illegal sale of abortion pills across Maharashtra||Last month, a sari-clad 43-year-old woman from Wagholi, Pune, stood at a local smedical store waiting for the queue to thin out. When it did, she asked an employee of the store for an abortion pill adding that she needed it urgently. At first, the employee refused her request, but on her insistence, he asked her to wait since he had to source it from his friend.“He said he was not a supplier. He, however, considered my request and asked me to come after half an hour,” said the woman. After waiting for nearly two hours, the employee took her to an isolated alley near the store and handed over the abortion pill kit for ₹3,000 as opposed to the actual cost of ₹430. Reason: She didn’t have a prescription from a doctor.What this man didn’t know is that the woman posing as being pregnant was an undercover drug inspector with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) — the apex regulating body — who was part of a month-long investigation between July and August on retail and online illegal sale of abortion pills without doctor’s prescription. He was caught by FDA officers and a first information report (FIR) was registered. This is not an isolated case. Across the state, several chemist shops sell abortion pills, also known as medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) kits. Selling abortion pills without prescription and proof of age is illegal and a punishable offence under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act (MTPA). Selling MTP kits without prescription is banned in India as per the Drug and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Rules of 1945. Acting on tip-offs, FDA inspected 384 medical stores till August first week. Several decoy customers were sent to purchase abortion pills without requisite documents and a total 14 cases have been registered in Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Nashik and Amravati. Eleven accused have been arrested and drugs worth ₹47,378 have been seized. MTP kit is a schedule-H drug as per the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940. It has a combination of mifepristone and misoprostol tablets which help in performing medical pregnancy termination (non-surgically expelling the embryo from the womb). Currently, abortion requires the opinion of one doctor if it is done within 12 weeks of conception and two doctors if it is done between 12 and 20 weeks. The investigationFDA officers focused on districts with skewed sex ratio. “These kind of illegal activities are most common in areas where there is a huge gap in sex ratio. So, first, we identified those districts, which were mostly from the western part of the state, and started sending our officers as customers,” said DR Gahane, joint commissioner, FDA Maharashtra. FDA officers said the investigation will also continue in other districts.During the investigation, they found out that most kits are being sold at exorbitant prices, taking advantage of helpless women. “Many a times, young needy women fall prey to these suppliers who exploit them by overcharging,” he said.Many medical stores and hospitals were also found in violation of not maintaining MTP records. In fact, an FIR has been registered against a doctor from the western region who refused to submit information about the usage of MTP kits.Doctors have warned that consumption of abortion pills without doctor’s supervision can even lead to the death due to health complications. Every month, major civic-run hospitals treat young women who complain of excessive bleeding after consuming the pills without doctor’s supervision. “A gynaecologist first conducts a sonography to confirm there is a pregnancy and to decide by how many weeks. If the woman then wants to terminate the pregnancy within the legal time period, she is given the prescription. It can sometimes lead to incomplete abortion causing heavy bleeding. This can prove fatal for the woman, especially if she is a minor,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital.Pan-India racketIn June, FDA office in Pune received a complaint from Pune Chemist Association that major online shopping portals are illegally selling abortion pills. FDA began their investigation where they scrutinised 34 online sites. “During our investigation, we found many portals selling MTP kits in violation of the law. We ordered the kits from the portals as customers to generate bills for our evidence. The first order came from a chemist shop in Ahmedabad against whom we have filed an FIR,” said Suresh Patil, joint commissioner, drug division, FDA Pune.All kits that were procured by drug inspectors were supplied from states such as Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Orissa. “In one case, the portal registered the order and took the money but didn’t supply the kit,” he said.FDA then sent notices to the portals seeking explanation. “These portals have replied saying they only provide a platform to sell anything, but have no role in the supply. We have advised them to include an option of uploading prescriptions on the website,” said DR Gahane, joint commissioner, FDA Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rampant-illegal-sale-of-abortion-pills-across-maharashtra-101629570130655.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Showcause notice to 24 JNU students for not vacating library while night curfew was in place in Capital||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) administration has issued show-cause notices to 24 students for refusing to vacate the varsity’s central library in April past the night curfew put in place by the Delhi government, and have been asked for an explanation by August 27. The notices have been issued based on a complaint registered by the chief security office. “A complaint dated April 22, 2021 against you has been received in the chief proctor’s office from chief security office. In the said complaint, it has been stated that you were instructed to vacate the library as there was an announcement of night curfew on April 16, 2021 from Delhi government which you had refused and this act has violated the Covid-19 guidelines implemented in the university and government of India,” a show-cause notice from the university proctor’s office said.The notice also added that the students “explain their position” by August 27. “Upon failing your submission of deposition on the date and time mentioned, it shall be presumed that you have nothing to say in this matter and that you agree with the complaint. In such circumstances, the matter will be decided in your absence,” the notice issued on July 28 said.The Delhi government on April 6 imposed a night curfew between 10pm and 5am in the national capital amid a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases. The complaint also states that along with security guards instructing students not to enter the library after 10pm, announcements about the night curfew were made by security officers and on the PA system. Students present in the library, however, said there was little clarity on the protocol in place at the time.A student who has received the notice, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We went to the library as usual after dinner because students were previously allowed to study there till early morning. I had to work on assignments and planned to study till late at night. The allegations levelled against us state that we refused to vacate the library premises but there was no such instruction by anyone that day including the guards. There were some announcements but there wasn’t any clarity on it and we didn’t hear it.”Activists in the university said the administration was trying to “intimidate students”. Kaushik Raj, a PhD student and All India Students Association (AISA) member, said most of the notices he received in the past one month were related to protests on reopening campuses or allocation of hostel seats.“I have received around 20 notices in the past one month. Most of them are related to violation of Covid-19 guidelines on gatherings organised in the past six months on various issues including reopening of campus, demanding salary for sanitation workers, or allocation of hostel seats. Before the current administration, students rarely received show-cause notices due to protests or students’ resistance movements and the proctor office took up issues of indiscipline like fights or other matters. The political targeting and intimidating of students have begun under this vice-chancellor.”A senior official from the security office said, “The incident happened in April and I don’t remember much about it. The chief proctor office can explain why the notice was issued in July.” Despite repeated calls and messages, vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar and chief proctor Rajnish Kumar Mishra did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/showcause-notice-to-24-jnu-students-for-not-vacating-library-while-night-curfew-was-in-place-in-capital-101629569770050.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Amid easing caseload, Delhi govt lifts 8pm deadline for city’s markets||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday lifted the Covid-induced restrictions on timings to open markets, allowing them to function beyond 8 pm starting Monday.“Till now, because of Covid-19, shops and enterprises in Delhi’s markets were allowed to open till 8 pm. In the light of the decline in cases, the timing restriction will be removed from Monday. Markets can now follow their usual working hours,” Kejriwal said in a Twitter post in Hindi.Earlier, the Delhi government allowed the markets to remain open only till 8 pm in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. However, with cases and positivity rate under control, the new relaxations will be effective from next week.On Saturday, Delhi recorded 19 new Covid cases and a positivity rate of 0.03% -- against an average of 25,000 cases per day in late April when the Covid-19 surge was at its peak and a positivity rate that exceeded 35%.The decision comes in the backdrop of the Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI) demanding an extension in the closing time of malls and markets in the national capital -- from the present 8 pm to 10 pm.“If the shops will open till late in the evening, then there will be no crowd in the market. Everyone will be able to do their work comfortably, Corona rules will also be followed well,” said the letter addressed to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) earlier on Saturday.Welcoming the CM’s announcement, CTI chairman Brijesh Goyal said: “The weather is hot and humid now. A large number of customers prefer visiting the markets in the evening and late evening hours. Also, the festive season is ahead. So the time-related restriction was causing loss to traders, who have already been severely affected because of the pandemic. They were in favour of the restriction to be removed and assured full compliance to mask, distancing, and other Covid-19 guidelines.”Delhi was under a lockdown from April 19 to May 30 during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, as cases started declining, markets were allowed to open from June 7, under a phased reopening plan by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).Experts, however, warn that Covid-appropriate protocols must be followed strictly to evade a possible third wave of the pandemic.“Going for phased relaxation is a good strategy on part of the government. But they shall have to ensure that the markets are not crowded. Crowds and lack of social distancing can lead to an uptick in cases. But, more than anything, people have to act responsibly in public spaces,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department at the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-easing-caseload-delhi-govt-lifts-8pm-deadline-for-city-s-markets-101629569590006.html
21-08-2021||Noida||Two former employees of service centre arrested for stealing car||Two former employees of a car service centre in Sector 85 were arrested on Friday for allegedly stealing a client’s car more than a month ago. Police said that the suspects approached the victim posing as staff of the service centre in Noida’s Sector 85 and fled with his car. The suspects were identified as Ajaypal Singh, 32, a resident of Sahibabad, and Hunny Kumar alias Lala, 30, a native of Meerut. Police said that Singh had worked as a general manager at the service centre and was sacked about six months ago. The complainant, Rajat Gupta, is a resident of Noida’s Sector 143 B, which comes under the Surajpur police station limits. Gupta said that he had contacted the service centre over phone on July 9. “An executive of the centre said a staffer will pick up my Hyundai i-20 for service the next day. On July 10, Lala called me at 7.45am informing that he was a representative of the car service centre and had come to pick up the car,” Gupta said. According to Gupta, Lala was in the uniform and he also gave a receiving slip before taking away the car. However, an hour later Gupta again received a call from the service centre informing him that a staffer was going to pick up his vehicle. Then he realised that he was cheated by the former employees of the car service centre. Gupta filed a complaint on July 17 at Surajpur police station when he was not able to get his car back. Ajay Kumar, station house officer of Surajpur police station, said that a case was registered against Lala under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC. “We started tracing the mobile phone number used in making call. On Friday, we received information about his movement near Exotica Fresco society in Sector 137. We arrested him and recovered the mobile phone used in the crime,” he said.During interrogation, Lala revealed the name of Ajaypal Singh who was also arrested, police said. “Singh told police that he was terminated from the job. So, he decided to defame the service centre. Since he had worked there as a general manager, he managed to steal the details of Gupta’s pick-up order. He then engaged Lala, also a former employee of the centre, to commit the crime,” the SHO said. Police said that the suspects had fled with the car towards Ghaziabad. However, Madhuban police in Ghaziabad was conducting a checking drive at that time. The suspects feared they would be arrested so they abandoned the car on the roadside and fled the spot, police said, adding that the Ghaziabad police later seized the car. The suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-former-employees-of-service-centre-arrested-for-stealing-car-101629569229971.html
21-08-2021||Noida||Vaccine shortage, staff crunch mar ‘second dose day’ in Ghaziabad||The district health department on Saturday administered only 4,758 second doses of Covid-19 vaccine, out of the total 6,521 given on the day. Officials attributed the low vaccination numbers to paucity of vaccine and also to shortage of staff who were busy with routine immunisation for children.Saturday is observed as the ‘second dose day’ as directed by the UP government to improve coverage of second dose in the state. According to the Co-WIN portal, on August 14, the day when the ‘second dose day’ was started, the district administered 5,258 second doses (out of total 7,534). The average of the two second dose days is about 7,000 doses, while the district has administered a daily average of about 17,000 doses (total 136,216) from August 14 to August 21. The figures also indicate that the district administered 43,654 second doses during the period at an average of about 5,456 doses per day. The health officials said that they generally don’t have enough vaccine stock on Saturdays. “On August 14, we had about 7,500 doses and the figure for this Saturday was about 9,000. Further, our staff also get busy with routine immunisation on Saturday. However, we are trying to get more stock for Saturdays as well and hope to increase coverage of second dose,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination in Ghaziabad.The government has allowed walk-in facility for the day while giving 9am-11am slot preference to beneficiaries who book them online. Experts said the official figures indicate that there is hardly any benefit of the ‘second dose day’. “Maximum immunity against the virus gets developed only after the second dose is administered. Instead of Saturday, any weekdays like Monday or Tuesday should be reserved for second dose in order to improve second dose coverage,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). According to the Co-WIN portal, Ghaziabad district till 8.30pm on Saturday administered 1,815,102 overall doses, which included 357,256 second doses (19.68%). On the other hand, UP administered overall 63,509,137 doses, including 10,094,961 (15.89%) second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccine-shortage-staff-crunch-mar-second-dose-day-in-ghaziabad-101629569170488.html
21-08-2021||Noida||Noida district hospital administers 127K doses of Covid vaccine so far||The district hospital in Noida’s Sector 30 has administered more than 127,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine so far, the highest by a health care facility in the Gautam Budh Nagar district, officials said on Saturday.According to the officials, GB Nagar has administered over 1.9 million doses so far. Dr Sushma Chandra, chief medical superintendent of the district hospital, said that a total of 1,27,693 doses of vaccines have been administered in the hospital so far. “Having ample space and other facilities, the district hospital has been on top in vaccination, right from the day it started in January this year,” she said. The Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida is not far behind, with a total of 112,654 doses administered at the facility till Saturday. Dr Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS, said that the hospital stayed at the forefront of the drive. “Our vaccination drive was planned meticulously by a team of doctors and we’ve reported minimal adverse event following immunization (AEFI). The institute has established two ‘code blue’ stations, which take care of any serious/ life threatening side effects of vaccine,” he said. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunization officer, said that till Saturday evening, as many as 1,901,420 vaccine doses have been administered in the district. “While 1,490,909 people have taken their first dose, as many as 410,511 in the district have taken both of their shots. Among the private hospitals in the district, while Kailash hospital in Greater Noida has so far administered 93,805 vaccine doses, Felix hospital in Noida has given 76,210 doses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-district-hospital-administers-127k-doses-of-covid-vaccine-so-far-101629569169970.html
21-08-2021||Noida||Heavy rains lash Noida and Ghaziabad, create chaos on major roads||Traffic was badly affected due to waterlogging in several parts of Ghaziabad and Noida as the two cities witnessed heavy rainfall on Saturday morning.In Ghaziabad, GT Road, NH-9, Delhi-Meerut Road and some internal roads of the city witnessed heavy traffic jams on Saturday. In neighbouring Noida, the vehicular movement was mainly affected at Labour Chowk, Sector 62 underpass, Kulesara road and the underpass towards Indirapuram in Ghaziabad due to waterlogging especially during the morning hours.Nitin Ashu, resident of Pratap Vihar in Ghaziabad, had to spend about three hours to reach district headquarters that otherwise would have taken 15 minutes on a normal day. “Since morning, the city witnessed heavy waterlogging and jams ensued as a result. First I went to Delhi-Meerut Expressway, but it had a long queue of vehicles. I returned to take Gaushala underpass that was completely submerged in water. Then I took GT Road, but didn’t get any relief from jam,” Ashu said. Kamiya Arora, a resident of Crossings Republik, had to meet the similar fate. “The worst affected stretch on the DME was at Lal Kuan which consumed almost two hours to cross over. Later, I somehow took a service lane towards GT Road to reach Kavi Nagar,” Arora said.Residents said that localities like Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara, and Shalimar Garden suffered heavy waterlogging. Vaishali resident BK Pandey said that his woes continued since he got up on Saturday morning. “I had to wade through knee-deep water to fetch milk. A rather worse situation prevailed in Indirapuram that remained waterlogged almost throughout the day,” Pandey added. The women commuters going to their relatives’ places to celebrate Rakshabandhan on Sunday were hit hard. “I started for my brother’s house in Meerut, and it took me about two hours to cross Ghaziabad as there were jams everywhere. The GT Road was jam packed with long queues of vehicles. Several stretches on GT Road were waterlogged that led to the traffic mess,” said Bhawna Yadav, a resident of Sahibabad. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Ghaziabad recorded an average rainfall of 24mm on Saturday. The automatic weather monitoring station at CDO Ghaziabad did not fetch records for morning, however, weather analysts believe the rainfall to be under heavy category. On the other hand, Noida recorded 79.5mm rainfall till Saturday 8.30am, while on average (between Friday 5.30pm to Saturday 5.30pm), the city recorded 25mm rainfall.The traffic police said that they toiled hard throughout the day to manage the traffic on roads. “Besides traffic police personnel, we also roped in police post in-charges to help clear the traffic jams. Some of the major roads have issues of waterlogging which resulted in long jams,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic), Ghaziabad.The precarious situation led top officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation to conduct inspections in different areas. They said that the city has 525 small and big drains that were cleaned before the monsoon, but some of them developed fresh garbage deposits. “We employed several teams to clear out garbage from drains. The next two days will be crucial and we have asked officials concerned to ensure that there is no waterlogging in the city,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. In Noida, traffic police officials said that heavy rainfall led to waterlogging at several underpasses that caused traffic snarls. “Heavy rainfall led to waterlogged underpasses at sectors 60 and 72, causing traffic jams especially in the morning hours. The similar situation prevailed at Labour Chowk and Kulesara. However, at DND cut and Mahamaya Flyover, the traffic was normal as the water was pumped out before 8am,” said an official from the traffic police department.Officials of the Noida authority said that the workers were rushed to clear the stretches. “As the rainfall was heavy, there were some instances of waterlogging, but our workers were rushed to affected areas, including Labour Chowk, sectors 37, 60 and City Centre underpasses. The water was removed from roads by around 12 noon,” said an authority official, requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad municipal commissioner on Saturday night issued a roster in which three officers each were deputed for 13 worst affected waterlogged areas. They have been deputed for 24 hours and will operate in shifts. The order also stated that one senior officer will be deputed for each of the five zones of the city. The 13 worst affected areas include New Bus Adda to Patel Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Navyug Market, Lohiya Nagar, Seemant Vihar (Kaushambi), Brij Vihar, Mohan Nagar, Apsara Border, Rajendra Nagar, Pandav Nagar, Karpuripuram and Govindpuram, among others.Meanwhile, the weather analysts said that there are chances of light to moderate rainfall on Sunday.“Region will continue receiving rainfall for another two days till August 23. There are chances of moderate rainfall on Sunday which will drop towards Monday to light rainfall. After that, the region may see a temporary break monsoon condition for a few days,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/heavy-rains-lash-noida-and-ghaziabad-create-chaos-on-major-roads-101629569050016.html
21-08-2021||Gurugram||Bank fraud accused procured 500 SIM cards using forged papers: Cops||Two days after a 48-year-old former bank loan agent was arrested for allegedly duping people and transferring amounts from their account by linking his mobile number, the police said that he had forged documents to get 500 SIM cards that were used in committing the crime.The police said the investigation of the banking fraud executed by the conman has turned the spotlight on the irregularities in issuing SIM cards by a leading telecom company. Bank officials are already under investigation for their role in the frauds.The Gurugram police on Saturday filed a case in connection with the issuance of 500 SIM cards by Airtel in violation of the norms of the Department of Telecommunications (DOT).KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the second FIR in the banking fraud case was filed against the persons who had supplied SIM cards to the suspect, identified as Praveen Mittal (48), without proper documents. “The suspect, in connivance with the staff of Airtel, had allegedly procured 500 SIM cards and sold them to different persons illegally. Most of these SIM cards were used for illegal activities and fraud. One of these SIM cards was used by Mittal to transfer ₹1.39 crore from the bank account of a farmer, who had received compensation for land acquisition in Gurugram. The SIM card, obtained without proper documentation, was of major use in the execution of the fraud,” he said.Mittal, of Haryana’s Sonepat, lived in Gurugram and worked as a loan agent for several nationalised banks. The police said the suspect and his aides executed a series of banking frauds in at least three northern states.One of Mittal’s aides, identified as Dinesh Sharma, who runs a placement agency, prepared fake documents of a recruitment company and managed to get 500 SIM cards fraudulently issued in connivance with officials of Airtel, the police said. “These SIM cards could have been used for anti-national activities as well,” said Rao.A spokesperson for Airtel telecom, through a statement issued on Saturday, said, “As a law-abiding corporate, we have extended full cooperation to the authorities and will continue to assist them. Since the matter is sub judice, we will be unable to comment further.”The FIR was registered under sections 419 (cheating personation), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery) and 471 (using forged document) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 37 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bank-fraud-accused-procured-500-sim-cards-using-forged-papers-cops-101629568691610.html
21-08-2021||Noida||Fruit vendor stabbed to death in Noida, suspect held||A 20-year-old fruit vendor was allegedly stabbed to death by another fruit seller in a market in Noida Phase 2 on Friday evening. The suspect, Farman, 22, was arrested on Saturday, police said.Police said Farman is a native of Sikandrabad in Bulandshahr. The victim was identified as Kasim, a resident of Bhangel. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said, “The two persons worked next to each other. It appears they had developed rivalry. On Friday evening, the two persons quarrelled over placing their cart at a certain spot. Farman took out a knife and stabbed Kasim in his thighs multiple times.” Local people and other shopkeepers raised an alarm and informed police. A team from Phase 2 police station reached the spot and admitted Kasim to the district hospital in Sector 30. However, he died during treatment, police said.Based on the complaint filed by victim’s kin, a case was registered against Farman under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. “We have arrested Farman from Phase 2 area and recovered the knife used in the crime. He was produced in court that sent him to judicial custody,” Chander said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fruit-vendor-stabbed-to-death-in-noida-suspect-held-101629568449899.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi transport department approves 4.5k+ e-auto permits in Capital||The Delhi transport department approved the issuance of 4,561 permits for operating electric autorickshaws (e-autos), of which one-third will be reserved for women applicants, a senior government official said on Saturday.“The government will now invite applications from individuals for availing the 4,561 permits very soon and 33% of the permits will be reserved for women drivers,” the official said, not wishing to be named.The official cited above said that there is a huge demand to increase the number of autos and taxis driven by women, for the convenience of women commuters in the city.“While men (applicants) will require public service vehicle (PSV) badges to apply for an e-auto permit, women can do so with an existing licence that applies to light vehicles. Women applicants who avail of the permits will get additional three months to get a PSV badge done,” the official said.The e-auto plan is part of the government’s comprehensive electric vehicle (EV) policy notified in August 2020. The policy aims to ensure that at least 25% of total vehicles registered in Delhi, by 2025, are e-vehicles. The EV policy is part of the government’s long-term action plan to fight air pollution in Delhi.Parallelly, the government also is working on setting up EV Infrastructure in Delhi, which involves setting up 500 charging points at 100 locations, incentive policy on scrapping of fuel vehicles for e-vehicles, and tying up with private players to endorse electric vehicles and set up charging stations. Even government vehicles are being switched to electric ones under an order issued earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-transport-department-approves-4-5k-e-auto-permits-in-capital-101629567729708.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body set to ramp up Covid testing||Keeping the festival season in mind, starting with Raksha Bandhan on Sunday, and amid the relaxations implemented since the past 10 days, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) may soon increase daily testing of samples for Covid-19. In the past two days, BMC has conducted a dry run by doubling its number of tests, so as to gauge the situation. For example: Over 50,000 tests have been conducted in the past two days, the majority of which are rapid antigen kits. This is an increase from the daily 25,000 to 35,000 tests conducted until Wednesday. According to officials, more testing leads to faster detection of cases, which results in early tracing of infected citizens. As per predictions of experts and authorities, the third wave of Covid-19 is likely to happen between September and October, during the festival season.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “In the last two days, we did a trial run by increasing our testing numbers above 50,000. However, it will remain around 35,000 for now. But in the coming days, depending on the situation, we may increase testing.” He added, “When we increase testing, major reliance will be on RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests. Ultimately, when we have to increase testing, we will have to focus on places with high footfall. For example: Malls again, depending on whether they are open; hawkers and shopkeepers. We will target those who have multiple chances of contact.” In Mumbai, as of August 19, 740,290 Covid cases have been detected by testing 8,855,005 samples. The overall positivity rate is 8.36% and daily positivity rate is between 0.5% and 1% over the past few days. The city on Saturday reported 262 cases and five deaths. Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner of D ward, which covers Malabar Hill and Tardeo, said, “There are many areas in my ward where citizens are going outstation for work. On return, they get tested and there are times even their families get tested. This helps in early testing and tracing. ” Dr Madhav Sathe, retired microbiology professor at Nair hospital, said, “Looking at relaxations and festivals coming up, we should have 40,000-50,000 tests in Mumbai, of which 60% should be RT-PCR and 40% rapid antigen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-set-to-ramp-up-covid-testing-101629565570470.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Need 50, but only 11 children participate in ZyCoV-D vaccination trial||Even after a month of starting clinical trials of the indigenous ZyCoV-D vaccine among children at the civic-run BYL Nair hospital, the response of young volunteers remains lukewarm. Although the trial needs 50 children between the age group of 12 and 17 years, the hospital has received only 11 volunteers. The Drug Controller General on Friday granted emergency approval to the Zycov-D, a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, and it will be administered to people 12 years and above. This makes it the first vaccine in India that can be administered to adults as well as children above 12 years. In the second week of July, Nair Hospital became the first hospital in Mumbai to start clinical trials of the vaccine among children. As per officials, initially they received over 40 queries from parents who wanted to enrol their children for their trial. However, eventually they all backed out. So far, only 11 children have taken the first shot of the vaccine under the clinical trial. “We have placed advertisements about the clinical trial to encourage people to enrol their children for the trial. But due to scepticism and lack of awareness, parents back off later. We have got only 11 children at present, who all have taken the first shot of the vaccine,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean, Nair hospital.The hospital hasn’t recorded any severe side effects of the drug among the children. Fifty percent of the volunteers will be provided with a placebo. Zycov-D is a ‘plasmid DNA’ vaccine, a first-of-its-kind vaccine that uses a genetically engineered DNA molecule known as a ‘plasmid’ which is coded to generate spike protein of the Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. It elicits an immune response against it and develops antibodies. On July 1, in a statement, the manufacturer declared that they have recorded 66.6% ‘primary efficacy’ in their ‘interim analysis’.A total of three doses will be given to the volunteers. After the first dose, the second and third doses will be given after a gap of 28 and 56 days, respectively. As per protocol, along with written consent, an audio-visual consent of the parents of the children is also required for the trial.With the intention of sensitising parents, the hospital has also started two helpline numbers— 022-23027205 and 23027204. Parents who want to enrol their children in the trial can call on these numbers and clear their doubts. “Every day, we receive around 7-10 enquiries about the trial. Many also visit our hospital asking about the clinical trial, but eventually they don’t enrol their children,” said Dr Bharmal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-need-50-but-only-11-children-participate-in-zycov-d-vaccination-trial-101629565150677.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena ups attack on BJP over Devendra Fadnavis’s Taliban comment||A day after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis said Shiv Sena workers’ act to “purify” Bal Thackeray’s makeshift memorial showed “Talibani mindset”, Sena leader Sanjay Raut hit back saying the party is a pro-Hindutva party that stood beside Hindus when the BJP shirked away from responsibility of Babri Masjid demolition.On Thursday, amid heavy police force deployment, Union minister Narayan Rane visited Thackeray’s Smruti Sthal in Shivaji Park. Hours after his visit, Shiv Sainiks carried out “purification” of the memorial by sprinkling cow urine and milk. Fadnavis had on Friday said, “ Sena’s ‘purification’ at the memorial can be equated to Talibani mindset. Those who indulged in such an act have not understood Bal Thackeray’s Shiv Sena. It is unfortunate.” Raut, without naming either Fadnavis or BJP, said the leaders of the party had locked themselves in their homes while Sena workers faced rioters during the 1992 riots in Mumbai.“Everybody right from [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi to Fadnavis know what is the mindset of the Shiv Sena. We are a staunch Hindutvawadi party, and whenever there was a threat on Hindus, the Shiv Sena and Shiv Sena chief (referring to Bal Thackeray) became a shield and stood beside the people. Those who did not take responsibility of Babri demolition must not call us Talibani. We were nationalist, and therefore, that blot was removed. In the 1992 Mumbai riots, on the orders of Shiv Sena chief, Shiv Sainiks took to streets and faced rioters. That time, these people had locked themselves in their homes, but are now calling us Talibani. You may call us whatever you choose, but we know our soul,” Raut said.The Sena leader also raked up the Marathi manoos issue saying the Sena was established for the cause of “Marathi manoos” and will continue to fight for the sons of the soils whenever they are in trouble. He added that the BJP is attempting to corner Sena over its Hindutva credential, while former Sena leader Narayan Rane has targeted his former party over the sons of the soil issue. The war of words is expected to intensify between the two parties with Rane targetting the Sena during his Konkan tour, which is a stronghold of Sena.Attacking Sena on Saturday, Rane said instead of sprinkling cow urine, the state government should look at improving the atmosphere and basic amenities for small business owners. “Over 350 companies are shut because there is no power supply. I will speak to the minister here and try to get it. Over 350,000 people do not have jobs as these 350 companies are shut. Those who sprinkle cow urine are unaware of this. Instead of sprinkling that, create jobs and strengthen the financial condition,” Rane said in Vasai-Virar during his Jan Ashirwad Yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-ups-attack-on-bjp-over-devendra-fadnavis-s-taliban-comment-101629565090083.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: NCP drive to counter ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’||Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Saturday announced a drive to counter the ongoing ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ started by four newly inducted Union ministers from the Central government in Maharashtra. The party has decided to hold press conferences in various districts to ‘’point out’’ how the Narendra Modi-led government allegedly failed in dealing with critical issues such as inflation, unemployment, rising fuel prices, Covid mitigation, vaccination drive among others.“We have decided to expose the failure of the Central government by creating awareness. For this, we have decided to hold media interactions in different areas in the coming days. In the first leg, five press conferences will be held in the next four days starting Saturday. In the next phase, another region will be selected and similarly, all the regions of the state will be covered one by one,” said Mahesh Tapase, state spokesperson, NCP.“We will prove this by comparing the performances of UPA-1 and UPA-2 with the first and second term of the Modi-led government. See the rising inflation, rise in fuel prices, unemployment, Covid management, vaccination drive etc. There is not a single area where this government has performed better,” he added.In the first phases, the press conferences will be held at Vasai, Aurangabad, Alibaug, Ratnagiri and Sindhdurg.Sanjay Tatkare, another spokesperson of the party said the locations have been selected from where ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ was held. “We want to put our side of the story before the people. We will also show the people how BJP is misleading them by putting facts and figures. This is the reason the party has selected the same locations where ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ was held,” Tatkare said.Ahead of the forthcoming local body elections, the state BJP unit is looking at an opportunity to take the Central schemes to the people and also expose the alleged failure of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government being run by Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress.Four new ministers — Rajya Sabha MPs Narayan Rane and Dr Bhagwat Karad, and MPs Kapil Patil and Dr Bharti Pawar — who were inducted into the Modi government as part of the cabinet reshuffle on July 7 were asked to hold ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’. It started on August 16, while Rane started the yatra on August 19.More than 15 municipal corporations (including Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane), 29 of 36 district councils and over 90 municipal councils will go for polls over the next 18 months. The election bandwagon to these local bodies in such a huge number is considered as the mini-Assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ncp-drive-to-counter-jan-ashirwad-yatra-101629564670876.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay researchers develop first-ever indigenous semiconductor memory technology||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) have invented the first-ever indigenous semiconductor memory technology that can be adopted for manufacturing at commercial unit of 180nm node in India.Memory is a critical aspect of the internet-of-things (IoT), a network of objects embedded with sensors or chips for exchange of data over a wireless network without the intervention of humans. Memories are used to customise chips by giving them user-specific storage of digital data. IoT connects tiny chips, which are all identical but distinguished by an identity (a barcode) stored in the memory. This data is stored within metal-insulator-metal (MIM) memory cells on a silicon integrated circuit memory chip. At a time when IoT is disrupting the semiconductor industry worldwide, the semiconductor manufacturing ecosystem led by Semi-Conductor Laboratory (SCL), Mohali, department of space, Government of India, had to import the main technology from abroad. However, a team of researchers at IIT-B led by Udayan Ganguly, professor in the department of electrical engineering, along with SCL have successfully demonstrated a CMOS-180nm-based 8-bit memory technology. This technology is adopted for production. Ideally, silicon chips (like thermometers) should be identical, but manufacturing variations produce tiny offsets (such as errors in temperatures) which are revealed upon testing. This renders a large fraction of chips useless. The technology designed by the IIT-B team enables storing this tiny offset correction in memory once and applying it to the output afterward to make each imperfect chip perfect. Using this method, generic chips can now be designed and make application-specific offsets added to make expensive custom chip design redundant, saving time and money for the user. “One out of 100 ideas makes the journey from lab to fab. The exacting process of exceeding 95% yield requires an unrelenting multi-disciplinary team supported by a world-class R&D infrastructure to form an enduring collaboration. Once such successful technology opens possibilities of touching countless lives, in this case, through chips with a tiny memory,” said Ganguly. This one-time programmable (OTP) memory is based on ultra-thin deposited silicon dioxide instead of the existing gate oxide-based OTP technology. In contrast to the high voltage required by gate oxide breakdown (a popular OTP memory), IIT-B’s memory chip requires less power and chip-area as the need for boosted voltage supply is avoided. “Memory technology is critical to data security. It is essential for present and future Indian Fabs. To infuse innovation, translating memory technology from research to manufacturing is the key to compete globally and serve locally to establish a vibrant semiconductor ecosystem. The OTP Memory Technology Adoption for Trimming Application by the joint IIT-B-SCL, Chandigarh team is a pioneering step in this direction. It will be a game changer by enabling secure memory and encryption hardware for the country,” said VK Saraswat, member of NITI Aayog. The project was initiated by the department of science and technology’s (DST) Intensification of Research in High Priority Area (IRHPA). Aspects of the work were funded by DST’s Nanoelectronics Network for Research and Applications (NNetRA), DST-Advanced Manufacturing Technologies, and office of PSA for hardware security. The team at IIT-B partnered with IIT-Delhi, SETS Chennai, and Defence Research and Development Organisation for hardware encryption. “The success of the Digital India initiative by the Government of India has underpinnings in our country’s ability to manufacture electronics hardware. The focus on electronics hardware including integrated circuits or chips is key to strengthen R&D primarily in space and defence sectors. Development of standard, product design or IP development, and semiconductor manufacturing are increasingly important. Improving India’s participation in this area is a major priority for R&D in India. The partnership between IIT-B and SCL to establish this memory technology for the first time demonstrates the augmented potential for semiconductor research in the country,” said K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser (PSA) to the Government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-researchers-develop-first-ever-indigenous-semiconductor-memory-technology-101629564669919.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Shinde frustrated over Sena matters, looking for alternatives: Rane||Newly inducted Union minister Narayan Rane on Saturday made serious allegations against Shiv Sena and said all the files related to the urban development department (UDD) are being cleared by the Matoshri, residence of Shiv Sena chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. He claimed that senior Sena minister Eknath Shinde is fed up with his party as he has no powers and is looking for alternatives.Shinde is a senior Sena leader and holds the urban development department in the MVA government.From August 19, Rane is on ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ in the state covering most of the districts of the Konkan region. On Saturday he was in Vasai where he made the statement.“Though he (Eknath Shinde) is the urban development minister in the MVA government, he is being used only to sign files. The rest is in the hands of ‘son’, who is also a minister and another person who is not in politics and thus I’m not taking his name. No file from the urban development department can be cleared without approval from Matoshri (Thackeray’s residence),” Rane alleged without naming Aaditya Thackeray, son and environment minister in the MVA government.“He (Eknath Shinde) is frustrated and tired of this and is looking for alternatives… I will provide for him one day,” the Union minister said, indicating unrest in the party.Rane has been a bitter critic of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray since he was expelled from Shiv Sena. He launched an offensive against Shiv Sena from the beginning of ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’.Rane also predicted that the Thackeray-led MVA government will fall soon.In response, Shiv Sena said there is no unrest in the party and Rane is making all the baseless allegations to please his bosses. “There is no unrest in Shiv Sena. Shinde is one of the best performing ministers and is the first person who reaches the spot if an incident happens. Rane suddenly has got a position and thus he is making all the allegations to show his bosses that he is doing something,” said Manisha Kayande, Sena spokesperson.She also alleged the BJP is reeling with unrest and not Shiv Sena. “BJP has no leader who can lead the party in the upcoming BMC elections. This is the reason BJP loyalists have been sidelined and Rane is being projected. Thus there is unrest in the BJP and not in Shiv Sena,” she slammed.All the four newly inducted ministers in the Narendra Modi government have started ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ in the state since last week. Ahead of the upcoming local body elections, the state BJP unit is looking at an opportunity to take the central schemes to the people and also expose the alleged failure of the Thackeray government being run by Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eknath-shinde-fed-up-with-his-party-looking-for-alternatives-alleges-narayan-rane-101629564429769.html
21-08-2021||Patna||Caste census: Nitish to lead 11-member delegation to meet PM on Aug 23||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will be leading an 11-member delegation when he meets Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to push for a caste-wise enumeration in the Census 2021, state’s education and parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said.Besides Kumar, other members of the delegation will be RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is also the leader of Opposition in the state, JD(U) legislature party leader Vijay Kumar Choudhary, who is also the minister for education and parliamentary affairs, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, who heads Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma and BJP legislature party leader and minister Janak Ram, CPI-ML legislature party leader Mahboob Alam, Akhtarul Imam of AIMIM, Mukesh Sahni of VIP, Suryakant Paswan of CPI and Ajay Kunar of the CPM.Minister Choudhary said the information regarding two resolutions passed by the Bihar Legislative Assembly on February 18, 2020, and February 27, 2020, in favour of caste-based census had been sent to the home ministry and the registrar general-cum-census commissioner promptly.The last caste-based census was done in the country was in 1931. As per its projections for specific Hindu castes, backward castes constitute 51.3% of Bihar’s population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/caste-census-nitish-to-lead-11-member-delegation-to-meet-pm-on-aug-23-101629562990620.html
21-08-2021||Patna||Elevated 9-km-long road at Rajgir to offer a ‘monumental’ drive||The 9-km-long congested stretch of National Highway 82 at Rajgir, which connects Gaya to Biharsharif through reserve forest and historical places, would be developed as a four-lane elevated road, a senior official in the state’s road construction department (RCD) said.The Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has given its consent to the RCD for alignment of the elevated bypass on existing two-lane road — from Vanganga to the SDM office — following chief minister Nitish Kumar’s insistence to ensure seamless traffic on the stretch without impacting charm of the place, the official said.While the RCD is building the Gaya-Biharsharif portion of national highway as four-lane from the funding of MoRTH, the work on the road between Vanganga and SDM office was left unattended lest it may take a toll on archaeological attractions like Bimbisar Jail, Chariot Wheel Mark, Maniyar Math, Cyclopean Wall, etc.Additional chief secretary (RCD) Amrit Lal Meena said pre-construction activities like forest clearance and utilities shifting would start as the MoRTH has cleared the new alignment. “The 8.7-km-long elevated road would be made in cable stayed style in addition to four-km long four-lane at-grade road. The entire project is likely to cost ₹1,300 crore,” said Meena, adding that the MoRTH gave its clearance to the elevated road on Friday. The Central government has allocated a sum of ₹2,000 crore for building the NH from Gaya to Biharsharif via Rajgir. “Of the total, ₹900 crore has been spent on land acquisition. With elevated road being added, the entire project cost would go up to ₹3,200 crore,” said an officer of the RCD, adding that the road portion of the NH is likely to be complete by March next year.An engineer with RCD said the corridor would pass through at least 10 historical monuments and a portion of the reserve forest area and hence would offer a scenic view to commuters. The road is also important as it connects Rajgir with other important cities like Patna, Nawada, Jamshedpur, Koderma and Kolkata. “The CM visited the spot twice in the last couple of years and personally suggested the alignment of elevated structure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/elevated-9-km-long-road-at-rajgir-to-offer-a-monumental-drive-101629562989465.html
21-08-2021||Patna||Mukhiya’s husband among two killed in rural Patna||Unidentified assailants shot dead the husband of a mukhiya (village head) in rural Patna late Friday night, the police said. The deceased was identified as Pintu Kumar Sao, 45, of Narhanna village in the Bank panchayat which falls under Maner police station area. Patna City’s superintendent of police (West) Ashok Kumar Mishra said the killing took place around 12.15 am on Saturday when Sao was returning home on a car.“There are at least two eyewitnesses who were passing by the spot and saw the killing take place,” Mishra said, adding that eyewitnesses told police that two bike-borne men stopped in the front his car, dragged the man out and shot him in face and chest. Sao’s family members are yet to file a police complaint. In another incident, a 55-year-old man was stabbed to death at Rajpur village under Bihta police station around 4.30 am while he was on way for a morning walk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mukhiyas-husband-among-two-killed-in-rural-patna-101629562936354.html
21-08-2021||Other||Bihar: Two held with drugs worth ₹50 lakh||The 47th Battalion of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) arrested two Nepali citizens from Laxmipur in Raxaul and seized a huge quantity of narcotics worth around ₹ 50 lakh allegedly being smuggled from Nepal to East Champaran in the wee hours of Saturday, said Commandant Priyvrat, Sharma. The consignment has been handed over to Raxaul police, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-two-held-with-drugs-worth-50-lakh-101629562935360.html
21-08-2021||Other||Bihar: Processionists held for assault, loot bid||Over two dozens members of a Muharram procession have been arrested for allegedly attacking occupants of a vehicle on national highway 31 near in Katihar district late Friday evening, leaving five people injured, including an ailing woman, the police said. The incident took place near Musapur under Kodha police station limits.The woman, along with her son and three relatives, was returning home at Dummar from Purnia in a Scorpio when armed people in the Muharram procession attacked their vehicle and looted cash and mobile phones. Police have lodged two FIRs, one by Kodha block development officer (BDO) and the other by Scorpio owner Md Wasim, who was also driving the vehicle at the time. Katihar superintendent of police (SP) Vikash Kumar said, “Around two dozen accused have been arrested and raids are being carried out to arrest the others.”Md Masood Alam, one of the occupants of the vehicle, said, “We were returning from Purnia after the treatment of my mother when people in Muharram procession stopped us and started raining lathis on the vehicle. They assaulted us and looted ₹7,000 and a mobile phone.”All five injured are undergoing treatment at community health Centre (CHC) at Kodha. At present, religious processions are banned in Bihar due to Covid-19.Police sources said there were over 200 people in the procession and they were trying to identify them from various sources, including the CCTV footages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-processionists-held-for-assault-loot-bid-101629562934220.html
21-08-2021||Patna||Man held for killing wife, in-laws||The Bihar police arrested a man Saturday from Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh (UP) for allegedly killing his wife and in-laws with a sharp-edged weapon on August 15. Bahraich superintendent of Police (SP) Sujata Singh said the accused, Mubarak Ali, a native of Banjaria village in UP, was currently living with his in-laws in Bhikabaandh village, Siwan. The victims have been identified as Ali’s wife Naseema Khatoon (30), father-in-law Ali Hussain Sai (75) and mother-in-law Najma Khatoon (70).Ali’s nine-year-old daughter was injured in the incident. An FIR was registered at Daraunda police station in Siwan on Hussain’s son Mustaq Ali’s statement against Mubarak. In the FIR, Mustaq alleged that Ali killed three of his family members and fled away from the spot with gold ornaments, said Abhinav Kumar, Siwan SP. During interrogation, Ali confessed his crime. He attacked them when his wife refused to go with him to Baharaich, the SP said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-held-for-killing-wife-inlaws-101629562933044.html
21-08-2021||Other||Minor girl raped in E Champaran||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two people in connivance with her friend at a village in Bihar’s East Champaran district, police said on Saturday. In an FIR (first information report) lodged at Chakiya police station of the district, the girl’s mother said the incident took place on August 17 when two men took her to a village orchard and raped her. “It was around 11pm on August 17 when one of her classmates (a girl) called her outside the house where two men were waiting. When she did not return till late, we started a search. When we reached the orchard, three of them (including her friend) escaped,” the girl’s mother has said in the complaint. The girl’s father accused the village headman of pressuring them not to lodge the case. “For whole day on August 18, we were stopped from approaching police and pressured to settle the matter at village level by the village headman Babloo (Jamshed Alam). Later, on August 19, we approached the police which took time to lodge the case,” said the father of the girl, who is a class X student. Meanwhile, Nirmal Kumar, station house officer (SHO) Chakiya police station said that victim’s statement had been recorded in the court. “We are waiting for the medical examination report,” he said, adding that raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-girl-raped-in-e-champaran-101629562931888.html
21-08-2021||Other||BJP leaders in Kaimur Hills push for hydel projects with power minister||BJP MP from Sasaram, Chhedi Paswan, MLC Santosh Kumar Singh and other local leaders of the party from Bihar’s Kaimur have requested union power minister Raj Kumar Singh, who was in Rohtas on Saturday as part of the party’s Jan Ashrivad Yatra in Bihar, to approve four long-pending hydroelectric power projects in Kaimur Hills which are estimated to produce 2,570 mega watts of electricity. “I have been pursuing the matter since the 1990s. These hydel projects will change the fate of poor tribal and scheduled caste people on Kaimur hills. It is a good coincidence that the Union power minister is here,” Paswan said.He was referring to the Bihar State Hydroelectric Power Corporation’s (BHPC) proposal for setting up hydel power projects at Sinafdar (345 MW), Telhar Kund (400 MW), Panchgotia (225 MW) on river Suara and Hathiadah-Durgawati (1600 MW) on river Durgawati in the hilly region of Kaimur district’s Adhaura block, which has been awaiting clearance for a long time despite the completion of major legwork, including feasibility studies for the project between year 2000 and 2010, officials aware of the developments said.The preliminary project reports along with clarifications and details sought by the Central agencies were duly furnished by BHPC during this period and the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC) also conducted surveys of the four sites and made a pre-feasibility report. Not just that, a team of Japan Bank of International Cooperation, renamed as Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), too got a project viability assessment done, officials said.“A study commissioned by JICA found the Hathiadah-Durgawati project to be very attractive and agreed to extend financial assistance,” said LP Sinha, retired BHPC managing director who worked on the project proposals during his tenure.Rameshwar Singh, the then principal secretary (energy) in Bihar, wrote on September 29, 2010, to the Union ministry of power highlighting how these environment-friendly and carbon emission-free projects were likely to result in rapid augmentation of power generation, stability of transmission and meeting the state’s power demand, MP Chhedi Paswan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-leaders-in-kaimur-hills-push-for-hydel-projects-with-power-minister-101629562930791.html
21-08-2021||Patna||Five held for throwing acid on 19-yr-old in Nalanda||Five people were arrested late Friday for allegedly throwing acid on a 19-year-old woman for turning down the marriage proposal of one of the accused in Nalanda, police said. Sajan Kumar Sao, who was in a relationship with the woman, allegedly hatched the plot for the attack, said police.Nalanda SP Hariprasath S said that police scanned CCTV footage and got some vital clues about the attackers.“With the help of relatives and friend Chhotu, Sao threw acid on the woman when she, along with her cousin, was going to a shopping mall on Wednesday.” The SP said that during questioning, Sao confessed he convinced Chhotu to get acid thrown so that she could be hurt but not killed.The CCTV footage from the crime spot showed Sao was in the area where the woman was attacked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/five-held-for-throwing-acid-on-19-yr-old-in-nalanda-101629562929593.html
21-08-2021||Ranchi||‘Removing PM Modi only agenda of Opposition’||Hitting out at the non-NDA parties, especially the Congress, BJP national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Zafar Islam said here that opposition parties are testing to come together not for people’s welfare but for their single agenda of removing Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi from power.Islam was referring to the virtual meeting of opposition parties on Friday chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi while addressing a press conference at the party headquarter here on Saturday.“The sole agenda of this entire exercise is to try removing Narendra Modi from power. They keep coming up with some issue or the other to corner the PM. This is a desperate attempt by the Congress party as even regional parties have stopped giving much importance to them as they know the Congress is no more a political force,” said Islam.Accusing the opposition, especially the Congress for disruption in Parliament processing, Islam said, had the opposition parties cared about people they would have discussed the issues related to people on the floor of the House.“We saw unprecedented scenes in Parliament where opposition parties were whistling and scaling the reporters’ table. They did not even spare the woman marshal and attacked her. The PM had clearly said, in the all-party meeting, that the government was ready to hold discussions on any issue, be it economy, Pegasus or farmers row. But the Opposition chose to create a din,” he said.BJP forms human chain against Hemant govtMeanwhile, the state unit of the BJP protested against the ‘anti-people’s policies’ of the Hemant Soren government by forming human chains at headquarters of the 267 administrative blocks across the state.Islam joined state president and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash at one such protest at Morhabadi ground in the state capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/removing-pm-modi-only-agenda-of-opposition-101629562869585.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Rise in ticketless travellers in Mumbai; over 14,000 fined in 5 days: CR||As local train services resumed for fully vaccinated passengers last week, the Central Railway (CR) has witnessed a rise in the number of passengers travelling without tickets. Between August 15 and August 20, 14,090 commuters travelling without tickets were fined by the Central Railway officials including ticket checkers and Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel. On average, nearly 2,300 passengers are fined for travelling without tickets daily.On Friday, 2692 passengers were found travelling ticketless on the suburban railway stations and a fine of ₹8.5 lakh was recovered from them.Ticket checking inspectors along with commercial staff on Friday also conducted surprise checks at Thane and Wadala railway stations. 667 passengers were found travelling without tickets; 332 at Thane and 335 at Wadala railway station.Earlier, between August 10 to August 14, on the suburban railway, 12,900 passengers were detained by the railway authorities for travelling without a valid ticket.“We are conducting extensive inspections of tickets and are undertaking surprise and fortress checks. Under fortress checks, the entire railway station has ticket-checkers deployed at the platform and entry and exit of the stations. We undertook a fortress check at Thane and Wadala railway station on Friday. We request passengers to travel with a valid ticket to avoid inconvenience.” said a senior Central Railway official.Passenger associations have stated that the people who are detained for travelling without tickets are not fully vaccinated and they are travelling to manage their livelihood. The association has asked the Maharashtra government to consider allowing people who have taken one dose of the coronavirus vaccine. “It is a matter of the livelihood of people. The people who are being detained without tickets are the ones who have not been fully vaccinated. The Maharashtra government should allow people who have taken one dose of the vaccine to travel by local trains.” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad. General commuters who are fully vaccinated were allowed to travel by local train after four months on August 15. Train services were suspended for the general public on April 15 due to the rise in coronavirus cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rise-in-ticketless-travellers-in-mumbai-over-14-000-fined-in-5-days-cr-101629557889279.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Domestic air traffic from tier 2 to metro more than between metros: Travel portals||Domestic air traffic has witnessed an increase as the Covid-19 positivity rate in the country continues to remain low. Travel portals have said that the domestic fliers from tier 2 cities travelling to the metros have led to the growth in air traffic as compared to fliers from metro cities. According to the portals, there has been around 35% in the air traffic from tier 2 to metros. Nishant Pitti, chief executive officer (CEO) and co-founder of EaseMyTrip.com, said there has been a surge in air travel to smaller destinations post the second wave, as people want to reduce travel time and are ready to spend more money to travel on a direct flight to reach their destinations. “Metro-metro and non-metro to metro travel are bouncing back. Bookings from cities like Varanasi, Darbhanga, Patna, Gorakhpur to metros have seen a jump of 30-35% in the last one month,” says Aloke Bajpai, co-founder and group CEO of ixigo.Destinations such as Patna, Varanasi, and Srinagar are making up for most of the top 10 busiest routes in the country since May. “Even in December, when airlines could deploy 80% of their capacity, half of the top 10 routes were to tier-2 cities. For the period of January -June 2021, EaseMyTrip has observed that flight bookings to Delhi from tier 2 cities such as Srinagar and Patna were around 20% higher than the flights to Delhi from metros such as Mumbai and Bengaluru,” Pitti said.With ease in Covid-19 related lockdown restrictions and a decline in cases, portals said this trend will sustain. A surge in last-minute bookings and an increase in average ticket size for popular destinations such as Mussoorie, Mount Abu, Shimla and the likes. “In the aftermath of the second wave, we’ve observed a sharp upward trend in consumer’s preferences for smaller cities such as Lucknow, Patna, Noida, Jaipur, Kochi, Guwahati, Agra. OYO’s occupancy has improved significantly in July and August. Currently, we are seeing nearly 80% occupancy compared to pre-Covid wave 2 in February 2021. This showcases the country’s aspirations to explore domestic destinations closer to home since people are still wary about long-haul international air travel,” said Yatish Jain, vice president and chief growth officer, OYO INSEA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/domestic-air-traffic-from-tier-2-to-metro-more-than-between-metros-travel-portals-101629557709128.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Pandemic effect: RSS changes mode of functioning, focuses on yoga, pranayama to boost immunity||The Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdown has led to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) shakhas changing their mode of functioning. These shakhas or branches which were earlier held in open spaces, parks or grounds, are now being conducted in cyberspace using platforms like WebEx and Google Meet. Confirming to the requirements of this virtual medium and the need of the hour, these shakhas have changed their focus from physical games and exercises to include yoga and exercises and games meant to boost immunity and general knowledge.“Earlier, our physical activities included games using the danda (lathi) like dandagol (where players from competing teams toss and catch a lathi to score a goal), atya-patya (a traditional game) and ‘Angad ka Pair’ (which involves testing the physical strength of participants by making them lift each other’s leg that is firmly planted on the ground),” said a senior RSS functionary, who is part of the physical training department of the organisation. “Now, we are focussing on yoga, pranayama and such exercises meant to boost immunity and respiratory health. The virtual shakhas also see games like performing maximum push-ups, Surya namaskars or squats in a certain time-limit like one minute,” he explained.The newly designed games include those in which the names of icons have to be arranged in chronological order or rearranging their names from shuffled alphabets, recognising historical figures from their headgear and a quiz with questions based on religious epics like the Ramayana and Mahabharata. The RSS office-bearer said that they had used an illustrated book on traditional Maharashtrian games that were published by Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwar of Baroda and adapted some of these for their shakhas.“It is the character of the Sangh to adapt to the times... As shakhas went online, the games too were upgraded and new activities introduced,” said Ajay Mudpe, prachar pramukh (propaganda chief) of the Konkan prant. At present, while Mumbai has around 350 online and offline shakhas, each with an average attendance of 15 swayamsevaks, the Konkan prant, under which it falls, has about 700 shakhas, down from 450 and 900 respectively during pre-Covid times, said an RSS office-bearer. Around 250 shakhas have also begun physically across the Konkan prant with physical distancing norms but are not playing games like kabaddi since they involve physical proximity.The shakhas are divided into bal (children), tarun (youth), vyavasayik (professionals) and saptahik milan (weekly sessions for professionals like those in the I.T sector) and further into Prabhat (morning), sayan (evening) and ratra (night) shakhas, based on their timings. While the normal shakhas are organised for one hour, the duration of the saptahik milan is one-and-half hours.In April, a special program where shakhas were conducted online nationwide was attended by around 48 lakh participants, said another Sangh office-bearer.BOX:The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was started on Vijayadashmi Day in 1925 by Dr Keshav Baliram Hedgewar, Ganesh Damodar ‘Babarao’ Savarkar, Dr BS Moonje, Dr LV Paranjpe and Dr BB Tholkar.The right-wing organisation got its present name in April 1926.The RSS was banned after the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi in 1948 and formed the Bharatiya Jan Sangh (BJS) in 1951 as the predecessor of the present-day Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The RSS is the ideological fountainhead of the BJP and other organisations in the larger Sangh Parivar universe. At present, the RSS has around 52,000 operational shakhas across the country.The Sangh’s organisational structure in Maharashtra is divided into four prants or regions, namely Konkan (including Mumbai), Vidarbha, Western Maharashtra, and Devgiri (Marathwada).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pandemic-effect-rss-changes-mode-of-functioning-focuses-on-yoga-pranayama-to-boost-immunity-101629557049103.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: NEET centre far from home, say aspirants||Several aspirants of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) have complained that they have been allotted test centres far away from their place of residence and their preferred choice of centre. Amid Covid-19 restrictions, aspirants said, travel to far off centres was difficult. Over 12 lakh medical aspirants are expected to take the NEET for admission to undergraduate medical and dental courses at 202 centres across the country on September 12. “My friends and I had opted for a test centre in Akola. My second choice was Amravati which is at least 150 kilometres away from where I live. All my friends have got Akola as their test centres. I have to travel to Amravati instead. Travelling during Covid-19 times is tough as means of travel are restricted,” said Mohamad Junaid Siddiquee, an aspirant from Akola. National Testing Agency (NTA), the nodal agency that conducts NEET, said most candidates were allotted test centres of preference. “Most candidates, almost 99% of all those who have registered, have been asked to take the test from their first preferred centre. However, candidates who are not happy with their centres can write to us. Depending on the merit of the case, we may make some adjustments to accommodate the students,” said Vineet Joshi, director-general, NTA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-neet-centre-far-from-home-say-aspirants-101629556749080.html
21-08-2021||Pune||PMC, forest dept to develop 35-acre urban forest in Warje Malwadi||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the forest department will jointly develop a 35-acre urban forest at Dukkar Khind in Warje Malwadi, which has been named ‘Sanjeevan Udyan’ and will house numerous rare species of medicinal plants and herbs.Laying the foundation of the forest, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the place will be developed as an oxygen park for citizens.This is the second such urban forest in Warje after Smriti Van, another urban forest being jointly developed by the state government, union forest ministry, and a local NGO.Leader of the opposition in the PMC, corporator Deepali Dhumal, said that in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19, several oxygen plants were set up in the city however this one would be permanent and would save the lives of hundreds of citizens.“There is a need to increase forest cover in the city and this park will fulfil the oxygen needs of residents in the area and city. Both the PMC and forest department will be working jointly to develop the urban forest,” she said.According to the forest department, Sanjeevan Udyan will also be known as ‘oxygen park’ where landscaping, beautification, pollution control and planting of medicinal herbs and plants will be given top priority. Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests for the Pune region, said that the forest department will offer all support, including trees to be planted on a 35-acre land parcel. Meanwhile, Pawar directed the forest department to plan and speed up the planting of trees on hills and open forest lands and urged authorities to give priority to the planting of native trees in the area.Officials of the forest department said that urban forests are being developed on the lines of the union government’s ambitious programme where these play an important role in the ecology of human habitats in many ways. Apart from beautifying the urban environment, they will benefit such as positively impacting the climate and economy while providing shelter to wildlife as also a recreational area for city dwellers, they said.Four years ago, under a unique experiment, the Maharashtra forest department joined hands with TERRE Policy, a city-based NGO; Tata Motors; and Persistent Foundation to transform a barren hill into an urban forest named Smriti Van which now boasts over 6,500 adult trees, some of them nearly 25 to 30 feet tall. Not only is this urban forest project helping maintain the ecological balance, but it is also providing citizens with a walkway and place for morning and evening walks. Spanning 25 hectares of urban wasteland in Warje, the forest is home to several species of flora and fauna and is frequented by more than 1,500 nature-lovers daily. The Warje urban forest has become a role model for the rest of the country and was inaugurated by the then environment minister Prakash Javadekar under the ambitious urban forestry programme covering 200 city corporations in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-forest-dept-to-develop-35-acre-urban-forest-in-warje-malwadi-101629556208330.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Raksha Bandhan: Delhi Metro services on two corridors to start early||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Saturday announced that services on Pink and Magenta Line (Phase 3 corridors) will start early on Sunday, on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. The schedule has been changed to facilitate passengers on the day of the festival, the DMRC said."Service update. In order to facilitate those travelling for Rakshabandhan, metro services will begin at 6:30 AM on pink line and 6:00 AM on magenta line on 22 August 2021 (Sunday)," the DMRC said in a tweet.Service UpdateTo facilitate the passengers travelling on Rakshabandhan, the Delhi Metro on 22nd August 2021 (Sunday), will begin operations early on its Phase 3 corridors as follows. pic.twitter.com/BUh9TOKgCIOn Sundays, the services on these corridors which were built in the third phase of metro expansion, usually begins at 8am.The Pink Line is the longest operational corridor of Delhi Metro, spanning 59 kilometres with 38 stations. It connects Majlis Park in north with Shiv Vihar in northeast Delhi.Magenta Line connects Janakpuri West in Delhi and Botanical Garden in Noida.Raksha Bandhan, one of the most popular Hindu festivals, is an annual occasion celebrated throughout the nation to commemorate the special bond between siblings. This year the auspicious day will be celebrated on August 22.Traditionally, on this day, sisters tie rakhis on their brother's wrists and both of them exchange gifts. Over the years, the day is celebrated as an expression of "bond of protection, obligation, or care".While “Raksha” literally translates to ‘safety’, “bandhan” means ‘bond’ and the festival of Rakha Bandhan is a celebration of this unbreakable bond that exists between siblings with a promise to always be there for each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/raksha-bandhan-delhi-metro-services-on-two-corridors-to-start-early-101629552224872.html
21-08-2021||Pune||Three service chiefs visit NDA in Pune||The chiefs of the Indian Army, the Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force visited the National Defence Academy (NDA), Khadakwasla, their alma-mater on Friday. The visit assumes significance in the backdrop of the recent Supreme Court interim order allowing women to appear for the NDA entrance exam.In an interim order on August 18, the Supreme Court directed the Centre to allow women to take the next entrance exam for NDA, thus far a male preserve.The chiefs reviewed the ongoing training of cadets and the available training and administrative infrastructure of NDA.The visit marks a rare moment for the tri-service training academy as all three service chiefs are course-mates from the 56th course of NDA.Earlier, it was only in 1991 that all three service chiefs were course mates from the first NDA (erstwhile joint services wing) course.During their visit, the chiefs paid homage at the ‘Hut of Remembrance’, which commemorates the sacrifice of ex-NDA officers of Armed Forces who laid down their lives in the line of duty. The service chiefs also visited their parent squadrons ‘Hunter’ (Naval Chief) & ‘Lima’ (Army & Air Chiefs), and interacted with the cadets of the respective squadrons. Interaction with the faculty and staff of NDA was also organised towards the end of their visit.“Their visit to the academy has provided unmatched inspiration and sense of pride to all the cadets and would further catalyse them to strive for excellence in their military careers and reinforce the spirit of camaraderie and joint manship amongst the three services,” said defence PRO in a release.The idea of establishing the joint training academy for training officers of three services was conceived by a committee headed by the then commander-in-chief of the Indian Army, Field Marshal Sir Claude Auchinleck in 1945 and the academy commenced functioning in its interim location at Dehradun as joint service wing in January 1949.The foundation stone of the academy at Khadakwasla was laid on October 6, 1949, and inaugurated on January 16, 1955. In its glorious history of over seven decades, the academy has produced the first chief of the defence staff, 13 chiefs of Army staff, 11 chiefs of Navy staff and 9 chiefs of the air staff.Admiral Karambir Singh, assumed as the chief of the Naval Staff on May 31, 2019, while Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria took over as chief of the Air Staff on September 30, 2019, and General MM Naravane, took over as Chief of the Army Staff on December 31, 2019.Speaking on behalf of the three chiefs on this historical occasion the chief of the Naval staff dwelled upon the emerging trends of modern warfare. He also exhorted the cadets to imbibe the basic tenets of modern military leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-service-chiefs-visit-nda-in-pune-101629551048705.html
21-08-2021||Dehradun||India's 'highest' herbal park opens at 11,000 feet: All you need to know||India witnessed on Saturday the inauguration of its “highest” herbal park, at Mana in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. The main aim of the herbal park, according to Sanjiv Chaturvedi, Chief Conservator of Forests (Research), is to “conserve various medicinally and culturally important alpine species, and facilitate a study on the propagation of these species, as well as their ecology.”Here’s all you need to know about this park:(1.) It is built at a height of 11,000 feet and is adjacent to the famous Badrinath temple in Mana, which is the last Indian village in Chamoli bordering China.(2.) The land for the project, which is spread over three acres, was provided by the Mana Van panchayat under the Union government’s Compensatory Afforestation Fund Act (CAMPA). The research wing of the forest department of the Uttarakhand government has developed the park.(3.) Around 40 species of herbal plants found in high alpine areas in the Himalayan region are conserved in this park. Many of these are included in the “red list” of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), and declared “endangered and threatened” by the State Biodiversity board as well.(4.) The park is categorised into four sections. While the first section is dedicated to species associated with Badrinath (Lord Vishnu), the second is for “Ashtavarga” species, which is a group of eight herbs found in the Himalayas.(5.) The third section houses herbs belonging to the Saussurea species, while the fourth consists of assorted alpine species.(6.) Some major herbs found in each of the four sections are as follows: “Badri Tulsi,” “Badri Ber,” “Badri Tree” etc. in the first section; “Riddhi,” “Vriddhi,” “Jeevak,” “Rishbhak,” “Kakoli,” “Ksheer Kakoli,” “Maida” and “Maha Maida” in the second; “Brahmakamal,” “Phemkamal,” “Nilkamal” and “Koot” in the third and “Ateesh,” “Meethavish,” “Vankakdi” and “Choru” in the fourth section.(7.) Among these, “Brahmakamal” (Saussurea Obvallata) is the state flower of Uttarakhand.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/indias-highest-herbal-park-inaugurated-in-uttarakhand-all-you-need-to-know-101629546263707.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Taliban takeover could impact security in border areas: Manish Tewari||Congress MP and spokesman Manish Tewari on Saturday said the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan has strengthened separatist forces in neighbouring Pakistan and the development could have an adverse effect on border areas of Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir. “Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) is continuously trying to vitiate peace in India. Drugs and weapons from Pakistan are being dropped in Indian territory through drones. Though our forces have recovered these weapons and drugs in big quantities, some attempts of sending consignments through drones might have been successful,” the former Union minister said at a press conference in Amritsar. Also read: Economy, security: As Baradar arrives in Kabul, Taliban finalise governance planTewari urged the Centre to take steps to check drones from smuggling in weapons and drugs. “I have already written to Union home minister Amit Shah and raised this concern,” the Anandpur Sahib MP said. Says Punjab needs Amarinder’s leadership On chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s performance, he said, “Despite the negative attitude of the Centre and the Covid pandemic, the chief minister managed to keep the economy on track. The Centre did its best to suppress Punjab by stopping funds under the Rural Development Fund and goods and services tax (GST), but such acts could not affect Punjab, thanks to his leadership. Captain Amarinder is a sincere and experienced leader and Punjab needs his leadership in the elections.” On differences between the chief minister and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, he said, “Both the government and the party will work together. The Congress will again form the government in the state.” Assures justice in Bargari sacrilege case Replying to a query on the Bargari sacrilege case, he said, “The SAD-BJP government had handed over the probe of this case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that recommended closing it after five years. Capt Amarinder Singh reopened this case and ensured the submission of the chargesheet. Though the probe into police firing incidents was derailed by the mistake of an officer, it has been given to the investigation team. We will get justice.” Speaking on the agitation by sugarcane growers, Tewari said, “The Centre does not declare a minimum support price (MSP) for sugarcane when it should be done like in the case of other crops.” On Covid-19 vaccination in the state, he said, “States ruled by parties in the opposition, are not being supplied vaccines in full quantity, while BJP-ruled states are not facing any shortage.” Earlier, Tewari paid obeisance at Golden Temple and Durgiana Temple besides visiting the Partition Museum. After the visit, he tweeted, “At Partition Museum in Amritsar. A sombre reminder of depravity of humanity. I wish @PMOIndia had spent some time here before announcing #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDay. Reopening wounds of Partition serves no other interest but to once again accentuate the otherness of others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/taliban-takeover-could-impact-security-in-border-areas-manish-tewari-101629546128543.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||‘Don’t endanger lives of citizens’: Maharashtra CM Thackeray appeals to political, religious, social organisations||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said that the Covid-19 crisis was not over yet and also asked political, religious and social organisations to not do anything that would endanger the lives of citizens.The CM made the remarks after inaugurating a Covid-19 hospital for children at IT Park in Mumbai’s Kalina campus. “CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray inaugurated a well-equipped Children’s COVID Center in Mumbai today,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) tweeted earlier in the day.Following the inauguration, Thackeray while addressing the reporters said, “I urge all political parties, religious and social organisations not to do anything that endangers lives of citizens. The COVID crisis is not over yet,” news agency ANI reported.Also read | Amid BJP’s yatra, CM Thackeray expresses concern over political eventsThe comments were in line with the previous remarks Thackeray had made. Earlier on August 18, Thackeray had asked the people to not violate the Covid-19 protocols in place in Maharashtra, in view of the upcoming festivals and celebrations in the state, several news reports showed. He also said that the second wave of infections had come under control in the state and appealed to all political parties to avoid public gatherings and crowds.Meanwhile, the ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra has also criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for their Jan Ashirwad Yatra, saying that it would further enable the spread of Covid-19 disease in the state. Maharashtra cabinet minister Aslam Shaikh on Wednesday said that the BJP is inviting Covid-19 infections by organizing such rallies. “By holding this kind of rallies they are doing nothing but inviting people to gather. They need to understand that people currently are badly affected, shopkeepers, small businessman is already struggling, some of the people have lost their jobs too because of the pandemic, and by holding such rallies BJP is inviting the COVID-19 infection. They should refrain from this,” ANI quoted Shaikh as saying, on Wednesday.Another Sena MP, Sanjay Raut, has also said that the rallies by BJP will lead to the third wave of the pandemic. “Jan Ashirwad Yatra will invite the third wave. Jan Ashirwad Yatra is performed when there is no need. It will increase the corona crisis in the state,” Raut said.The BJP, on Monday, flagged off the rallies across 22 states in the country to introduce its newly inducted cabinet ministers to the people. The decision was made after the opposition protests in the Parliament disrupted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s introduction of his new cabinet in both houses.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dont-endanger-lives-of-citizens-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-appeals-to-political-religious-social-organisations-101629544439327.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Shops and businesses in Delhi can remain open after 8 pm from Monday||Covid-19 regulations that required shops and businesses in Delhi to close by 8 pm every day would not apply from Monday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday.After a review meeting on Saturday, Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi: "Till now, because of Covid-19, shops and enterprises in Delhi's markets were allowed to open till 8 pm. In the light of a decline in cases, the timing restriction will be removed from Monday. Markets can now follow their usual working hours."Delhi on Saturday recorded 19 Covid-19 cases and a positivity rate of 0.03%. The city recorded an average of 25,000 cases daily in late April when the Covid-19 surge was at its peak and a positivity rate that exceeded 35%.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority imposed a full lockdown in the capital on April 19. As cases started declining, the government began to implement a phased relaxation process from May 31. Markets were allowed to open all days a week from June 14 but with restricted working hours.Over the last one week, officials in the Chief Minister's Office said, Kejriwal held several meetings with trader groups regarding Covid-19 protocols and stressed strict compliance.Brijesh Goyal, chairman of Chamber of Trader and Industry, said: "We welcome the move. The weather is hot and humid now. A large number of customers prefer visiting the markets in the evening and late evening hours. Also, the festive season is ahead. So, the time-related restriction was causing losses to traders, who have already been severely affected because of the pandemic. They were in favour of the restriction to be removed and assured full compliance to masking, distancing, and other Covid-19 guidelines."Lalit Kant, a former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases department at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said: "Going for phased relaxation is a good strategy on part of the government. But they shall have to ensure that the markets are not crowded. Crowds and lack of social distancing can lead to an uptick in cases. But, more than anything, people have to act responsibly in public spaces."Currently, schools, colleges, and education institutes are closed in Delhi, except for special classes for students of Class 10 and 12. There is prohibition on political, cultural, religious, academic, and other gatherings. The maximum number of guests at weddings and funerals is also restricted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shops-and-businesses-in-delhi-can-remain-open-after-8-pm-from-monday-101629544678366.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi receives highest one-day rain for August in 13 years: IMD||Delhi on Saturday woke up to an intense spell of downpours with the city receiving 138.8mm rainfall between Friday 8.30am and Saturday 8.30am, which the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said is the highest one-day rain for August in at least 13 years.The incessant rainfall caused major traffic snarls; waterlogging was reported from many roads and barricades put up on many stretches and underpasses. Apart from this, vital traffic points of the city were submerged in rainwater. These include Dhaula Kuan to Gurugram, Rajghant to Shantivan, Rajdhani Park metro station to Mundka, Nangloi to Najafgarh road, Kashmere Gate metro station (gate number 3), Monkey Bridge, and Iron Bridge, among others.The Delhi Traffic Police consistently provided citizens with updates pertaining to traffic snarls and waterlogging. According to the latest updates, traffic is hit at WHO building, and between ITO and ITO flyover. The situation is the same at GTK Depot, the update briefed. “Traffic is heavy, please avoid using this route,” Traffic Police alerted for both the stretches.Traffic AlertTraffic will be affected due to water logging at WHO Bulding and ITO to ITO flyover. Traffic is heavy, please avoid using this route.Traffic AlertTraffic will be affected due to water logging at GTK Depot. Traffic is heavy, please avoid using this route.A Public Works Department (PWD) official said that a few areas of Delhi witnessed waterlogging situations as the “intensity of rain this morning was high". "Our field staff is on the ground and we are closely monitoring the situation," the official added.Also Read | Delhi Traffic Police issue advisory after waterlogging in these areasThe IMD had issued an orange alert for the national capital on Saturday. In its latest bulletin issued at 2.45pm, the government agency forecast “moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning” during the next 24 hours in Delhi and its adjoining areas of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, east Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh.“This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoors,” the IMD bulletin further warned.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-receives-highest-one-day-rain-for-august-in-13-years-imd-101629543797587.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Only 13% Covid beds in Navi Mumbai occupied||With the daily average of fresh Covid-19 cases in Navi Mumbai going down to 60 in the last 20 days, the bed occupancy too has gone down from 18% to 13%, officials said. Currently 25 out of 60 hospitals in Navi Mumbai do not have even a single Covid patient, resulting in administration shutting down 10 Covid treatment centers, they added.Among the Covid patients currently hospitalised in Navi Mumbai, 32 are on ventilator support, 137 are in the intensive care unit or ICU, 315 are occupying beds with oxygen facility and 566 are occupying normal beds, as per official records. Hospitals currently have around 5,860 Covid beds, including 613 in ICU, 1701 with oxygen support, 21 with ventilator support and 3305 normal ones that are vacant.In the first week of August, around 8% beds at Covid Care Centres (CCC) were occupied, 10% beds at Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) and 24% beds at Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) were occupied. On August 20, those numbers dropped to 5%, 8% and 10% respectively.While Indira Nagar has no active Covid case, Turbhe, Chinchpada, Katripada, Ilthanpada and Nocil Naka slums have around three to four active cases that are on the path of complete recovery, officials said. In each of the 23 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC), the number of active Covid cases is below 100.“Special attention towards testing, especially at the UPHCs, wherein the cases are relatively higher, targeted testing, various vaccination drives for special category and super spreaders have collectively resulted in controlling the spread and maintenance of daily covid cases count so far,” municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar said.Municipal health officials said whether reopening of shops and malls will lead to surge in new cases will be known in the coming two weeks.“Due to the restriction to only allow visitors who have taken both the doses of any Covid vaccine, the malls are not crowded. To ensure its compliance our teams are keeping a check,” a health officer said.In the last 20 days, 967 new Covid cases and 42 infection related deaths were reported in Navi Mumbai in comparison to 90,561 Covid patients getting discharged.“Even if the cases are under control and active cases are going down, it does not mean that the danger of Covid is not there anymore. People still need to be vigilant and follow Covid containment norms and also make sure to get both the doses of vaccine,” Bangar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-13-covid-beds-in-navi-mumbai-occupied-101629543788406.html
21-08-2021||Pune||16 Pimpri-Chinchwad officials under ACB radar in bribery case; oppn protests against BJP||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) investigators have informed a special team in Pune that the arrested accused had planned to distribute the bribery amount among 16 officials of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).Meanwhile, the court remanded all the arrested accused to police custody till Saturday.The ACB laid a trap at the PCMC building in Pimpri on August 18 and arrested five persons including standing committee chairman Nitin Dnyaneshwar Landge. His personal assistant (PA) Dnyaneshwar Pingale, clerk Vijay Shambhulal Chawriya, peon Arvind Kamble, and computer operator Rajendra Shinde.Landge is a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator from ward number 7 in Bhosari and as chairman of the standing committee, Landge, he is empowered to make decisions about various funds and their utilisation.Meanwhile, the opposition parties, including Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) held a protest against ruling party BJP outside the PCMC office on Friday.The Shiv Sena protest was led by Maval MP Shrirang Barne and other office leaders. The party members appealed to dismiss the BJP rule in the PCMC.Barne met civic body chief Rajesh Patil and asked him to keep a tap on corruption activity during the tender process. Barne also demanded a detailed inquiry into the graft case and stern punishments for the culprits.“There have been many issues of corruption in various tender filing processes in the BJP regime. A group of people are involved in such activity and action should be taken against them,” said Barne.However, BJP leaders came in the support of Landge and termed the incident as a political gimmick to defame the party image ahead of the civic body polls in January next year.Mahesh Landge, BJP president, Pimpri Chinchwad, said, “This is an attempt to defame BJP image by the opposition ahead of the elections.”General body meeting concludes in eight minutesThe online general body meeting of August was concluded in eight minutes which was chaired by Mayor Usha Dhore. In eight minutes, 22 subjects were discussed and cleared during the meeting.The meeting started at 2.05pm and ended at 2:13pm.The opposition leader and party members of the standing committee requested the mayor for discussion, but she did not respond. The members were not allowed to enter the meeting hall by security guards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/16-pimpri-chinchwad-officials-under-acb-radar-in-bribery-case-oppn-protests-against-bjp-101629543608897.html
21-08-2021||Pune||Narendra Dabholkar murder case: Court hearing adjourned until September 3||The defence counsel for Vikram Bhave, arrested in connection with the murder of rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar, founder of Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti (MANS), has sought clarification about the forensic report from the director of Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), Gujarat and requested that if at all the report is filed, the same be taken on record before the sessions court here in Pune.On Friday, the court hearing was adjourned until September 3.Defence counsel Advocate Prakash Silsingikar in his written submission before the court stated, “The investigation of the present case is being monitored by Bombay High Court in Cri Writ Petition No. 3512 of 2015.”The High Court in its order dated 20.1.2017 expressed displeasure on the conduct of the investigation by CBI and directed this court as follows.“At this stage, we must also note the fact that the report, now being available for the CBI (the report of the director of FSL, Gujarat), is likely to be placed on the record of the criminal case, and particularly, the sessions case arising out of the murder of Dr Dabholkar. We would expect that when such a report is placed on the file of that case, the learned judge presiding over that court, given the peculiar facts and circumstances and given the sensitive and delicate nature of these investigations, would not disclose any contents of the report straightway, but await further orders and directions from this court. Let, therefore, and if at all the report is filed, the same be taken on record and formally, ” the application stated.Advocate Silsingikar told HT, “We have moved an application and sought direction from the CBI to clarify whether they are relying on the FSL report by the forensic director, Gujarat or not.”“In 2017, during the high court writ petition, they had filed the document in sealed condition and at that time HC directed them not to furnish it in the court unless directed by the high court. This report is important for bail argument and framing of charges. Initially, the court refused and thereafter it directed the public prosecutor to bring the said document if they have,” he said.It is submitted that forensic report is one of the most important documents and should be before the court as well as provided to the accused along with the charge sheet before charges are framed to ensure that the trial is conducted fairly and transparently and therefore, this court be pleased to record that the prosecution does not want to rely on the forensic report referred to in the 20.1.2017 order and in case CBI wants to rely on the same, CBI be directed to procure necessary orders from the Bombay High Court in connection with the order dated 20.1.2017, the application requested.Dr Dabholkar ( 67) was shot dead by two unidentified assailants while he was on a morning walk on the VR Shinde bridge near Omkareshwar temple in Pune on August 20 in 2013.The prosecution and defence lawyers in the murder case are expected to begin their arguments about the framing of charges against the five accused.Of these, three accused have been imprisoned in the case under sections 302 (murder), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with section 3(25) of the Arms Act, including Dr Virendrasinh Sharadchandra Tawade, Sachin Prakashrao Andure and Sharad Bhausaheb Kalaskar. The case also includes sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).The CBI took over the probe from Pune city police in 2014, has till now charge-sheeted five accused, all of them allegedly linked to the rightwing outfit Sanatan Sanstha. These include ENT surgeon Dr Tawade, two alleged assailants Sachin Andure and Sharad Kalaskar, Mumbai-based lawyer Sanjeev Punalekar and his aide Vikram Bhave, who were arrested at different times between 2016 and 2019. Of these, Tawade, Andure and Kalaskar are currently in jail while Punalekar and Bhave are out on bail.“Accused have produced an application in which they have made a request that prosecution should declare whether we are relying on the forensic report of Gujarat. We told the court we have to take instructions from the investigating officer. The court said that this is a primary stage and the arguments had to be advanced for framing of the charges. There were two bail applications pending-one in the high court and the other in sessions court related to Dr Tawade. Court had asked for withdrawal of one of the two applications and then the matter was adjourned for hearing on framing of charge,” special public prosecutor Prakash Suryanvanshi told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/narendra-dabholkar-murder-case-court-hearing-adjourned-until-september-3-101629543368640.html
21-08-2021||Pune||Pune Startup Mantra: A delivery drill to re-order drug treatments||The old adage, “follow the money”, is perhaps best appropriated in the case of Pune-based biotech startup CyGenica.The company’s product - “technology that is like a nano drilling machine which carries a drug inside a cell in a safe and better way” – is at the very least three years from being on the market.All the current R&D, proof of concept, and product development is happening in a laboratory at the Venture Centre in Pune.So, let’s look at the money first. After all, words like “genome editing”, “engineered protein” and “nano drilling” are not cheap to come by.CyGenica has raised $1.4 million in a seed fund investment round led by global venture capital investor SOSV in June this year. Co-founder Dr Sk Fazlul Haque Krishnan says, “Other investors also participated in the round. It included the VOYAGER Health-Tech fund, David Rowan, founder of Voyagers.io, and angel investors Sharaf Yamani and Sami Mikati.”“After an initial Birac grant, CyGenica received a grant of ₹1.1 crore from Bharat Petroleum under ‘Project Ankur’. We had also received ₹15 lakh from National Award of the Technology Development Board and ₹25 lakh from DST Lockheed Martin research grant. In total, we have raised $2.3 million so far.”Then there is funding from Ireland.Says Dr Nusrat Sanghamitra, cofounder and person behind the entire biotech enterprise, “I received a first tranche of investment, a $100,000 convertible loan note, meaning a short-term debt that converts into equity. After successfully completing the programme, we were selected for the second tranche of a convertible loan note which was $150,000.”The funding received in Ireland is currently being used for operations.That kind of cash backing generally suggests a product that has more than proven there is money to be made, or in CyGenica’s case, a proprietary and disruptive technology which enables safe, targeted, and affordable intercellular drug delivery. In the beginningAs the eldest daughter in her family, Dr Nusrat, in her school days, wanted to become a doctor. She could not make it through in the exams. This “failure” did not deter her from dreaming big. Her father was then diagnosed with cancer. She witnessed her father suffering from the side-effects of his therapy. “I thought if I can’t serve society as a physician, I will try to make a bigger impact by discovering a drug and making it available all over the world. I decided to do a BSc in Chemistry. I dreamt of making a cancer drug, but had no idea how difficult it would be. It is only after years of efforts I am now realising it,” she says.Dr Nusrat was a visiting student in 2001 at the Advanced Centre for Treatment, Research and Education in Cancer (ACTREC) at the Tata Memorial Centre in Mumbai. She got admission to IIT Bombay, but gave it up and chose the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bengaluru to pursue her PhD. Dr Nusrat says, “I had then started working on new molecules that can be better anti-cancer drugs. The molecules worked very well in the labs, but did not work in animal models. I was disappointed and felt, what is the point in making new molecules if they are toxic too? Since I was not a biology student, I decided to understand how drugs work in the human body.”“I had studied chemistry all along. Since, for most drugs, targets are proteins, I tried to understand what proteins are, what is the structure and how they behave. At that time, I didn’t really get to work on cancer drugs,” she recalls.The eureka momentAfter finishing her PhD from IISc, Dr Nusrat came to the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) in 2006. She studied proteins and their structure for two years at TIFR.Says Dr Nusrat: “I was awarded the post-doctoral Marie Curie fellowship at the Leiden Institute of Chemistry in 2008. I worked there for next two years. I wanted to further study how proteins can be functionalised. I met a professor from Kyoto University, Japan. He was looking for someone who was not from the biology background, but wanting to work in cell biology. At that time I knew Chemistry, a bit of biophysics or proteins, but I still didn’t know what exactly happens inside the cell. I accepted the offer and went to the Institute of Integrated Cell and Material Science (iCeMS) at Kyoto University as a post-doctoral research fellow in April 2010. I spent four years there and by sheer serendipity, found a molecule, a protein that goes inside the cell.”“That was my moment. Now I knew what cancer drugs are… I knew how proteins behave… I had a protein that goes inside the cell. I thought I can combine that protein with the existing cancer drug to deliver them effectively into the cell. We found that it was a very extraordinary solution, unlike any other drug delivery system known in that point of time. I wanted to work on that project, but the group in Kyoto was not interested in it. So, I decided come back to India,” she says.Back to IndiaAfter returning to India, Dr Nusrat volunteered to teach in schools and slum children. While doing so, she came across the Biotechnology Ignition Grant (BIG) scheme by the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (Birac). She applied as an individual researcher and got it. Says Nusrat, “The BIG grant in 2016 was an opportunity to prove my hypotheses. Within a year at the KIIT Technology Business Incubator in Bhubaneshwar, I could prove that an engineered protein could go inside the cell. This was a different molecule than that I worked on in Japan, as I could not use the earlier one because of patent issues.”“I patented the new molecule. CyGenica has filed two international patents – one in 2017 and other in 2018. It is in public domain. One patent covers India, US, Europe and China. This year we are filing it in more countries like Canada, Korea and Japan,” she added.Serendipity, the real life storyDr Nusrat’s entrepreneurial journey is filled with disappointment and luck. While pursuing her research, Dr Nusrat had filled a form online one day. A few days later, she received an email inquiring about her work. It was then she realised that she had applied for ‘RebelBio’, a Cork-based life sciences start-up accelerator programme in Ireland, which was being conducted by SOSV, a global venture capital and investment management firm. Dr Nusrat was invited for the programme in April 2017 and her startup was one of 15 selected from the world over. Dr Nusrat said, “I had to go to Cork in Ireland for the residential four-month accelerator programme. We had a full day of lectures, workshops, pitch trainings and along with it, we also had to prove our research at the lab there. After accepting the invite, They had a pre-condition that I should form an Irish company to be eligible for it. Since I had got the Birac grant as an individual researcher, I had not formed a company. In April 2017, we formed an Irish company. Initially it was called Cyca Oncosolutions and was recently renamed CyGenica. I had then realised that in drug discovery and delivery, it was challenging to raise private investment in India. Our Indian ecosystem does not understand this space,” Dr Nusrat explained.Dr Nusrat also got selected for another Irish government programme called “New Frontier”. She stayed for another eight months to complete all three phases of the programme and then returned to India, to her hometown in Bhubaneshwar. Drug delivery and genome editingDr Nusrat clarifies that her startup is not into discovering any new drugs for cancer or genetic diseases. Says Dr Nusrat: “We are focussed only on reducing the dosage of the drug being delivered in order to make it safe and better for patients. We started with our proof-of-concept (POC) to deliver cancer drugs effectively. We could also figure out that the molecule that we engineered was able to deliver not just cancer drugs, but all such genome medicines or therapeutics. We proved we are safely delivering that molecule. In a way it was gene editing and hence, we changed our startup name to Cygenica.”Explaining further, Dr Nusrat says, “Our technology is able to deliver small molecules like cancer drugs as well as big proteins also. We want to establish and position our technology as an enabler for making any kind of therapeutic delivery safe and better. It was found during the 28-day mice-study that our molecule delivery is non-toxic in high dosage events too. That increased our confidence. Since most of our investors are interested in genome editing and gene therapy, we have a 50:50 focus on cancer drug delivery and genome editing work.”Pune over Bengaluru…CyGenica as a company is registered in Odisha. Dr Nusrat and her team were operating from Bhubaneshwar till October 2018. However, as work progressed, they needed advanced equipment on a daily basis, not available at their preferred lab. Dr Nusrat had two choices – move to Bengaluru or Pune. Says Dr Nusrat: “Pune has a bigger talent pool. Our milestones were getting delayed due to lack of access to certain equipment, which were essential, but very expensive for us to purchase. Bengaluru was an option, but it was much more expensive. Since Venture Centre has the equipment we needed within the campus, we decided to move here. We are renting lab space there since 2018. My brother Dr Fazlul also joined as co-founder and director of operations last year (October 2020).”Status of pre-clinical trialsDr Nusrat and Dr Fazlul plan to complete all the pre-clinical trials in the next 18 months. Says Dr Nusrat, “We are in a pre-clinical development stage and a lot of experiments are going on. With new investment coming in, our target is to prove our genome editing technology delivery in stem cells and T-cells which are more difficult to modify. In the next 18 months we want to prove that we are able to edit the genes inside stem cells and T cells. After that it will be validated by a third party. Imperial College and Kings College London would do it for us.”“Along with that, by next year, we want to launch our technology for cancer drug delivery. Drug-wise nothing is approved by the FDA. However, we want to launch it as a ‘research reagent’ and get feedback and testimonials from key opinion leaders in the industry. Some other companies have also developed reagents to deliver edited genes inside the cells in the labs. We believe that our technology will perform better,” explained Dr Nusrat.Future plansSays Dr Fazlul, “The genome editing molecules will help us get strategic partnership with pharma and biotech companies. Our plan is to complete all preclinical trials inhouse and go for specific disease indication with partnerships with bigger companies in future. We will take at least three years to complete the preclinical trials in the lab – for genome editing drug conjugate and positive drug conjugate. Post trials, the mice study will be conducted in collaboration with ACTREC of Tata Memorial Hospital. This will give our strategic partners more confidence.”Investor speak“Dr Nusrat is solving for one of the most valuable problems in therapeutics. Her approach is completely novel, which is a reflection of her interdisciplinary background.” -Sami Mikati, angel investor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-startup-mantra-a-delivery-drill-to-re-order-drug-treatments-101629542528881.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Who let the dogs out||Plentiful rain in the catchment areas of dams and water holes of the Shivaliks have not only provided relief to wild creatures but has rid them of the menace of village dog packs. Sambar fawns were mauled in the dozens when the thirsty deer would make a beeline for the scant water available at the dams until June. Dogs have since retreated to the villages, where they were born, and are maintained by humans via the provision of water, shelter and food. Dogs will again foray to the dams when water levels recede in the hot and arid pre-monsoon months.The question that arises is: how can dogs be labelled as “residents of the forest”, or “a part of nature”, as alleged by urban dog advocacy groups in a bid to rationalise the massacre of wild species? The absence of dogs from the jungle water resources for months at a stretch gives the lie to such contentions. Where and what do they eat, if fawns become inaccessible to dogs during the period when water resources are adequate? The answer is to be found in the villages. Killer dogs fall back upon human support and some are used by farmers to ward off wild animals foraging their crops at night.Killer dog packs are often found mixed with particularly vicious breeds such as pit bulls, terriers, ‘bullys’ etc when they go about killing deer, leaving many carcasses uneaten as they cannot devour as much as they kill wantonly. The fact is dogs are opportunistic predators, like poachers, and wholly subsidised in their hunting off-season by humans.It is time governments and NGOs acknowledge that an exploding population of domesticated dogs poses a virulent threat to wild species. Pragmatic management plans powered by amendments to the laws should be drawn up to pre-empt their “murders” in the muted, victimised wilderness. State bird at dogs’ mercyIn the breeding season, it is not uncommon to come across a fledgling unable to complete its maiden flight from the nest and finding itself stricken on the ground. Traffic can crush it, or roving stray dogs and feral cats kill the fledgling. Traumatised parents are left vocalising their helplessness with impotent alarm calls from a tree or circling over their stranded offspring in utter despair. Anuj Jain, a Sector-18 resident, had just walked out of his house when he came across a group of youngsters trying to unsuccessfully shoo away two dogs from killing a stranded fledgling of the grey hornbill, which is Chandigarh’s state bird. The dogs were salivating at the prospect; the terrorised fledgling looked as if it was begging in vain for mercy from a Taliban-style execution.Initially, Jain was seized by the dilemma: should he rescue the hornbill from the dogs? Was the bird the natural food of the street dogs, otherwise sponsored by breads and biscuits fed by dog advocacy groups and individuals? Jain overcame his dilemma, realising that this was not the case. Along with his brother, Amit, who was out for a morning walk, they chased off the dogs and restored the fledgling to a nearby tree where its parents were anxiously perched. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-who-let-the-dogs-out-101629542407758.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Over 100 trains affected due to agitation by sugarcane farmers in Punjab: Northern Railway||Northern Railway announced on Saturday that 19 trains, which were scheduled to commence journey after 4pm, have been cancelled due to demonstrations in Punjab by farmers seeking clearance by the state government of their dues amounting to more than ₹200 crore, along with a hike in the State Assured Price (SAP) of sugarcane cultivating farmers.Also Read | Sugarcane farmers block Jalandhar-Phagwara highway, rail track; seek ₹200-crore duesThe 19 trains that have been cancelled are in addition to more than 100 others that were affected due to the agitation, according to an earlier list put out by the Northern Railway. That list included 50 trains that were cancelled, while 36 were short terminated,18 were diverted and three short originated, taking the total to 107."19 more trains scheduled to commence journey on 21.08.2021 after 16:00 hours have been cancelled due to the Kisan Agitation in Punjab," Northern Railways shared in an update. These include 04664 Amritsar-Dehradun Special, 04663 Dehradun-Amritsar Special, 02266 Jammu Tawi-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Duronto, 02013 New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi etc.19 more trains scheduled to commence journey on 21.08.21 after 16:OO hrs, have been cancelled due to Kisan Agitation in Punjab. pic.twitter.com/3W0TXZmkAGOn Saturday, protesting farmers warned of a Punjab bandh. "If the government doesn't talk to us by today evening, then we'll give a call for Punjab bandh. However, we'll try to avoid bandh from tomorrow due to the festival of Rakshabandhan," MS Rai of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)-Doaba said.Punjab | Sugarcane farmers block highway, railway track in Jalandhar, demand that state govt clears their dues If govt doesn't hold talks with us by today evening, then we'll give Punjab Bandh call.We'll try to avoid imposing a bandh from tomorrow due to Rakhi: MS Rai,BKU-Doaba pic.twitter.com/Ca0eEAALROFarmers across Punjab on Friday blocked the Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of the national highway, as well as railway tracks, demanding clearance of their dues. Additionally, their demand is that the SAP be raised from the current ₹310 per quintal to ₹358 a quintal. 32 farmer unions are backing and participating in the protest.The current agitation comes at a time when the state is already witnessing protests against the three contentious central farm laws. The agitations assume significance also because assembly elections are likely to take place in Punjab early next year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-100-trains-affected-due-to-agitation-by-sugarcane-farmers-in-punjab-northern-railway-101629539582960.html
21-08-2021||Pune||NGOs move HC against PMC’s decision to lease out amenity spaces in Pune city||Eight prominent non-government organisations (NGOs) have approached the Bombay High Court (HC) and challenged the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) decision to lease out the amenity spaces on a long lease.PMC standing committee has given nod for the proposal and claimed that it would help increase PMC’s revenue.Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had suggested the proposal and Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) which include Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Congress and Shiv Sena opposed it and voted against the proposal.Pune District Co-operative Housing Societies Federation, Kharadi Residents Association, Baner Pashan Link Road Welfare Trust, National Society for Clean Cities, Pashan Area Sabha, Bavdhan Citizens forum, Aundh Vikas Mandal and Association of Ahmednagar Road Citizens Forum have challenged PMC’s decision.Advocate Satya Muley said, “We oppose any proposal of transfer of amenity space reservation land by means of lease or sale to any party and demanded to scrap it. These lands are acquired from private owners for the purpose of public amenities such as open spaces, parks, grounds, sports complexes, gardens, markets, schools and hospitals. If PMC is handing over it on commercial rates how citizens can expect to get amenities at affordable prices.”“The PMC cannot turn away from its responsibility to develop the amenity spaces meant for maintaining and improving quality of life in the city,” he said.The forums that challenged the PMC decision said, “Amenity spaces are the last remaining public spaces in the city. PMC had given the reason of Covid pandemic, encroachments, lack of funds for the decision, these are false reasons as the proposal was introduced before the Covid-19 pandemic.”The citizen’s forum blamed that the city is facing various civic problems. Instead of addressing them and creating facilities on amenity spaces, PMC is handing over them to private parties.Earlier, Congress also warned to move the court and challenged BJP’s decision to lease amenity spaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ngos-move-hc-against-pmc-s-decision-to-lease-out-amenity-spaces-in-pune-city-101629542228518.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt to remove 8pm restriction on markets starting Monday||The Delhi government on Saturday decided to remove the restrictions imposed on markets to close down at 8pm due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted to say that the curbs will be removed from Monday."Markets of Delhi were allowed to function till 8 pm due to Covid-19. In wake of decreasing cases, this restriction will be removed starting Monday. Now the markets can open as per their normal time," according to the translation of Kejriwal's tweet posted in Hindi.अभी तक करोना के चलते दिल्ली के बाज़ारों को शाम 8 बजे तक खुलने की इजाज़त थी। कम होते मामलों की वजह से सोमवार से समय सीमा हटाई जा रही है। अब बाज़ार अपने सामान्य समयानुसर खुल सकेंगे।The Covid-19 cases have been falling in Delhi over the last few weeks and on Saturday, the national capital recorded 19 cases of the infection, according to Delhi government's health department. This is a drastic drop from a peak of 25,000 Covid-19 cases every day in April.Forty eight people recovered in the last 24 hours and the positivity rate now stands at 0.03 per cent, according to health department data.The number of active cases in Delhi are 430. No new fatality linked to Covid-19 was recorded on Saturday.Saturday's decision comes weeks after the Delhi government allowed weekly markets to open in the city (from August 9).These markets were closed in the national capital after a lockdown was imposed on April 19 due to the spike in cases during the second Covid-19 wave. Later on, one weekly market in each municipal zone was allowed to open with proper adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and official guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-remove-8pm-restriction-on-markets-starting-monday-101629541847139.html
21-08-2021||Ranchi||If BJP has its way, saffron will be hoisted in place of tricolour: Cong leader||Launching a scathing attack on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Jharkhand Congress president and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Friday said that if the ruling party at the Centre have its way, saffron will be hoisted in place of the tricolour.Oraon on Friday inaugurated Rajiv Gandhi Senior Citizen Park in Ranchi on the birth anniversary of the former Prime Minister of India.Speaking to ANI, the Congress leader said, "Rajiv Gandhi was the founder of modern India. He was the originator of the era. Once we had telephone sets, now it became handy and compact. From calling to watching a live football match, mobile phones brought the world into our hands. Now BJP cannot change the reality. They may change the names, but it hardly matters. Rajiv Gandhi resides in people's hearts.""Those who have got the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award will remember the present name. Major Dhyan Chand was a great man. I am not against him. But what BJP is doing is dangerous. Will they change the name of the country too? If they have their way, saffron will be hoisted in place of the tricolour. But the country will not accept them," he added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 6 announced that the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award will now be called the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award.This came a day after the Indian men's hockey team won the Bronze medal after 41 years at the Tokyo Olympic Games 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/if-bjp-has-its-way-saffron-will-be-hoisted-in-place-of-tricolour-cong-leader-101629537615825.html
21-08-2021||Noida||Noida metro to resume Aqua Line service on Sundays: 5 key things for passengers||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) will resume the services of Aqua Line train from Sunday, after the Uttar Pradesh government announced relaxation in weekend curfew. Aqua Line connects Noida to Greater Noida.The relaxation given by Uttar Pradesh government will come into effect from August 22."Weekend curfew has been lifted by the UP government on Sundays as well. Accordingly, the NMRC has decided to resume the metro rail service on every Sunday. This change will be effective from August 22 (Sunday) onwards," NMRC managing director Ritu Maheshwari said on Friday.Here's everything the passengers need tp know about resumption of services on Aqua Line:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-metro-to-resume-aqua-line-service-on-sundays-5-key-things-for-passengers-101629537542858.html
21-08-2021||Lucknow||FIR lodged against poet Munawwar Rana for comparing Valmiki to Taliban||A First Information Report (FIR) was registered against poet Munawwar Rana Friday for allegedly inciting religious feelings by comparing Valmiki, who wrote Ramayana, with Taliban, police said."[The] FIR has been registered against Rana on complaint of one PL Bharti, who alleged that he hurt religious feelings by comparing Valmiki with Talilban," a senior official said here.Bharti in his complaint alleged that Rana, in his statement, hurt feelings of Dalits by comparing Taliban with Valmiki and hurt feelings of Hindus.Rana while talking to a channel had said: “Valmiki became a God after he wrote the Ramayana, before that he was a dacoit. A person's character can change. Similarly, the Taliban, for now, are terrorists but people and characters change."“When you talk about Valmiki, you will have to talk about his past. In your religion, you make anyone god. But he was a writer and he wrote the Ramayana, but we are not in competition here,” Rana had said.Also Read | ‘Send him to Afghanistan to protect women’: Union minister on Owaisi’s remarksThe FIR was registered at Hazratganj police station under Sections 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth etc.), 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class), 505(1)(B) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public) and the SC/ST atrocities prevention act.Last year, An FIR was registered against the poet in November at the Hazratganj police station on similar charges for allegedly defending the killings in France over a caricature of Prophet Muhammad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fir-lodged-against-poet-munawwar-rana-for-comparing-valmiki-to-taliban-101629535593957.html
21-08-2021||Patna||Bihar NDA leaders to seek Central nod for 4 hydel power projects at Kaimur Hills||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Member of Parliament (MP) from Sasaram Chhedi Paswan, member of Bihar legislative council (MLC) Santosh Kumar Singh and other local leaders from Bihar’s Kaimur region said they will request Central power and renewable energy minister Raj Kumar Singh to approve four long-pending hydroelectric power projects at Kaimur Hills, estimated to produce 2,570 MW of electricity, when Singh visits Bihar for two days in connection with the party’s Jan Ashrivad Yatra programme.“I had visited all the four sites and worked hard since the 1990s for moving the state government for the construction of hydel projects to change the fate of poor tribal and scheduled caste people on Kaimur hills. It is a good omen that the Union power minister is coming here. The issue will be strongly raised before him by the elected representatives of the region,” MP Paswan said.Paswan was referring to the Bihar State Hydroelectric Power Corporation’s (BHPC) proposal for setting up hydel power pump storage schemes at Sinafdar (345MW), Telhar Kund (400MW), Panchgotia (225MW) on river Suara and Hathiadah-Durgawati (1600MW) on river Durgawati in the hilly region of Kaimur district’s Adhaura block, which has been pending clearance for a long time despite the completion of major legwork including feasibility studies for the project, between year 2000 and 2010, officials aware of the developments said.The preliminary project reports along with clarifications and details sought by the Central agencies were duly furnished by BHPC during this period and the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC) also conducted surveys of the four sites and made a pre-feasibility report. Not just that, a team of Japan Bank of International Cooperation- now, renamed as Japan International Cooperation Agency—too, got a project viability assessment done.The study commissioned by JICA found the Hathiadah-Durgawati pump storage scheme to be very attractive and suggested that it is run on a base load of 400MW throughout the year on completion, therefore endorsing the project’s potential to become a pump storage-cum power plant. It also agreed to extend financial assistance to the project, said LP Sinha, retired BHPC managing director (MD), who worked on the project proposals during his tenure.The then principal secretary, energy, Bihar, Rameshwar Singh, wrote on September 29, 2010, to the Union ministry of power highlighting how these environment-friendly and carbon emission-free projects were likely to result in rapid augmentation of power generation, stability of transmission and meeting the state’s power demand, MP Chhedi Paswan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-nda-leaders-to-seek-central-nod-for-4-hydel-power-projects-at-kaimur-hills-101629536828165.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Floral, funky, festive: Redefining rakhis||Gone are the days when a rakhi was just a thread with a pendant, some pearls or other such basic decorative items. Millennials and Gen-Z now want to include fun elements to spruce up rakhis in their own creative ways, this Rakshabandhan. While some like to gift their siblings a rakhi that explains a particular trait of theirs, others are looking for something more long-lasting to cherish the special bond. So, whether you’re a food buff, a movie lover or a fan of handmade intricate items, markets, both online and offline, are flooded with a variety of choices. Here are some types of rakhis that are now ruling the market. For Rakshabandhan, a number of jewellery brands have come up with several rakhi designs. “We have launched silver rakhis for the first time. Unlike conventional rakhis, these can be treasured for life. Our rakhis can be repurposed as pendants, so they make for a fantastic investment, too,” says Shyamala Ramanan, business head, Mia. Joita Sen, director, marketing and designs, Senco Gold & Diamonds, says they’ve observed that the demand for gold, silver and diamonds has remained strong. “These time-tested assets and investments help people during difficult times. These rakhis can be converted into pendants and bracelets, as per the customer’s wish,” adds Sen. Evil eye rakhis are among the most popular ones, this year, for retailers believe that people want to protect their loved ones from bad vibes and negativity. “We are getting a lot of orders for evil eye rakhis, and there are many patterns and designs in this category. Both shopkeepers and online retailers buy stock from us, and this particular one is in high demand,” says Shyam Mittal from Shyam Rakhi Bhandar, a wholesale shop in Old Delhi which also has on offer a range of trendy rakhis to choose from. “There is a collection for foodies, web show lovers, movie buffs, travellers, doctors and many more,” adds Mittal. The festival is not just limited to brothers, it’s a celebration of the bonds sisters and even sisters-in-law share. “We wanted to design handcrafted rakhis that become a token of memory, love and the timeless bond siblings share. Many cultures within India also believe in using this opportunity to bring sisters-in-law closer. We have come up with a new range of Lumba rakhis with hand-tucked, embellished latkans and boxes that can be shipped directly to your siblings,” says fashion designer Karan Torani, who has launched a range of floral rakhis.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/floral-funky-festive-redefining-rakhis-101629533768333.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||World Senior citizen’s Day: Taking ageism head on!||There is no age to learn new things in life; it’s all about following your heart and catching up with the opportunity. Today, on World Senior Citizen’s Day, we bring to you stories of hope, courage and positivity that prove that will power is not a number. It’s your faith in yourself that makes you do things that you deemed impossible at some point in your life. Shattering ageist stereotypes, these inspiring individuals prove that it is never too late to live your passion. At 62, he started running and never looked back: Tripat Singh His wife died in 1991 and his whole world came crashing down. Tripat Singh went into depression and shifted to Chandigarh from Delhi. “It so happened that one day, one of my friends pointed out my oversized tummy. It may sound usual but I felt bad. I realised something was wrong with me and decided to start running. It was in college when I loved to be a fitness freak but as life moved, I hardly bothered. From that day when I was 62, till now (76), I didn’t look back. From what started as light jogging in the park turned me to a marathon runner. I have won two gold, one silver and one bronze in 42 km marathons. I have participated and won even the toughest marathons in Shimla and Nanital. Those years turned out to be the most inspiring ones and I also started working out six years back. Before the lockdown, I competed with Mr Punjab once and won with 584 pushups. Everyone was surprised that an old man could defeat a young guy. For me fitness is the way of life. Exercise releases your stress. Fitness has given me a new life and a new perspective. Now I conduct free fitness sessions for all age groups in the morning every day. It is us who decide what life should be all about and not the other way round.” She pumps iron like a pro at 82: Kiran Bai Last year, after a bout of sickness, she was unable to do her daily chores, but now she is completely independent, Kiran Bai’s grandson, fitness trainer Chirag Chordia proudly tells us. Kiran Bai started working out at the age of 82. “We began with used water bottles and a resistance band. She loved the exercises and we kept training. I showed her some exercises with weights. It made her feel she could regain her physical independence and the rest is history!” Kiran Bai picked up pace soon. Her fitness videos went viral as netizens couldn’t stop praising the weightlifting granny. “My initial goal was to get comfortable enough to at least sit down on the floor which I hadn’t done in the last 5-6 years. My grandson trained me in such a way that I started comfortably doing basic exercises such as squats, rows, deadlifts, presses, and split squats. I’m happy that my story is inspiring so many people,” says Bai. Skipping at 73 to make a difference: Rajinder Singh Featured in a book The Unsung Heroes and awarded the Points of Light honour by Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Ravinder Singh is an inspiration to many. “I was born in Punjab, Amritsar. My father used to skip and I was taught how to skip at a very young age by him. He was my inspiration. Now, I live in Berkshire in southern England and I used to run several kilometers before the pandemic but when Britain went under lockdown, I was restricted to home and couldn’t find a way to follow my fitness regime. At 73, I turned towards skipping once again and started posting videos to encourage others to be active and healthy. My motive is not just to spread awareness about health and fitness but to raise money for a cause. I have been raising funds for the British National Health Service with the help of my daughter. I am also doing The London Marathon in October and turning 74 in the same month. I wish to inspire others to get fit. I work on the principle of helping people or my country, and I will do so as long as I can.”Dancing since she turned 60: Ravi Bala Sharma Ravi Bala used to teach music in a government school in Delhi and post retirement, she felt lost and empty. She had nothing to do and it was difficult to kill time. “Life turned boring and I went to Mumbai from Delhi and a new journey began. I have studied music my entire life, my father was also a music teacher, but I love to dance. I forget everything when I tap my feet with the musical beats but I never pursued this hobby of mine. Once I shifted to Mumbai, lockdown happened and my kids motivated me to make dance videos. I was confused and nervous but it unfolded so beautifully as if it was always meant to be. I posted my dance video and it went viral. Everyone appreciated it. I made another one on Diljeet Dosanj’s song and it was shared by Bhuvan Bam. That was the turning point of my life. Life can take turns at any stage of life, so we must be open to new possibilities. Now, I get requests from people to perform on their favourite songs. I get fan mails on how I inspire them and these fan mails motivate me too. To sharpen my skills, I even took online dance classes. Now, I got the moves (laughs). To maintain my stamina, I take care of my health and exercise. I have to take several rounds while performing kathak and it’s important to have stamina, so I can’t compromise on workout. Dance has given me a new life, and I would like to tell all the senior people that it’s the best time to rediscover our passion.”A leap of faith at 55: Dinesh MohanWhen he was offered modeling, everyone advised against it. His relatives, friends and extended relatives said that acting and modeling are meant for youngsters. “If you are old, there is hardly any scope. They had doubts about it but I had none. I was very clear from the very beginning and the first time I faced the camera. It felt like home, it was an inner calling for me. After a severe battle of over a decade against depression, I felt at peace, as if I am always meant to be a model and actor. There were challenges but I stood strong. During the depression, I gained so much weight, right from working on my body to mind, I gave my heart and soul to my work. I never looked back in my journey and accepted everything with love. I have worked in Bollywood and Tollywood and at the age of 63, I wish to work in many more movies. I live in Gurugram and despite living in Delhi-NCR, I am never out of work. We have to keep our faith alive to grow in life and age has nothing to do with passion.”Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/world-senior-citizen-s-day-taking-ageism-head-on-101629533114683.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||36 FIRs filed so far against BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Mumbai||The Mumbai Police on Saturday registered 17 more first information reports (FIRs) against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and workers for the alleged violation of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols during the Jan Ashirwad Yatra of Union minister Narayan Rane in different parts of the city. With this, the total number of FIRs filed against the BJP rally has climbed to 36. The fresh FIRs have been registered in Mulund, Ghatkopar, Vikhroli, Bhandup, Pant Nagar, Khar, Santacruz, Powai, MIDC, Saki Naka, Meghwadi, Goregaon, Charkop, Borivali and MHB police stations in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported.Union minister Rane, who was recently inducted into the Narendra Modi cabinet, launched the Jan Ashirwad Yatra along with his three colleagues in the Centre, despite Covid restrictions placed by the Mumbai Police. Senior BJP leaders, including former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, were also a part of the rally.Also Read| FIRs against BJP workers for violating Covid norms at Rane’s Mumbai rallySeveral opposition leaders in the state opposed the BJP’s decision to hold a rally at a time when Maharashtra continues to battle the Covid-19 pandemic and is the worst-hit state across the country.And on Friday, a war of words broke out between the Maharashtra government and the BJP over Narayan Rane’s rally. Congress leaders Ashok Chavan and Bhai Jagtap lashed out at the BJP on Friday for disregarding the Covid-19 situation in the state and holding the Yatra.Narayan Rane, in his defence, said on Friday that several other rallies were being carried out in the state during the pandemic but there was no action, adding the Maharashtra government failed in managing the Covid-19 situation.Also Read| Defect of mindset: Rane on Sena workers ‘purifying’ memorial after his visitEchoing his claims, BJP leader Keshav Upadhye called the FIR’s against his party as biased. “Political functions are being organised across the state by all the parties including (ruling) Shiv Sena. A large number of people are gathering in those events too, but no cases are registered against members of the ruling party,” Upadhye told Hindustan Times on Friday and pointed out that the BJP had regularly told its workers attending the Yatra to follow Covid protocols.However, Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde said on Friday that action would also be taken against Shiv Sena workers or Maharashtra government workers if they hold gatherings during the pandemic. “At a time when there is a threat of a possible third wave of Covid, everyone must follow protocols to prevent the spread of the disease. If Shiv Sena workers or MVA workers hold gatherings, then action is taken against them also,” Shinde told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/36-firs-filed-so-far-against-bjp-s-jan-ashirwad-yatra-in-mumbai-101629532409535.html
21-08-2021||Patna||Mukhiya’s husband among 2 murdered in separate incidents in rural Patna||Unidentified armed criminals killed Bank panchayat mukhiya’s husband at Painal in Rural Patna late on Friday night. Bihar Police said 45-year old Pintu Kumar Sao, a resident of Narhanna village under Maner police station area, was likely murdered by professional contract killers over panchayat elections. City superintendent of police (SP) (West) Ashok Kumar Mishra said Sao was shot at around 12.15 am when returning home in a car from Ganauria area of Bihta police station.“There were at least two eyewitnesses who saw the killing while passing by,” said Mishra, adding that the eyewitnesses said two bike-borne criminals forced Sao’s car to stop, dragged him out of the car, and fired several rounds at him, including in the face and chest. “There were at least three gunshot injuries to his body including one in the face,” Mishra said. He added that Sao’s family were yet to lodge a formal complaint and give their statement.A police officer said on condition of anonymity that Sao had political rivalry with one person defeated by Sao’s wife in the Bank panchayat mukhiya election. A police officer added that Sao was apparently followed for several kilometres by the assailants before being shot near the Primary Agricultural Credit Society (PACS) office at Painal. Retail market and businesses in Painal downed shutters to protest the murder. In another incident, 55-year-old Siddhnath Lal was stabbed to death at Rajpur village under Bihta police station area in Patna around 4.30am on Saturday while out for morning walk. Irate residents blocked Patna-Ara Road demanding action against the assailant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mukhiyas-husband-among-2-murdered-in-separate-incidents-in-rural-patna-101629527407721.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to resume vaccination drive from today after 2-day suspension||Vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is set to resume in Mumbai from Saturday, two days after being halted due to shortage of doses, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. In a statement, the BMC said that it had received 160,240 vaccine doses on Thursday night, which was distributed among all municipal and vaccination centres on Friday.“With the receipt of vaccine doses, the Covid-19 vaccination campaign will resume in Mumbai from tomorrow, Saturday, August 21, 2021. The stock of vaccines received by the corporation includes 150,000 doses of Covishield and 10,240 doses of Covaxin,” the Mumbai civic body said on Friday.The BMC also pointed out that the entire eligible population of Mumbai could be vaccinated either by the end of this year or at the start of 2022. At present, it can administer vaccines to 150,000 people per day.On August 19 and 20, vaccination drives were suspended across Maharashtra’s capital city for a third consecutive week. Earlier, inoculations were halted on August 12, 13 and 14. On Thursday, the BMC said that residents were being constantly informed about the vaccination drive on the basis of the availability of stock and urged them to cooperate with the administration amid the shortage.Mumbai has so far recorded 740,608 Covid-19 cases and 15,941 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. On Friday, the city saw a slight increase in its daily tally as 319 people were detected as Covid-19 positive while six more patients succumbed to the viral disease.Authorities in Maharashtra have administered 51,904,037 vaccine doses to people of which 38,228,399 have received the first dose and the remaining 13,675,638 are fully vaccinated.Across India, the cumulative vaccine coverage exceeded 576.1 million after 3,636,043 doses were administered in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-resume-vaccination-drive-from-today-after-2-day-suspension-101629526954717.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Major underpasses and traffic points submerged after intense rain in Delhi||The heavy overnight showers continued till morning with Delhi receiving 50.4 mm rain between 5.30 am and 8.30 am on Saturday, as per the weather department. The heavy showers submerged major underpasses and key stretches in the national capital, throwing traffic movement out of gear.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the city has received 138.8 mm rainfall over 24 hours between 8.30 am on Friday and 8.30 am on Saturday.According to the traffic police, due to waterlogging, traffic had to be diverted at several places and many underpasses had to be barricaded and shut for movement. This includes the Minto Bridge (both carriageway), Moolchand underpass, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Mehram Nagar, Rajokri and Dwarka underpass.The major stretches and traffic points inundated with rain water include Dhaula Kuan to Gurgaon (here traffic was moving in one lane), Rajghat to Shantivan, MB Road Khanpur to Hamdard Nagar red light, Rajdhani Park metro station to Mundka, Nangloi to Najafgarh road, Kashmere Gate metro station (gate no.3), Sanjay T-point, Bakkarwala, Chhatta Rail Chowk, Monkey bridge, Iron Bridge and Bijwasan flyover, among others.A Public Works Department (PWD) official quoted by PTI said the field staff was on the ground to address waterlogging complaints on priority.“The intensity of rain this morning was high, so a few areas of the city witnessed waterlogging. Our field staff is on the ground and we are closely monitoring the situation,” the official was quoted as saying by the agency.The IMD issued an orange alert for Delhi on Saturday and said that thunderstorms with moderate to heavy intensity rain were most likely to continue over many parts of Delhi and adjoining areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/major-underpasses-and-traffic-points-submerged-after-intense-rain-in-delhi-101629522727402.html
21-08-2021||Bangalore||Few Kannadigas exited Afghanistan in time, govt trying to bring back others||Melvin, a resident of Ullal in Karnataka was stuck at the Kabul airport for two days without food after the Taliban took over Afghanistan’s capital. Melvin, who was working as an electrician at a hospital in Kabul, returned home on Wednesday. He was among the lucky few who managed to return immediately after the afghan air space was shut down, leaving hundreds of desperate people stranded.“I have been working in Afghanistan for the past 10 years as an electrician in a hospital. Since I was working at the military hospital, my accommodation was near the airport. So, when the message came that the Indian Air Force is operating [a] flight, I was able to get there on time. We had to wait for two days before we could get on the flight,” Melvin recollected.While Melvin was able to get a direct flight to India operated by the IAF, other Indians who boarded different flights were taken to destinations such as London, Dubai, and Norway, said Melvin. His brother’s was one such case in point as he was taken to Qatar.“The flight took us to Jamnagar base in Gujarat and from there I went to New Delhi and reached my hometown,” he said.Even though the Taliban had entered Kabul, Melvin said his workplace was relatively secure as it was a military hospital. “I didn’t experience any problem apart from the anxiety to return home,” he said.While Melvin was able to make it home, two Christian missionaries from Karnataka are stuck in Afghanistan, said Dakshina Kannada district authorities. Officials said information about Father Jerome Sequera from Mangaluru and Father Robert Rodriguez from Thirthahalli has been passed on to the senior IPS official, appointed nodal officer for coordinating with the Centre to rescue Kannadigas stuck in Afghanistan.Both the individuals were trying to reach Kabul International Airport, said officials.35-year-old Deepak Kumar, another Karnataka resident to have recently returned from Afghanistan, said he evacuated before the rush began at the airport.A resident of Puttur in Dakshina Kannada, Kumar was part of the firefighting crew at the US and NATO army base in Herat for the past six years. Unlike Melvin who returned after Kabul fell, Kumar returned to India on June 22, due to Taliban’s attack to control Herat city.“We worked with Portuguese and British nationals. …when I worked at the military base, rockets launched by the Taliban used to fall right inside the premises,” Kumar said.“I am in touch with locals in Herat city who worked with me. There is a curfew kind of atmosphere there as people stay inside their homes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/few-kannadigas-exited-afghanistan-in-time-govt-trying-to-bring-back-others-101629521107338.html
21-08-2021||Patna||Five held for throwing acid at woman in Bihar||Five people have been arrested for allegedly throwing acid on a 19-year-old woman for turning down the marriage proposal of one of them in Bihar’s Nalanda, police said. Sajan Kumar Sao, who was in a relationship with the woman, allegedly hatched the plot for the attack, they added Nalanda SP Hariprasath S said that after the attack, police scanned CCTV footage and got some vital clues about the attackers.He added the woman’s family had rejected Sao’s proposal that prompted him to plot the attack. “With the help of relatives and friend Chhotu, he threw acid on the woman when she along with her cousin was going to a shopping mall.” He said during questioning Sao confessed he convinced Chhotu to get acid thrown so that she could be hurt but not killed. The CCTV footage from the crime spot showed Sao was in the area where the woman was attacked. When he was picked up for questioning, he confessed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/five-held-for-throwing-acid-at-woman-in-bihar-101629518587198.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Traffic Police issue advisory after waterlogging in these areas||The Delhi Traffic Police said on Saturday waterlogging has been reported in several areas in the national capital amid heavy rains as they urged commuters to avoid these stretches. The traffic police listed Minto Bridge, Azad Market, Pul Prahladpur and Moolchand underpasses as areas where waterlogging has been reported. The traffic police tweeted that the Azad Market underpass has been closed and that traffic has been affected at the Moolchand underpass.“Waterlogging at Pul Prahladpur Underpass. Traffic Interrupted at MB road diverted on mathura road . Kindly avoid the stretch,” the police wrote on the microblogging site. In a previous tweet, the police also informed that waterlogging that traffic movement at on the Minto Bridge has been closed due to waterlogging.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday that the national capital will witness a “generally cloudy sky with moderate rain/thundershowers” during the day.Traffic AlertAzad Market Underpass is closed due to 1.5 feet waterlogging, Please avoid using this route. Sorry for the inconvenience.“Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain most likely to continue over many parts of Delhi and adjoining areas during next 02 hours,” the IMD tweeted.The weather department’s official told Hindustan Times on Saturday that patchy rainfall and thundershowers are likely to continue in parts of the city till Monday (August 23).Traffic movement at Minto Bridge closed due to waterlogging as Delhi receives heavy rain pic.twitter.com/LqdfAR69xMDelhi has been witnessing rains since Friday night, bringing some relief from the rising temperatures. On Saturday, residents woke up to rain accompanied with thunderstorms. This year, the monsoon in Delhi had been delayed by more than two weeks. The last time Delhi received showers was on August 8, when a rainfall of 15.4mm was recorded. This month, only 74.2mm rainfall has been recorded till now compared to the usual 247.7mm. In July, Delhi recorded rainfall of 507.1mm.Watch| Heavy showers cause waterlogging in Delhi, Traffic Police issue advisoryMeanwhile, the IMD also informed that parts of the National Capital Region (NCR) including Faridabad, Noida, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida will continue to be hit by moderate to heavy intensity rains. In Haryana, Sonipat, Panipat and Gannaur will receive thunderstorms with light to moderate rain.(With inputs from Vatsala Shrangi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-traffic-police-issue-advisory-after-waterlogging-in-these-areas-101629512204938.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Intense rain spell in Delhi results in waterlogging, closing of imp underpass||After a long dry spell, Delhi received 73.2 mm rainfall over Friday night and early Saturday morning and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the spell was likely to continue till about 9 am. The heavy spell inundated low-lying areas including key stretches and underpasses across the city.As per IMD records, the Safdarjung Observatory, considered representative of Delhi weather, received 73.2 mm rainfall just within three hours between 2.30 am and 5.30 am. On Friday, till 11.30 pm, Delhi had received 15.2 mm rainfall.The Delhi Traffic Police on Saturday morning said that the Azad market underpass in old Delhi had been closed due to 1.5 feet waterlogging. “Traffic has been diverted from this route,” the police said, adding that traffic may have to be diverted on many other stretches because of waterlogging.The IMD had issued an Orange alert for Saturday when moderate to heavy showers could lead to water logging and traffic snarls on key stretches.“The monsoon trough has reached Delhi and hence the intense spell. Light showers may continue throughout the day. Patchy rainfall and thundershowers are likely to stay in parts of the city till August 23,” said a senior IMD official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/intense-rain-spell-in-delhi-results-in-waterlogging-closing-of-imp-underpass-101629512167056.html
21-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to commence 3rd phase of Mission Shakti today||The Uttar Pradesh will on Saturday begin the third phase of Mission Shakti with an aim of promoting women’s safety, self-reliance, and respect, a government statement said on Friday. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Governor Anandiben Patel and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will be a part of the event to be held at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in Lucknow at 10.30am. Other participants include Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Dr Dinesh Sharma, chief of UP’s state commission for women Vimla Batham and other state ministers.Chief minister Adityanath will also address 150,000 girls about the government’s chief minister Kanya Sumangala Yojana, news agency ANI reported. A foundation stone for the courtyard of Veerangana Avantibai Battalion in Badaun will also be laid.Mission Shakti was launched by the Uttar Pradesh government in October last year with an emphasis on safety, dignity and empowerment of women and girls. It also focuses on the rights of children, sexual crime against women and girls and adoption of orphaned girls.Last month, Adityanath instructed the departments of education, woman and child welfare, health and rural development to coordinate well for the third phase of the program and said that in any act of crime against women, immediate action must be taken with all sensitivity towards the victim. Pointing out that empowerment and safety of women were among the top priorities of the government, the chief minister said Mission Shakti has given positive results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-to-commence-3rd-phase-of-mission-shakti-today-101629507926569.html
21-08-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman to launch fund for export-oriented firms and startups today||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Saturday launch the ‘Ubharte Sitaare Fund’ for export-oriented small and mid-sized companies and startups in Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow. The fund has been set up by the Exim Bank along with the Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi). Sitharaman, in her budget speech in 2020, had pointed out that micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) were important to keep the “wheels of the economy moving”, adding they create jobs, innovate and are risk-takers.What is the Ubharte Sitaare Fund?According to the Exim Bank’s release, the Ubharte Sitaare programme identifies companies in India which have the potential to be future champions in the domestic arena while also catering to global demands.The fund is a mixture of structured support, both financial and advisory services through investments in equity or equity-like instruments, debt (funded and non-funded) and technical assistance (advisory services, grants and soft loans) to the Indian companies. Some of the objectives of the fund include enhancing India’s competitiveness in select sectors through finance and extensive handholding support, identifying and nurturing companies having differentiated technology, products or processes, and enhance their export business, according to the Exim Bank’s website.Who is eligible for the Ubharte Sitaare Fund?> Companies with a unique value proposition in technology, products or processes which match international requirements> Fundamentally strong companies with acceptable financials, and outward orientation.> Small and mid-sized companies with an ability to penetrate global markets and have an “annual turnover of up to approximately ₹500 crore.> Companies that have a good business model, strong management capabilities and a focus on product quality.Also Read| 'Govt committed to clear MSME dues within 45 days': Nirmala SitharamanThe Exim Bank said on its website that the companies in sectors of automobiles and auto components, defence, chemicals, aerospace, food processing, textiles among others are eligible for the fund.News agency PTI reported on Thursday that both the Exim Bank and the Sidbi have developed a pipeline of more than 100 potential companies, including those in the state of Uttar Pradesh.Apart from launching the Ubharte Sitaare Fund, finance minister Sitharaman will also release the Exim Bank’s study on ‘Exports from Uttar Pradesh: Trends, Opportunities and Policy Perspective’ and the bank’s publication on Indian Sports Goods Industry: Strategies for Tapping the Export Potential’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business/nirmala-sitharaman-to-launch-fund-for-export-oriented-firms-and-startups-today-101629507475722.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||DSGMC goes to the polls today, 212 candidates in fray for 46 posts||The voting for the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) will be held on Sunday with 212 candidates in the fray in a three-cornered contest. As many as 3.42 lakh eligible Sikh voters will elect 46 members to represent them in the gurdwara body. The contest is between the groups led by outgoing president Manjinder Singh Sirsa of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and former heads Manjit Singh GK and Paramjit Singh Sarna. The campaigning ended on Friday. The voting will take place from 8am to 5pm and the results will be declared on August 25. Both GK and Sirsa are training guns on each other for alleged misappropriation of gurdwara body funds, while Sarna is banking on his “clean record” and as a more credible face. GK, who stepped down as gurdwara body head in November 2018 over allegations of corruption, says the charges were made up at the behest of the SAD leadership. Sirsa also faces similar charges with a look-out notice issued against him. The SAD (Badal) is contesting on all 46 seats, GK’s Jago Party on 41 and Sarna’s SAD (Delhi) on 32 seats and the group led by former Akal Takht jathedar Ranjit Singh on 7 seats. GK, as part of the SAD (Badals) won two consecutive elections in 2013 and 2017. Nine historical gurdwaras in Delhi with an annual budget of ₹110 crore run schools, colleges and hospitals. On July 22, the Delhi high court gave the go-ahead to hold the polls while taking up a petition, after the state government submitted a schedule. Earlier, the polls were scheduled for April 25, but were postponed indefinitely due to surge in Covid cases in the national capital. This will be the ninth elections of the DSGMC since it came to existence via an act of Parliament in 1971. Dhindsa fails to broker peace between GK, Sarna Rajya Sabha MP and SAD (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Wednesday met GK and Sarna persuading them to come on a common platform and contest as one force to oust the Badals-led SAD. “He visited the houses of both the leaders to broker peace, but could not as the seat-sharing arrangement could not be worked out,” said a local Sikh leader||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dsgmc-goes-to-the-polls-today-212-candidates-in-fray-for-46-posts-101629492606054.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: Minister-led govt panel meets parallel Akal Takht jathedar, gives written clarification||The Punjab government committee led by cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Friday met Sarbat Khalsa-appointed parallel Akal Takht acting jathedar Dhian Singh Mand to give a written clarification over the Congress regime’s alleged failure to provide justice in the Bargari sacrilege incidents. The panel, which also comprises minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and ruling party MLAs Harminder Singh Gill, Kushaldeep Singh Kikki Dhillon and Kulbir Singh Zira, was constituted by the government to negotiate with the Bargari Insaaf Morcha. They were summoned by Mand to the Takht to clarify on the issue. MLAs Gill and Zira besides local Congress leaders, including party’s district chief Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachar, accompanied minister Bajwa to the Akal Takht on Friday. After the panel declared (in December 2018) that the government had accepted all their demands, the Mand-led morcha announced to end the six-month-long protest at Bargari village of Farikot district where sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib took place. Nearly two-and-a-half years later, Mand accused the government of deceiving them and summoned the panel to the Takht thrice but the committee did not turn up on first two occasions. Minister Bajwa on Friday handed over a sealed letter to Mand who was accompanied by radical Sikh leaders like Jarnail Singh Sakhira. The contents of the letter were not made public. Earlier, refusing to appear before the parallel jathedar publicly at the Akal Takht, the panel had issued an open letter to Mand, putting the ball in the CM’s court. “You are well aware of the fact that we were working as a link between you and the chief minister. Whichever assurances we gave to you were on behalf of the CM. Probing the sacrilege cases is the domain of the state home department which is under the CM’s control,” they had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-minister-led-govt-panel-meets-parallel-akal-takht-jathedar-gives-written-clarification-101629492365875.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||28 IPS, 13 PPS officers transferred in Punjab||The Punjab government on Friday transferred 28 IPS and 13 PPS officers, including 13 SSPs and all three commissioners of police. Shashi Prabha Dwivedi has been posted as ADGP (vigilance bureau) replacing Vibhu Raj, who now will be ADGP (Lokpal). Naunihal Singh will now be new Ludhiana police commissioner replacing Rakesh Aggarwal, who was transferred as IG Rupnagar range. Sukhchain Singh Gill will now be Jalandhar police commissioner replacing Gurpreet Singh Bhullar who has been posted as DIG Ludhiana range. Vikramjit Singh Duggal will be new Amritsar police commissioner. Swapan Sharma will be new Sangrur SSP, whereas Dhruman H Nimbale will now be Moga SSP. Vivek Sheel Soni has been posted as Ropar SSP whereas Amneet Kaundal will now be Hohsiarpur district police chief. Charanjit Singh has been transferred as Muktsar SSP, whereas BS Meena will now be Barnala SSP. Gurdial Singh will now be new Ludhiana (rural) SSP, Harmanbir Singh Gill as Moga SSP, Ajay Malooja as Bathinda SSP, Ashwani Kapur as Batala SSP, Rajpal Singh as Ferozepur SSP, Opinderjit Singh Ghuman as Tarn Taran SSP and Sandeep Goel as Fatehgarh Sahib SSP. J Elanchezhian has been posted as DCP (law and order), Ludhiana, while D Sudarvizhi will be joint commissioner of police, Amritsar. 15 IAS, 3 PCS officers shiftedThe Punjab government on Friday transferred 15 IAS and three PCS officers, including KK Yadav, who was on deputation in Chandigarh as municipal corporation commissioner, and has been posted as director, public relations. According to the orders, Sibin C, director, industries and commerce, has also been given the additional charge of director, Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration. Senu Duggal, additional secretary information and public relations, will also hold the additional charge of CEO, Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28-ips-13-pps-officers-transferred-in-punjab-101629492305943.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC judge gets e-mail accusing him of ‘undue hurry’ in hearing Saini’s pleas||Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, who was hearing pleas against the arrest of former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with an FIR registered in September 2020 got an email accusing him of “ undue hurry”.The email was received when Justice Tyagi was in the middle of hearing arguments for the second time on Thursday afternoon. Earlier in the day, he had summoned the records pertaining to Saini’s arrest. Justice Tyagi on Thursday ordered the release of Saini from the custody of the Punjab vigilance bureau in the case. The judge, in his order released on Thursday night, said the e-mail was purportedly sent by investigating officer Harvinder Pal Singh, a Punjab Police Service (PPS) officer. Addressed to the chief justice, the sender of the email wanted the case transferred from Justice Tyagi to other bench, claiming that the government’s side was not heard by the judge. However, during the hearing, the counsels of Punjab government and the vigilance bureau feigned ignorance about the email and told the court that neither of the two had authorised it. The mail was sent to chief justice as well as to the bench of justice Tyagi.“This court reserves the right to take appropriate action in respect of the e-mail casting aspersion regarding hurry in hearing of the matter without realising that any habeas corpus petition raises serious issue of unlawful detention which has to be heard on urgent basis,” observed Justice Tyagi who is hearing a 2018 petition of Saini since February last year. A plea from Saini’s wife was ordered to be listed before him on Thursday by another judge as it came to light that he was to take up the 2018 petition the same day. Saini was arrested by the vigilance bureau in a land fraud case on Wednesday evening when he had gone to the bureau office to join investigation on the court’s order in a corruption case. His release was ordered on Thursday midnight by Justice Tyagi after two rounds of hearing. Justice Tyagi dealt with two petitions from Saini’s side — the one filed on August 18 seeking advancing of hearing in a 2018 petition in which the court had directed that he be given one week’s notice in the event of his arrest and the other from his wife who alleged ex-DGP’s illegal detention in violation of the HC orders. She had levelled allegations that VB chief director B K Uppal, was a “stooge” of BIS Chahal, adviser to Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and acted as part of “vendetta” to harass her husband. The bench allowed the habeas corpus petition and held that Saini’s arrest was illegal and it was effected in violation of the protection given by the court on three occasions. The investigating officer was given liberty to arrest Saini after giving a seven-day notice. The government in its defence said the 2018 order giving “blanket bail” could not have been passed by the high court, citing some apex court judgments. It further argued the arrest was made in a case which did not arise out of his service period and that his arrest was not a case of illegal detention. Taking note of the SC observation, the bench said the court has to strike a balance between individual rights of personal freedom and the police’s right of investigation in “an extraordinary case and on the basis of ample material”. The court also took note of “political and personal rivalry” between Amarinder Singh and his predecessor Parkash Singh Badal, saying “findings of political vendetta” between them dates back to the 1990s as were recorded in judicial orders. Saini served as DGP during the SAD-BJP regime and headed the vigilance bureau when corruption cases were registered against Amarinder Singh, the incumbent CM. The court also observed that Saini, as per the VB case, did not receive any bribe from anyone or possess disproportionate assets or had any other financial transaction with the accused in the September 2020 FIR except renting of a Sector-20 house in 2018. The rent agreement was purportedly executed in 2019. It is doubtful that the 2019 agreement was executed to create a defence against attachment of the house for which order was passed in 2021, the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-judge-gets-e-mail-accusing-him-of-undue-hurry-in-hearing-saini-s-pleas-101629491885852.html
21-08-2021||Other||Naunihal Singh is new police commissioner||In a reshuffle of senior police officers, inspector general of police (IGP, Ludhiana range) Naunihal Singh was appointed the commissioner of police on Friday. He replaces Rakesh Kumar Agrawal, who will now serve as inspector general (Rupnagar range) after serving as Ludhiana’s commissioner of police for 22 months.A 1997-batch officer, Naunihal Singh has served as the superintendent of police and senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Ludhiana’s vigilance bureau among other top posts. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) J Elanchezhian has been transferred as deputy commissioner of police (DCP, law and order), while Ashwani Kapoor has been made SSP, Batala.Varinder Pal Singh Brar, who was joint director of the Vigilance Bureau’s complaint cell is now DCP (investigation, Ludhiana); he replaces Simratpal Singh Dhindhsa who will take over as DCP (detective and operations, Ludhiana).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/naunihal-singh-is-new-police-commissioner-101629489726610.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A decked up rickshaw||Flowers are prettily arranged on the rickshaw’s handlebar, on the back of the passenger seat, as well as on the sides. They are also stuck on the spokes of the wheels.“These flowers never rot,” says rickshaw puller Muhammed Abras. Of course, they don’t—they are of synthetic fabric. The rickshaw’s other decorations include sitaras, giant rakhis with cute silvery hearts tucked into them, plastic jhalars in red and yellow, and also a tiny teddy bear clamped to the handle like a talisman. This morning the lungi-clad Mr Abras is lazily lounging on the passenger’s seat; the rickshaw is parked near a chai shop in a central Delhi market. He looks on amusedly as a wonder-struck passerby starts to take pictures of the rickshaw from different angles. “People often stop to take photos of my rickshaw from their mobiles,” he says, adding that many folks also click selfies beside his carriage.Isn’t the rickshaw dressed up like a dulhan, a bride, he asks. He confesses his own dulhan, wife Jamuni Khatoon, has never seen his “dulhan-jaisi” rickshaw. “She has never been to Delhi,” Mr Abras informs. He goes to briefly meet his family in the village in Bihar after every three-four months. Mr Abras silently makes calculations on his fingers, and says determinedly that “I’d arrived in Delhi two years before Indira’s killing in chaurasi (1984).” He refers to the assassinated prime minister by her first name as if she were still one of our present-day politicians.In his 60s, Mr Abras started decking up his rickshaw only six months ago. The idea came to him suddenly. “I thought that everyone likes a beautiful thing.” Over the course of several weeks, he bought decorative frills from Sadar Bazar and Chawri Bazar. The early reviews were encouraging. “Passengers said my rickshaw looked different from other rickshaws.” He points out that “ladies” would chose him from among other pullers for their trips to the bazaar.Too much attention inevitably brings unforeseen irritants. “Naughty children sometimes pull out a flower, or a heart, or an entire jhalar.” Mr Abrar swiftly replaces the missing portions.Minutes later a customer boards the rickshaw. He looks about in confusion while settling down on the seat. It is impossible to see him clearly amid so much bling—as if he were inside a bride’s palanquin. Mr Abras now starts peddling. The teddy bear on the handle trembles like a clock’s pendulum, but its smile stays in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-decked-up-rickshaw-101629489466172.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Govt jobs to Cong MLAs’ sons: Protesting LIP worker attempts self-immolation||A 52-year-old Lok Insaaf Party worker who was protesting against the appointment of the sons of two Congress MLAs to government jobs on “compassionate grounds” attempted to self-immolate himself in front of deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma’s office on Friday. Panic gripped the mini secretariat when Narinderpal Singh, who was carrying a can of kerosene, poured the highly flammable liquid on himself and attempted to immolate himself. Luckily, heavy police force had been deployed outside the mini secretariat and alert cops detained him and a few other LIP workers. Narinderpal said sheer hopelessness that had accrued after years of struggling to get a government job had led him to take the extreme step. “Both my grandfather and father are freedom fighters and my son holds an Industrial Training Institute diploma, but despite tall promises no government has offered us a job.” Clutching resumes of unemployed youths and his grandfather’s credentials, Narinderpal said, “The government is ignoring the families of freedom fighters and appointing MLAs sons to gazette posts, which is unfair.” The Salem Tabri resident was whisked away to the Division Number 5 police station. Sub-inspector Kulbir Singh, in-charge of the Kochar Market police post said, “We deterred Narinderpal from taking such an extreme step. We provided him with a fresh set of clothes and some medical treatment before releasing him.” An insult to injury : LIP leader The protesting LIP leaders had gathered at the mini-secretariat to handover the resumes of at least 400 unemployed persons to the deputy commissioner and protest against the state government’s highly controversial decision. Randhir Singh Sibia, an LIP leader, said, “The state government had come to power on the poll plank that it will provide employment to the youth. Not only has the government failed on the front in the last four-and-a-half years, but to add insult to injury it has appointed sons of Congress MLAs to high posts to appease the said MLAs.”The Congress-led state government had tweaked the rules to provide jobs to the sons of Qadian (Gurdaspur) MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Ludhiana north MLA and former minister Rakesh Pandey.Bajwa’s younger son Arjun Partap Singh Bajwa was offered the post of inspector in the Punjab Police, and Pandey’s middle son Bhisham Pandey was offered the job of naib tehsildar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-jobs-to-cong-mlas-sons-protesting-lip-worker-attempts-selfimmolation-101629489546806.html
21-08-2021||Other||Agri varsity establishes multifunctional agroforestry model||The departments of forestry and natural resources and soil science, Punjab Agricultural University, established a multifunctional agroforestry model at the university seed farm to mark the country’s 75th Independence Day, under the ICAR-NAHEP-CAAST project.A plantation programme was organised to mark the event. Various plant species were arranged to serve the varied requirements of the farmers.SK Chauhan, professor and head of the department of forestry and natural resources; Sapna Thakur, assistant professor, department of forestry and natural resources and Deepak Arora, officer-in-charge university seed farm, Ladhowal, planted the saplings.Chauhan informed that the model will not only provide multiple products but environmental services including, landscape amenities. He further emphasized on adoption of agroforestry as a diversification method to replace the traditional rice-wheat rotation. “It is a sustainable farming system for food security and to earn more income than traditional crop rotations”, he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agri-varsity-establishes-multifunctional-agroforestry-model-101629489245642.html
21-08-2021||Other||Liaison with industry must for value addition: PAU Expert||The directorate of extension education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a webinar on ‘Industry liaison and enhancing outreach for farm profitability’ on Friday. Vishal Bector, professor and associate director, industrial linkages, PAU, was the resource person. More than 300 faculty members and students from PAU and its Krishi Vigyan Kendras and farm advisory service centres participated.Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director of extension education, spoke about smart marketing and liaisoning of farmers with industrial houses as an important step to boost farmers’ income as well as sustainable diversification. Bector emphasised the need for value addition in the processing industry through farm-gate processing. He illustrated how the current industrial needs focus on the raw material that is partially processed at the farm level, leaving the secondary processing operations to the industrial houses. “Since it is not viable for industries to invest time, money, and resources for primary processing operations, the rural youth and farmers can engage in these activities. This would be a win-win situation,” he added.Bector explained how the capacity building of all stakeholders would promote marketing intelligence resulting in growth opportunities through the business for rural youth who then do not need to migrate to cities for business or employment opportunities.The university, along with various farmer–producer organizations (FPOs) and other stakeholders, can make a successful agri-business model for farmers, he added.Kuldeep Singh, associate director, skill development, reiterated the need for industry liaison and enhancing outreach for farm profitability through value addition for retaining youth in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/liaison-with-industry-must-for-value-addition-pau-expert-101629489245128.html
21-08-2021||Other||Debt relief scheme: ₹23 crore farm debt loans waived off in Ludhiana district||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh inaugurated the fifth phase of the debt relief scheme for farm labourers and landless farming members of the Primary Agriculture Co-operative Societies in Anandpur Sahib on Friday. Loans worth ₹23.54 crore availed by 21,455 beneficiaries were waived off in nine separate events at Raikot, Dakha, Gill, Jagraon, Khanna, Ludhiana West, Payal, Sahnewal, and Samrala of Ludhiana district.As per details, 4,429 beneficiaries of Dakha got relief of ₹4.74 crore, and 2,964 beneficiaries in Gill got relief of ₹3.37 crore, while, loans worth ₹3.09 crore were given to 2,901 landless farmers and farm labourers in Jagraon and worth ₹67.22 lakh to 638 beneficiaries in Khanna.Similarly, 37 farmers of Ludhiana (West) constituency got relief of ₹2.87 lakh; 726 beneficiaries in Payal got relief of ₹83.84 lakh ; loans worth ₹4.71 crore of 4,628 farmers were waived off in Raikot; ₹3.86 crore was given to 3,132 beneficiaries in Sahnewal and benefit of ₹2.19 crore was given to 2,000 farmers in Samrala.The scheme was launched by Fatehgarh Sahib member of parliament (MP) Dr Amar Singh, members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) Rakesh Pandey, Amrik Singh Dhillon, Kuldeep Vaid, political advisor to chief minister Capt Sandeep Singh Sandhu, and deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.They said that the debt relief scheme will eliminate all troubles of the farming community, especially the landless farmers and farm labourers.Meanwhile, Satwinder Bitti in Sahnewal, Satnam Soni and Gurdeep Singh in Khanna, and Soni Galib in Jagraon handed over the relief certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/debt-relief-scheme-rs-23-crore-farm-debt-loans-waived-off-in-ludhiana-district-101629489187799.html
21-08-2021||Other||Vet varsity to organise ‘Animal Parasite Awareness Week’ from Aug 23-27||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University(GADVASU) is organising ‘Animal Parasite Awareness Week’ from August 23 to 27.Dr LD Singla, head of the department of veterinary parasitology, informed that control measures employed to combat parasitic diseases are costly, often time-consuming, and may result in the development of resistance to the drugs used to control them.He said that many farmers are not even aware of the impact of parasitic diseases on the dairy sector and the hot spots of the year during which the infections/infestations flare up and cause damage. All these circumstances frequently lead to huge economic losses in terms of mortality, lower production, and even reproductive failures.He informed that articles and news stories on management and control of parasitic infections will be published in newspapers during the awareness week.University experts will hold special radio/ TV talks to create awareness regarding the importance of parasitic diseases in livestock rearing. A workshop will be organised at the campus as well as outstations for farmers, scientists, veterinary officers, extension specialists, and students.Vice-chancellor Inderjeet Singh said this programme will certainly create awareness among livestock farmers, veterinarians, and extension personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vet-varsity-to-organise-animal-parasite-awareness-week-from-aug-2327-101629489186318.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||21-year-old booked for raping minor girl in Ludhiana||The Tibba police booked a 21-year-old man for raping a minor in New Bhagwan Nagar on Thursday. An unidentified woman helped him commit the crime.The accused was identified as Simranjit Singh alias Monu of Goyal Colony. The cops are yet to identify his female accomplice. The FIR was lodged following the statement of the 12-year-old victim’s mother. The complainant stated that the accused barged into their home on August 11 and raped her daughter, who was alone at that time.When the complainant returned home, the accused fled the house with the help of an unidentified woman. She added that her daughter narrated the whole incident to her. They did not file a complaint with the police immediately as the accused had threatened them over the phone, but on Thursday they decided to lodge an FIR.The complainant added that earlier, they used to reside in Goyal Colony but had shifted to New Bhagwan Nagar in 2020 because the accused used to harass their daughter.ASI Kulwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was lodged against the accused. A hunt is on to nab him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/21yearold-booked-for-raping-minor-girl-in-ludhiana-101629489125842.html
21-08-2021||Other||Intoxicants stolen from Ludhiana civil hospital, FIR lodged||An unidentified accused stole three cartons of Tramadol tablets from the old building of Ludhiana civil hospital. The tablets were case property. The health department had seized the cache of intoxicant tablets during a raid in Transport Nagar in 2018.Following the complaint of drug inspector (Ludhiana-4) Rupinder Kaur, the Division Number 2 police lodged an FIR against the unidentified accused. The incident brought the security at the civil hospital under the scanner. The police suspect the role of some insider as the room was locked and could only be accessed by employees.The drug inspector stated that the health department had recovered around 2.68 lakh intoxicant tablets from Khushdil Roadways in Transport Nagar during a raid on May 10, 2018.After producing the medicines before the court, the authorities had stored them in room number 12 on the third floor of the old building of the civil hospital. On August 3 this year, when the health department officials went there to check the tablets, they found three cartons missing. On August 5, they wrote to the police to lodge an FIR.ASI Rajinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc.) of the Indian Penal Code was lodged against the unidentified accused.76 samples of narcotics stolen from district court complexAt least 76 samples of narcotics including, opium and heroin, along with ₹25,000 drug money, recovered by the police in different cases, have been reported stolen from the malkhana on the sixth floor of the district court complex.The malkhana is a room used for the safe custody of seized, recovered, and evidence articles, and is maintained by the court staff and cops deployed there. On March 5, the police lodged an FIR against the unidentified accused. The case is still unsolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/intoxicant-tablets-stolen-from-civil-hospital-fir-lodged-101629488465194.html
21-08-2021||Other||LBA-trained players draw global plaudits||As many as four players trained at the Ludhiana Basketball Academy are drawing worldwide applause.RS Gill, a former DGP and Punjab Basketball Association (PBA) president informed that the Basketball Federation of India (BFI) had selected Jagdeep Singh Bains, Amjyot Singh Gill, and Amritpal Singh to represent the Indian senior men’s basketball team at the FIBA Asia Cup-2021 qualifying tournament, which is being held at Jeddah in Saudi Arabia from August 20 to 22. Two of these players, Amjyot and Amritpal, had also played at the 21st Commonwealth Games held in Australia in 2018, besides other overseas matches.Of these three players, Amjyot Singh and Amritpal Singh have also played in 21st Commonwealth Games held in Australia in 2018 besides other overseas matches.Princepal drafted in NBATeja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary of the association, informed that another star player trained at LBA, Princepal Singh, had been drafted in the NBA to play at the USA, where the other three players were also drafted.Princepal Singh is the fourth player in NBA’s latest selection from India.He is currently in news for his historical leap as he has become a part of the Sacramento Kings’ squad (USA), which went on to win the NBA Summer League-2021.Coach Rajinder Singh praised the dedication of Princepal, which he said was exemplary at LBA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lbatrained-players-draw-global-plaudits-101629488407025.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Miffed over SHO not returning calls, Ludhiana deputy mayor seeks action||The station house officer of Daba police station has found herself in hot water for not returning the calls of the deputy mayor Sarabjit Kaur as the miffed representative has now asked that action be taken against the erring officer. A copy of the complaint, which was filed with commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, has also been marked to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and director general of police Dinkar Gupta.Apart from not being able to reach sub-inspector Manjinder Kaur, the SHO in question, she has also flagged the issue of drug peddling, clashes and black marketing of LPG gas cylinders in the area.The deputy mayor has also listed the date and time of the unanswered calls and has said that lack of cooperation from the SHO has meant not being able to resolve her constituents’ issues. “The police have no control over crime in the area, which is damaging to the government’s image,” she has written in the letter. She observed that if an elected representative has trouble reaching the officer, what must become of the locals. When contacted, the SHO said that she answers all calls made to her, except a few that she is unable to take while busy investigating a case or attending a meeting. “There was a misunderstanding, which has been amicably resolved,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/miffed-over-sho-not-returning-calls-ludhiana-deputy-mayor-seeks-action-101629488405847.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||NSW schools lift ban on ‘kirpan’, SGPC hails move||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has hailed the decision to allow Sikh students wear “kirpan” to schools in the Australian state of New South Wales (NSW). The authorities in NSW had banned kirpan in schools after a 16-year-old student was stabbed in the back and stomach after a fight broke out at Glenwood High School in May.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the ban was opposed by the Sikh community, including the SGPC. She said that “kakars” (five Sikh articles of faith) are an important and integral part of the lives of baptised Sikhs and the ban on wearing kirpan was intolerable. She said that Sikh leaders and gurdwara committees in Australia were in constant touch with the education department of NSW to resolve the issue. “It is a matter of great pleasure that the education department has allowed Sikh students to wear kirpan in schools.According to new guidelines, the “kirpan” being carried must not be bigger than 8.5 centimetres, with no sharp edges or points, it must be worn under clothing and removed during sports. Besides, any safety concerns must be discussed with the student and their parents or carers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nsw-schools-lift-ban-on-kirpan-sgpc-hails-move-101629488346045.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Arms found at ex-Akal Takht jathedar Rode’s house, son held||Punjab Police on Friday busted a terror module by arresting two men, including former Akal Takht Jathedar Jasbir Singh Rode’s son Gurmukh Singh from his house in New Hardial Nagar, Jalandhar. According to a Punjab Police spokesperson, the Kapurthala police recovered two hand-grenades, a box of detonators, two tubes suspected to containing RDX, a roll of wire used in explosives, ₹3.75-lakh Indian currency, a licensed pistol, 14 Indian passports, a .30-calibre pistol and two magazines from Gurmukh’s house. Also, police seized a tiffin bomb, three hand-grenades, four Glock pistol magazines and packaging material from the Gurmukh’s office near Jalandhar bus stand. Gurmukh has been working for a local vernacular newspaper, it is learnt. A senior Punjab Police official supervising the operation in Chandigarh said the tiffin bomb found at Gurmukh’s house is identical to the one recovered recently from Amritsar, a case now being probed by the NIA. Gurmukh is associated with International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF). His father Rode is the nephew of slain militant preacher Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale. Rode’s brother Lakhbir Singh Rode is one of the most-wanted Khalistan terrorists in India and is believed to be currently in Pakistan. Kapurthala police reached Gurmukh after the arrest of one Gagandeep Singh of Phagwara with an illegal pistol recently. “During investigations, Gagandeep revealed that the pistol was part of a larger weapon consignment that had been sent from across the border through drones over the last few months,” the spokesperson said. He also disclosed that a major part of the consignment was with his friend Gurmukh. Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said preliminary investigations revealed that the arms came from Pakistan with the intention to carry out terror attacks in Punjab. A case has been registered against Gurmukh and Gagandeep under relevant sections of Unlawful Activities (Preventions) Act (UAPA), Explosives Act and Arms Act at Sadar police station, Phagwara. The accused were produced in a local court on Friday and sent to seven-day police custody.Meanwhile, Jasbir Singh Rode, while addressing the media after the arrest of his son, said police raided their house on Thursday night and found nothing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arms-found-at-ex-akal-takht-jathedar-rode-s-house-son-held-101629488287215.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Man who vandalised Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s statue in Pak gets bail||A Pakistan court on Friday granted bail to the man who vandalised the statue of Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh at the Lahore Fort.According to The Express Tribune, counsel of the accused identified as Rizwan informed the court that the police completed their investigation and have recovered a hammer from his possession. The accused was arrested on Tuesday, according to Samaa TV.The vandalism has happened for the third time in recent years. Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s statue was also vandalised in December 2020. The nine-foot-tall structure in cold bronze was unveiled at the Lahore Fort on June 27, 2019, to mark the former ruler’s 180th death anniversary.India had condemned the incident. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa also condemned the act, saying Pakistan’s radicals have once again hurt Sikh sentiments.Maharaja Ranjit Singh, known as Lion of Punjab, was the first Maharaja of the Sikh Empire who ruled over Punjab for close to four decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-who-vandalised-maharaja-ranjit-singh-s-statue-in-pak-gets-bail-101629488285777.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Randhawa seeks officials’ removal over Saini fiasco||After the Punjab and Haryana high court ordered release of former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in a land fraud case, jails and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Friday demanded removal of advocate general Atul Nanda, home secretary Anurag Agarwal and Vigilance Bureau chief director BK Uppal for their “professional incompetence”. The cabinet minister’s scathing remark drew a sharp reaction from chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who asked his ministers and party colleagues to “check facts” before making any statement, especially on sensitive issues. The high court had on Thursday night ordered release of Saini in just over 24 hours after he was arrested by the Vigilance Bureau. “In view of the fiasco in Sumedh Singh Saini case, I urge chief minister @capt_amarinder to immediately remove Advocate General, Home Secretary and Chief Director Vigilance, for their professional incompetence,” Randhawa said in a tweet, tagging former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party’s Punjab chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. The minister’s comment was re-tweeted by MLAs Raja Warring and Kulbir Singh Zira.Reacting to the minister’s comment, Amarinder asked the ministers to discuss issues with him or at the party platform before going public. “I advise all cabinet & party colleagues to check facts before issuing statements. I suggest they should discuss all issues, especially sensitive ones, either with me or on @INCPunjab platform before going public,” the CM said in a tweet posted by his media adviser. Saini was arrested by the Vigilance Bureau when he had gone to its office on Wednesday night to join investigation in a corruption case as directed by the high court. A single bench of Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi pronounced the release order on Thursday night. Saini was released from vigilance custody at 2am on Friday. Randhawa has been critical of the chief minister and the state government over unfulfilled poll promises, particularly the alleged delay in action in the 2015 sacrilege and police firing cases. He is among the senior ministers who backed Sidhu in his tussle with the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/randhawa-seeks-officials-removal-over-saini-fiasco-101629488106106.html
21-08-2021||Other||U-16 inter-district cricket tourney: Amritsar bundles out Ludhiana for 139 on first day of semi-finals||Host team Ludhiana was bundled out for 139 runs by Amritsar on the first day of the semi-final of the under- 16 inter- district cricket tournament played at GRD Global Education institute.Captain Shabd Tangri was the top scorer with 55 runs, which included five boundaries. Karanveer Rana and Soham Baggan pitched in with 29 and 23 runs, respectively.Varundeep of Amritsar team took five crucial wickets giving away just 35 runs in 29 overs while, Jaskirat Singh took four wickets for 48 runs in 16 overs.In response, Amritsar scored 64 runs for the loss of two wickets in 35 overs. Rishabh Gupta and Varinder Viru were still batting with 28 and 29 runs, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/u16-inter-district-cricket-tourney-amritsar-bundles-out-ludhiana-for-139-on-first-day-of-semifinals-101629487989101.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Expelled from BJP, former minister Joshi joins SAD||Former minister Anil Joshi was among several leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal inducted Joshi and former MLA Sukhjit Kaur Shahi and others into the party. Sukhbir also declared Joshi as the party candidate from the Amritsar North assembly seat in the next year’s elections. Joshi was also appointed the senior vice-president of the party.In July, two-time legislator from Amritsar North, Joshi, 57, was expelled from the BJP for six years for his “anti-party” activities. He blamed the BJP state leadership for not giving true feedback to the Centre on the farm laws. He had also been demanding revocation of the three farm laws. Joshi remained legislator from the Amritsar North seat in 2007 and 2012. He faced defeat in the 2017 assembly polls. Besides, former BJP leader Raj Kumar Gupta was announced the party candidate from the Sujanpur seat in Pathankot. Several other BJP leaders also joined the SAD, including former Dasuya MLA Sukhjit Kaur, former Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha state chief Mohit Gupta and ex-deputy mayor of Ludhiana RD Sharma. Speaking on the occasion, Joshi said the SAD-BJP alliance was stitched by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal to remove frictions in the society after dark days of terrorism, which resulted in peace in the state. “I was forced to quit the BJP because it turned a blind eye to the demands of farmers. Our state leaders misled the central leadership. Akali Dal is the only party that understands regional aspirations,” he said, adding that the Congress does not understand the pain of Punjabis and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) wants yes men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/expelled-from-bjp-former-minister-joshi-joins-sad-101629487986888.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali land fraud: Punjab govt suffered ₹4-crore loss, says VB||A day after the Punjab vigilance bureau probing a land fraud case arrested WorldWide Immigration Consultancy Services (WWICS) director Davinder Sandhu, it has come to light that the state government suffered a loss of around ₹4 crore as the layout plans of two colonies developed by his firm on the Siswan-Kurali road in Mohali were approved fraudulently.Former Punjab police chief Sumedh Singh Saini was the first to be arrested in the case on Wednesday, though he was released on Thursday after orders of the Punjab and Haryana high court.Shakti Sagar Bhatia, who retired as a senior town planner, was arrested on Thursday morning and sent to two-day police remand. Sandhu was held later in the evening, and was produced in court on Friday. He has also been remanded in two-day police custody for further questioning.Ashok Sika, who retired as a deputy director, local bodies, is another accused in the case. He is absconding. It was on September 17, 2020, when the vigilance bureau had registered a case against Sandhu, Sika and Bhatia for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy besides under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Saini’s name was nominated in the FIR on August 2 this year. The names of Nimratdeep Singh, who is an executive engineer with the public works department, his father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal and their aides Taranjeet Singh Aneja and Mohit Puri were also later nominated in the FIR.The case and role of key playersIn 2009, WWICS developed two residential colonies — Green Meadows-1 and Green Meadows-2 — on 27 acres of land along the Siswan-Kurali road in Mohali. In effect, it was a single colony as there was only one main entrance via Green Meadows-1, and In the layout plan, a rivulet passing between the two colonies was fraudulently shown as a green belt.In this way, the firm paid only ₹1.5 crore fee to the government, instead of ₹5.5 crore that was required to be paid for a single bigger colony, and caused ₹4-crore loss to the state exchequer, said the vigilance bureau.According to the FIR, shamlat land (village common land) measuring around 2 kanal was also illegally occupied to construct the main gate. The company also cut some residential plots on this land, which were later washed away in rains.Deputy superintendent of police (vigilance) Harinder Pal Singh, who is the investigating officer, said Sika and Bhatia are accused of approving the layout plans without any physical checking. He said that during the probe it was also found that Nimratdeep Singh, a well-connected PWD official, reportedly received ₹6 crore as bribe from Sandhu to get the colonies certified. Saini’s name cropped up in the case as Nimratdeep allegedly spent the bribe money on buying a two-kanal house in Sector 20, Chandigarh, where the former top cop started residing as a tenant on October 15, 2018, for a monthly rent of ₹2.50 lakh.The vigilance bureau said after analysing financial transactions between Saini and Nimratdeep’s father, it was found that Saini had transferred ₹6.4 crore into the bank accounts of the father-son duo between August 2018 and August 2020. It has been alleged that the amount was not given in accordance with the rent deed. Nimratdeep had claimed that Saini wanted to buy the house for which they had a verbal agreement. However, as the new facts emerged during the probe, the father-son duo allegedly furnished a copy of a fake sale agreement, executed on October 2, 2019, in order to prevent attachment of the property in a local court. Thereafter, names of the father-son duo along with their two aides were nominated in the land fraud case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-land-fraud-punjab-govt-suffered-4-crore-loss-says-vb-101629487985713.html
21-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana man held for beating mule||The Division Number 5 police arrested a man for beating a mule at Satpal Mittal Road (Malhar road) on Thursday.The accused was identified as Santosh Kumar of Dhandhra Road of Dugri.The FIR was lodged following the statement of Mani Singh of Koocha Harnam Das. Mani, who is a member of the Help for Animals organisation, stated that a passer-by informed him that a mule had lost consciousness while pulling a cart on Malhar Road, and the cart puller was beating the animal with a stick.Mani reached the spot and deterred the man. Following this, he informed the police about the incident.ASI Hardev Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc., of any value or any animal of the value of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 11 (A) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, was lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-held-for-beating-mule-101629487925619.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 59 Covid cases, 3 deaths||Punjab on Friday reported three more Covid-related deaths, taking the toll to 16,351, while 59 new cases pushed the infection tally to 6,00,180, according to a medical bulletin.The fatalities were reported from Fazilka, Gurdaspur and Mohali. The toll includes one death which was not reported earlier.The number of active cases dropped to 538 from 571 on Thursday.Amritsar reported 15 new cases, followed by Mohali 7, and Faridkot 6 among other places.With 86 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured people reached 5,83,291, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-59-covid-cases-3-deaths-101629487868172.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||A move to salvage Cong image: Chugh on strategic policy group||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Friday said that after having failed to fulfil any of the electoral promises in Punjab, the Congress was now doing a cosmetic exercise to salvage its image.In a statement, Chugh ridiculed the formation of the 10-member strategic policy group after state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu held a meeting with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh saying that the Congress government failed to deliver anything in the state in the last more than four-and-a-half years and now it was trying to fool the people by indulging in a deceptive political discourse.He said all sections of the society in Punjab were disappointed with the Amarinder government. “Be it the youths, who were promised 60 lakh jobs, farmers, who were promised loan waiver, or school and college students, who were promised mobile phones etc, all are disappointed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-move-to-salvage-cong-image-chugh-on-strategic-policy-group-101629487745831.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Soldier from Punjab falls off cliff in J&K’s Poonch, dies||A soldier fell off a cliff and died along the Line of Control in Poonch district on Friday. The deceased was identified as Sepoy Lovepreet Singh, 23, of Gurdaspur in Punjab. “On Friday around 1315 hours (1.15pm), while operating along the higher reaches of Pir Panjal range in a deliberately planned counter-terrorist operation, Sepoy Lovepreet Singh made supreme sacrifice in the line of duty as he suffered a 40ft fall into a gorge while negotiating the difficult heights,” said a defence spokesperson. “The valiant soldier was acting as guide to the party which was moving along a treacherous route from Jabbiwal to Bagsar (Poonch). Sepoy Lovepreet Singh belonged to Gurdaspur in Punjab,” the spokesperson added. He is survived by his parents. “Sepoy Lovepreet Singh was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for the supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soldier-from-punjab-falls-off-cliff-in-j-k-s-poonch-dies-101629487687086.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees spike in fresh Covid cases as 159 test positive||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded a spike after 159 fresh novel coronavirus infections were found. One death related to the disease was reported from Jammu.There were 123 cases in Kashmir, while the Jammu division saw 36 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 126 with active positive cases reaching 1,141.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 255 followed by Jammu district with 107 active cases.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,18,409 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.29%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,23,951 and the death toll stands at 4,401.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,143 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 834 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-sees-spike-in-fresh-covid-cases-as-159-test-positive-101629487686005.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Female foetus found dumped in toilet dustbin at GMSH||A seven-month-old female foetus was found dumped in a dustbin at a toilet in Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on Friday. A nurse on duty spotted the foetus and informed the senior staff and doctors, following which police were called.A case has been registered under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified person at the police station in Sector 17. Police are scanning records of pregnant women who were present at the hospital and scanning closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera footage of the hospital’s entrance and exit. There is no CCTV camera installed in the area where the foetus was dumped, said police. The hospital authorities said that they have shared all records with the investigating officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-female-foetus-found-dumped-in-toilet-dustbin-at-gmsh-101629487628390.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Need to promote Himachal’s art & culture of globally: Anurag Thakur||Union minister of information and broadcasting and youth affairs and sports, Anurag Singh Thakur, on Friday emphasised upon promoting Himachali culture internationally. On the 75th Independence Day, he said, everyone pledged to do something different for the nation. “I have a vision to promote Himachali culture. There is a need to showcase the art and culture of Himachal which varies from Kinnaur’s kettle to Chamba’s thaal and handkerchieves, from Kangra art to Roerich paintings and natis (dances),” Thakur said in Shimla. As far as the folklore of the hill state is concerned, its melodious music has a special significance, he added. Thakur had on Thursday embarked on his maiden five-day visit to his home state as a part of ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ after being elevated in the Union cabinet. The Union minister said that the Centre is prepared to tackle the third wave of Covid pandemic, for which provision of ₹23,123 crore has been made. He further said that ₹35,000 crore has been allocated for providing free Covid vaccines. The minister said that ₹437 crore will be spent on PGI’s satellite centre in Una, while ₹4,200 crore has been allocated for various healthcare projects in Himachal. Responding to a question, he quipped, “I hope the Congress elects its president by 2024.” Talking about Dharamshala, Thakur said his ambition was not only to build stadiums for sportspersons, but also tourist attractions in the hill state. “At least five lakh people visit Dharamshala cricket stadium every year and number of tourists visiting Dharamshala has also increased after the construction of the stadium,” he added. In reply to a question regarding picking up children from poor families and training them for the Olympics and other international competitions, Thakur said if any such talent during childhood is brought forward by the media, that talent would definitely be picked up and trained appropriately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/need-to-promote-himachal-s-art-culture-of-globally-anurag-thakur-101629487627170.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Schools in Himachal to stay close till August 28||With a surge in Covid cases, the Himachal government has decided to keep the schools in the state closed till August 28. State’s chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh has issued orders to close the schools. However, this order will not apply to residential schools. During holidays, all teaching and non-teaching staffers will be present in educational institutions. The government had earlier notified to keep the schools closed till August 22. Covid cases have started witnessing a rise in Himachal Pradesh. Infections are increasing in rural areas of Chamba district as well as in some other districts. In Chamba alone, more than four dozen children came under the grip of coronavirus after the schools reopened in the past. With the increase in infections, the positivity rate in the state has also started increasing. On the instructions of the government, the health department has chalked out a strategy to deal with the possible third wave. Health experts are anticipating third wave by the September-end. Therefore, the department is making preparations to deal with it. The health department is trying to vaccinate everyone in the age group of 18 and 45 years before the possible third wave. 155 found infected with virusWith 155 fresh Covid cases reported on Friday, Himachal’s infection tally rose to 2,11,432 while the death toll mounted to 3,546 after three patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, highest 55 were reported in Mandi, 26 in Chamba, 24 in Kangra, 15 each in Bilaspur and Hamirpur, 10 in Shimla, five in Solan, three in Kullu and one each in Lahaul-Spiti and Sirmaur. The active cases came down to 2,413 while recoveries reached 2,05,448 after 401 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 46,282, followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,237 and 26,319 cases, respectively. Solan’s case tally reached 22,504, Sirmaur 15,418, Hamirpur 15,039, Una 13,508, Bilaspur 13,286, Chamba 13,223, Kullu 9,400, Kinnaur 3,364 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,852.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/schools-in-himachal-to-stay-close-till-august-28-101629487625681.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Thaw in Capt-Sidhu ties, agree to set up strategic policy group||After sparring publicly for weeks, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday agreed to set up a 10-member “strategic policy group” for better coordination between the party and the state government.The chief minister also deputed his ministers to sit at the Punjab Congress Bhawan, the party’s office in Chandigarh, by rotation on Sidhu’s request for interacting with the party cadre and public. The twin decisions, announced after Sidhu met Amarinder at his Siswan farmhouse along with party working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh, are the first sign of thaw in their strained relations. The meeting between Amarinder and Sidhu – their second in one month – came before Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat’s proposed visit to the state next week to mediate between them for unity in the party. The development is being seen in the party circles as “good optics” for the state unit hit by factionalism due to the tussle between the two leaders. Sidhu, who had led an onslaught by several ministers and MLAs against Amarinder, was elevated by the Congress high command as the state unit president last month despite strong opposition from Amarinder. Both Sidhu and Amarinder have been indulging in one-upmanship since, belying the central leadership’s claim that their rift has been resolved, even as the opposition parties, particularly the Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party, have been trying to get their act together for next year’s assembly elections. The group, constituted for better coordination and to further expedite the implementation of the various government programmes and reform initiatives, will be headed by the chief minister with Sidhu as a member. Local government minister Brahm Mohindra, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and social security minister Aruna Chaudhary, four working presidents Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Pawan Goel and general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh will be the other members. Majha brigade missing from panel The Majha brigade – comprising cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria – has not been included in the panel. The three ministers, once considered close to Amarinder, had turned against him a few months ago, criticising the government for unfulfilled poll promises, and then backed Sidhu in his tussle with the chief minister. The panel will hold weekly meetings, in consultation with other ministers, experts, etc. “It will discuss and review the progress of the various state government initiatives already under implementation, and will also suggest measures to expedite the same,” according to an official release. Ministers to meet Cong cadre at party office Amarinder also directed the ministers to be available at the party office everyday by rotation to meet MLAs, party functionaries and cadre to discuss issues relating to their constituencies and areas and address their grievances. “Have deputed all my cabinet ministers to be present for three hours from 11am to 2pm at @INCPunjab office daily beginning Monday, as per the roster, to interact with public and party cadre,” the chief minister tweeted. According to the roster, one cabinet minister will be present at the state Congress office for three hours daily as per his turn. The decision came after Sidhu wrote a letter to the chief minister. “Highly positive coordination meeting on proposal for roster of ministers to sit at Punjab Congress Bhawan!” the PPCC chief tweeted after the meeting along with a photo with the CM and the ministers’ roster for the next four months. In his letter, Sidhu said: “Punjab Congress workers are the backbone of the party whose persistence, hard work and dedication led us to a sweeping victory in 2017 elections.” “I, along with PCC working presidents and senior state Congress leadership, are of the opinion that there are issues of dire importance to the people of Punjab, which are brought to the notice of PCC on a daily basis,” he wrote, citing their meetings with party leaders and listening to their concerns. Sidhu said these can be effectively resolved if ministers of the state cabinet sit in the Punjab Congress Bhawan. “Ministers spending quality hours in the PCC office for five days a week to hear concerns of party workers, unions and people of Punjab, and taking immediate action will be a great way to discharge their duty,” he said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thaw-in-capt-sidhu-ties-agree-to-set-up-strategic-policy-group-101629487565618.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity records Covid deaths for first time in August||The Chandigarh tricity area recorded deaths owing to Covid-19 for the first time this month, with two people succumbing on Friday. Among those dead is a 25-year-old woman from Chandigarh, who also suffered from chronic kidney disease. The other casualty was reported in Mohali, though the details were not shared.It was on July 31 when the tricity had last reported a death, that of a 55-year-old man in Chandigarh. In Mohali and Panchkula, the last death was reported on July 23. During the peak of the second wave in May, 790 people had died in the tricity.10-yr-old boy among 15 +veMeanwhile, 15 new cases surfaced in the tricity, with seven in Mohali, five in Chandigarh and three in Panchkula. The tricity’s active caseload stands at 107, with 54 patients in Mohali, 43 in Chandigarh and 10 in Panchkula.In Mohali district, three cases were reported from Kharar, two from Mohali city and one each from Dhakoli and Gharuan. In Chandigarh, the cases were scattered across Sectors 2, 15, 16, 20 and 45. Those tested positive in Panchkula included a 10-year-old boy from Sector 12 besides a woman in Kalka and a man in Sector 4. So far, 62,056 people have tested positive in Chandigarh, of whom 61,201 have recovered and 812 have succumbed. In Mohali, there have been 68,558 cases, 67,446 recoveries and 1,058 deaths. Panchkula’s tally stands at 30,667. While 30,281 patients have been cured, 376 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-records-covid-deaths-for-first-time-in-august-101629487385713.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CHB general housing scheme at IT Park delayed||The UT environment department has put on hold the process of environment clearance for the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB)’s self-financing general housing scheme that is coming up at the IT Park.The application for environment clearance was submitted with the state environment impact assessment authority (SEIAA), Chandigarh, in March this year. However, as the CHB failed to submit relevant documents with the applications, the environment department has stalled the process.The CHB last month committed to launch the project within 100 days, as part of the UT adviser’s road map for different departments.Debendra Dalai, director, environment department, and member secretary, SEIAA, said: “We have returned the CHB application for environment clearance, and they have not resubmitted it.”After the CHB resubmits the application with all the requisite documents, the environment appraisal committee will examine the project on its merits. It will then forward it to the SEIAA for final approval.A senior CHB official, who did not wish to be named, said: “The environment department has asked us to submit approved drawings of the project and proof of application for wildlife clearance. The CHB is still to get the project drawings approved by the UT urban planning department.”The drawings for approval of the plan approval committee (PAC) were submitted in January this year. “The department had sought clarifications and made observations on the drawing, which we have resubmitted,” said the official.“Also, an application for providing authenticated drawings depicting the distance of the project site from wildlife sanctuaries and bird sanctuary was submitted to the chief wildlife warden in June this year. It is also under scrutiny,” said the official.728 flats to come up over 16.6 acresThe general housing scheme is planned on the IT Park’s plots 1 and 2, which are spread over 16.6 acres. It comprises 728 dwelling units in different categories: 28 four-bedroom, 448 three-bedroom and 252 two-bedroom flats.A four-bedroom flat is likely to cost nearly ₹2.75 crore, while a three-bedroom flat is expected to cost ₹1.9 crore and a two-bedroom flat could be priced around ₹1.3 crore.A presentation about the scheme was given to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on July 21, and got an in-principle approval.The administration has given exemption from constructing EWS houses in this pocket, subject to the condition that the CHB constructs EWS houses equal to 15% of the dwelling units at a separate location. These EWS flats are proposed to be constructed at Sector 54, for which land has already been allotted, but encumbrance-free physical possession is yet to be handed over to the housing board.Uncertainty over govt housing project tooThe CHB’s plans for housing for government officials at IT Park has also been marred with delay. Haryana and Punjab had expressed interest in the scheme way back in 2018. The PGIMER also made a similar commitment in 2020. However, they haven’t yet deposited their share of money for the project.Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, said: “We have sent multiple reminders to them, but there has been no response. We even made a presentation to the Haryana government officials recently, and are awaiting their response.”While 25% payment (of the total estimated cost) is to be made upfront, the balance is to be paid over three years in six half-yearly instalments with 12% interest. The CHB had offered a tower consisting of 28 flats along with EWS houses at a tentative cost of ₹56.52 Crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-chb-general-housing-scheme-at-it-park-delayed-101629487025897.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||‘Mumbai’s target population can be vaxxed by 2021-end or start of 2022 depending on stock’||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) can vaccinate the entire target population of Mumbai, around 9,000,000 citizens above the age of 18 years, by the end of the year or start of next year, if there is no shortage of vaccine doses, say civic officials. As of Wednesday, 2,083,893 citizens or 23% of the target population, have been fully vaccinated. Currently, the BMC has the capacity to vaccinate 150,000 citizens per day. Depending on the availability of vaccine doses, the BMC administers above 30,000 shots per day.According to latest figures from August 18, a total of 6,159,896 beneficiaries have been vaccinated with their first dose. Vaccination drive was suspended in the city on August 19 and 20.However, civic authorities say it is not possible to commit to any timeline. A senior civic official said, “We cannot commit to any timeline, as we often face a shortage of doses. Mathematical calculations regarding when we will complete vaccinating the entire target population prove futile. Currently, we have the capacity to vaccinate about 150,000 beneficiaries per day. If Mumbai gets enough doses, we can even scale up this capacity.”Within the past 10 days, Mumbai has faced a shortage of vaccine doses twice. Vaccination at public centres in the city was suspended last Thursday and Friday (August 12 and 13), and again this Thursday and Friday (August 19 and 20). Vaccination will resume in the city on Saturday, as Mumbai received 130,000 doses on Thursday night.In the days immediately following the arrival of fresh vaccine stock in the city, a higher number of beneficiaries are vaccinated in the city, BMC data shows. Vaccine centres had operated at full capacity last Saturday (August 14), and over 150,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated at public vaccine centres in the city, as the BMC had freshly received 170,000 doses.Data shows that over 2,840,000 citizens are yet to receive their first dose, and a total of over 6,916,000 the second dose. While Covaxin requires a gap of 28 days between two doses, Covishield requires a gap of at least 84 days.Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 task force, said, “It is a mathematically logical calculation that Mumbai should be able to vaccinate its remaining citizens by the end of the year or a little later. However, we are not vaccinating enough. Recently, vaccine numbers have gone up comparatively, but we need to increase the pace, especially with the city opening up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-target-population-can-be-vaxxed-by-2021-end-or-start-of-2022-depending-on-stock-101629486848676.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Light rain likely to continue over weekend||After 0.6 mm of rain in the city on Friday, chances of light rain upto 30 mm will continue in the city over the weekend, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Even as the weather remained cloudy, only 0.6 mm of rain was recorded at the Sector 39 IMD observatory, while 4mm was recorded at the airport.IMD officials said, “The system will peak on Saturday, so more rain can be expected then. The intensity is likely to go down again from Sunday. Day temperature will also get affected if it rains during the day.”Maximum temperature in the city dipped from 35.8°C on Thursday to 30.6°C on Friday and minimum temperature from 28.3°C to 26.2°C. Over the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 30°C and 33°C, while minimum temperature will remain between 26°C and 27°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhlight-rain-likely-to-continue-over-weekend-101629486847627.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Make optimum use of tech to solve crimes: Chandigarh DGP||Chandigarh director general of police (DGP) Praveer Ranjan, who joined office on Thursday, asked the force to make optimum use of technology to investigate crimes during the welcome parade on Friday. Addressing police officers and personnel at the parade organised in his honour at the Sector 26 police lines, Ranjan said that new techniques and technology must be used to trace crimes, especially cyber crimes and drugs cases. Rajan also praised the Chandigarh traffic police and urged them to perform their duties diligently to resolve traffic-related problem in the city. A 1993-batch Indian Police Service officer of the AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram, Union Territory) cadre, Ranjan was earlier posted in Delhi. He took over charge from Sanjay Baniwal, who has been repatriated to Delhi after over three-year tenure in Chandigarh.Baniwal was given a farewell at the police lines in Sector 26 on Thursday. A few of the initiatives taken by him include the installation of an eBeat book system and emergency response support system (Dial 112).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/make-optimum-use-of-tech-to-solve-crimes-chandigarh-dgp-101629486785870.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||JBT teacher dies by suicide in Ambala, two booked for abetment||A man in his late 20s, who worked as a JBT teacher at a village in Ambala, committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree, police said on Friday. The teacher, a native of Bhiwani, had gone missing on Thursday evening and his body was found by his father. He was the youngest of three children.Police said a suicide note has been recovered from the deceased, in which he has blamed two men for forcing him to take the extreme step. Based on this, Chandrashekhar and Satinder Dagi, also from Bhiwani, have been booked for abetment to suicide.Assistant sub-inspector Balkar Singh, the investigating officer in the case, said, “As per the suicide note, Chandershekhar had forced him to give pay Dagi, which he couldn’t bear and took the extreme step. The body has been sent for autopsy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jbt-teacher-dies-by-suicide-in-ambala-two-booked-for-abetment-101629486726947.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Night closure at Chandigarh airport till Sept 18; will not hit flights||The Chandigarh International Airport will remain closed till September 18 from 11pm to 4.30am for installation of lights at runway.No flights will be affected as they don’t operate during the night hours, said chief executive officer (CEO) of the airport Ajay Bhardwaj. The work is ongoing and we hope that we can finish it in a month, he said.He added that at present, there are 32 flights operating and the footfall has increased to 5,400 per day from 3,000.In April 2019, round-the-clock operations began at the airport, allowing landing of wide-bodied aircrafts including Boeing 787-800 (Dreamliner) and Airbus 330. But, even after more than two years, no big aircrafts are in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-closure-at-chandigarh-airport-till-sept-18-will-not-hit-flights-101629486725992.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Minor among three held for attempt to murder||Police apprehended three people including a juvenile for attempt to murder after they attacked two brothers in Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) on Thursday evening. The accused are Karan, a mechanic, Gautam, a labourer, and the minor (name withheld). The complaint was filed by Mohd Adnan of Phase 3, BDC, who is a vegetable vendor. He alleged that they attacked him and his brother Mohd Rihan with rods, sticks and sharp-edged weapon. Police said that it was a verbal spat that led to the attack. Adnan and Rihan were injured and admitted to GMCH-32. A case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 26 police station.Man snatches neighbour’s phonePolice have arrested a resident of Sector 41 for snatching his neighbour’s phone and throwing it in a drain after she referred to his pet as a “dog”.The accused has been identified as Sidharth Kashyup, who works at a private company.Police said that the victim, Radha, had complained about the excessive barking of his pet German Shepard and referred to it as a “dog”. When she was returning home on Sunday night, the accused snatched her phone.  A case under section 379A (snatching) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 39 police station. Kashyup has been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-minor-among-three-held-for-attempt-to-murder-101629486665574.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman booked for ₹18.3-lakh fraud||A woman from Sector 49 was booked for duping a Baltana resident of ₹18.39 lakh after promising to get him a Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) flat and booth.The accused has been identified as Manjit Kaur.. The victim, Vijay Kumar Sood, stated in his police complaint that Kaur had told him that she was close to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore and a member of the CHB allotment committee. Assuring him of a meeting with the board’s officials to get a house allotted, she asked him to deposit the money to her account, which she said was the cost of the house. She had assured him that she was authorised to make allotments. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) of the Indian Penal Code and was registered at the Sector 49 police station.  Manjit had also been arrested in July for duping a couple of ₹87 lakh by using the same modus operandi. At the time of her arrest, police had recovered fake documents showing her as a member of the CHB committee and authorising her to make allotments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-booked-for-18-3-lakh-fraud-101629486606704.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Eight more members elected to Panjab University senate||Eight members from the constituency of teachers of affiliated arts colleges were elected into the Panjab University (PU) senate on Friday, following the counting of votes.Out of those elected, Harpreet Singh Dua, KK Sharma, Shaminder Singh Sandhu and Jagdeep Kumar belong to the Goyal group, Jagdish Chander to the BJP group and Inderpal Singh Sidhu, Jagtar Singh and Tarun Ghai were contesting independently. Inderpal, who is also a former senator, secured the maximum votes with 386, followed by KK Sharma with 260 and Dua with 255. Inderpal said he will work for the cause of the teaching fraternity. “We will work positively for the smooth functioning of the university and ensure the upliftment of colleges,” added KK Sharma.The result for the constituency of heads of affiliated arts colleges was not declared on Friday due to issue over the inclusion of the name of a voter in the voter list. The result will be produced before the high court in a sealed cover by PU.Polling for faculties rescheduledPolling for the constituency of faculties has been rescheduled from August 23 (Monday) to September 1, PU stated in a notice.The development comes a day after ex-officio members of the five major faculties elected their secretaries for the faculty polls.“The date of the election of faculties has been rescheduled from August 23 to September 1, subject to approval from the chancellor and the permission of the UT administration with regard to the holding of meeting of combined faculty,” the notice states.The varsity has also asked the secretaries of the major faculties to issue the meeting notices/agenda of their respective faculties as per PU regulations. From the constituency of faculties, 12 candidates are in fray for the election of six members to the senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eight-more-members-elected-to-panjab-university-senate-101629486605614.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Thane session court rejects anticipatory bail of builder in Param Bir Singh case||The Thane sessions court rejected the anticipatory bail of builder Sanjay Punamia, who was earlier in the custody of Kopri police in the extortion case registered against ex- Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Thane Nagar police will take Punamia’s custody from Kopri police officers soon. In July, Sonu Jalan and Ketan Tanna registered an extortion complaint against Singh and 29 other accused, including then deputy commissioner of police Deepak Devraj, assistant commissioner NT Kadam, ex-cop Pradeep Sharma, senior inspector Rajkumar Kothmire, gangster Ravi Pujari and some journalists at Thane Nagar police station. Tanna, who is in the construction business, claimed that Singh and the other accused extorted crores of rupees by threatening to name him in a fake criminal case. They allegedly also threatened to carry out his encounter if he did not pay the money, alleged Tanna. Punamia was arrested by Marine Drive police in July. On August 7, Kopri police took his custody. He then applied for anticipatory bail for the case registered against him in Thane Nagar police station. An officer from Thane Nagar police station said, “The anticipatory bail has been rejected and we will soon take his custody in the extortion case. We will investigate to establish his role in the case.” The complainant’s lawyer, Sagar Kadam, said, “Punamia was involved in several cash transactions. My client claims that he had given ₹1.5 crore to Punamia after Singh and his team threatened to file a fake case against Jalan. On different occasions, Punamia had extorted money in Singh and his team’s names.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-session-court-rejects-anticipatory-bail-of-builder-in-param-bir-singh-case-101629486125496.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity debate: Guns, gangs and a gory picture||Improve intelligence gathering mechanismsPolice and law-enforcement agencies are well aware of all the gangs operating in the Tricity and neighbouring areas, but they hardly take any steps to nab them. Gangsters roam around freely and go on shooting sprees, either to take revenge against rivals or challenge the police force. The breakdown of law and order in the region and lack of fear in the minds of criminals are the major reasons for gang culture. The Tricity police must improve their intelligence gathering mechanism and provide incentives to informers so as to prevent similar shooting incidents in future.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhModernise police force to rein in gangsThere is a need to provide youth with the moral and spiritual strength to overcome the feeling of anger and revenge, in these times when there is hardly any job security. Authorities should go for digital verification of vehicles and persons entering the tricity. Further, high definition closed-circuit television cameras should be installed at vulnerable points to monitor traffic and public. Lastly, police force should be modernised with latest equipment to control and investigate crime timely.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliAlert citizens, proactive police can helpA better coordination among the police departments of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula can go a long way in controlling the porous borders that provide an easy escape for gangsters. Besides, tenant verification, particularly in paying guest accommodations, is a must to check anti-social elements using these as safe havens. Police should also keep a strict vigil on all active gang and their members regardless of whether they are in jail or not.Supneet Moyer, ChandigarhA strict, vigilant police can end this reign of terror The gang culture in tricity is quite alarming, and the police and administration must be held accountable for it. The criminals hardly have any fear of law or the consequences of their actions. To end this reign of terror, police need to increase their vigilance, strengthen their source-network, and keep a close watch on all youths known to owe allegiance to gangs operating in the city. Besides, tenant verification must be strictly implemented, and closed-circuit television cameras must be installed at all important spots. More importantly, the men and women in khaki must enforce the law and order strictly and not bow to any political pressure. Amanpreet Kaur Bains, KuraliBad parenting is to blameSpoilt brats of busy, wealthy parents mostly go astray and indulge in criminal activities. University hostels become the breeding grounds for all those who refuse to follow their writ. Political rivalry sometimes leads to formation of gangs, led by those capable of feeding like-minded followers. Youngsters in these gangs are cold-blooded brats who dodge law enforcement officers. Such a gang culture cannot be eliminated overnight. If parents keep an eye on the activities of their children in their formative years, and teach them love, care and forgiveness, we can hope for better future.SC Luthra, ChandigarhOnus is on policePolitics plays its role in creating gang culture to suit its designs to intimidate rivals. Police always act as mute spectators instead of instilling fear of law in their minds. Had the beat system been effective, there would be no scope for any such nefarious activity by any individual or group. Constant vigil on educational campuses, night bars and other such places can help. Society should also single out bad elements and inform the police. Moreover, issuing of arms licensed liberally must be avoided.Raghunath Chhabra, ChandigarhStrict vigil on tricity bordersTricity has become a hub of gangs of Punjab and Haryana and the recent killing of Vicky Middukhera has brought this to the fore. It is quite apparent that gangsters find the tricity to be safe haven as it is easy place to escape after committing crimes. The police of the three cities need to work in tandem and keep a strict vigil on the borders of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula to restrict the movement of gangsters. Vijay Malia, Chandigarh A joint special task force for tricityThe crime rate, including gang wars, in Chandigarh and its periphery areas are on the rise, which is a cause of concern for both police and people. Criminals get away easily after committing heinous crimes. A special task force comprising the senior police officers of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula should be formed to deal with such criminals in a coordinated way. In addition, tenants’ verification and CCTV cameras installation be made compulsory.Subhash Chugh, via emailForm a tricity police coordination committeeA committee headed by an IPS officer and headquartered in Chandigarh should be devised to ensure better coordination amongst the police forces of the three cities. This committee should have a proper working mechanism and coordinate on all fronts related to crime, drugs, gangsters etc. Additionally, this committee should also work on issues related to traffic, by involving traffic personnel as well. Kampreet Gill, ChandigarhDiscourage gun cultureBesides better coordination among the police of the three cities of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula, we need the police to strengthen its informers’ network so as to nab all gangsters and history-sheeters. Cops also need to increase vigilance on ground as well as on social media, which are now being widely used by the gangsters for one-upmanship over their rivals. Gun cultures, especially in popular media such as movies and songs, must be discouraged.Sandeep Rawat, ChandigarhTime for police reformsPunjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi have witnessed gang wars, leaving a trail of blood. Not a new phenomenon. Earlier we had dacoits who operated in their own areas but seldom crossed the path of one another. Now, criminal gangs operate across state borders. Extortion is their common methodology as it an easy route to get rich and powerful. Undoubtedly, most gangs enjoy political and police patronage. Police needs super cops like Ashwani Kumar, KPS Gill and Riberro, who do not succumb to political pressure, to lead the war against these gangs. And no officer must remain posted at the same place beyond a period of three years. Courts also need to carry out serious purposeful introspection. They should under no circumstance grant bail to persons owing allegiance to gang lords. Col SK Aggarwal (Retd), PanchkulaBan songs promoting gun culture, alcohol In order to eliminate gang culture from tricity, there must be total ban on playing songs that promote gun culture and alcohol. This ban should be implemented across the media, including FM Radios, TV channels, internet and discotheques. The honourable Punjab and Haryana high court has already issued directions against playing such songs. Panditrao Dharenavar, ChandigarhWork with citizens to catch the gangstersEvery gang has some political connection which gives them the confidence to operate with impunity. This is also why police are unable to take strict action against them. Cops should not entertain political interference and work towards strengthening the presence in the city. At the outset, special training must be organised for residents to make them aware of the need to thoroughly verify their tenants before renting out a place and also alerting the police when they see anything suspicious. Besides, patrolling must be increased and swift action must be taken against anyone found possessing illegal weapons. Action must also be taken against the sand and liquor mafia, which often fund the activities of such gangs.Subhash Nagpal, ZirakpurNip evil in the budThe gangs and gangsters are not raised in a single day. The general public can barely do much to solve this issue. The onus lies with police and other law-enforcement agencies. Keeping strict tabs on the activities of the gangs can help nip them in the bud.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliBlacklist politicians who back gangsters Gangs operating in the city have political support that makes them bold to move freely and give threats or take responsibility for murders. Lackadaisical attitude and improper strategy of the police also hinder the action against gang culture. A large chunk of criminals is out on bail and poor decisions by the judiciary give them a chance to carry on with criminal activities again and again. The judiciary needs to restrict bail to such elements. Also, politicians who provide patronage to gangsters must be removed from their positions of power. Arms license should be only be given to persons after proper verification. Jail staff too should stay vigilant against ganglords operating from inside the jail. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliDon’t let gangsters go scot-freeTricity has become a centre of mafia, gang leaders, suppliers of drugs and addicts. After the heat of Punjab police on these gangs, they have got a safe haven in Chandigarh and nearby areas. They are operating from their own luxurious area, the safe havens of jails, and openly threatening members of other gangs over the social media while cops either remain clueless or act as mute spectators. Shoddy investigations, false witnesses, exchange of money all go on to weaken the case against criminals, ultimately letting them go scot-free. So the cops of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula must join hands and work to wipe out the gang culture before it rises to monstrous proportions.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhTimely action can prevent crimesThere is a need to strengthen the police beat system. Police, in most cases are aware of the operations and modus operandi of gangs, most of who operate in the periphery. Timely action can prevent many a crimes from occurring. Apart from outsmarting the antisocial elements, there is need for greater coordination on part of various policing authorities involved, fast tracking of criminal cases and non-interference of our politicians .DS Banati, MohaliMake the best possible use of technology To eliminate gang culture from tricity, regular patrolling by police officials is a must. Beat box staff must be equipped with the latest gadgets. Most importantly, in this digital era, police must make the best possible use of technology and use modern equipment such as closed-circuit television cameras etc to catch hold of these criminals. Needless to say, better coordination among the police forces of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula will go a long way in ending the gang culture.Vineet Gandhi, ManimajraBring criminals to justice expeditiouslyThe murder of a youth Akali Dal leader in broad daylight is a testimony to the deteriorating law and order situation in the tricity. The incident needs to be probed in an expeditious manner and the perpetrators must be brought to justice so as to instill fear of the law in the minds and the hearts of criminals. In the present milieu, student politics has become increasingly complex and widespread. Often, youth turn to politics in the hopes of minting money and grabbing power. Though dabbling with politics is a risky affair, yet it is well known that many political leaders are an outcome of university system across the world. What is really needed in student politics is mindful learning about democracy, timely tutelage under a political party and rightful conduct at the grassroot level.Surbhi Negi, DhakoliMonitor activities of anti-social elementsThe tricity authorities should form a committee to maintain law and order. A list of gangsters should be prepared and their activities should be monitored. Strict checking should be carried out on the borders of the three cities and proper verification must be carried out of all tenants, vendors and hawkers. Regular checks should also be carried out at hotels, inns etc which often serve a hideout to such criminals.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliEducation, equal opportunities for youthPromising lives are cut short due to the prevailing gang culture in the city as well as the country. We, as a society, have barely taken any steps to prevent youths from taking to the path of crime. Providing education opportunities and an equal chance at a good life can stop many of these youths from throwing away their lives to the world of crime. Teachers must be specially trained to identify and reform any problematic behaviour in the young. Ishita Nara, via emailReform and rehabilitate youths in conflict with lawThe only and only way to eliminate the crime is to nip the evil in the bud. Criminals and gangsters do not mushroom overnight. Youngsters drawn towards crime take quite a bit of time to become hardened criminals and their sure-shot tell-tale signs certainly appear during incubation period. Parents and teachers should keep a watch for such tell-tale signs. The SHOs of each police station should keep tabs on the activities of youth in the areas. On the slightest of any anti-social tendencies, steps should be taken to reform them. Repeat of crime on any kind should be taken seriously. Educational institutions should be de-politicised, because politics in educational institutions is a fertile breeding ground for gangsters and criminals.AK Sharma, ChandigarhLaid-back attitude of law enforcement agenciesScant fear of law among criminals and a laid-back law-enforcement system are the main reasons why gang culture is thriving in the tricity. Only the strong political will and non-interference in criminal investigation and prosecution in a professional manner, can stem the rot. The tricity governance badly needs synergy and laws on the lines of the Uttar Pradesh gangsters and anti-social activities (Prevention) Act, 1986. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaCheck songs promoting violenceFor the past few years, the tricity has been becoming more and more unsafe due to the various gangs operating here. While the root cause of the rise of gang culture is widespread unemployment, poverty and a general lack of law and order, one must also look at the influence that films and songs have on the minds of the young and the impressionable. References to guns and violence have an impact on the minds of youth who go on to become hardened criminals and a threat to the society. Simran Sharma, ChandigarhGrowing feeling of fearRising incidents of gang violence in the City Beautiful cannot be undermined at all. Such incidents make residents feel insecure in the city. The recent death of a political leader in the Tricity is a wake-up call for authorities. Police must take strict and quick action against the guilty. The gang culture needs to be brought to an end by a certain deadline. The police of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula should work together for the purpose. Advanced weapons should be provided to the police and CCTV cameras to catch the criminals. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhREADER OF THE WEEK:Channelise youths’ energies in a positive direction The broad daylight murder of Vicky Middukhera has exposed the prevailing gang culture in Tricity. Most of these gangs have thousands of supporters and followers on social media, and their rivalries play out in full public view. Amid high levels of unemployment and the lure of a luxurious lifestyle, youngsters gravitate towards anti-social activities. To put an end to the prevailing gang culture, we must channelise the youths’ energies in the right direction. Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd), Chandigarh WHAT EXPERTS SAY:Instill fear of lawGangs thrive on the fear factor. The only way to deal with them is through an effective law and order mechanism that instills fear in gangsters. Of course, coordination among tricity law enforcement agencies, good operational intelligence, effective and time-bound prosecution leading to conviction and proper prison management are equally important. Suresh Arora, former DGP, Punjab Tenant verificationAll landlords have been instructed to verify the antecedents of their tenants. In case any landlord fails to comply, strict action will be taken against them. We are also coordinating with the Chandigarh and Panchkula police and sharing information on real-time basis to check the activities of the gangs. Their sympathisers are also under being closed monitored. Satinder Singh, SSP, Mohali IdentificationWe have already taken steps to identify people working for gangsters and running extortion rackets. Several gang members are lodged in jails, and we brought them on production warrants to city to identify and break the network. Kuldeep Singh Chahal, SSP, Chandigarh VigilanceBesides forging better coordination between police of different states, we need to strengthen our laws and prosecution system. We also need to check the use of mobile phones in jails and keep tabs on encrypted apps such as Whatsapp and Telegram that are widely used by these anti-social elements to plot their next move. Saurabh Singh, commissioner of police, PanchkulaCrackdown OCCU has adopted a special strategy for gangsters active in the Tricity. We have been working closely with the Chandigarh and Haryana Police and share information with each other. We are putting special focus on cracking down the organised crime network.RN Dhoke, ADGP, Organised Crime Control Unit||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-debates-guns-gangs-and-a-gory-picture-101629485825918.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai-Delhi route being put on fast track: Western Railway||In a move aimed at reducing the travel time between Mumbai and New Delhi by up to three hours, the Western Railway (WR) has started groundwork on projects to increase speed of its outstation trains.Rajdhani Express, which takes 15 hours, is the fastest train on the Mumbai-Delhi route. The travel time by Rajdhani Express is expected to reduce to 12 hours after increasing its speed to 160 kilometres per hour (kmph) from the current range of 110 -130 kmph, said WR officials.For the purpose, WR is taking up a slew of infrastructure works at the cost of ₹11,188 crore. Expected to be completed by March 2024, the works include strengthening of railway tracks, laying of geogrids and geotextiles on the route, construction of compound walls along the tracks at several places to prevent trespassing and fitting the train with anti-collision system to avoid accidents.Of the 1,474 kms between Mumbai and Delhi, WR will be working on increasing the speed between Mumbai Central and Nagda in Madhya Pradesh (693km), Vadodara and Ahmedabad (95km), Nagda and Mathura (545km). The North Central Railway will work to accelerate speed between Mathura and Palwal, Haryana (82km), while the Northern Railway will work on increasing the speed between Palwal and New Delhi (57km).WR has started work to install a train anti-collision system on railway sections between Virar-Vadodara, Vadodara-Ratlam and up to Nagda stations on the Mumbai- New Delhi route. The anti-collision system provides infrared waves on the railway tracks that activates alarm signals and reduces the speed of a train, and also alerts the loco pilot of any incoming train on the same track that could lead to a train collision.Along with providing a train anti-collision system, WR will be undertaking major strengthening and upgradation activities. Laying of geogrids and geotextiles with deep screening of railway tracks between Churchgate and Virar stations is being undertaken with the help of ballast-cleaning machines. Geogrids and geotextiles are thin fragments of mesh and soil that are put inside the tracks. They reinforce and stabilise the soil and prevent the tracks from damage. The work aims to strengthen and increase the stability of the tracks along with deep screening and cleaning of sleepers placed inside the tracks.The railways has also undertaken the construction of boundary walls alongside the tracks wherein the speed of the outstation trains will be increased.“It is the vision of railways to increase the speed of trains on the Mumbai and New Delhi route. We have started work on the project in full swing. Tendering processes for different works to increase the speed is ongoing,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR.“All the departments involved are working on issuing tenders and have started on ground work on different railway sections for increasing the speed of the trains. The construction of boundary walls has also started,” said a senior WR official.Passengers’ associations have stated that the increase in speed would help in saving commuting time and the project should be implemented on other routes too. “The speed increase of outstation trains will provide better connectivity between the two cities. There are other routes which are easier to access by road than by rail as train travel takes a lot of time. Increasing speed on other routes should also be focused,” said Subhash Gupta, president, of Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaidelhi-route-being-put-on-fast-track-western-railway-101629485528100.html
21-08-2021||Other||51-ft bronze statue of Lord Ram to be installed at Shringverpur||PRAYAGRAJ: To make Shringverpur a major tourist destination of the country, the state government has decided to install a 51-feet (15.54 metres) tall statue showing Lord Ram hugging Nishadraj. Shringverpur is a place of pilgrimage on the banks of the Ganga in Prayagraj, about 30 kilometres from the district headquarters. It is believed to be the place where Nishadraj (head of the boatmen’s clan) helped Lord Ram cross the Ganga in his boat while the latter was on his way to 14 years of exile with his wife Sita and younger brother Lakshman as per the holy Hindu text Ramayana. It is said Ram was so overwhelmed that he hugged him. Shringverpur is also one of the major sites on the ambitious Ram Van Gaman Path project of the state government. The State Lalit Kala Akademi, (Department of Culture, UP) has floated a tender for the installation of a 51-feet statue. The sculpture, to showcase ‘Maharaj Nishadraj Bhagwan Shri Ram se gale milte huye’ (Lord Ram hugging Nishadraj) will be made of bronze at an estimated cost of ₹5 crore. Recently, the state government had also announced that a 251- metre statue of Lord Ram would be installed at along the river Saryu in Ayodhya. This would be the tallest statue in the world and show Lord Ram with a bow, arrow and a quiver. The statue at Shringverpur was also recently announced by deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya during the three-day event of Deepotsav at Shringverpur in November 2020. The proposed bronze statue at Shringverpur would also have lead, tin and zinc (each 5%) to provide it strength. The hollow cast metal statue would be 6-7mm thick, without the use of bronze sheet. The statue would also have steel framework to support it. Once the agency is awarded the work, the same would be completed within 110 days from the date of award of the work order, informed district officials aware of the development. The locals have welcomed this move of the state government. “During last year’s fest the deputy CM had made the announcement to install the statue and we feel that the state government has honoured our demand by deciding to install such a magnificent statue at the tapobhumi of saint Shringi”, said Sanjay Tiwari, a local. Every year Shringverpur festival is organised at this place wherein the ghat beside Ganga is decorated with attractive electric lights and diyas are lit all over Ramghat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/51ft-bronze-statue-of-lord-ram-to-be-installed-at-shringverpur-101629485045514.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Five districts have 63% of Maharashtra’s total active Covid cases||Five districts — Pune, Solapur, Satara, Sangli and Ahmednagar — have been contributing the highest daily Covid-19 caseload in Maharashtra. Around 63% of the total active cases in the state are in these districts, with Pune topping the list with 12,558 active cases. State health officials said each district has been showing a distinct pattern of the spread. “There is no specific answer to why the numbers are not declining in these five districts,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state on Covid-19. “There are multiple and varied reasons. What is clear is that there is still a susceptible population in these districts which is getting infected,” he said. According to Salunkhe, districts in Maharashtra are vast and are divided into distinct areas like rural, urban and peri-urban. “The infection is now largely spreading in the rural population. Also, due to relaxations in activities, cases have been on the rise,” he said. Maharashtra has recorded over 6.4 million Covid-19 cases and over 135,500 deaths till date. Currently, the state has 55,454 active cases. Of these, Solapur has 4,580, Satara 6,658, Sangli 5,210 and Ahmednagar has 5,709 active cases. Satara district health officials said rise in home isolation has led to a spurt in positive cases as people do not follow isolation rules and, in turn, infect others in the family and community. According to a report drafted by health officials earlier this week, around 60% of positive patients in the district have been under home isolation and the remaining are in institutional isolation. At least 50 villages in Satara are reporting more than 20 cases every day for the past two weeks. And despite this, strict containment rules are not being implemented. “It has become difficult to get people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Dr Radhakrishna Pawar, district health officer of Satara. “We have asked all talukas to increase institutional isolation,” he said. Solapur district, on the other hand, has compulsory institutional isolation. The surge in Covid cases has been driven by increasing number of infections among farmers. Most cases are being recorded in three talukas — Pandharpur, Malshiras and Madha. “These talukas have large families of farmers who permanently live in shelters on their farms. We have started getting many positive cases among them,” said Dr Shitalkumar Jadhav, district health officer of Solapur. “Over the past 10 days, we have reduced home isolation to almost zero. But the virus is now infecting rural population,” he said. In Pune, too, a higher number of cases have been recorded from Pune rural. In Ahmednagar and Sangli, health officials observed that people are crowding at events and in marketplaces, leading to continuous rise in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-districts-have-63-of-maharashtra-s-total-active-covid-cases-101629484986740.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi movie ‘Shooter’ banned in Haryana||The Haryana government has suspended exhibition of Punjabi movie ‘Shooter’ with immediate effect, till further orders and during such suspension, the film shall be deemed uncertified in State. An official spokesperson said violent content and depiction of dark world of crime in the movie is likely to have a harmful effect on the youth as they are vulnerable to “glorification of crime and violence”. “Screening of the film might promote gangster/gun culture and thus, will negatively influence impressionable minds of teenagers and youths,” the government spokesperson said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-movie-shooter-banned-in-haryana-101629484925581.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Monsoon breaks pause in Delhi, but IMD says respite short-lived||Marking an end to the 10-day-long dry spell, light rain hit the national capital on Friday.India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the city may get another “intense” spell of rain on Saturday. However, it added that the respite may be short-lived as another short dry spell is likely over the last week of August.Delhi last received showers on August 8, recording 15.4 mm rainfall. Weather officials said that for northwest India including Delhi, the monsoon entered a break phase on August 9, which continued till August 19. This was the longest monsoon pause during August since 2017. Unlike July, which received surplus rainfall (507.1 mm), August has so far received only 74.2 mm rainfall. The normal rainfall for August, usually the month when Delhi receives heavy rain, is 247.7 mm.An orange alert has been issued considering a ‘moderate’ spell of rainfall on Saturday that may inundate low-lying areas across the city. “The monsoon trough has reached Delhi and rain activity is likely to intensify on August 21. The good spell is also likely to lead to a significant drop in the mercury. Light rainfall and thunder activity may continue in parts of the city till at least August 23,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.The IMD uses four colour codes: Green means all is well while yellow indicates severely bad weather. It also suggests that the weather could change for the worse, causing disruption in day-to-day activities. Orange alert is issued as a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply. Red is when extremely bad weather conditions are certainly going to disrupt travel and power and have significant risk to life.According to IMD records, on Friday, the Safdarjung observatory, considered representative of Delhi’s weather, received 11mm rainfall between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm. The Lodhi Road weather station received 13.4 mm rainfall during the same period. Palam weather station recorded 6.4 mm rainfall till 5.30 pm. Ridge and Ayanagar stations received 2 mm and 1 mm rain, respectively.Explaining the reason behind the dry spells this monsoon, Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, Skymet, a private forecaster. said usually every monsoon, four to five weather systems are formed over the Bay of Bengal, which travel to different parts of the country inducing rain. “This season only two significant weather systems have been formed and hence the dry spells in some parts of the country,” he said.The rain cooled the city bringing respite from sultry weather conditions with the maximum temperature being recorded at 32.8 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season’s average and the minimum temperature at 27.3 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal.Humidity levels oscillated between 97% and 70%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-breaks-pause-in-delhi-but-imd-says-respite-shortlived-101629484805747.html
21-08-2021||Other||MDU, Rohtak allocates exam centres far from home districts, students hassled||The postgraduate second semester students enrolled through distance education mode at Rohtak’s Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) have alleged that their examination centres have been allocated nearly 120-200km away from their home districts.The second semester exam for the students enrolled through distance education will start from August 27.Rekha Tanwar, a political science student from Gurugram, said her examination centre is in Sonepat and it is difficult for her to report there at 9am in all five exams.“During first semester, my centre was just 25km from home. I’m worried that I’ll have to spend 2-3 hours in travelling to reach Sonepat. I’m in a dilemma on whether to appear in the exam or not. I don’t know why the university officials have changed my examination centre. Due to officials’ wrong decisions, we have to face the consequences,” she said.Pardeep Kumar, a student from Mahendergarh, was upset that his exam centre is allocated in Meham.“Last time, my centre was allocated in Rohtak city and somehow I managed things. This time, the centre is Meham which is nearly 40km from Rohtak. Instead of allocating my exam centre in my home district or neighbouring district, the MDU officials have shifted it so far. The officials should change the centres of students who have to travel over 100km to take the exam,” he said.A student from Kaithal, not wanting to be named, was worried as her exam centre was allocated in Rohtak.“It’s not possible for me to travel everyday to take the exam. I’m surprised that the university has taken such a decision. I’ll have to bear ₹5,000 for stay and food, if my centre is not changed,” the student added.Student activist Anil Narwal said students will have to bear the brunt of the varsity’s wrong decisions.“If the students’ exam centres are not changed, they will have to spend around six hours in commuting to and fro to centres. It has become a habit of the MDU officials to take such decisions without consultations or review meetings,” he added.MDU director of distance education Nasib Singh Gill said the controller of examination has solved the grievances of many students after Gill appraised him of the situation.“The centres were allocated on the basis of centre choice filed by the students during admission. If some students have made wrong choices, they can approach the controller of examination. We are trying to allocate centres to students that are at a near distance from their homes,” Gill added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mdu-rohtak-allocates-exam-centres-far-from-home-districts-students-hassled-101629484745565.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC questions Haryana on delay in providing artificial limbs to Panipat boy||The Punjab and Haryana high court has questioned the Haryana government over delay in providing artificial limbs to a Panipat boy who lost both his arms and a leg due to electrocution in 2011.The minor had outgrown the artificial limbs he was using since 2016. He was to be provided new artificial limbs in 2021 for which the Haryana government was to undertake a fresh tender process.During the hearing, the government told court that certain training, etc of the child is required and requisite details of the prosthesis required are not known, so, tenders could not be floated.The HC bench of justice Lisa Gill observed that the state’s stand reflects an indifferent attitude and is prima facie contentious as directions have already been issued on earlier occasions to ensure that the boy does not remain without prosthesis.As per the August 2020 order, tendering process was to be completed in six weeks. But almost a year after the order, no action has been taken so far.As per the govenrment’s own stand, specifications of the artificial limbs were to be finalised one year in advance, amicus curaie, Anil Malhotra had told court.“In the given circumstances, it is not understandable as to why necessary steps have not been taken till date and why the petitioner is without prosthesis for such a long period,” the bench recorded, posting the matter for August 26 and giving a last opportunity to the state to take a decision.In 2013, the HC had awarded compensation to the boy and issued directions to provide him artificial limbs as it was found that he suffered due to negligence of authorities.The matter went up to the Supreme Court, which in 2014 upheld the decision that UHBVN would pay ₹60 lakh to the petitioner.In 2016, myoelectric prostheses worth ₹50 lakh were given to the boy, who was five at the time of the mishap. He had suffered 100% disability after coming in contact with a sagging 11KV transmission line passing over the roof of his house.Myoelectric prostheses are externally powered artificial limbs that one controls with the electrical signals generated naturally by his/her own muscles. However, these prostheses have become redundant now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-questions-haryana-on-delay-in-providing-artificial-limbs-to-panipat-boy-101629484565641.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Hooda complains of rough treatment by security officials outside Haryana assembly||Terming it a breach of legislative privilege, the leader of Opposition in Haryana assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, on Friday griped over the alleged ill-treatment meted out by security officials to him and party MLAs during their protest march towards the state assembly.Hooda said he and party MLAs were pushed by the security officials despite the fact that they were holding a peaceful demonstration.“Such things have never happened to me. We were marching peacefully. It is my right to come to the assembly,” Hooda said.The former CM was supported by party MLAs Geeta Bhukkal and Raghuvir Singh Kadian.“If the leader of Opposition is not allowed to proceed towards the assembly, who would be?” the Congress MLAs said.When Hooda demanded that the matter be inquired by the assembly Speaker, the latter assured of referring the matter to the Committee of Privileges.Earlier, Congress MLAs marched to the Vidhan Sabha protesting against the state government on the issues of paper leaks, atrocities on farmers, rising unemployment, inflation and rising crime graph in the state. The MLAs raised slogans against the BJP-JJP government.Hooda said it is responsibility of the Opposition to raise the voice of public from the streets to the House on issues of public interest.“The state government does not want the Opposition to raise public issues in the House and an attempt was made to stop Congress MLAs marching on foot by putting up barricades far from the assembly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hooda-complains-of-rough-treatment-by-security-officials-outside-haryana-assembly-101629484508718.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Six amendment Bills introduced in Haryana assembly||The Manohar Lal Khattar-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) coalition government in Haryana introduced six amendment Bills in the Vidhan Sabha on Friday during the first sitting of the monsoon session of the assembly which lasted nearly five hours.The ministers concerned tabled the Bills in the House and discussions on these bills will be held later.The Haryana assembly has put in place a system under which most of the Bills are introduced in the House in advance so that the legislators can study them and hold gripping debates when the Bills are taken up for the discussion in the House.The Bills introduced include the Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Areas (Special Provisions) Amendment Bill, 2021; the Maharishi Balmiki Sanskrit University, Kaithal (Amendment) Bill, 2021; the Haryana Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill 2021; the Haryana Enterprises Promotion (Second Amendment) Bill, 2021; the Pandit Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts, Rohtak (Amendment) Bill, 2021; and the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Haryana Amendment) Bill 2021.‘Tubewell connection on priority to those opting micro-irrigation’Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said in the assembly that tubewell connections will be issued on priority to farmers adopting micro-irrigation.He said the state government is providing 85% subsidy to set up this system.The CM said even though Haryana is power surplus at present, the state will be judicious while sanctioning tubewell connections, keeping in view that the groundwater level is going down by 1-1.5m every year.While intervening during the discussion on calling attention notice of MLA Varun Chaudhry, Khattar said the groundwater level is continuously going down due to overexploitation of water.Khattar said after the December 27, 2018 announcement to release tubewell connections to those applying till December 31, 2018, thousands of people had applied for tubewell connections within four days.When they were asked to deposit ₹30,000 consent money, of 84,000 people, only 56,000 deposited the said amount. He said priority is to provide tubewell connections to those who have deposited the money.In his calling attention notice, Varun Chaudhry said: “...thousands of farmers...are endlessly waiting for their tube well connections...”In a written reply, state power minister Ranjit Singh said Haryana DISCOMS have released 13,636 new tubewell connections from November 1, 2019 to August 18, 2021.He said the condition of not releasing tubewell connections in notified areas/dark zone has been removed from July 23, 2021. Now, new connections, shifting and extension of load of the existing connections have been permitted in notified areas/dark zones provided that connections up to 35 BHP capacity will be released with mandatory installation of micro-irrigation system where water table is below 100-feet.House pays tributes to soldiers, Milkha Singh, freedom fightersThe Haryana Vidhan Sabha paid tributes to eminent personalities including soldiers, ‘flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh, and freedom fighters, who died after the end of the previous session of the state assembly.Led by the leader of the House and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, all members observed two-minute silence.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, and leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda read out the obituary resolutions and paid tributes to the departed souls.Among those remembered included former Haryana governor Jagannath Pahadia; ex-Vidhan Sabha speaker Satbir Singh Kadian; ex-minister Dr Kamla Verma; ex-deputy minister Prof Maha Singh; former ministers of state Rao Dharam Pal and Bahadur Singh; members of Haryana Vidhan Sabha Kitab Singh, Dariyao Singh Rajora, Chaudhary Zile Singh and Puran Singh.The House also paid tributes to corona warriors and others who lost their lives due to Covid-19 pandemic.Rich tributes were also paid to ‘flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh; freedom fighters Amilal (of Kherki, Gurugram), Lalti Ram (of Dubaldhan, Jhajjar), and Prabhati Lal (of Karira, Mahendragarh); soldiers killed in action Lt Amtoj Singh Sidhu (Dabwali), subedar Ajit Singh (Rohtak), naib subedar Vijay Kumar Sharma (Mahendragarh), naib subedar Manoj Kumar (Rewari), SI Bhuru Singh (Panipat), SI Bajrang Kumar (Mahendragarh), havildar Balwan Singh (Bhiwani), havildar Vedprakash (Charkhi Dadri), naik Akash Khatana (Gurugram), naik Kapil Dev (Jind), sepoy Mahender Singh ( Bhiwani), sepoy Biprin Bichwalia (Mahendragarh), sepoy Premchand (Jind), sepoy Dalip Kumar (Rewari), sepoy Inderjeet Singh (Mahendragarh), sepoy Surender Singh (Hisar), sepoy Pawan Singh (Mahendragarh), sepoy Vinod Kumar (Rewari), sepoy Amit (Bhiwani), sepoy Rajnish (Jhajjar), sepoy Umed Singh (Jhajjar), sepoy Rakesh Kumar (Jind), sepoy Jagmahender Singh (Hisar), and commando Sonu Pilania (Charkhi Dadri).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-amendment-bills-introduced-in-haryana-assembly-101629484326474.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt notifies policy to boost oxygen production||The Delhi government has notified a policy to make the city-state self-reliant in the production of medical oxygen to meet any crisis or emergency as the one that arose during April-May when an unprecedented rise in the number of oxygen-dependent Covid-19 patients witnessed city hospitals running out of the life-saving gas.The Medical Oxygen Production Promotion policy, 2021, was approved by the Delhi Cabinet on August 3. Under the policy, private enterprises which will invest in production and storage of medical oxgyen will receive subsidies on aspects such as production, transport, storage capacity and power consumption. They will also get full reimbursements on state GST and stamp duty.The gazette notification was officially issued on Thursday, August 19, said the document, a copy of which HT has seen.The document said, “The ongoing Covid-19 crisis fuelled by new 2021 strain of the virus has put enormous pressure on existing healthcare infrastructure, including medical logistics, in the NCT of Delhi. A large number of Covid-19 patients need oxygen support at hospitals and at homes. This sudden increased demand coupled with negligible oxygen production in the state has necessitated dependence on resources outside Delhi. As the number of patients requiring oxygen support increased in a short span of time, the pressure of supply of medical oxygen to hospitals was significantly strained due to notable delay in movement of oxygen from outside Delhi. Though the present situation is better, a similar crisis may re-occur in future and it is needed to be better equipped to manage such a situation in future.”The notification document said that the objectives of the policy are “to make Delhi self-reliant in terms of medical oxygen production and supply” which the government aims to achieve by encouraging the setting up new manufacturing enterprises and expanding the production capacity of existing ones for “uninterrupted oxygen supply” to hospitals and nursing homes, and “to facilitate storage and transportation of medical oxygen in Delhi”.Delhi witnessed an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases earlier this year, which left the healthcare infrastructure in the city overwhelmed. At its peak, Delhi added a daily average of 25,294 new Covid-19 cases for the week ending April 23. A severe crisis of medical oxygen turned the situation worse. While the Capital’s demand was around 700MT per day, it received between 300 MT – 500 MT for around 10 days even as it witnessed the worst of the wave. In usual times, Delhi’s oxygen consumption on a daily basis is about 250 MT, senior government officials said.Oxygen was sourced to Delhi from plants in several states that include Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Odisha. The distribution task across India was taken over by the central government under laws concerning epidemics. The same period witnessed incessant distress calls from hospitals and individuals and multiple instances of friction involving the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi, the Centre and governments in neighbouring states, mostly over logistics and movement of medical oxygen.The policy notification document said the government has broadly set five targets: Setting up of liquid oxygen (LOX) manufacturing facilities of minimum 50 MT (metric tonnes) capacity up to a total of 100 MT; Setting up of non-captive oxygen generation plants of minimum 10 MT and maximum 50 MT capacity up to a total of 100 MT; Setting up of captive oxygen generation plants of minimum 500 LPM (litres per-minute) capacity at hospitals and nursing homes to cater to their peak demand for medical oxygen up to a total capacity of 200 MT; Setting up of cryogenic tankers of minimum carrying capacity of 10 MT for the exclusive purpose of ferrying liquid medical oxygen up to a total capacity of 500 MT; Setting up of liquid medical oxygen storage tanks of minimum 10 MT capacity up to a total capacity of 1000 MT.The oxygen generation plants will either be pressure swing adsorption plants (PSA) or those using the air separation unit (ASU) technology, said the government.The document said, for liquid oxygen manufacturing plants, non-captive cryogenic plants and PSA plants for hospitals and nursing homes, the applicant will be eligible for a one-time subsidy of ₹20 lakh per metric-tonne capacity; for cryogenic tankers they will be eligible for one-time subsidy of ₹3 lakh per metric-tonne; And there is one-time subsidy of ₹1 lakh per metric-tonne on liquid medical oxygen storage for hospitals, nursing homes and re-fillers.To avail the incentives, liquid oxygen plants have to be commisioned by December 31, 2022, non-captive cryogenic plants by March 31, 2022, PSA plants for hospitals and nursing homes have to be commissioned by December 31, 2021, cryogenic tankers have to be registered in Delhi by December 31, 2021, and liquid storage facilities for hospitals, nursing homes and re-fillers too have to be easy by the end of this year, said the notification document.Power subsidy will be given to liquid oxygen generation plants and non-captive oxygen generation plants (PSA/ASU) at ₹4 per unit consumed in the manufacturing process for the first five years from the date of commencement of commercial production. Full reimbursement of gross SGST will be made to liquid oxygen generation plants and non-captive oxygen generation plants (PSA/ASU) within a month of commissioning of the plant, said the notification document.It also assures full reimbursement on stamp duty paid for purchase of land for medical oxygen generation plant or non-captive oxygen generation plant. Also, if the same enterprise is into producing industrial oxygen, they will not be disqualified. But enterprises availing the incentives have to assure that they operate for at least five years.The document said, the government will invite applications for grant of subsidies and incentives under the policy within 15 days of its notification. If the applications exceed the target capacity, then there will be a lottery to select eligible applicants up to the full target capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-notifies-policy-to-boost-oxygen-production-101629484096570.html
21-08-2021||Lucknow||Seat-sharing formula: Nishad party launches survey with BJP in eastern, central Uttar Pradesh||The Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (Nishad) party has launched a survey, along with its alliance partner the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in various districts of eastern and central Uttar Pradesh.The exercise is meant to identify the seats on which Nishad party nominees will be in a winnable position in the 2022 assembly election due early next year.Nishad party chief Sanjay Nishad said the survey report will be submitted to BJP national president JP Nadda to finalise the seat-sharing formula for the election.The votes of the Nishad community would be decisive in around 160 assembly constituencies in eastern and central UP, the Nishad party has claimed. The party had constituted committees in 70 constituencies for the election, he said.Sanjay Nishad attended a meeting at the residence of Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Thursday. BJP national president JP Nadda, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, BJP state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh and the party’s state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal were present at the meeting to discuss the strategy for the assembly election, expansion of the state cabinet and nomination of four members to the legislative council.After the meeting, Sanjay Nishad said, “I told the BJP leaders that the Nishad party, an alliance partner of the BJP, will field candidates in the assembly election. It was decided that the party will field candidates on the seats where it is in a strong position. Once the survey is over, another meeting will be held in Delhi with senior BJP leaders to finalise the seat-sharing formula.” The entry of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Bihar animal husbandry minister Mukesh Sahani, Jaalvanshi Morcha led by Gyanendra Nishad, Eklavya Sena run by Umed Singh, husband of bandit-turned politician Phoolan Devi, in the state before the assembly election as well as the overtures of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) to the Nishad party were discussed at the meeting.Sanjay Nishad said, “While a majority of the fringe organisations have no cadre, the Nishad party has a strong organisation in the districts of eastern UP. The party also showed the strength of its support base by winning the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat in the 2018 by-poll as well as the Sant Kabir Nagar Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 election,” he said. Sanjay Nishad’s son Praveen Nishad had won the Sant Kabir Nagar seat on the BJP ticket.To counter the SP and the BSP, the Nishad party urged the BJP leaders and chief minister Yogi Adityanath to include the Nishad, Majhwar, Kewat and Mallah communities in the list of scheduled castes and give them reservation in government jobs accordingly, the Nishad party chief added.The fishermen’s rights on ponds, lakes and rivers across the state that were withdrawn during the BSP rule should be restored, he said.He also called for withdrawal of the cases lodged against the Nishad community members during agitations.“The BJP leaders assured us that the demands will be fulfilled,” he said. A BJP leader said Sanjay Nishad was likely to be nominated to the legislative council and may also get a berth in the state cabinet in the possible expansion of the Yogi Adityanath ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/seatsharing-formula-nishad-party-launches-survey-with-bjp-in-eastern-central-uttar-pradesh-101629483907816.html
21-08-2021||Noida||Govt construction sites in Ghaziabad under dust pollution scanner||The UP pollution control board (UPPCB) has moved to get government agencies in Ghaziabad, like the public works department (PWD), municipal corporation and the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA), to take up dust mitigation measures at their projects such as highways, long drains and rapid rails, among others.Last year, the UPPCB had tasked private builders to reduce dust pollution at the source in order to control air pollution in the city. Developers were required to register themselves with the board, assess and declares measures they took and even put up CCTV cameras at construction sites to monitor dust pollution.“This year, we have also taken up government agencies that engage contractors for different projects. We have trained them in pollution control measures and have tasked them in passing this on to their contractors. These contractors will have to register with us online by September 30, before the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) comes into effect,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.Grap is a set of curbs triggered in phases as the air quality deteriorates in the National Capital Region (NCR), which is typical of the October-November period. Ghaziabad is listed among the 16 non-attainment cities in UP due to its high level of air pollution.The official added that the contractor will have to make similar declarations and assessments of their measures and a UPPCB team will inspect the site for compliance.Under the self-declaration process, the firms are required to furnish information on 33 points, which include measures such as application of treated water to mitigate dust generation at site, use of dust suppressants; wind fencing around the site, scaffolding sheets/nets for dust control, pollution control certificate for vehicles used to transport materials, ensuring adequate stack height and acoustic enclosures for diesel generator sets, and installation of cameras with open access to UPPCB, among others.“We will give feedback to the respective government agency. In case of shortcomings, we will issue them directions to comply. If they fail to comply, the erring contractor may face a penalty ranging from ₹50,000 to ₹5 lakh. A repeat violation could result in prosecution and we may ask the government agency to blacklist the firm,” Sharma said.The UPPCB said that their move to control dust at source already had private group housing projects over 20000 square metres.The pollution board in October 2020 conducted a study of different road stretches in Ghaziabad and found 18 different roads which generated high levels of dust pollution.The environmentalists said that measures to control dust pollution have taken a back seat in the city.“Having inventory of all projects is must. The dust/air pollution does not differentiate between a private project and a government project. The step should have been taken long back in wake of high levels of air pollution which the city suffers. Once all projects are taken up in inventory, there should be equitable monitoring and enforcement,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/govt-construction-sites-in-ghaziabad-under-dust-pollution-scanner-101629483725934.html
21-08-2021||Noida||Traders rejoice as UP govt lifts curfew on Sundays||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday announced lifting of Covid curfew imposed on Sundays from August 22. With this, the weekend curfew imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19, since April this year has come to an end. The government had earlier revoked the curfew on Saturdays. Officials said the night curfew will however continue to be in place.Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), issued the directions on Friday and stated that all activities will be allowed every day from Sunday between 6am and 10pm with adherence to Covid protocols.Traders in Ghaziabad and GB Nagar cheered the announcement and said businesses that had suffered till now will get a boost with Rakshabandhan and Janmashtami coming up. They said the government should remove the night curfew also.S K Jain, president of the Sector 18 market association and convener of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) in Delhi-NCR, said removing the weekend curfew has been a long standing demand of the trader community ever since the economy started gradually opening up with the decline in Covid cases.“Sunday is Rakshbandhan. People celebrate this festival and buy gifts and sweets for brothers and sisters. Lifting the curfew will give a significant boost to business,” he said.He said that the weekend restrictions had forced many customers from Gautam Budh Nagar to shop in Delhi markets. “The traders will get full opportunity to do business and the customers will also have the opportunity to make purchases on time even during the holiday,” he said.The decision has come as a pleasant surprise to restaurateurs as well. “Just last week, the government removed restrictions on Saturdays and so we did not expect such a move so soon. However, we welcome it as the last four months have been hard on us. Weekends are important for those in the dining business as it draws most customers,” said Varun Khera, president of National Restaurants Association of India, Noida Chapter.Syed Shameem Anwar, associate director of marketing of Entertainment City, which runs the Great India Place Mall and Gardens Galleria in Sector 38A, said that the decision made retailers and shop owners happy. “With relaxation on Sundays, and movies releasing in theatres, we expect the crowd to increase,” said Anwar.Traders’ association members in Ghaziabad said the night curfew too should be lifted.“Allowing operations only up to 10pm is not good for eateries, restaurants and other food chains. They need more time to serve customers. Nowadays, the number of cases has also declined drastically. The government should ease night curfew at least in districts that have very low cases,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram in Ghaziabad.Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter), also backed the idea. “There is always an option to bring back restrictions once there is any spike in cases. Considering the Covid situation, it is also time to increase the vaccination coverage,” said .The night curfew was first introduced on April 8, while the weekend closure of markets, haats, commercial establishments and offices started from April 16.The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has decided to resume the metro rail service on Sunday too. Ritu Maheshwari, NMRC managing director, said this change will be effective from August 22 (Sunday) onwards. “NMRC currently operates from 6am to 10pm from Monday to Saturday. The services on Sundays will begin from 8am till 10pm. The trains will run at an interval of 10 minutes during peak hours (8am to 11am and 5 pm to 8pm) and 15 minutes during at other times from Monday to Friday,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traders-in-twin-cities-hail-move-as-up-scraps-weekend-closure-of-markets-night-curfew-to-remain-101629483484903.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||AAP says BJP owes ₹2,640 crore to MCDs for not paying for hoardings||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) owe around ₹2,640 crore to the municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) on account of using hoarding sites under their jurisdictions without paying, a claim which the latter denied as baseless.“The party did not pay a penny for using MCD’s hoardings. The BJP should present proof if they have paid for the hoardings. The BJP has been using MCD’s paid hoarding sites for free for publicity of its top leaders, including MPs. The MCDs have been robbed off by ₹2,640 crore,” said AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj in a press conference at the party’s head office in central Delhi.He further said, “How did the BJP put up hoardings for free at sites which cost ₹1-2 lakh per year per hoarding?... Every resident is a witness to their scams. We will organise a social media campaign against this. Earnings from the hoardings would have been used to pay the salaries of MCD’s officers, doctors, nurses and frontline workers. The BJP has not paid their salaries for months.”Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor dismissed the allegations. “Mr Saurabh Bhardwaj, by raising the political hoardings issue, has tried to shift focus from today’s burning topic of the CBI inquiry being initiated in Delhi government’s DTC bus purchase scam. People of Delhi are not interested in frivolous issues but want to know the Delhi government’s reply on DTC scam involving purchase of 1,000 buses at higher price,” he said.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to the municipal polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aapsays-bjp-owes-2-640-cr-to-mcds-for-not-paying-for-hoardings-101629483187360.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to support studies of kids who lost parents during Covid-19||The Directorate of Education (DoE) on Thursday asked all its district officials to ensure children who lost either one or both their parents during the Covid-19 pandemic continue their schooling uninterrupted.“All DDEs (deputy director of education) of districts are directed to ensure that children who have become orphans or lost a parent after March 2020 either due to Covid-19 or otherwise... such orphans need due attention to enable them to continue their education in the school,” said Mohinder Pal, DDE (Right to Education).The education department directed that such students may be adjusted in the same school, if running on DDA or government allotted land, for free without any draw of lot and after approval from all authorities.“Or, such students may be treated as a student studying under economically weaker section/ disadvantaged group category and reimbursement may be paid by Directorate of Education... After [they pass the] class, they may be given admission in any government school,” Pal said in the circular.A senior official of the education department, requesting anonymity, said, “The order has been issued so that our district education department officials and our heads of schools who are in contact with private schools can consult among one another and collect data on their situation under present circumstances. We will then move forward to ensure that their learning is not disrupted.”According to the Right to Education Act, 25% of seats in entry-level classes — nursery, kindergarten and Class 1 — in all private schools are to be reserved for the EWS/DG category, which includes 3% reservation for children with special needs. These students are entitled to free textbooks, writing material, and uniforms till Class 8, for which the government reimburses a fixed amount to the schools.Till June, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) had identified at least 2,029 children in the city who lost either one or both of their parents during the Covid-19 pandemic and shared these names with the Women and Child Development department to ensure that the eligible beneficiaries can avail of the government schemes.“Of these, 67 children have lost both their parents whereas 651 children have lost their mother due to Covid and 1,311 have lost their father due to Covid,” DCPCR said in a statement in June.During the fourth wave from March to May, Delhi saw over 13,000 recorded Covid-19 deaths and over 786,000 infections. On May 18, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced ₹50,000 relief for families of people who died of Covid-19, free education, and ₹2,500 per month till the age of 25 for those orphaned because of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doedirects-officials-to-ensure-education-of-children-who-lost-parents-during-pandemic-101629483187899.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Gujjar murder case: Gangster plotting to kill jail official held||An alleged Delhi gangster, who was plotting to kill a jail officer to avenge his accomplice Ankit Gujjar’s death inside the Tihar jail, was arrested from outer ring road at Chirag Delhi, said Delhi police on Tuesday.Police said Satender alias Satte, was also trying to arrange an AK-47 rifle to murder a Tihar jail deputy superintendent and avenge the killing of Gujjar, who was lodged in jail number 3 and was found dead on August 4. Delhi police have registered a murder case against the deputy superintendent of the prison but are yet to arrest anyone in the case.Delhi police said they arrested Satte (28) after they came across an audio clip in which two men are heard discussing about arranging an AK-47 rifle. Police said the phone conversation between the two men was widely circulated on social media after which they launched a probe.Satte, police said, is involved in more than 20 criminal cases such as murder, robbery and snatching. He is allegedly a sharpshooter of south Delhi’s Ankit Gujjar - Rohit Chaudhary gang. Gujjar was working with Chaudhary before his arrest in August last year. The two men, according to police, were trying to expand their footprint across Delhi. The gang is accused of crimes such as extortion, contract killings, robbery, land grabbing and snatching.“We identified the people involved in the conversation as Satte alias Satender and his accomplice Ajay Gujjar. In the clip, Satte is asking his accomplice to arrange an AK-47 rifle as he wanted to cause harm to the deputy superintendent. On August 17, we received information about Satender visiting a park near the outer ring road in Chirag Delhi to meet his accomplices. We laid a trap and arrested him from the spot. He was carrying a pistol and six live cartridges. We are questioning him to find his accomplices and the possible threat to any other person’s life, including the jail officer,” said a senior police officer who asked not be named.Satte, who was last arrested in 2019 for the murder of his rival in Saket, came out on interim bail last month. Police said Satte is involved in cases of extorting money from property dealers, gambling operators, bookies and builders.Gujjar (29) was found dead in his cell on the morning of August 4. Until his arrest in August 2020, Gujjar was one of the most wanted persons in western Uttar Pradesh. Police have in the past described Gujjar as a top gangster with at least eight murder cases registered against him. Jail officers, in their statement to police, have said that on August 3, the deputy superintendent and other guards conducted a search inside Gujjar’s cell and found a cell phone and a knife.The officers alleged that Gujjar slapped the deputy superintendent after which the prison guards used “minimum force” to restrain him and put him in a different cell. Gujjar was found dead the following morning. However, Gujjar’s family has accused prison officials of extortion and also submitted a clip, in which Gujjar is purportedly heard telling his sister about the threat to his life, as he was unable to pay the jail officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gujjar-murder-case-gangster-plotting-to-kill-jail-official-held-101629483186844.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||SDMC detects mosquito breeding at 23 Delhi bus depots||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has launched a drive to detect mosquito breeding sites at state bus depots across the city.Officials from the civic body said that so far, they have found mosquito breeding sites within the premises of 23 of 38 bus depots falling under its jurisdiction. The bus depots where breeding was found include Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) cluster bus depots at sector-22 Dwarka, Sukhdev Vihar, Khanpur, Vasant Vihar and Dichaon Kalan, among others.According to officials, the major reasons behind mosquito breeding were collection of rain water in scrap items lying unattended, like tyres, flower pots, desert coolers, etc. Mosquito breeding examiners sprayed Insecticides at the premises to destroy the sites, officials said. “A total of 20 notices and one challan have been issued to bus depot operators for allowing mosquito breeding,” it said.The corporation’s public health department also distributed handbills, displayed banners and used loudspeakers to create awareness among the staff working in DTC bus depots and neighbouring colonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sdmcdetecs-mosquito-breeding-at-23-delhi-bus-depots-101629483124866.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Airline staffer held for stealing at Delhi’s IGI airport||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) nabbed an airline staffer for allegedly stealing items from the cargo area of the Indira Gandhi International airport.A CISF official said that at 9.40pm on Wednesday, CISF personnel on duty found the behaviour of suspect, Ajay Sharma who was part of the Air India ground staff, suspicious and intercepted him while he exited the gates. Three laptops and a smart watch were recovered from his possession.Officials said that when questioned, he did not respond satisfactorily or produce any document to show it belonged to him.The stolen items were then handed over to Delhi Police at IGI Airport police station after which a case was registered under sections 379 (theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the IPC against Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/airline-staffer-held-for-stealing-at-delhi-s-igi-airport-101629482764867.html
21-08-2021||Pune||Light rainfall forecast for Pune over the weekend||Pune city is forecast to witness light rainfall till August 22. However, from August 22 to August 26, parts of Maharashtra state are forecast to receive above normal rainfall, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting, IMD Pune, said, “In Pune district, ghat areas have isolated heavy rainfall warnings. For city areas, the daytime conditions are generally cloudy with very light to light rainfall. From August 22, rainfall will be very light. The sky shall remain clear during this time,” said Kashyapi.“On August 23 and August 24, rainfall activity is likely to reduce in Konkan and Goa. Marathwada and Central Maharashtra, will receive isolated heavy rainfall till August 22. For Vidarbha, till August 22, there will be fairly widespread rainfall. After August 22, rainfall will reduce,” said Kashyapi.Pune city on Friday reported a rainfall of 0.1 millimetres. Between June 1 and August 8, Pune city has reported a total of 375.2 mm of rainfall.As per IMD, the actual rainfall received is 33.1 mm less than the normal expected rainfall.Dams are fullDue to good rainfall in the catchment areas, the four dams around Pune are almost full. Along with Panshet dam, Warasgaon dam is at 99.33 percent of capacity. As per the water resources department, Panshet is at 100 per cent, Khadakwasla dam is at 65.48 per cent and Temghar dam is at 88.91 per cent o-f capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/light-rainfall-forecast-for-pune-over-the-weekend-101629475504515.html
21-08-2021||Other||No booster dose until eligible population in Pune fully vaccinated: Ajit Pawar||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday that while the state government was not averse to the idea of a “booster dose” of vaccines against Covid-19, this can only be thought of only after the entire eligible population is fully vaccinated. No specific recommendation regarding a Covid-19 vaccine booster dose has been made by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) or the National expert group on vaccine administration for Covid (NEGVAC). Ajit Pawar, speaking after the weekly Covid review meeting in Pune, also reiterated that in Pune district, priority will be given to those who are due for their second dose of the vaccine. Last week, Cyrus Poonawalla founder of the Serum Institute of India (SII) advocated the need of a booster dose, six months after the second dose. “At the Covid review meet, some pressed for a booster dose, but before we move forward, eligible people in Pune and also in the state should get fully vaccinated. Then we can think of a booster dose. Many still haven’t received the first dose. The state government and I, personally, agree that a booster dose should be given,” said Ajit Pawar. Answering a question in the Rajya Sabha, Dr Bharati Pawar, minister of state for health and family welfare, on July 27, said, “There are some media reports of some countries considering booster doses of Covid-19 vaccine. The NTAGI and NEGVAC are deliberating and considering scientific evidence related to the dose schedule of Covid-19 vaccines. So far, no specific recommendation regarding a Covid-19 vaccine booster dose has been made by NTAGI or NEGVAC.” However, experts feel that in the future booster shots could be recommended in India. Earlier, in an interview with India Science, a channel of the department of science and technology, Dr Priya Abraham, director, National Institute of Virology (NIV) said a booster dose will definitely be recommended in India in future. “Studies on booster doses have been going on overseas and at least seven different vaccines have been tried for a booster dose. Now, WHO has put a stop to it till more countries catch up with vaccinations. This is because there is an alarming vaccine gap between high-income and low-income countries. In the future, recommendations for boosters will definitely come,” said Dr Abraham. Maharashtra is still dealing with a shortage of vaccine stocks. “Experts have stated that the second dose should be administered in the prescribed time limit after the first dose. If this doesn’t happen then the effectiveness of the vaccine may go down. So as of now for Pune, we have decided to prioritise second doses,” said Ajit Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-booster-dose-until-eligible-population-in-pune-fully-vaccinated-ajit-pawar-101629474364434.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi notifies policy to incentivise medical oxygen production, transportation||The Delhi government has notified the Medical Oxygen Production Promotion Policy 2021 that seeks to incentivise private enterprises to invest in the production, transportation and storage of medical oxygen to make the national capital self-reliant in the production of medical oxygen.The government order, which provides for subsidies and tax reimbursements to private firms, was issued on Thursday. HT has reviewed a copy of the notification. The policy, drafted after Delhi faced a severe crisis of medical oxygen during the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April this year, was approved by the Delhi Cabinet on August 3.The notification said the policy was designed to ensure that the city is better equipped to manage the situation if a similar crisis reoccurs.Requests for the subsidy and incentives will, however, need to be made within 15 days from the date of notification. If the government does not get enough applications to set up the targeted oxygen capacity in Delhi - it hasn’t put a number to it - it will reopen the window to apply for the incentives the following month.The government hopes the policy to encourage firms to set up new manufacturing enterprises and expanding the production capacity of existing ones for “uninterrupted oxygen supply” to hospitals and nursing homes and “facilitate storage and transportation of medical oxygen in Delhi”.The policy covers liquid oxygen (LOX) manufacturing facilities of a minimum of 50 MT (metric tonnes) capacity up to a total of 100 MT, non-captive oxygen generation plants of a minimum of 10 MT and a maximum 50 MT capacity up to a total of 100 MT; captive oxygen generation plants of minimum 500 LPM (litres per-minute) capacity at hospitals and nursing homes to cater to their peak demand for medical oxygen up to a total capacity of 200 MT; acquisition of cryogenic tankers of minimum capacity of 10 MT to exclusively ferry liquid medical oxygen up to a total capacity of 500 MT; and to set up of liquid medical oxygen storage tanks of minimum 10 MT capacity up to a total capacity of 1000 MT.The policy covers pressure swing adsorption plants (PSA) as well as those using the air separation unit (ASU) technology.The policy allows for a ₹20 lakh subsidy per metric tonne capacity for liquid oxygen manufacturing plants, non-captive cryogenic plants and PSA plants for hospitals and nursing homes, ₹3 lakh subsidy per metric-tonne capacity of cryogenic tankers; and a one-time subsidy of ₹1 lakh per metric-tonne for liquid medical oxygen storage for hospitals, nursing homes and re-fillers.Private firms hoping to get the financial incentives under the policy would, however, have to adhere to the deadlines for each category.The liquid oxygen plants will have to be commissioned by 31 December 2022 to avail the incentives; non-captive cryogenic plants by 31 March 2022; PSA plants for hospitals and nursing homes have to be commissioned by 31 December 2021, cryogenic tankers have to be registered in Delhi by 31 December 2021 and liquid storage facilities for hospitals, nursing homes and re-fillers have to be in place by the end of this year, said the notification.Establishments that set up the oxygen plants will also get power supply for running the plants at a subsidised rate of ₹4 per unit for the first five years and reimbursement of the gross State GST paid for liquid oxygen generation plants and non-captive oxygen generation plants (PSA/ASU) within a month of the plant’s commissioning.Stamp duty paid for the purchase of land for medical oxygen generation plants or non-captive oxygen generation plants will also be reimbursed. Enterprises that avail the incentives have to ensure that they operate for at least five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-notifies-policy-to-incentivise-medical-oxygen-production-transportation-101629469685876.html
21-08-2021||Mumbai||Witness in case against Param Bir Singh being threatened: Complainant||Inspector Anup Dange, who has filed a complaint against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh accusing him of corruption, extortion, and harassment, has written to Maharashtra’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) saying the accused were threatening a prime witness in the case.In a letter to the ACB chief, Dange on Friday wrote he too was being followed and that unidentified people were keeping a close eye on his movements. ACB is probing Dange’s complaint against Singh.Dange said he gave the name of the witness to the ACB, and that the information was leaked. He added in June, the witness started receiving threats. He claimed the people threatening the witness are the state’s powerful politicians.Also Read | Nashik enters Race to Zero campaign, to be carbon neutral by 2040Dange has requested ACB to record the statement of the witness. He said Singh and other accused persons will be responsible if he goes missing, meets any accident or any untoward things happens to him.“Apprehending threat to my life I would soon be writing to Mumbai Police commissioner requesting him to grant me arms license for privately carrying a firearm for my personal safety,” Dange said.Dange in February wrote to the state home department and chief minister’s office alleging Singh suspended him and ordered a departmental inquiry against him to shield a pub owner in a criminal case.After Singh became the Mumbai Police chief last year, he transferred Dange.Singh is on leave and his cell phone was switched off when HT tried to call him for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/witness-in-case-against-param-bir-singh-being-threatened-complainant-101629462904465.html
21-08-2021||Other||Two ITBP personnel killed in Chhattisgarh Maoist attack||An assistant commandant and an assistant sub-inspector of the 45th battalion of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police were killed in a Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur district on Friday, officials said.A small action team of Maoists attacked a team of the paramilitary personnel who were on an area domination exercise around 600 metres from their camp in Kadameta, under the Chhotedonger police station limits in the Bastar region, senior officials said.“The gunfight lasted for about 30 minutes,” Bastar inspector general of police Sundarraj P said. The Maoists looted an AK-47 rifle, two bullet proof jackets and a wireless set of the security personnel before fleeing the area, he said.The slain officers were identified as assistant commandant Sudhakar Shinde, 45, and assistant sub-inspector Gurmukh Singh, 40. Their bodies will be sent to their homes after a wreath laying ceremony in Narayanpur, officials said.The IG said that reinforcements have been dispatched to the area to conduct combing operations. “We are combing the jungles after the incident,” he said.Intelligence inputs suggested that the Maoists were near the ITBP camp for the past one week, people familiar with the matter said. The events that led to the attack will be analysed, the people said.The attack has come months after 22 security personnel were killed in a massive gunfight with Maoists in April in the neighbouring Sukma district.In Narayanpur district earlier in March, five police personnel were killed and several others injured in an IED attack on a bus they were travelling in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-itbp-personnel-killed-in-maoist-attack-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar-101629458224773.html
21-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi cop suspended for assaulting fireman, incident caught on camera||A Delhi Police constable, who was posted to outer Delhi’s Samaypur Badli police station, has been suspended and arrested for assaulting a Delhi Fire Services official on Thursday while the latter was on duty. The fire services official had asked the policeman to not go in a particular direction as they were dousing fire there.Residents of the area, however, caught the incident on camera and circulated the video widely on social media.HT could not independently confirm the authenticity of the video, but Delhi Police officers said they identified the policeman as Jitendra (identified in records by his single name) was identified through the video and suspended.“Jitendra has been booked under Delhi Fire Services Act and other relevant sections. He was sent on leave for three days and departmental action has been ordered against him,” said a senior police officer. “The fire had been doused and the cooling operation was ongoing, which resumed after the incident,” added the official.Also Read | Police find abducted toddler in Bihar village; kidnappers escapeAccording to police, Jitendra was riding a vehicle on the wrong side of the road in Samaypur Badli, and was asked to stop by a fire services official.This enraged the policeman, who grabbed a stick to beat the fire official. The video showed him assaulting the official. It also showed a traffic jam due to the policeman driving in the wrong direction.Police said that the fireman was injured on the arms. He was rescued by a few locals and his fellow firemen.A complaint was registered by the victim at Samaypur Badli police station after he received medical treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cop-suspended-for-assaulting-fireman-incident-caught-on-camera-101629447903768.html
21-08-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Maoist accused of killing over 30 people arrested||Ranchi: In a major success for Jharkhand and Bihar Police, two high-ranking Maoists, including a CPI (Maoist) rebel who was allegedly involved in the killing of 30 police personnel, were arrested by Jharkhand Police from Chatra and Hazaribagh districts in two days. The two Maoists were wanted by security forces in both the states.While Ramesh Ganjhu, accused of killing over 30 security personnel in ambushes, was arrested from Chatra district on Thursday, Pradyuman Sharma was held in Hazaribag in the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, police said. Originally from Chatra, Ganju was instrumental in carrying out several ambushes against security forces in the past two decades across Jharkhand and Bihar, including the one in Latehar district in Jharkhand in DATE/YEAR wherein 15 security personnel were killed. Improvised explosive devices (IEDs) were planted on the bodies of the slain personnel to cause further damage to forces collecting the bodies.Ganju, who was carrying a reward of ₹15 lakh, used the nomenclatures of Ankit and Azad, police said. He was named in 46 cases registered across various police stations in Jharkhand and Bihar, and was arrested with ₹1.5 lakh in cash allegedly collected as levy, police added.“The Chatra SP reported that Azad was on a recruitment drive for his front in Lawalong-Chatra area. A dedicated team led by Simariya SDPO Ashok Priyadarshi was constituted to nab him. The team entered Barwadih forest on Wednesday night. During the combing operation, they held one person in the forest, later identified as Azad,” a statement from the Jharkhand police department read.In another major catch, Pradyuman Sharma alias Kundan alias Saket, originally from Rushtampur under Hulasganj police station in Jehanabad district in Bihar, was held from a forested area under Chouparan police station in Hazaribagh district during a special combing operation on Thursday night. Sharma, who was carrying a reward of ₹25 lakh, had 90 cases registered against him and is a member of the Bihar-Jharkhand Special Area Committee of the outlawed CPI (Maoists), police said. “Pradyuman is one of the most significant members of the Magadh zone of CPI (Maoists). He has been in touch with the top leadership of their Eastern Regional Bureau (ERB). He has been participating in the meetings of the ERB and the BJ-SAC (Bihar Jharkhand Special Area Committee). He has been active since 1996 and is named in 90 cases in Bihar and Jharkhand,” Hazaribag superintendent of police Manoj Ratan Chothe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-maoist-accused-of-killing-over-30-people-arrested-101629432662727.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||National Teacher Award: Jammu teacher took up the cudgels for renovating school building||Two years ago, the government primary school, perched on a hillock in the remote Ikhani village, in Pouni block of Reasi district had no roof and damaged walls. Today, it stands fully restored with a Tricolour proudly fluttering on top of it. The change was brought about by 45-year-old Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, a teacher at the school, who has won the National Teacher Award for his contribution. Now, the school has 70 students—29 girls and 41 boys, largely from Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities. Sharma, who hails from Sungal village in Reasi district, has been teaching at the primary school since July 25, 2019. “Earlier, it would take me five hours to reach the school on bus, but now thanks to a new road, it only takes three hours. The school is located on a hill top in a remote area where rough weather and gusty winds are a common feature, as a result the roof had been blown away and the walls were damaged.” He came to know about the school during a “back to village programme” under which the government was hoping to revive different schools that had been lying in a dilapidated condition. “I decided to contribute my bit,” he said.  The school lies on the Narla axis of the adjoining Rajouri district and falls in the last corner of Reasi district. “When I first visited the school, it was in a shambles. The children were tending to cattle, instead of going to school. I had to convince the villagers to send their children to school. Initially, people were reluctant,” said Sharma. After getting people on board, Sharma started reconstructing and repairing the school building. “The education department provided us ₹25,000 for a facelift of the school building. The villagers also realised that I was working for the betterment of the village and did not charge me for labour,” said Sharma, adding that his child also studies at the same school. “In 2019, only 13 children were studying at the school and then the number rose to 50 last year. This year, 70 children — 29 girls and 41 boys — are pursuing their primary education at the school,” he added. Sharma has also presented papers at the national conferences of the teachers and has many publications in Dogri language to his credit. The former wrestler was also made nodal officer of Reasi district for the Khelo India programme, which was a huge success. Besides focusing on the education of the children, Sharma has been at the forefront of promoting the girl child, and providing them with equal opportunities in academics, sports and vocational training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nationalteacher-award-jammu-teacher-took-up-the-cudgels-for-renovating-school-building-1629402544903.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||National Teacher Award: Ladakh teacher introduced subject-specific classrooms||The out-of-the-box initiative of setting up subject specific classrooms, the brainchild of 42-year-old Muhammad Ali, the acting head teacher at Government Primary School, Karith, in Kargil district of Ladakh has won him the National Teacher Award this year, apart from the appreciation of Sonam Wangchuk, the education reformist. Ali, who holds a masters degree in science, English and education, became a teacher in 2006. He hails from Kanoor, a remote and sparsely inhabited village in Kargil district. “In 2016, I was posted at the Government Middle School, Kharith, where I introduced the concept of subject specific classrooms. We do not have grade-wise classes but subject-specific classes. In orthodox teaching, students sit in their classes and subject teachers come to the class. However, here students go to different classes where they are taught by the respective subject teacher with relevant teaching-learning material (TLM) ,” he said. “It is a method of practical teaching. Carrying TLM to classrooms was not feasible nor was there adequate space in the classroom,” he said. Sonam Wangchuk also visited the school in 2019 and was inspired by the concept of subject-specific classrooms. Ali said, “In our subject-specific classrooms, children will go through their TLM but also see TLM of higher classes. The classes are attractive and it enhances their understanding as well.” “It is a new model in middle level schooling from Class 1 to 8 in India. The pilot project was taken up in 2016 and introduced in 2018,” he added. Ali also got the students involved in making artificial glaciers during winter breaks. “Our initiative came into the limelight in 2018 and the then DC Baseer-ul-Haq also heard of it. He came see the artificial glacier, but he was more impressed by our subject specific classrooms,” said Ali. The school has 10 subject-specific classrooms for science, mathematics, social studies, language, games, ABC Class, 123 Class, Urdu, Library, smart classroom and has 41 students and nine teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nationalteacher-award-ladakh-teacher-introduced-subject-specific-classrooms-1629402295798.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||National Teacher Award: HP teacher got land issue settled, home-schooled students||Kamal Kishor Sharma, the principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Kalhog, in Solan district, will be awarded the National Teacher Award on September 5. Sharma played a key role in getting the land, on which the school stands, transferred in the name of the education department. When Sharma joined the Kalhog School in 2019, its building was in a shambles. When he went through the revenue records, he learnt that the land was still registered in the name of 15 villagers and a budget for the new building could not be sanctioned till the land was transferred to the education department. Initially, he secured ₹12 lakh from the deputy commissioner for repair work. After the Covid outbreak, he was deputed at a quarantine centre at Sadhupul, but he took out time from his schedule and held door-to-door meetings with the villagers who owned the land and convinced them to get it registered in the name of the education department. He brought all the landowners to the SDM office in Kandaghat and the three bighas of land was finally registered in the name of education department, paving way for a new school building, work on which would start soon. Upon realising that equipment worth ₹12 lakh for the Atal Tinkering Lab was gathering dust at the Kalhog School due to lack of space, Sharma collected ₹60,000 from the staff and villagers and made room for the lab. During the lockdown, Sharma and his team taught the children by going from door-to-door. A resident of Barthin village in Bilaspur district, Kishor joined the education department in 1988 as a trained graduate teacher (TGT). The mathematics teacher was awarded a state award in 2015. Kishor said whatever he has done would not have been possible without the cooperation of staff and the villagers and the support of his family. “I am grateful to the government for acknowledging our efforts,” he said, adding that the award would definitely motivate him and other teachers to do better. “My effort is to facilitate students in best possible way not only in terms of providing infrastructure but also improving the education standard,” said Kishor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nationalteacher-award-hp-teacher-got-land-issue-settled-home-schooled-students-1629401703991.html
21-08-2021||Lucknow||Yogi, other UP BJP leaders meet Amit Shah, Nadda in Delhi||The suspense over the naming of four MLC picks and possible expansion of the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh is likely to be over after Thursday evening’s consultation that the chief minister had with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi.The presence of UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal at Adityanath’s meeting further hinted towards the possibility.“The suspense would now surely be over. Which way the decision would go isn’t known but now the suspense would soon be over for sure,” a BJP leader said.BJP president JP Nadda was also present during the meeting at Shah’s official residence.Many, including those within the BJP, have linked the delay in announcing the MLC picks to the views within the party not just over MLC names, but also over the utility of going in for a much-anticipated expansion of the Yogi Adityanath government. One of the claimants for a MLC berth, as well as minister’s post, is Nishad party leader Sanjay Nishad, who had recently met Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda in Delhi.The buzz is some of the MLC picks could also become ministers in the Adityanath government which has about seven vacancies. However, party leaders cautioned that until an official announcement was made, nothing was sure. One party leader said with elections a little over six months’ away, the constitutional provision of becoming a member of either house of the state legislature after becoming a minister may not matter.“So, in a way one can be made a minister even without being made an MLC,” a party leader said.“A discussion in this regard was held in the presence of BJP chief JP Nadda as well but as of now, nothing is known beyond it. I have a hunch that the expansion is happening. I am saying expansion, because the likelihood of any ministers being axed so close to the elections doesn’t seem likely,” a BJP leader said.Four names are doing the rounds as likely candidates for MLCs. They include former Union minister and Congress heavyweight Jitin Prasada, who recently switched loyalties to the BJP. The name of former UP BJP chief Laxmikant Bajpai is also being discussed.“Both are Brahmin leaders and if one is made MLC, the other would surely contest the 2022 UP polls. I guess the dilemma could be on whether to make Prasada an MLC or get him to contest the 2022 UP polls,” another BJP leader said. Sanjay Nishad of the Nishad party is another prime candidate for the MLC’s post.“There is also a woman and a party functionary in contention,” a BJP leader said.Yet another BJP leader said that with several Opposition leaders in touch, the party could well be mulling accommodating a big Opposition name as MLC.“In any case, we are expecting the names to be declared anytime now. Various discussions have been held and a final decision has been reached and I guess should be made public in a couple of days,” the BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-other-uttar-pradesh-bjp-leaders-meet-amit-shah-in-delhi-1629401279917.html
21-08-2021||Chandigarh||Swimming against the tide, Bilques Mir finds her calling in water sports||An Olympic medal for India in water sports. That’s 33-year-old Bilques Mir’s aim while she oversees the training of youngsters as director of the Srinagar-based Water Sports Centre of Jammu and Kashmir Sports Council. “We can increase our medal tally at the Olympics by focusing on water sports. I couldn’t qualify but am determined to see a youngster from J&K on the podium in 2024,” says the first woman to represent India at the kayaking and canoeing world cup meet in Hungary in 2009. She reached the semi-final at the meet in which 110 countries participated and was named outstanding sportsperson of the year before she underwent training to become a coach. She has been training youngsters in J&K since 2014. “So far, I’ve trained 300 boys and girls. We have won 82 medals of which 50% are by girls,” says Bilques, the second of three daughters of businessman Bashir Ahmad Mir and homemaker Hameeda Bano. “Till a decade ago, we had limited resources but in the past two years, the government has given priority to water sports and developed infrastructure. Our centre is now among the country’s top set-ups,” she says. At present, Bilques is on the coaching panel of the India team and is also chairperson of Indian Kayaking and Canoeing Federation. Besides coaching the Indian team, she judged the 18th African Games in Mozambique in 2011 and Asian Games in Jakarta in 2018. Staying afloat to cruising ahead But her journey has been one of swimming against the tide. Bilques battled societal prejudice and even depression to stay the course. “In Kashmir, it’s not easy. A girl has to prove herself at every step. When I started running, people, including relatives, criticised me but had I given up, I would’ve been nowhere. My mother gave me strength,” she says. The more opposition she faced, the stronger her resolve became. “I was in Class 6 when I started swimming. Nobody at home was interested in sports. We are three sisters and I sensed quite early how society considers girls weaker. Many mistook me to be a boy because I had short hair and wouldn’t wear earrings. When relatives pitied my parents for not having a son, I decided to prove that a daughter is not less in any way,” she says. Taking a deep dive to emerge winnerShe opted for water sports because it was challenging. “Fighting with water is unique. This dream did not come true so easily, it was full of struggles. I suffered depression because society did not support me when I needed it the most. I was at the peak when I sunk into depression. Thankfully, I overcame the tough patch with my family’s help and stayed the course,” she says. Her message for society is to encourage girls. “Society plays a big role in a woman’s success. If my mother had not encouraged me, I wouldn’t have been here,” she says. “Women’s empowerment doesn’t mean that a woman is earning; it means how much role she has in decision making at home,” Bilques adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/swimming-against-the-tide-bilques-mir-finds-her-calling-in-water-sports-101629389755710.html
