23-08-2021||Other||Probe in farmers protest case going on as per ‘convenience’ instead of law, says Delhi court||New Delhi: A city court on Monday admonished the city police for arresting common farmers instead of their leaders in connection to the violence during the farmers’ protest rally on Republic Day, saying that they were just following their leaders.Additional sessions judge Gagandeep Singh, during the hearing on the anticipatory bail plea of gangster-turned activist Lakha Sidhana, said it appeared that the investigation was going as per the “convenience of the investigating authority instead of as per the mandate of the law”.“The common farmers who were just following the calls of their leaders are being picked up and it appears that till date none of the leaders have been even asked to join the investigation,” the judge said.Thousands of farmers protesting against three contentious laws that seek to deregulate agricultural trade clashed with the police and damaged public property during a tractor rally on Republic Day. Earlier, on August 9, the court asked the police to file a status report on its investigation with regard to the 35 leaders named in the FIR related to the case.Senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, appearing for Sidhana, told the court that the FIR was registered after 12 hours of the incident, and include the names of 35 leaders but despite the lapse of eight months, none of them have been arrested or asked to join the investigation.Additional Public Prosecutor G S Guarya, appearing for the police, admitted that the report filed was cryptic and does not address the issues raised by the court.The court said the report filed by the police was an attempt to sidetrack the issue, and noted that the investigating officer’s “main evidence” against Sidhana was also not up to the mark.It said that there was no audio and it cannot be heard what Sidhana was saying to the other protesters. The court directed that the proper video of the alleged instigating speech given by Sidhana should be submitted. The matter will be heard on August 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/probe-in-farmers-protest-case-going-on-as-per-convenience-instead-of-law-says-delhi-court-101629743126272.html
23-08-2021||Other||17 mortgage fake gold, get loans worth ₹85 lakh in Varanasi; 10 arrested||Ten out of 17 people, who were accused of defrauding three branches of Canara Bank in the city by taking loans worth ₹85 lakh by mortgaging fake gold, were arrested on Sunday, police officials said. One person had surrendered before a court while search for the remaining six was on. The fraud came to light when the bank officials get examined the mortgaged fake gold by an independent jeweller other than the authorised gold appraiser of the bank, they said. “Three cases were registered against 17 people, including Ravindra Prakash Seth, Prateek Rastogi, Vijay Prajapati, Amit Kumar Sharma and others under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at two different police stations including Cantt and two at Maduadih police station, following three complaints lodged by officials of the three branches of the bank in this regard,” said a senior police officer. The officer said that one case was registered against 11 people in the first week of August, following a complaint by manager of the Cantt bank branch, Rampal Singh while two cases were registered against six people at Manduadih on August 17, following two different complaints lodged by the managers of two different branches in Lahartara area. An investigation started in the three cases and teams were deployed at different locations to ensure the arrest of the accused, the officer said. “On Sunday, 10 accused including Shivnarayan Yadav, Amit Kumar Sharma, Suraj Bind, Prateek Rastogi, Sagar Kumar Maurya, Rajesh Kumar Mehta, Laxman Singh, Neha Srivastava, Shweta Zaberi and Deepa Prajapati were arrested from different locations in the city,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Prabal Pratap Singh. The officer said that during interrogation, Prateek Rastogi revealed that he knew Ravindra Prakash Seth, an authorised gold appraiser of the two branches of Canara Bank, for long time. He befriended Seth and Vijay Prajapati and hatched a plan to make money. “Under the plan, Prateek and Vijay, claimed to be the agents of the bank, motivated some people to take loan in lieu of fake gold from two branches of Canara Bank in Lahartara and one branch in Orderly Bazaar,” the officer said.The gold, which they had to deposit in the branches, were provided to them by Ravindra Prakash Seth. In lieu, each person, who took the loan on fake gold, were given ₹10,000 to ₹15,000 as commission. Prateek, Ravindra and Vijay distributed the remaining amount equally among them as their share, the officer said. According to a bank official, the gold deposited by the customers for the loan is first examined by an authorised gold appraiser of the bank and after three months, the gold is again get examined by a Sarraf or jeweller.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/17-mortgage-fake-gold-get-loans-worth-rs-85-lakh-in-varanasi-10-arrested-101629743019057.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Parents wary, few students of classes 10, 12 turn up for in-person classes in Delhi schools||Although the attendance of classes 10 and 12 students in public and private schools has improved in the past week, principals of a few schools said some parents are still wary of sending their children to school in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Malini Narayanan, chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference, which has 122 Delhi schools as members, said, “We held a meeting recently to check the attendance rate across schools. In Delhi, we have noted varying attendance, from 50%-90%. Currently, we are looking at them as Class 11 students and introducing them to various lab apparatus. We are teaching them to handle the burette and pipette because they have been doing their practicals only on simulation labs. Once the government gives the go-ahead, we can start theory lessons as well.”Narayanan also said a few parents are still sceptical of sending children to school in the absence of school buses and other factors. “Some of our students are currently in other cities. We have been writing to parents and asking them to return so that children may get some practical experience. The lack of vaccines for children has been a major deterrent in convincing them,” she said.Several private schools in the city, including Ahlcon International School, Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, Laxman Public School, Bal Bharati Public School, Springdales School, Sanskriti School, Delhi Public School, and Amity International School are NPSC member schools. Teachers and principals HT spoke to welcomed the decision to allow students back to school to bridge learning gaps created due to online classes introduced in March last year after schools were shut on account of the pandemic.Schools are also waiting for submissions to be made by a Delhi Disaster Management committee on August 25. The committee, comprising health and education department officials, was tasked with formulating standard operating procedures for reopening of educational institutions and colleges. The Delhi government will take a call on reopening based on the committee recommendations.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said, “Learning gap has been a common feedback from teachers who have interacted with the classes 10 and 12 students. While board students are back to school, we are waiting to see when other students will be allowed back to school. The reopening has to be staggered. Allowing all students to return at one go won’t work as we have to see if schools have the infrastructure to accommodate all students while ensuring Covid-19 protocols.” At Arora’s school, around 80% of students were attending the science practicals while about 30% students are attending school in the commerce section.Meanwhile, at government schools, teachers are taking it slow and planning to resume classes as well as practicals beginning September. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of a government school in Rohini, said attendance has picked up in the past one week. “We have been holding orientations and easing students back in to the regular mode, but we plan to start regular lessons only from September. Since we were adapted to online learning for 1.5 years and had not even met students, we have to talk to them about the subject outline, curriculum, and how to study before rushing into practicals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parents-wary-few-students-of-classes-10-12-turn-up-for-in-person-classes-in-delhi-schools-101629742707322.html
23-08-2021||Noida||Noida: Man held for stabbing wife’s friend to death at her birthday party||A 30-year-old man was arrested on Monday for allegedly stabbing his wife’s male friend to death at her birthday party in Noida’s Sector 106 three days ago. According to police, suspect Mudit, a resident of Sector 106, had invited the victim, Nishant Choudhary (22), for his wife’s birthday party on Friday night. Nishant was a resident of Delhi’s Sangam Vihar. Police officials said that the two got into an argument over some issue, following which Mudit stabbed Nishant in the neck. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, they said. Based on a complaint by his father, Luvkush, a case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Mudit at Phase 2 police station. “My son had gone to Noida for a birthday party where he was assaulted. He later died during treatment. We want appropriate action against the suspect,” said the father in his complaint.The officials said prima facie it seems that the victim was having an affair with the suspect’s wife.“The couple got married two years ago. Mudit’s wife had known Nishant before the marriage. Later Mudit and Nishant also became friends. It seems that Mudit saw Nishant and his wife together during the party following which they got into an argument that ended with Mudit stabbing him in the neck,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.After the incident, Mudit fled the spot, police said, adding that he was apprehended on Monday afternoon from near the NSEZ bus stand on the Dadri road. Police have also recovered the weapon used in the crime. Mudit was produced before a magistrate who sent him to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-held-for-stabbing-wife-s-friend-to-death-at-her-birthday-party-101629742706268.html
23-08-2021||Noida||Covishield in short supply, Ghaziabad forced to operate 29 centres with Covaxin||In a first, most of the Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) in Ghaziabad on Monday administered the Covaxin vaccine against Covid-19 as the district had only a few Covishield vaccine doses.Officials from the district health department said that Covaxin was usually available at three CVCs in Ghaziabad, while the rest had mostly Covishield. On Monday, Covaxin was available in 29 of the 39 CVCs. Officials said they had only 2,500 Covishield doses on the day.The Co-Win portal on recorded 11,183 doses administered in the district till 7pm on Monday, taking its overall count to over 1.8 million doses.With supply bottlenecks, Covaxin is is the least administered in Uttar Pradesh. Co-Win data showed that Covishield formed about 87% of the total doses administered, while the rest was of Covaxin. The share of the vaccines was similar in Ghaziabad too.Till Sunday, the district had Covaxin at only a centre in Dasna, Ghanta Ghar Ramlila Ground and Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan.“On Monday we had to increase the centres to 29 which were given Covaxin. This is because we had only about 2,500 doses of Covishield with on the day,” said GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination.The state government supplies vaccines to the districts depending on the requirement and how much stock the central government has supplied to them.The health department officials said it was rare when the Covaxin vaccination was higher than the Covishield.“On Monday, the entire Dasna region had only Covaxin shots. We expect around 30,000 Covishield doses by Monday night that will help us resume Covishield vaccinations from Tuesday,” said Dr Mathuria.Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter), said he did not expect the “rare day” to have a major impact on vaccination coverage.“ With Covishield supply higher, a shift in the share of the stock available may have led to many second Covishield dose beneficiaries to return home without getting their shot,” he said. “But the focus must be to increase vaccine stocks to about 20,000 to 25,000 a day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covishield-in-short-supply-ghaziabad-forced-to-operate-29-centres-with-covaxin-101629742586187.html
23-08-2021||Noida||Noida falls short of target to vaccinate 12K as turnout dips||The Gautam Budh Nagar district on Monday failed to ramp up the inoculation drive as it administered only 6,589 doses of Covid-19 vaccines at 26 government inoculation centres. The district health department on Sunday decided to accelerate the vaccination drive in the district, saying that more than 12,000 doses would be administered at 27 government-run Covid vaccination centres (CVCs).According to officials, since the UP government had announced three-day (from Saturday to Monday) state mourning to condole the demise of former chief minister Kalyan Singh, the district administration decided to postpone the vaccination at one of the centres, i.e. at the Noida Entrepreneurs Association (NEA) building.GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, said that most of the CVCs witnessed low turnout as people thought that the centres would be closed on account of the state mourning. “The district hospital in Sector 30 and the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) administered as many as 1,500 doses each. The district health department made vaccination centres in a planned way, so that even the people residing in remote areas could easily come to the booths to get their jabs,” he said. The officials said that apart from primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs), the vaccination centres have also been made at some government schools and community halls. “This week, we are hopeful to cross the last week’s vaccination figures of 76,124,” Suhas said. The DM further said that out of the total 1,589,815 eligible population, as many as 1,490,951 have taken at least one dose till Monday evening, which is nearly 94% of the total eligible population. “Though there is a statewide paucity of vaccines, we hope that by the end of October, everyone of this eligible lot will have at least one dose of the vaccines,” he said. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, said that at present, the district health department is left with around 40,000 doses of vaccines. “We got 26,000 doses of vaccines on Monday. With this stock, we can easily run the drive for three more days with the same pace. However, we’ve sent our requisition for more vaccines to the state health department,” he said.The officials said that three health care workers and two policemen were deployed at each centre for the smooth vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-falls-short-of-target-to-vaccinate-12k-as-turnout-dips-101629742526213.html
23-08-2021||Noida||Roller coaster ride awaits RRTS users on 17km priority section in Ghaziabad||Riders of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) will have an experience like no other— a sort of roller coaster journey that would see them go from below the Hindon elevated road to above the Delhi Metro’s Red Line near the New Bus Adda metro station. The NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC) has completed the construction of pillars that will allow high-speed trains to traverse five major infrastructures in Ghaziabad under the 17km priority section of the line from Sahibabad to Duhai.The 82km stretch of the RRTS, between Delhi and Meerut, is being built at a cost of ₹30,274 crore. The priority section will be the first stretch to be operationalised — March 2023 — and the full project is likely to be commissioned in 2025.“The 17km priority section was a major engineering challenge as the existing infrastructure posed hindrance to the alignment of the rapid line. Our teams overcame these hurdles with the help of IT enabled systems and timely planning. The varying gradient, acceleration and deceleration of trains were kept in mind while erecting the alignment,” said Puneet Vats, chief PRO of NCRTC.The height of the pillars under the priority section ranges from just eight metres to 22.5 metres.The official said after emerging from the underground section near Kaushambi, trains will be at grade with the Vaishali Metro station at a height of about 10 metres. It will then encounter its first major structure — the flyover crossing near Vasundhara where the pillars and alignment have been raised to a height of 16 metres against the standard height of 10 metres.The tracks will turn and run parallel to the Delhi-Howrah railway section where rapid trains will zoom past below the city’s Hindon elevated road at a pillar height of about eight metres before crossing the railway tracks and river Hindon.“Towards the New Bus Adda metro station, the trains will move on tracks raised to a height of about 22.5 metres that will take it above the Metro line (Red Line). Here, we also have a major interchange station which will connect passengers to the Delhi Metro,” Vats said.From there, trains will further move over the median of the Delhi-Meerut Road on pillars built at standard height, which will be raised to about 12.5 metres to avoid the split-shaped Raj Nagar Extension flyover.Finally, the height will further be raised to 15 metres which will allow the rapid trains to move above the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and proceed towards Modinagar and Meerut.“It will be an exhilarating experience for passengers as the high-speed trains will move above and below the different infrastructure projects and they will be able to view the city’s skyline very closely. The priority section has started taking shape and different system contractors have started works like laying of tracks, installation of signalling, overhead electricity lines and electricity distribution works,” said an officer from NCRTC.The work on five RRTS stations under the priority section have moved to the next level at Sahibabad, New Bus Adda (Ghaziabad), Guldhar, Duhai and Duhai depot.The actual operational speed of the rapid trains will be 160kmph, while their average speed will be about 100kmph. Of the 82km, a 70km RRTS section will be elevated.BOX: How the high-speed rapid trains will moveHeight of 16 metres near the Vasundhara flyoverHeight of 8 metres and below the Hindon elevated roadHeight of 22.5 metres and above the Red line metro new New Bus Adda metro stationHeight of 12.5 and will run between the two sides of the Raj Nagar Extension flyoverHeight of 15 metres and above the Eastern Peripheral Expressway||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/roller-coaster-ride-awaits-rrts-users-on-17km-priority-section-in-ghaziabad-101629742406283.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Teachers want DU to hold back on implementation of NEP, seek feedback||On the eve of Delhi University’s academic council (AC) meeting on Tuesday, several teachers and AC members raised concerns over the university’s decision to push for reforms advocated in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 and have demanded that the recommendations prepared by the DU-NEP committee be opened up for wider consultations instead of placing them before the council in Tuesday’s meeting. The Standing Committee on Academic Matters, however, passed agenda on implementation of the four-year undergraduate programme structure with effect from 2022-23 despite opposition from teachers. The committee recorded a note of dissent from three members. The Standing Committee had to defer the agenda on the implementation of SWAYAM (India’s massive open online course platform) due to opposition from teachers. Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) has however opposed the decision and called for a strike Tuesday ahead of the scheduled AC meeting. “The University administration will have to face greater opposition tomorrow both inside and outside the Academic Council. The DUTA has called for Strike and protest outside VC Office on the matter,” said DUTA treasurer Abha Dev Habib, adding that the experience of FYUP in 2013 shows that students rejected the idea of additional expenditure for the fourth year. In 2014, DU was mired in controversy after the then administration introduced the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP). It was scrapped later that year amid protests by students and teachers. On Saturday, Hindustan Times reported that the university was planning to table the recommendations made by the 42-member committee on how to implement NEP in the varsity from the next academic year (2022-23). The agenda items include the return of the four-year undergraduate programme with a focus on multidisciplinary research, innovation, and social-emotional learning; multiple entry-exit points in undergraduate courses; introduction of the academic bank of credits; appointment of international faculty members; and discontinuation of the MPhil programme from the next academic session. During the meeting of the standing committee on academic matters on Monday, several AC members raised their voices against the “loss of workload” that may result from the proposed NEP structure. “This document at this stage is not fit for discussion in the academic council and needs a major re-haul and that is possible only when it is sent for feedback from teachers in the committee of courses and the staff council,” said Mithuraaj Dhusiya, member, academic council. Teachers argue that due to the design of the multiple entry and exit schemes (MEES) and academic bank of credit (ABC) — which allow students to exit from one course at any point and save their academic credits to use at other universities — students can earn credits for non-core courses from other universities, thereby reducing the workload. The four-year undergraduate programme comprising 196 credits has just 84 credits allotted to core courses; that means, 57.14% of total credits can be earned in four years from other universities. In a dissent note submitted to the university on Monday with three signatories of 36 members in the standing committee, DU teachers said, “The DU has not asked for detailed feedback on the report of the NEP implementation from all stakeholders, including members of all relevant statutory bodies. The fixing of the academic year 2022-23 as the year of implementation of NEP 2020 is baseless as first, there needs to be detailed discussion and wider consultation on NEP 2020 among all stakeholders and only then can we determine whether NEP 2020 will be feasible in DU at all.” Another academic council member Ratnesh R Saxena said, “Encouraging blended teaching through provisions of ABC and MOOCS on Swayam [online] Portal in which students can earn 40% of their credits through the online mode and transfer them for their degree would not only drastically reduce the workload of institutions but also create an alternative to classroom teaching.” Teachers also said the MEES will encourage more students to drop out. There was also no clarity on job prospects of those who leave an institution with a certificate or diploma after their first or second year of undergraduate course, respectively. “The MEES along with the burden of extra expenditure will encourage drop-outs. This will hit women students as well as others from marginalised and underprivileged sections…The addition of the fourth year will put an additional burden on infrastructure in terms of classrooms, labs, etc. Most colleges do not have any space or scope for further expansion,” the teachers said in the note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/teachers-want-du-to-hold-back-on-implementation-of-nep-seek-feedback-101629742346167.html
23-08-2021||Lucknow||Escape from Kabul - UP’s Gorakhpur workers return home, narrate trauma||The escape from Taliban was not easy for 40-year-old Ranjit Maurya, a native of Bhaishat village located in Barhalganj block area of Gorakhpur district.Maurya reached his village on Monday morning. Along with 168 other people he was evacuated from strife-torn Kabul by an Indian Air Force C-17 Globemaster. Along with four other people from Gorakhpur region, Maurya boarded a bus from Anand Vihar bus terminus located in Delhi for home. On Monday morning, he reached his village in Gorakhpur district. Maurya said that he was trapped in a steel factory in Kabul along with 28 people from various districts of Uttar Pradesh, after the Taliban took over the Afghan capital on August 15. Even as the owner of the factory, a resident of Afghanistan, assured them of safety, food as well as lodging facilities, the threat issued by the local Taliban commander made them panic.“Sounds of continuous firing by the Taliban, reports of atrocities committed by them after the fall of Kabul, were a nightmare for us. As the Taliban tightened their grip on the city, we lost hope of returning home. The report that the Indian government was making efforts for the evacuation of its citizens rekindled hope in us,” he said.Maurya and other workers contacted their family members over the mobile to inform them about the situation. They requested the family members to contact the Uttar Pradesh and central government for their safe return home. The family members of some workers contacted the local administration to share the location of the people trapped in the steel factory in Kabul, he said. On Saturday, the factory owner told us that personnel of the Indian embassy had contacted him for evacuation of workers trapped in the factory. With the assistance of the local travel agent, buses were sent to the factory to transport the workers to the airport.“The commute from the factory to the airport was full of tense moments. The Taliban could be seen moving on the streets with sophisticated weapons. We were stopped at a barricade erected on the road by the Taliban. They entered the bus, scanned the people seated, and checked our documents and passports. Once it was clear that all the people on the bus were Indian citizens, the bus was permitted to move toward the airport,” he said.“The scenario at the airport was chaotic. Thousands of people were jostling with each other to enter the airport, while the Taliban beat them up mercilessly and fired in the air to scare them. There was virtual mayhem. We thought we would not make it into the airport, but the bus driver managed to enter from a separate gate controlled by security forces,” he said.Maurya, who worked as a welder in the factory, said, “I have been working in Afghanistan since 2017. The locals are friendly and helpful. I got a good salary and the environment was peaceful. Life was good till the situation turned volatile after the Taliban took over the city,” he said.“The factory owner told us that after the situation normalises he will contact us. He will make arrangements for our return to Kabul to run the factory. We have assured him that we will return if the situation in Afghanistan becomes normal and if there was no threat of Taliban,” he added.Thanking the central and state government for making arrangements for their safe return home, Maurya said that all 28 people from UP are skilled workers who went to Afghanistan for livelihood. “We have lost our jobs, the state government and central government should ensure that we get a job in a local factory,” he said.Shailendra Shukla, a resident of Dubauli village near Chauri- Chaura town in Gorakhpur district, was given a grand welcome by family members and villagers after he reached the village on Monday morning. “With the assistance of our government we managed to escape from the clutches of the Taliban,” he said.“On way to the airport, the bus on which we were travelling was hijacked by the Taliban. We were taken to their camp. To scare us they fired in the air. They asked us who all were talking to the media in India on mobile. They checked our documents to ensure that we were not the Afghan citizens fleeing the country. Later, they permitted us to move to the airport,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/escape-from-kabul-gorakhpur-workers-return-home-narrate-trauma-101629741986937.html
23-08-2021||Lucknow||UP govt should revisit budgeting methods, says CAG report||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has noted that the Uttar Pradesh government was not preparing the state budget on the basis of real estimates and suggested that the budgeting methods should be revisited to make the budget estimates more realistic in Uttar Pradesh. “The finance department should revisit their budgeting methods to make the budget estimates more realistic,” the CAG observed in its recommendation in the report on the revenue sector for the year ending March 31, 2019. The report was tabled in the state assembly during its Monsoon session here on August 18, 2021. Giving details of the budgetary estimates of realisation of tax and non-tax revenue from 2014-2015 to 2019-2019, the CAG pointed towards large variations in budgetary estimates and actual revenue over the years. This is not for the first time that the CAG has made such recommendations. The CAG, in one of its reports tabled in the state legislature here on December 17, 2019, had recommended that the state finance department should rationalise the budget preparation exercise. “The finance department should rationalise the budget preparation exercise, so that the persisting gap between the budget estimate and actuals are bridged,” recommended the CAG in its state finances audit report for the year that ended on March 31, 2019. About the estimates for 2018-2019, the CAG noted, “The overall growth of 23.34 per cent in own tax revenue during the year 2018-2019 (over 2017-2018) was mainly due to increase in State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) by ₹20,734.07 crore, state excise by ₹6606.40 crore, stamps and registration fees by ₹2335.46 crore and taxes on vehicles, goods and passengers by ₹526.33 crore.” The CAG further observed: “There was overall increase of 52.06 per cent in non-tax receipts amounting to ₹10,305.85 crore during the year 2018-2019 over 2017-2018, mainly under the head ‘Interest Receipts’ which was due to more interest realised from loans to sugar mills and investment of cash balances under ‘Miscellaneous General Services’ which was mainly due to more transfers of ₹8271.28 crore from Sinking Fund to this head during the year 2018-2019 in comparison to that in 2017-2018.” The CAG pointed towards the delayed response by the various departments, noting that a recoverable amount of ₹11,533.96 crore was brought to the notice of various departments in 12044 inspection reports (IRs) issued up to March 2019. It said even the first replies, required from heads of offices within four weeks of submission of the IRs, have not been received in time. It recommended that the state government should evolve a mechanism to ensure that the departments promptly responded to the IRs. The CAG also took exception to delays in submitting reply by the departments to the observations made in the audit reports. “Significant delays were observed in submission of explanatory notes (replies of the departments) itself, with delays ranging between 193 days and 809 days in respect of 36 paragraphs (including performance audits) appearing in the CAG’s revenue audit report for the year ending March 31, 2014. Moreover, explanatory notes were not received (September 2020) for audit reports for the years 2014-2015, 2015-2016, 2016-2017 and 2017-2018 which were placed before the state legislative assembly between August 2015 to February 2020,” observed the CAG. A table given in the report noted that out of 140 paragraphs of audit reports for August 2015 to February 2020, no explanatory note was received for 104 paragraphs. The CAG noted that in order to ensure accountability of the executive, the department of finance had issued instructions in June 1987 to initiate suo motu action on all paragraphs/performance audits figuring in the audit reports irrespective of whether the cases were taken up for examination by the Public Accounts Committee or not. “What the CAG has drawn attention to is an appropriate point. In the last many years, the state government has been overestimating both the revenue and the expenditure of its budget. Scoring a political point is one of the reasons the party in power wants to project a bigger size than the previous one without looking at the ground realities. It will be better to have budget based on real estimates in future,” said professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of the department of economics, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-should-revisit-budgeting-methods-says-cagreport-101629741926767.html
23-08-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to procure machine to check underground utilities before starting projects||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has decided to cross-check applications with regard to Right of Way (ROW) for different infrastructure development projects using ground-penetrating radar (GPR) to ensure proper maintenance of underground utilities.Last week, in a meeting chaired by the chief executive officer, GMDA approved the procurement of the ground-penetrating radar machine.Sultan Singh, head of the Geographic Information System (GIS) division of the GMDA, said that till now, there was no in-house equipment to cross-check ROW applications and many times, the utilities get damaged during excavations.Officials said the machine can locate underground utilities, both metallic and non-metallic, using radio frequencies. Underground utilities include facilities such as gas pipelines, fibre optic cables and electrical wires, among others.“A GPR survey is needed for planning new infrastructure in the city as it is not always known what is there underneath the ground. Anyone applying for a project, be it telecommunication or electrical work, must conduct a survey and submit it with the application, but there was no in-house equipment till now to validate that survey. Due to this, many times, there have been discrepancies in the final approved design and work carried out on the ground,” said Singh.According to GMDA records, the authority has GPR data for approximately 400 kilometres submitted by various agencies for previous infrastructure works, but there is no system to ensure the validity of this data.During the meeting, the chief executive officer had said, “...the applicant for getting ROW may be asked to submit report of survey with machine of higher specification along with application and can be counter checked with the GPR machine.”Officials could not share details of the cost and type of machine to be procured as it is being decided based on the project needs of the infrastructure I and II divisions of the authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-procure-machine-to-check-underground-utilities-before-starting-projects-101629741808221.html
23-08-2021||Gurugram||Multi-crore fraud: HC seeks bank report, praises Ggm cops||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday while hearing an anticipatory bail plea filed by an official of a nationalised bank, who was named a suspect in a fraud case wherein a farmer was duped of ₹1.39 crore by a former loan agent, directed the bank concerned to submit a report of the departmental inquiry into officials’ role in the con. The court also reserved praise for the Gurugram police officials over the investigation and said that the investigation could serve as a model for such probes.In compliance with an August 16 order, Amitava Chatterjee, a chief general manager of the State Bank of India appeared before the court through videoconferencing and said that the bank has a policy under which victims subjected to fraud are reimbursed but that in the present case, there are certain “leads/clues” indicating the involvement of the complainant or his relatives in the crime. Chatterjee said that a departmental inquiry against the officials concerned of the bank has been completedThe court directed the bank to submit the report of the departmental inquiry. The police were also directed to investigate the involvement of the complainant or others related to him in the crime and a status report. The next hearing is scheduled for Wednesday.The police commissioner and assistant commissioner of police (DLF) were praised by the bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi, who observed that the investigation of the fraud was difficult.“The court appreciates the effective steps taken by the Gurugram police commissioner and Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police, in-charge of SIT and action taken by them in this case, which was a difficult one for an investigator and now present a model to be followed in investigation of similar cases,” the bench observed.The investigation also exposed irregularities in issuing SIM cards by a leading telecom company, as around 500 SIM cards were issued without proper documentation. The police said they have already registered two FIRs and arrested seven persons, including the mastermind, Praveen Mittal, from Delhi.“Such observations by the court will uplift the morale of the entire team and the police. We put in a lot of effort in the investigation and appreciation from the court is a motivation for the entire team,” said Goel.Goel said that the farmer did not receive the one-time password on his mobile phone and that facial mapping was also not done by the bank when Mittal went to the bank posing as the farmer, identified as Lila Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/multicrore-fraud-hc-seeks-bank-report-praises-ggm-cops-101629741806559.html
23-08-2021||Other||Historian, former DU teacher David Baker dies aged 89||New Delhi: Historian and former Delhi University teacher David Baker died at his residence in the St. Stephen’s College campus on Monday. He was 89. After studying in Australia, Baker joined the college in 1969 and was associated with it since then. Teachers and former students said he had been keeping unwell for the past few months due to old age.“It is with deep sorrow that I inform all of us of the passing away of Dr. Baker, senior-most and beloved teacher of this College (from 1969 onwards) in the early hours of August 23, 2021,” principal John Varghese announced Monday.Baker, who was a bachelor, frequently visited his two siblings in Australia before the pandemic. A teacher for nearly 30 years, Baker was instrumental in developing the college archives and was also working on documenting the history of St Stephen’s College. He was also a ‘block tutor’ — a senior guiding figure for each block in the college campus — to several batches of students.Following his demise, tributes poured in from all corners on Monday. Former Delhi Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung, who was a student of Baker’s, called the teacher “one of his closest friends.” Jung said the two spoke on the phone around 10 days ago and planned to meet next month.“David joined St Stephen’s when I was in my second year of college. He and I were the closest of friends for the past 50 years, and he is a part of our family. While preparing for the civil services examination, he gave me his own notes on British history and modern Indian history. He told me that if I didn’t make the IAS in my first attempt, he would be upset. We kept in touch throughout all these years and he visited me even when I was posted in Madhya Pradesh, Manila, and England. He taught my daughter as well, so it is a personal loss for us,” he said.Congress MP and St Stephen’s alumnus Shashi Tharoor also tweeted his condolences.“Profoundly saddened by the passing of my teacher and “block tutor” at St Stephens College, Dr David Baker, who became an Indian citizen and mentored two generations of students,” the MP said, expressing regret over missing Baker’s funeral which is slated to take place on Tuesday while following the Covid-19 restrictions on funerals.Most of Baker’s colleagues and former students remember him for his connection with the student community. “His memory was so good that he remembered most of the students from each of the batches. Even after he retired, he would voluntarily take classes in college so that he could interact with students and they could learn from him. He has left an indelible mark on his students including me,” said Malay Neerav, the head of the history department at St. Stephen’s College.Neerav was also Baker’s colleague for over a decade from 1986 to 1997, and said he was taught by the historian. “Baker took Indian citizenship because he wanted to spend his life on the college campus. He devoted his life to St. Stephen’s and spent his last days documenting the history of St. Stephen’s and tying it to the history of Delhi. He also played an instrumental role in developing the archive department of the college library,” he said.Historian Shahid Amin, a retired professor from Delhi University’s history department, said that Baker was a robust academic along with being a great teacher who stayed in touch with his former students as well.“Baker was a devoted teacher and a professional historian which was rare in the late ’60s. He was a diligent academic and continued with his work even after his retirement. When he joined Stephen’s in 1969, he had already published a paper on Rowlatt Satyagraha with a noted publication. He was not just a teacher but an institution who has done meticulous research on Indian history and the role of central provinces in the freedom struggle,” he said.Author and historian Swapna Liddle said Baker had worked extensively as a PhD scholar in India. “..In my third year in college I saw a different side of him on a history department trip to Indore, Mandu, Maheshwar, etc. He knew all the little dhabas and dharamshalas, as he had been coming to these places ever since his years working on the history of the region as a young PhD scholar from Australia,” she wrote on Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/historian-former-du-teacher-david-baker-dies-aged-89-101629741807007.html
23-08-2021||Other||Annoyed by reminders of salary dues, competing business, man stabs former employee’s father in Nand Nagri; arrested||New Delhi: A 50-year-old man was stabbed to death and his daughter was assaulted at their house in north east Delhi’s Nand Nagri area on Sunday night, police said, adding that the suspect, the former employer of the victim’s son, was arrested from the Mandoli area within hours on Monday.Police said the suspect, Mohammad Salam, owed around ₹75,000 in pending salary to the victim’s son, Ijhar Ahmed, and was angry at being constantly hounded about it by the victim’s family. Ahmed had also left his job over the unpaid dues and started his own online kitchen which hurt the suspect’s khamiri roti business.According to police, Salam had gone to the house to allegedly kill Ahmed but ended up stabbing his father, Mohammad Israr. Police said that they received a PCR call regarding a stabbing in Nand Nagri’s B block area at 9.55 pm, soon after which a cop was rushed to the spot. The victim was rushed to GTB hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.Israr’s daughter informed police about Salam and the tiff over her brother’s salary dues. She said Salam used to threaten his brother every now and then after he started a competing business.According to police, she said she had went to a nearby market to purchase household items around 9.40pm when her landlord’s daughter called her about Salam hurling abuses at their doorstep. By the time she returned, she alleged Salam had stabbed her father with a butcher’s knife and, when she tried to intervene, he attacker her as well before fleeing.Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Sanjay Sain said that based on her statement, an FIR was registered under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) at Nand Nagari police station.Police said they carried out several raids, including his native place in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi, but to no avail.Later, based on his call data records, Salam’s location was traced and he was arrested near the Mandoli flyover. Police said they also recovered the weapon used in the crime.According to police, Salam confessed to the crime during questioning, and confirmed the bad blood with Ahmed over the salary dues and his competing khamiri roti business.He allegedly told police that he ended up killing Ijhar as he could not find Ahmed at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/annoyed-by-reminders-of-salary-dues-competing-business-man-stabs-former-employee-s-father-in-nand-nagri-arrested-101629741749571.html
23-08-2021||Gurugram||MCG may allow CNG autos in electric vehicle zone||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is contemplating allowing autorickshaws running on compressed natural gas (CNG) to operate in the electric three-wheelers zone, which came into effect on August 16, following protests by drivers, officials familiar with the developments said on Monday.Members of the Haryana Auto Chalak Sangathan (drivers’ union) met with the MCG commissioner, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, at the MCG office in Sector 34 regarding the civic body’s electric three-wheeler zone (ETWZ) that was flagged off by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The zone covers areas of DLF Phases 1, 2, 3 and 4, DLF-5, Golf Course Road, Mall Mile, and Cyber City, where diesel or CNG autorickshaws have, so far, not been allowed to ply. The zone is reserved for e-rickshaws and e-autos, 600 of which were also flagged off last week, along with the launch of the electric zone.A senior MCG official, wishing not to be named, said, “The pollution from CNG is far lower than diesel autorickshaws. It is one of the cleaner modes of public transport currently and we will issue a clarification later this week, allowing them to operate within the electric zone.”However, a second MCG official said that the civic body had never disallowed CNG autorickshaws from operating in the electric zone.“The MCG never raised the issue of restricting the movement of CNG vehicles inside the ETWZ. Our concessionaire raised the issue stating that its plying would defeat the purpose of an ETWZ during a meeting with MCG officials, transport department and Gurugram traffic police last month. However, the same was never officially implemented or stated anywhere in writing,” the second MCG official, who had attended the meeting, said.However, members of auto unions said that at certain stretches, especially on Hamilton Court Road, drivers of CNG autos have been penalised by the traffic police.“Due to miscommunication, the MCG commissioner informed us that CNG autorickshaws were also added inadvertently and the same was also later announced by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar during the project inauguration. The MCG commissioner assured us that the civic body will look into the matter and inform us about the final decision in a meeting with the union leaders later this week,” said Yogesh Sharma, state general secretary, Haryana Auto Chalak Sanghatan.According to the auto union members, Ahuja said that the idea behind MCG’s e-vehicle zone was to solely phase out diesel autos.Currently, no diesel autos are allowed to enter ETWZ. The auto union is also pressing the MCG to grant diesel autorickshaw drivers more time to make the switch to e-three wheelers.According to Sharma, around 9,000 CNG autos are operating in Gurugram. “We want the MCG’s decision to include CNG autos in writing. Until then, we will continue to pursue our demands. A group of leaders and drivers are meeting at the Leisure Valley Park in Sector 29 on Tuesday to take a call on whether to stage another round of protest or pursue the matter in other ways,” said Sharma.Since the launch of the electric zone, autorickshaw union leaders and drivers have staged multiple protests at the Mini Secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-may-allow-cng-autos-in-electric-vehicle-zone-101629741747766.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||7 members of a dalit family beaten up over suspicion of black magic||Seven members of a Dalit family were beaten up on suspicion of performing black magic at Wani (Khurd) village under Jivta tehsil in Chandrapur district on Saturday evening. Thirteen villagers have been arrested in the case so far, said Sushil Kumar Nayak, sub-divisional police officer of Gadchandur. “More arrests are likely as investigation is in the preliminary stage,” said Santosh Ambike, assistant police inspector of Jivta. According to information, the villagers suspected that the dalit family was practising witchcraft. The family members were summoned to the village square where a mob humiliated by throwing mud at them and indiscriminately thrashed them. Later, the crowd tied three of them, including two women, to wooden poles and thrashed them with sticks and punches. The mob then turned to four other members of the families and assaulted them too, Nayak informed.Five of the seven persons were shifted to government-run Chandrapur medical college and hospital after their condition turned serious. They have been identified as Shantabai Bhagwan Kamble, 53; Sahebrao Eknath Hooke, 48; Dhammashila Sudhakar Hooke, 38; Panchfula Shivraj Hooke, 55; and Prayagbai Eknath, 31. Lok Sabha member and Congress leader Balu Dhanorkar condemned the incident and visited the government-run medical college and hospital and enquired about the victims from the hospital authorities. District police superintendent Arvind Salve and other senior district officials visited the village on Monday. Apart from this, a team of Andhshraddha Nirmulan Samiti headed by one Anil Dahegaonkar visited the village and held a meeting to raise awareness among villagers against black magic. He also demanded that the state power, which has adopted a law passed in this regard, should take the initiative to create awareness after such incidents. The police are on high alert. People coming from outside the village are being allowed to enter the village only after interrogation. Nayak said that adequate police bandobast has been deployed in the village to maintain law and order there. “We are looking into this seriously and are hopeful to arrest the remaining accused in this regard soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/7-members-of-a-dalit-family-beaten-up-over-suspicion-of-black-magic-101629741686577.html
23-08-2021||Gurugram||26-year-old raped by auto driver, two others in Palam Vihar||A 26-year-old woman alleged that she was gang-raped an autorickshaw driver and two of his accomplices in Palam Vihar on Saturday night, while she was returning home in a shared autorickshaw. The police said that two of the suspects were arrested by Monday.According to the police, the woman had gone to Jharsa village in Sector 39 to meet a friend. While returning, she went to a bus stand near Sadar market, but despite waiting for an hour, she did not get a local bus, following which she boarded a shared autorickshaw. The woman said that three people, including the driver, were already seated in the autorickshaw. One of them got down when they reached near Dundahera village, following which one of the suspects allegedly called a friend who joined them at their next stop. Deepak Saharan, the deputy commissioner of police, said that within minutes, the trio held her captive, took her to an isolated place where they raped her and threatened her with dire consequences if she disclosed the matter to anyone. “The woman informed the police and shared the registration number of the autorickshaw,” he said. A medical examination conducted on Sunday confirmed rape, following which a case under sections 323 (assault) and 376 D (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Palam Vihar police station.Saharan said they formed teams and based on technical surveillance, arrested two suspects, identified as Vikram alias Mahendra Pratap, the autorickshaw driver, and Manoj Kumar. The third suspect, identified as Arif, is on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/26yearold-raped-by-auto-driver-two-others-in-palam-vihar-101629741567866.html
23-08-2021||Gurugram||Child labour: 16-year-old domestic help rescued from Magnolias in DLF-5||A 16-year-old girl who was working as a domestic help was rescued from an apartment of DLF-5 on Saturday night. The girl’s mother said that her daughter came to the city from Jharkhand in 2019 with her aunt, who got her a job at the apartment through a placement agency, but she was not being allowed to leave by her employers as well as the agency.The police said that a kidnapping case was lodged in the Gumla district of Jharkhand, the girl’s home town, around 18 months ago. The mother approached the child welfare committee last week, but as the apartment was locked, she returned to Jharkhand and later that week, the girl was rescued by the police. The police said they are probing the incident and have not filed a case yet.Deepak Kumar, the Childline coordinator for Gurugram, said that they received an anonymous call on their helpline number 1098 on Saturday, informing them that a minor was working as a domestic help in The Magnolias society in DLF-5. “We formed a team and with help of the Sushant Lok police station rescued the minor. Her medical examination was conducted and she was found to be fit. The girl alleged that she wanted to return home, but neither her employer nor the placement agency let her leave. She was not in touch with her family members for the past five months, but had called them before that and informed them that she was working (as a help) in an apartment,” he said.The girl was sent to a shelter home after her statement was recorded before a duty magistrate on Sunday. As per the rules, the minimum age for employment as a domestic help is 18 years, but the girl was being employed as one since she was 14 years old.Sonia Yadav, a member of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), said that the girl’s mother contacted them last week and informed them regarding the placement agency. The helpline officials took the details from the placement agency and alerted the police on Saturday, she said.Kumar said that a probe is underway and action will be taken against the family and placement agency once the investigation is completed.Jasvir Singh, the station house officer of Sushant Lok police station, said that they informed Jharkhand police as a case was already registered there. “We had sent a team with the Childline and CWC team and the minor has been sent to a shelter home. We have informed her mother, who will be reaching in a day or two from Jharkhand. Based on their complaint, action will be initiated,” he said.A DLF spokesperson, on Monday, said, “All security-related protocols have been followed with regard to this incident. We have and will continue to extend all the support to all authorities investigating the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/child-labour-16-year-old-domestic-help-rescued-from-magnolias-in-dlf5-101629741566601.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||65% samples test positive for Delta variant in genome sequencing at Kasturba hospital||In the first cycle of genome sequencing, Kasturba Gandhi Hospital tested 188 samples of which 128 tested positive for the Delta variant. This is the first time that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) got genome sequencing report within a week. The Delta variant, also known as B.1.617.2 of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, was first detected in India in late 2020. This variant, which continues to be the dominant variant across the globe, has now spread to 80 countries.Genome sequencing is an exercise to study the changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant.The hospital requires to undertake further tests to identify Delta Plus variants. “In the first cycle, 65% of the samples tested positive for the Delta variant. Two samples have been identified with Alpha variant and 24 with Kappa,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.When asked if any sample tested positive for Delta Plus, Dr Jayanti Shastri, in-charge of the molecular diagnostic reference laboratory of the hospital, said, “We need further tests for that.”Delta Plus (AY.1) is a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant and was detected in the state during the second wave. In June, the Union health ministry declared it as the variant of concern.The 188 samples which were tested were collected from international passengers, Covid-19 hot spots, places with high transmission rate among others. On August 4, the hospital inaugurated the machines for genome sequencing, making it the first civic-run hospital to conduct the tests in the state. After over two weeks of installation process, the hospital started the procedure of genome sequencing on August 17. The results of the first cycle were declared on Monday. “We started the first stage on August 17 and boarded the samples for sequencing on August 20. The reports of the analysis came on Monday,” she said. Whole genome sequencing tests comprise three phases—library presentation which in simple form is called pre-sequencing preparation, which takes two-three days. The researchers sequence the samples in the machine that generally takes 4-5 hours. In the third stage, they analyse the results to understand the variations. Since genome sequencing is not a diagnostic tool, suspected Covid-19 patients will have to undergo compulsory RT-PCR for the diagnosis.“Unlike RT-PCR which is a target-based testing, sequencing helps to identify unknown pathogens that will help us to understand the genetic coding of the viruses,” she said. As HT reported earlier, the machines have been procured through donations that cumulatively cost around ₹10.5 crore. An US-based biotech company has donated ₹6.4 crore. Mumbai-based ATE Chandra Foundation has donated ₹4 crore for the machine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/65-samples-test-positive-for-delta-variant-in-genome-sequencing-at-kasturba-hospital-101629741506637.html
23-08-2021||Gurugram||Sai Lane Colony will have to be restored, says DTCP||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) has decided to issue a restoration order to landowners and flat owners of Sai Lane on Old Railway Road over illegal constructions that were undertaken in violation of rules, without permissions from the competent authority. DTCP officials said that the flat owners had approached a local court but were not granted relief.A restoration order implies that illegal construction or developments will have to be removed. In case property owners don’t follow the orders, then FIRs would be registered against the violators, said DTCP officials.Around 135 flats have been constructed in violation of rules in the Sai Lane Colony of Old Gurugram. The department had earlier issued notices to the landowners, flat owners and property dealers involved in the construction, development and sale of these properties.“We will issue restoration order to the flat owners and landowners in the next couple of days for construction of flats without any permission from the competent authority. We had submitted in the court that due course of law was followed in issuing notices earlier and there was no arbitrary action,” said RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement).Bhath also said that details about the property deeds were sought from the revenue department. “We have also sought information from civic agencies as to how water and power connections were issued,” he said.DTCP officials said that they have got clear instructions from their headquarters in Chandigarh that the construction of multiple flats on agricultural land or without permission from competent authority would not be allowed in the district. “We have taken action on complaints that have been lodged and areas where our officials have conducted surveys. I appeal to the city residents to apprise the department through phone or email if any violations are happening in their areas. We will take immediate action in such matters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sai-lane-colony-will-have-to-be-restored-says-dtcp-101629741448674.html
23-08-2021||Gurugram||Man shoots brother-in-law for eloping with his sister seven years ago||A man shot at his brother-in-law in Farrukhnagar for marrying his sister against their family’s wishes, the police said on Monday. A case of attempt to murder was registered and efforts are on to trace the suspect, the police said.Despite seven years having passed since their marriage, the suspect held a grudge and attacked his brother-in-law along with two accomplices on Saturday night. The victim suffered a bullet injury to his right shoulder and is stable after undergoing surgery, the police said.Hitesh Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Manesar), said that the victim was taken to a private hospital in Gurugram and was undergoing treatment. “He was operated upon and a bullet injury was reported. We recorded his statement on Sunday, following which a case was registered against the suspect and raids are being conducted to arrest him,” he said. A case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act was registered at the Farrukhnagar police station on Sunday. According to the police, the victim, Rajesh Saini, runs a gym in Farrukhnagar. He wanted to marry a woman from Rewari but their families objected to it due to caste differences, following which they eloped.Saini said that after a few months, the situation got normal and his wife’s parents got them married as per their rituals and accepted him as their son-in-law. “My brother-in-law, Sachin Kumar, was unhappy with our marriage and often threatened me with dire consequences,” he said. On the day of the incident, Saini was sleeping when around 11.45pm, his brother-in-law rang the doorbell. “I went out and opened the door and found my brother-in-law standing there along with two others. My wife was sleeping in the same room but did not come out as she thought someone from the village was visiting for some work. As soon as I opened the door, Kumar threatened my life and said he would teach me a lesson. He held me at gunpoint before I could react or raise the alarm. I tried to run inside but he shot at me on my right shoulder and I lost my balance,” he said. After firing the shot, the trio fled the spot as Saini and his wife locked themselves inside their bedroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-shoots-brother-in-law-for-eloping-with-his-sister-seven-years-ago-101629741447674.html
23-08-2021||Gurugram||Delhi-Jaipur carriageway of Iffco Chowk flyover shut after retaining wall collapses||The carriageway of the Iffco Chowk flyover leading from Delhi to Jaipur was shut on Monday morning after a portion of the flyover’s retaining wall collapsed.According to the officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), a sewerage pipeline that passes under the flyover was damaged on Saturday following heavy rainfall, which led to rainwater accumulation and subsequently, damaged the retaining wall.Retaining walls are relatively rigid walls used for supporting soil laterally so that they can be retained at different levels on the two sides. Iffco Chowk is one of the busiest traffic junctions in the city and the parallel flyover for traffic to move from Delhi to Jaipur was completed in 2019 as part of a project launched in 2016 to decongest the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway.Vikas Mittal, senior manager, NHAI, said that drains and sewer pipelines were flooded over the weekend due to heavy rain in the city, and even on Monday, a heavy flow of water was witnessed at the site where the sewer pipeline was damaged. The pipeline runs parallel to the flyover but it wan untouched during the construction of the flyover and it does not bear the vertical load of the structure.“Due to heavy flow of water, pressure built up internally in the sewer pipeline due to which it burst and caused damage to the retaining wall. The collection of water led to erosion of earth and collapse of retaining wall panels of the flyover. The NHAI team, contractor of the project and local officials have surveyed the damage and initiated work to get it repaired at the earliest,” he said.Officials of Gawar Constructions, the contractor for the project, said that they are waiting for the local authorities to repair the sewage pipeline after which they will repair the flyover. Traffic flow is likely to resume on Tuesday after necessary repairs are carried out, they said.A senior executive of Gawar Constructions, who did not wish to be named, said, “The panels of the wall are still stuck with belts and these will be repaired in two to three days. This time, we have decided to pour concrete under the structure to ensure that a similar problem does not arise in the future.”A senior official of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, which is responsible for the maintenance of the pipeline, said that an old segment that ran from Ambience Mall to Rajiv Chowk was damaged and the authority had already given approval for repairing the entire pipeline. “The pipeline is old and we have already finalised plan to repair it in the entirety. The localised damage is being repaired to ensure flyover becomes functional at the earliest,” the official said. In August 2019, the L-shaped underpass constructed at Iffco chowk for movement of traffic from Huda City Centre towards Iffco Chowk had caved in after heavy rains inundated the stormwater drains and sewage pipelines. The cave-in took place on both sides of the road and damaged the extension joints and the concrete wall of the underpass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/delhijaipur-carriageway-of-iffco-chowk-flyover-shut-after-retaining-wall-collapses-101629741446726.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport operator ties up with Medanta hospital to set up Covid care centre for its staff||The Delhi airport operator on Monday said it has signed an agreement with Medanta Hospital to set up a Covid care centre for its employees and their family members at Terminal 2 of the Indira Gandhi International Airport.Officials of the airport operator, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), said the facility, which is likely to be set up by September this year, may be extended to commuters as well.DIAL will manage the centre, and Medanta hospital will supervise its medical operations. Under this arrangement, the airport operator will handle the day-to-day operational issues, and Medanta will provide all medical support to this centre, including supervision of medical personnel, treatment protocols, patient care, support for pathology, microbiology and radiology, emergency evacuation and admission of critically ill patients at their facility, etc. The centre will have 15 paediatric high-dependency unit (HDU) beds, 18 adult HDU beds and 52 isolation beds, and 85 oxygen concentrators. Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL, said, “Since the onset of the pandemic, many of our employees had to suffer to avail health care facilities. We are extending our support with this set up to help in predominantly admitting the airport employees and their family members, as they are crucial for airport operations. The Centre will be isolated as a containment zone and will adhere to all applicable guidelines and norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-operator-ties-up-with-medanta-hospital-to-set-up-covid-care-centre-for-its-staff-101629741386069.html
23-08-2021||Dehradun||Cong, AAP adopt new tactics to target BJP in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: The opposition Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) are attempting to capitalise on the priests’ protests against the Uttarakhand government’s takeover of the management of Char Dham shrines and associated temples to target the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government ahead of the state assembly elections early next year.The state BJP says the statements reflect the parties’ desperation to gain people’s attention for electoral mileage. Experts say people of Uttarakhand, though religious at the level of personal faith, do not primarily vote on the basis of Hindutva talk by the parties.Congress leader Harish Rawat, who is the head of the party’s election campaign committee, has made it clear in recent statements that he won’t allow the BJP to monopolise the Hindutva agenda.“Without any political colour, our people here use the name of Shiva, Bhole Nath. Our state is Dev Bhoomi. BJP uses the name of Lord Ram. Here, our people, our party cadre use the name of Shiva and Ganesh ji. We started election campaigning with ‘Jai Bhole Nath’. Our workers will continue to use it in election campaigning, and it has nothing to do with politics,” the former chief minister said.Rawat said the Congress has decided to start Parivartan yatra in the state from September 3 from Khatima in Kumaon. “If BJP has Lord Ram, we have Bhole Nath, Lord Ganesh, in whose name the Parivartan yatra will be started to get back the pride of the Dev Bhoomi, the land of gods.”The former CM claimed the BJP has been using Hindutva for political ends as they don’t understand the finer tenets of Sanatan Dharma, which believes in the collective good of all people. “When it comes to agitating priests, we have to be more sensitive regarding what they want. They have been managing shrines for centuries,” he said.Priests have been agitating against the Char Dham Board for the last two years. Angry with the state government’s vacillating the stand over the issue, they have warned the BJP of withdrawing their backing to the party if a decision on scarping the Char Dham Board is not taken by September 1.The Congress has not only come out in support of the priests but also decided to raise the issue in the monsoon session of the state assembly, which started on Monday and will continue till August 27. Congress’s Dharchula MLA Harish Dhami intends to move a private bill on the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Act in the assembly session.Pandit Vinod Prasad Shukla, president of Teerath Purohit Samaj Shri Kedarnath, said scores of people from the priest and Brahmin community have already left the BJP.“We have waited enough. We have been protesting for the last two years and the government is still framing committees in the matter. If they don’t take a decision by September 1, a large number of people from our community will leave BJP,” Shukla said.In April this year, then chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat announced that the state government will review the formation of Char Dham Devasthanam Board. But when Pushkar Singh Dhami took over the reins of the state, he announced the formation of a high-powered committee that will talk with all stakeholders, following which a decision will be taken on the status of the Char Dham Board.But the agitating priests are not happy with this.Santosh Trivedi, a priest from Kedarnath shrine and vice president of Akhil Bharatiya Teerath Purohit Yuva Mahasabha, wrote a letter with his blood earlier this month to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding scrapping of the Char Dham Devasthanam Board and allowing priests to manage the shrines. He said they had never imagined that BJP government will play with the rights of the priests, who have been managing the shrines for centuries.The AAP, which has announced free power to people in the state, has also signalled a change in its tactics. On August 17, Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal announced in Dehradun that AAP will make Uttarakhand the spiritual capital for the Hindus across the world. AAP, which plans to contest on all the 70 seats in the state assembly, feels that if it has to gain a foothold in state politics, it cannot ignore the Hindutva factor.State AAP unit president SS Kaler said the BJP has been using Hindutva for political ends, but AAP wants to link Hindutva with strengthening the local economy.“What Arvind Kejriwal meant by saying that AAP wants to make Uttarakhand the spiritual capital for Hindus across the world is that if we are elected to power, we will develop each shrine and promote it at global level among the Hindus, so that they come here and contribute to strengthening the economy of the people around these pilgrimage sites. By making Uttarakhand the spiritual capital for Hindus at the global level, we are also attracting their contribution in developing the Dev Bhoomi.”The state BJP said the statements show their desperation to gain attention of the people but expressed confidence that the people will continue to repose faith in the BJP.“It is strange why Congress or AAP is suddenly reminded of Hindutva, that too when elections are near,” state BJP vice president Devendra Bhasin said.“Whether it is Congress or AAP, people know their history and what they have done so far. People know whether they are for Hindus or others. This sudden gravitation of both these parties towards Hindutva issues shows their desperation. But people of the state will see through the façade and again repose their faith in BJP. For us Hindutva is not a political ideology but a way of life,” he said.Political analyst Prof SS Semwal, who teaches political science at Garhwal university, said religion has always been a strong undercurrent in Uttarakhand, the land of gods.“But that undercurrent is more at the level of personal faith, not that much at the level of politics. I don’t think people of this state will primarily vote based on what these parties think about Hindutva. There may be some sections who may vote on these issues. But overall voters here are more worried about unemployment, migration, poor healthcare and so on. But with the elections nearing, these parties want to cover all corners. So, they are talking about Hindutva themes and attacking BJP on the same,” Semwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/cong-aap-adopt-new-tactics-to-target-bjp-in-uttarakhand-101629740910292.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||DSP suspended for letting outsiders meet dera head during hospital visit||The Haryana government on Monday placed Meham DSP Shamsher Singh Dahiya under suspension for allowing unauthorised access of visitors, including two women, to Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh during his travels for medical examination to Delhi’s AIIMS on July 13. The dera head has been serving life sentence at Rohtak’s Sunaria jail for raping his two disciples. Dahiya was the officer in-charge of the security during some of the recent out-of-prison visits of the dera head. Hindustan Times was the first to report on August 19 about the security lapses during dera head’s visit to AIIMS. “The governor of Haryana is pleased to place the services of Sh. Shamsher Singh, HPS, DSP/Meham under suspension with immediate effect. During suspension period he will be entitled to subsistence allowance as admissible under rule-83 of Haryana Civil Services (General) Rules-2016. During suspension his headquarter will be in the office of DGP Haryana, Panchkula, and he will not leave the station without the prior permission of the competent authority (sic.),” the government order said. Rohtak DSP Sajjan Kumar, in a communication to the Rohtak SP, wrote that during a July 13 visit to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, four persons, including two women, were given unauthorised access to meet the dera chief on the hospital premises. Kumar said when he objected to the presence of these persons citing security risks and protocol, he was told by Dahiya that he got a phone call from Chandigarh to facilitate the meeting of the dera head with these persons. DSP Kumar had said after completion of medical examination and tests at AIIMS, the Dera chief boarded Dahiya’s vehicle on the way back to Rohtak prison. As per Kumar’s communication, the vehicle with dera chief on board made multiple unscheduled stops en-route where two women were also allowed to board the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dsp-suspended-for-letting-outsiders-meet-dera-head-during-hospital-visit-101629740909177.html
23-08-2021||Other||Chakma groups reject proposed relocation move from Arunachal Pradesh, write to PM Modi||Chakma and Hajong groups have rejected a purported move by the Arunachal Pradesh government to relocate them to another state, officials said. Chakmas and Hajongs, who are Buddhists and Hindus, migrated to India between 1964 and 1966 from Chittagong Hills Tract (CHT) of then East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) to escape religious persecution and were settled in North East Frontier Agency (NEFA), present Arunachal Pradesh. The migrants were settled with a rehabilitation plan and allotted permanent land and provided with financial assistance depending on the size of their families to help rebuild their lives. As per the 2011 census, there are 47,471 Chakmas and Hajongs in Arunachal Pradesh. On Monday, Chakma Development Foundation of India (CDFI) wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat and chief ministers of Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, Pema Khandu and Himanta Biswa Sarma respectively, opposing the move. The letter mentioned that in his Independence Day speech, Khandu had mentioned that Chakmas and Hajongs will be settled outside Arunachal. It added that Union law minister Kiren Rijiju (who is from Arunachal) has also stated in public meetings that members of both communities will have to leave the state. “This has disturbed communal harmony, created enmity against the Chakmas and Hajongs, and also fear in the minds of Chakmas and Hajongs as to whether there is rule of law in this country or not,” the letter said. Alleging racial profiling and discrimination, it added that despite two Supreme Court orders in 1996 and 2015, not a single one of the nearly 15,000 Chakmas/Hajongs who migrated in 1964 have been granted Indian citizenship. It mentioned that descendants of those migrants who are citizens of India by birth have not been included in voter lists in Arunachal. “Chakmas and Hajongs totally and wholly reject any attempt to settle them outside the state,” the letter stated. It mentioned that there is a likelihood of Chakmas and Hajongs of Arunachal getting relocated to Assam. In a press release issued on Monday, Chakma Rights and Development Organisation (CRDO) also opposed the relocation move and instead asked the Centre to create a separate Union territory for Chakmas and Hajongs in the areas of Arunachal where they are settled at present. “It hurts us badly when after 57 years of rehabilitation we are branded as ‘refugees’ by none other than the CM himself. We were ‘refugees’ at one point, long ago before the resettlement in NEFA but are like any other citizens of the country now,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chakma-groups-reject-proposed-relocation-move-from-arunachal-pradesh-write-to-pm-modi-101629740848589.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Students to get money in place of books in Haryana, says minister||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal informed the House that ₹250 per student from Classes 1 to 5 and ₹400 per student from Classes 6 to 8 will soon be transferred to the accounts of the students through the DBT system in lieu of free textbooks.The process of verification of the bank accounts of students has been completed, he said, responding to a calling attention notice.The education minister said that in the meeting of the high-powered purchase committee chaired by the chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on June 12, it was decided that the students should be provided money instead of books. In his notice, the Congress MLA Varun Chaudhry said lakhs of students enrolled in the government schools are waiting for books. He said the books are not easily available in the market as they were provided free of cost to the students. And if available, they are sold at a price much higher than the government has decided to pay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/students-to-get-money-in-place-of-books-in-haryana-says-minister-101629740488594.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||No unusual rise in Delta Plus cases in districts of concern in Maharashtra: Health officials||Although cases of Delta Plus variants have increased to 103 from 21 in June in the state, public health officials claim that transmission rate is still limited. Most districts which recorded the variant have lower positivity rate than the state’s average that stands at 3.1%. Swab samples from Maharashtra continue to be sent for genome sequencing to Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) to detect mutations in Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.“The identification of mutations from swab samples is a continuous process. Every month, we send around 3,600 samples for genome sequencing, and it takes over a month to get the reports. So far, almost 90% of them have tested positive for Delta variants,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.Delta Plus (AY.1) is a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant of Sars-CoV-2 (B.1.617.2) and detected in the state during the second wave. In June, the Union health ministry declared it as the variant of concern.In June 21 Delta Plus variants were identified in the state, which raised fear among the medical experts. Districts like Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Mumbai, Beed, Raigad, among others became a cause of concern for the state health department. However, almost after three months, it has been observed that there hasn’t been any unusual rise in Covid-19 cases in the districts that reported Delta Plus variants. For instance, Ratnagiri that has recorded 15 cases of Delta Plus variant so far, the highest in the state, is recording fewer daily Covid-19 cases compared to July. The seven-day positivity rate of the district stands at 2.6%. Similarly, Mumbai which recorded 11 Delta Plus cases is recording a positivity rate below 1% since last month.In Ratnagiri, Dr Sanghamitra Gawde, civil surgeon said, “We are keeping a close eye and testing more people and close contacts of Covid-19 patients, but we haven’t recorded any sudden rise in cases. We have only 1,400 active Covid-19 cases which was around 2,000 at the start of the month.”Till date, there is little evidence to show that Delta plus is as transmissible as the Delta variant, which continues to be the dominant variant across the globe.“We need more data before concluding if Delta Plus is more transmissible than the Delta variant. So far, we haven’t observed any significant rise in Covid-19 cases in these districts. Now, as the Covid-19 restrictions have been relaxed, the next 3-4 weeks will be crucial,” said Dr Awate.SK Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, in a press briefing last week on the pandemic status in India, said, “From the evidence we have so far, it looks like the Delta Plus variant of the novel coronavirus will not be able to fuel an exponential surge in the number of Covid cases in India.”Experts also point out that Delta plus variant has also been found in nine other countries — the USA, UK, Portugal, Switzerland, Japan, Poland, Nepal, Russia and China. The Delta variant has now spread to 80 countries.“The concern now is that the presence of the mutation in the delta plus variant might render it immune from the antibodies produced by the vaccine, past infection or the new antibody cocktails being used in treatment. However, this hasn’t yet been proven and might not necessarily be the case, and the rarity with which the delta plus variant has been reported makes it not a variant of concern yet. We do need to be vigilant and monitor its spread closely,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, pulmonologist and epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital. However, some districts like Pune, Sangli, Satara and Ahmedabad that are recording above 4.5% weekly positivity rate are the main concern of the state health department. “There still are some districts of concern across Maharashtra. There are several factors behind it. Some of these districts peaked late, so are experiencing a thick tail. We need to keep up with contact tracing and ring fence those areas where the clusters are seen so that we are able to isolate and treat these patients better,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, part of the state Covid-19 task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-unusual-rise-in-delta-plus-cases-in-districts-of-concern-in-maharashtra-health-officials-101629740427758.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Nallasopara jeweller murder: Accused duo held within 48 hours||Nallasopara police arrested two unemployed electricians for the alleged murder of Kishore Jain, 48, owner of Sakshi Jewellers on August 21. The accused, Johnson Victor Batiste, 42, and Mohammed Afzal, 33, had allegedly been planning the murder since July and did a reccee of the shop where Jain worked alone, said deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mahesh Patil.The accused managed to flee with 2 kgs of silver jewellery as Jain refused to hand over the keys of two safes where around 4 kgs of gold worth ₹2 crore was stored. Batiste is from Ahmedabad and lived in Pragati Nagar, Nallasopara (East) while Afzal hailed from Kolkata and resided in Bhayander. One of the accused had a criminal history and was held for robbery in Bandra and Juhu, said the officer. Both the accused allegedly lost their jobs during lockdown and hence came up with a plan to rob the jewellery store. On the day of the incident, the duo allegedly reached the shop around 9am but launched an attach at 11am when Jain was busy with sweeping the shop and performing prayer. The duo tied Jain down and looted the shop. They then stabbed him several times before fleeing, said Patil. “We formed 15 teams and deployed around 90 personnel, and on Monday we arrested the duo under sections 302 (murder) and 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to kill) of the Indian Penal Code. Both the accused have been remanded in police custody for a week. The police, however, are yet to recover the stolen silver,” said Patil.The accused had allegedly used a gun and a fake gun, however, they stabbed the victim to avoid the sound. Goldsmiths, jewellers and shopkeepers kept their shops closed as a protest and wanted the killers to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nallasopara-jeweller-murder-accused-duo-held-within-48-hours-101629740127541.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana monsoon session: House passes five bills||The Haryana Vidhan Sabha on Monday passed five amendment Bills, some of them unanimously, during the ongoing monsoon session. Also, four bills were introduced in the House on Monday and will be taken up for discussion in the upcoming sittings. The bills are: Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority Bill, 2021; Haryana Goods and Services Tax (Second Amendment)Bill, 2021; Haryana Public Examination (Prevention of Unfair Means) Bill, 2021, and Haryana Parivar Pehchan Bill 2021. The bills passed by the House on Monday are: Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Areas (Special Provisions) Amendment Bill, 2021; Maharishi Balmiki Sanskrit University, Kaithal (Amendment) Bill, 2021; Haryana Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill 2021; Haryana Enterprises Promotion (Second Amendment) Bill, 2021; and Pandit Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts, Rohtak (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Civic amenities bill The Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Areas (Special Provisions) Act, 2016, was enacted with an objective of providing essential services in areas lacking the same. According to statement of objects and reasons behind the amendment, the provision of Section 3 of the Act presented certain difficulties. For example, as per the provision, only where construction took place on more than 50 per cent of plots before March 31, 2015 qualified to be considered under the Act. Since such deficient areas and their coming into being is an ongoing process, this provision presented hardship in certain cases. Now, in section 4 (1) of the Act, provision has been made for providing a window of five years from the commencement of the Act to deal with the problem of civic amenities deficiency under the Act. Different other sections of the Act have also been amendment to remove the bottlenecks and the hardship this provision presented in certain cases. In the principal Act, there was no enabling provision for removing the hardship faced in class or category of persons or property by way of removal of difficulties, etc. Such a provision has been proposed to be inserted in the principal Act, says the statement of objects. Balmiki Sanskrit university The Maharishi Balmiki Sanskrit University, Kaithal, Act, 2018, was enacted for expanding the capacity in higher education and to promote Sanskrit language and research. It was observed that in the Hindu mythology the name written is ‘Maharishi Valmiki’ and not ‘Maharishi Balmiki’ as written in the Act. Now, the name will be read as ‘Maharishi Valmiki’ Sanskrit University, Kaithal. University of performing and visual arts The assembly passed Pandit Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts, Rohtak (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to amend the 2014 Act. The amendment pertains to change in preamble, and eligibility criteria for the appointment of vice-chancellor of the university. This university was established by upgrading the integrated campus of government technical institution(s) societies, Rohtak, comprising four institutes namely State Institute of Fine Arts, State Institute of Design, State Institute of Film and Television and State Institute of Urban Planning and Architecture into a university to facilitate and promote studies and research in emerging areas of higher education with focus on new frontiers in the said fields. These four institutions were affiliated with the MDU, Rohtak, and started in 2011 with annual intake of 240 students. “The government has taken the decision to change in preamble, and eligibility criteria for the appointment of vice-chancellor,” says the statement of objects and reasons. Enterprises promotion Under the Haryana Enterprises Promotion (Second Amendment) Bill, 2021, section 2 of the Haryana Enterprises Promotion Act, 2016, has been amended. The state government has notified new industrial policy namely ‘Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy, 2020’ on December 29, 2020. This will be in force from January 1, 2021 till December 31, 2025. In order to ease regulatory burden on the investor and to strengthen Haryana in ease of doing business, certain regulatory reforms have been made under chapter 5 of the policy under which MSMEs will be given all requisite business clearances within 15 days, beyond which there will be a provision for automated deemed clearance. Also, no inspection will be carried out for a period of three years from the date of starting a business and the provision will be made in Haryana Micro, Small Enterprises Facilitation Council (HMSEFC) rules to recover the outstanding payments of MSES as arrear of land revenue. Haryana lokayukta As per the Haryana Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill-2021, now the salary, allowances payable to, and other conditions of service of lokayukta shall be same as may be available from time to time to a sitting judge of the supreme court or chief justice or judge of the high court, as the case may be in accordance with the office held by him minus pension already drawn for the previous service, if any, including commuted portion. The salary, allowances and other privileges available to the lokayukta shall not be negotiable, provided further that the allowances payable and other conditions of service of the lokayukta shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/house-passes-five-bills-101629740007139.html
23-08-2021||Noida||Two held for robbing police post guard in Greater Noida||Two men were arrested on Sunday for allegedly robbing a 45-year-old village chowkidar (security guard) posted at a police post in the Jarcha area. A third suspect in the case is still at large, police said.The victim was identified as Dashrath (45), a native of Phoolpur village under Jarcha police jurisdiction. According to police, on Sunday afternoon, Dashrath was on his way home from the police station when he was intercepted by three men on a motorcycle near the Phoolpur canal. The suspects snatched his mobile phone and wallet with ₹200 and ATM cards, police said. In his complaint, the security guard alleged that the suspects threatened him with dire consequences if he didn’t hand over his valuables. No weapon was used in the robbery, police said. According to police officials, the victim raised an alarm following which locals gathered at the spot and managed to catch one of the suspects. Police later in the evening arrested one more suspect in the case.The arrested suspects were identified as Akash Kashyap (20) and Monu Sharma (22), both residents of Dadri. A case was registered at Jarcha police station against the suspects for robbery under Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code.“The victim is a gram chowkidar who works at the station sometimes during a week. It seems that the suspects don’t have any prior criminal history. One of them was nabbed by the locals while the other was apprehended later in the day. We are working to identify their accomplice. He will be arrested soon,” said Shripal, station house officer, Jarcha police station.Police recovered the stolen phone from the duo along with the motorcycle that was used in the robbery. They were produced before a magistrate that sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-held-for-robbing-police-post-guard-in-greater-noida-101629739885817.html
23-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad civic body okays ₹40 crore for upgrading drainage infra||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation on Monday decided to spend about ₹40 crore on upgrading the drainage infrastructure in the city. The move comes after major city roads witnessed heavy traffic jams due to waterlogging following heavy rains in the last two days. “As we faced waterlogging issues over the weekend, we have decided to improve the drainage system at five key points, including at Nandgram and Brij Vihar, among other areas. For this, we have approved a fund of about ₹40 crore, and it will be spent after the final approval from the state government,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. Even the light rainfall on Monday resulted in traffic jams on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway stretch at Lal Kuan, which is witnessing the construction of a 16-lane rail over bridge (ROB) near ABES College.The corporation on Saturday deployed 39 officers at 13 worst-affected areas for round the clock monitoring and resolving the waterlogging issues. “Our teams have worked round the clock and sorted out the waterlogging issues that occurred due to heavy downpour. The drainage system fell short to drain out the high water volume. The teams are still deployed and there have been no major complaints now,” said Tanwar. The 13 worst-affected areas include New Bus Adda to Patel Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Ramte Ram Road, old bus stand, Navyug Market, Lohiya Nagar, Seemant Vihar (Kaushambi), Brij Vihar, Mohan Nagar, Apsara Border, Rajendra Nagar, Pandav Nagar, Karpuripuram and Govindpuram, among others. Meanwhile, councillors said that the drainage system needs to be revamped. “Most of the areas in the city witnessed heavy waterlogging after the rains in the past three days. This raises questions about the effectiveness of cleaning of drains before the monsoon. It shows that the city is not prepared for heavy monsoon rains. People got stuck up for hours in traffic jams due to waterlogging on roads,” said Rajendra Tyagi, councillor from Raj Nagar. “Further, in many residential areas, residents have covered drains. It has reduced the handling capacity of drains,” he added.Environmentalists said that massive concretisation has led to the situation. “There has been heavy reliance on putting up tiles on roadsides which doesn’t allow rainwater to seep into ground. Further, the rainwater harvesting units are merely operational on paper. This is the time when officials need serious thinking about these issues, as the city is ill-prepared to tackle heavy monsoon rains,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that the ROB at the Delhi-Meerut Expressway will have six new lanes added by August 30. “The load testing has been completed and signages are being put up. Opening of new lanes will ease out traffic pressure,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-civic-body-okays-40-crore-for-upgrading-drainage-infra-101629739826913.html
23-08-2021||Noida||Noida: Construction work begins at international airport site in Jewar||The construction work on the Noida international airport project started on Monday in Gautam Budh Nagar’s Jewar area.The airport is proposed to come up on 1,334 hectares over the next four years under phase 1 of the project. The Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), the special purpose vehicle created for developing the airport, confirmed the development.“We have commenced preparatory work at the construction site of the airport after getting approvals from all the relevant authorities. We are also thankful to the UP government in providing us full support to expedite work at the airport site,” read a statement from YIAPL, which is a fully-owned subsidiary of Zurich Airport International, the Swiss company that won the rights to develop the project last year.According to officials, the first phase of the airport will have a capacity to serve 12 million passengers a year.On Monday, the company began levelling the field that was once agricultural land, said Arun Vir Singh, the chief executive officer (CEO) of Noida International Airport Limited (Nial), which is the Uttar Pradesh government’s nodal agency to implement the mega project. “We allowed the company to construct a boundary wall at the site. Gradually the construction of site office and an air traffic control building too will start,” said Singh. Nial has on its board the Uttar Pradesh government, Noida Authority, the Greater Noida Authority and the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida).Singh said phase 1 of the project is scheduled to be completed in 36 months. “The phase 1 the includes 1,334 hectare of land and will commence operations with one runway. Later, more runways will be added. In each phase, the airport will expand to serve 70 million passengers by the end of phase 4, subject to passenger growth and traffic,” he added.There will be two runways in phase 1. By the end of phase 4, the airport is projected to have five runways and over 5,000 hectares.Singh said YIAPL had secured ₹3,725 crore loan from the State Bank of India (SBI) earlier this month. “This amount has now been disbursed to the company for the construction of the airport,” he said.A formal foundation stone laying ceremony will also be held at the airport site soon and is likely to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.“All preparations for the ceremony are done and it will be held as soon as we get a final confirmation from the Prime Minister’s office on the date,” said Dhirendra Singh, Jewar MLA.Gautam Budh Nagar District Magistrate Suhas LY said the commencement of construction of the airpor was a matter of pride for the district.“This has only been possible because of the support of nearly 9,000 farmers and local residents who gave their land for the mega project. In fact, their rehabilitation was probably the largest in the country. Generally, land becomes a major bone of contention in such big projects, but the people have been supportive,” said Suhas.Officials said the land for first phase has been acquired from villages Ranhera, Rohi, Parohi, Kishorpur, Dayanatpur and Banwaribas in Jewar sub-division of GB Nagar.The airport is billed to be the largest in India upon completion and will be the National Capital Region’s third, after the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) and Ghaziabad’s Hindon airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-construction-work-begins-at-international-airport-site-in-jewar-101629739706788.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Body in gunny bag behind Inorbit Mall: Youth murdered 70-year-old for resisting rape||The body found in a gunny bag behind Inorbit Mall, suspected to be of a woman, has been identified as a 70-year-old from Govandi. She was killed by a 26-year-old man when she resisted his attempt to rape her. The body of the deceased, identified as Bababbai Shantibai Kamble, was found in a gunny bag on August 2. Investigations revealed that she was killed on the night of July 29. She was stabbed on her neck with a bottle and then hit on her head with a stone. Apart from the tattoo on the wrist of the deceased, the police had no primary clue. “While we looked for the missing person’s complaint in police stations in Mumbai, we found one of a 70-year-old lady with the description of a similar tattoo. The family of the missing lady was asked to identify the body,” Pramod Toradmal, inspector from Vashi police station, said. Police interrogated around 250 people and examined around 350 CCTV footage and found the footage of the woman going towards Inorbit Mall with an unidentified man on the day of the incident. “Using the sketch of the accused made with the help of CCTV footage, he was nabbed. To hide his identity, the accused had cut his hair and threw away his bag that was seen in the footage,” said assistant police inspector Sachin Dhage. “The accused is a homeless man who usually slept under the Sanpada bridge and loitered around railway stations. On July 29, the deceased lost her way to home in Govandi and ended up reaching Vashi, wherein the accused saw her. On the pretext of giving her food to eat, he asked her to accompany him. He took her to an isolated area under the flyover behind Inorbit Mall and tried to sexually abuse her. When she resisted, the accused stabbed her on her neck with a broken glass bottle lying nearby, hit her head with a stone and then dumped the body in a gunny bag lying in the garbage bin,” Ramesh Chavan, senior police inspector from Vashi police station, said. The accused was arrested on Sunday from Vashi station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/body-in-gunny-bag-behind-inorbit-mall-youth-murdered-70-year-old-for-resisting-rape-101629739706320.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: FYJC registrations dip by 40,000 this year||Registration figures for the ongoing first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions shows a 40,000 drop this year compared to 2020. Data released by the office of deputy director of education (DyDE) on Monday shows that nearly 2.02 lakh FYJC aspirants completed the registration process this year compared to 2.42 lakh in 2020. This dip has surprised many, especially since a higher number of students cleared Class 10 across school education boards this year.Registered figures have highlighted a dip in applications from students across boards but the biggest drop in applications has come from state board students. Last year nearly 2.21 lakh SSC students had registered for FYJC admissions, but this year the figure stood at 1.83 lakh. Similarly 10,050, 6,363 and 1,220 applications from ICSE, CBSE and IGCSE students were been recorded this year. Last year these figures stood at 11,110, 7,708 and 1,300, respectively.“Every year we get a huge chunk of applications for science stream when we conduct in-house quota, management quota and minority quota admissions, but this year overall applications seem to have dipped, and it shows during admissions,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College Bandra. While the general (common) admission rounds will begin from August 27, minority colleges are finishing admissions to minority, management and in-house quota seats currently.This year, Class 10 board exams across several school education boards were scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. Results for the Class 10 batch was instead based on students’ performance in class 9 and 10 combined. This decision helped boost marks of students across school education boards. While the overall success rate of Secondary School Certificate (SSC) students was 99.5% this year, ICSE student in Maharashtra and CBSE students from the Pune region (which includes Mumbai) boasted of a 100% success rate.Colleges are still unsure about reasons for the dip in applications, but some fear this could be because of a large number of families that left Mumbai during lockdown and moved back to their hometowns after losing jobs in the city. “This is a worrying trend because it could either mean students who left the city due to financial constraints have now decided to pursue education in their native towns or worse, are dropping out of higher education due to family problems. The government should be studying these figures and finding out why less number of students are applying for junior college admissions,” said the principal of a college in Andheri. She added that many students from neighbouring states would have also decided to pursue education in their home states this year due to virtual classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fyjc-registrations-dip-by-40-000-this-year-101629739526408.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Body of unidentified woman found dumped in drain in Mankhurd||Body of an unidentified woman was found dumped in a drain at Mankhurd on Sunday. Police said the deceased was allegedly killed, as her legs and neck were tied with a dupatta and the body was wrapped in plastic bag. She appears to be aged between 25 and 30 years, said police.Mankhurd police registered a case of murder and destruction of evidence against unknown persons and have formed several teams to identify the woman and culprits. The crime branch is also conducting parallel investigation in the case. “It appears that the murder has taken place somewhere else. So we have formed police teams of detection officers of six police stations in zone 6. CCTV footage of nearby area is being scrutinised and her picture has been circulated in all police stations to find out if any missing person complaint has come from her family,” said a police officer.According to police, the body was noticed by locals near Zakir Hussain Nagar in Mankhurd. A police team reached the spot and found the body which was partially decomposed. The case has registered under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code against unknown persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/body-of-unidentified-woman-found-dumped-in-drain-in-mankhurd-101629739346278.html
23-08-2021||Other||Wadgaonsheri resident files FIR over harassment related to stray dogs||PUNE The local police have booked resident of Brahma Sun City after a tenant from another flat in the same housing society complained about subjecting her to “mental torture” as she fed dogs inside the society premises. The police filed FIR on On August 18 at Yerwada police station The bone of contention is Singh’s propensity to feed stray dogs on the society’s premises, where she resides as a tenant The man booked by police and resident of same building was accused of harassing the woman tenant since 2016, according to her complaint. “I had complained to the police in 2016 when he stopped my biometric entry to the building. Police made him write an apology letter, but the harassment has not stopped as I am an animal activist and look after the community dogs. He has made several phone calls to my flat owner pressurising him to terminate the lease,” said Divya Singh, complainant. With the help of social activist Harshwardhan Chowdhary, Singh filed police complaint against the man. A case has been filed against the person under IPC section 509, 352, 504 and 506, for harassment and threatening, (509), abusing a woman or her modesty, section (352) for manhandling. “The man started harassing, threatening and using abusive words for the whole of the last month and he used to film her feeding the dogs. The police did not take our complaint at first,” alleged Harshwardhan Chowdhary. “I was there at the station since 11 am and finally the FIR was filed at 5pm,” said Singh. The police have assigned an investigation officer who took over the case on August 22. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wadgaonsheri-resident-files-fir-over-harassment-related-to-stray-dogs-101629739225820.html
23-08-2021||Other||Pimpri-Chinchwad police get 189K applications for 720 constable posts||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate has received a record 189,000 applications for 720 posts on the police constabulary. Additional Commissioner of Police (ACP) Ramanath Pokale said, “We have received a record number of applications from aspirants for the post of police constable. Mumbai police had received around 150,000 applications, but our figure is much higher. The task of sorting the applications and the necessary process has been outsourced to a private party.” The PCMC commissionerate had recently released an advertisement inviting applciations for vacancies pending since 2010. The maths done by the PCMC police shows that currently every available post of a constable, there are 264 contenders.The 720 posts will be filled as part of the first phase of a recruitment project for the Pimpri-Chinchwad police. A written online exam will take place in September, after which there is a physical test. Navnath Bhadale (26), a graduate from Aurangabad who has applied said, “I know that a large number of applicants have applied. I lost my job during Covid and this can change my future.The private sector no job security, while a government job is a permanent one. Also I want to serve my country and the people by becoming a police constable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pimprichinchwad-police-get-189k-applications-for-720-constable-posts-101629739106370.html
23-08-2021||Lucknow||Former UP CM Kalyan Singh cremated with full state honours||The mortal remains of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh were consigned to flames with full state honours on the banks of the Ganga at Narora town in Bulandshahr district of western Uttar Pradesh on Monday. Singh, also former governor of Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, passed away in Lucknow on Saturday (August 21) after ailing for some time. He was 89. His son Rajveer Singh, the BJP Lok Sabha member from Etah, lit the pyre around 4pm. He was accompanied by Kalyan Singh’s grandson Sandeep Singh, a minister of state in the UP government and MLA from Atrauli. Sandeep Singh is Rajveer’s son.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his Uttarakhand counterpart Pushkar Singh Dhami, Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani, former Union ministers Uma Bharti and Santosh Gangwar, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh were also present at the funeral. Yogi Adityanath personally supervised the arrangements. He had reached Aligarh on Sunday evening and moved with the convoy that headed towards Atrauli near Madhauli, the ancestral village of Kalyan Singh, on Monday. In Aligarh, Kalyan Singh’s mortal remains were kept at the Ahalya Bai Holkar stadium, where people paid their last respects. In view of the presence of a large number of supporters, the mortal remains were kept at Atrauli for three hours instead of two hours as planned initially. Thereafter, the funeral cortege reached Narora from Atrauli around 3pm. Once again, there was a rush of people who paid homage to Kalyan Singh. The chief minister repeatedly rose from his seat and appealed to the mourners to remain calm. Kalyan Singh headed the BJP’s first government in Uttar Pradesh from1991-92 and he had a second term from 1997-99. He was the chief minister of UP when the Babri Masjid was demolished on December 6, 1992. Defence minister Rajnath Singh applauded the major role played by Kalyan Singh in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and said that he was always blessed by Lord Ram. Rajnath Singh termed Kalyan Singh as an “unprecedented chief minister”. Describing Kalyan Singh as an ideal leader, Yogi Adityanath said, “We have to follow the standards of ethics and values adopted by him.” “Kalyan Singhji never hesitated in giving up power when it came to the Ram Janambhoomi issue,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/former-up-cm-kalyan-singh-cremated-with-full-state-honours-101629739046985.html
23-08-2021||Other||Man held for impersonating police officer to steal mobile phones||PUNE A man has been arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for impersonating a police official and stealing mobile phones from four autorickshaw drivers - one in Wakad, two in Warje, and one in Chaturshrungi.The arrested man was identified as Sachin Bhausaheb Sakate (37), a resident of Londhe chawl in Tanajinagar area of Chinchwadgaon. The man was produced in the Pimpri court on Monday and remanded to three days police custody.“We have found one mobile phone that he had stolen at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in March. That case has been registered. We will find three more mobile phones soon,” said senior insepctor Vivek Mugalikar of Wakad police station.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Irfan Hasham Shaikh (44), a resident of Chakan. “He sat in my rickshaw in Kalewadi (in March) and took me to YCM and then to Ruby Hall hospital on the first floor and made me sit outside saying only police are allowed beyond this point. He brought a white paper from the office and started writing on it before going in. Then he came out in some time and asked for my phone. He said his phone does not support photos. Then he left from another gate and I spent around an hour looking for him. Then I went to Sant Tukaram police chowki and narrated the incident,” said Shaikh. In three other cases, the man used similar reasons to take rickshaw drivers’ phones and leave them in a lurch at various hospitals. A case under Sections 170, 171, and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Wakad police station against Sakate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-impersonating-police-officer-to-steal-mobile-phones-101629738986909.html
23-08-2021||Other||Man dies by suicide; leaves note incriminating wife & in-laws||PUNE: A man in his 30s is suspected to have committed suicide in his house in Gokhalenagar area of Pune after leaving a letter incriminating his wife and in-laws on Monday. The man was found by his family who then called the police. He is survived by his mother and a child.The man has mentioned early in his letter that his wife and her parents and relatives took Rs130,000 from him and left him with mounting debt. A part of his letter titled “death note” in Marathi with the date August 22, 2021 written on it read, “Think of my baby as me and take care of my child. The Maharashtra police should award severe punishment to those responsible for this.”The man’s marriage was strained and his wife estranged. Her family allegedly took money from him for her abortion and later asked him to return the Rs7 lakh spent on the wedding, according to his relatives.While an accidental death report (ADR) has been filed in the case at Chaturshringi police station, senior police inspector Rajkumar Vaghchaure said, “So far there is an ADR in the case. We have the suicide note and all aspects will be investigated. If the allegations in it are substantiated, further action will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-dies-by-suicide-leaves-note-incriminating-wife-inlaws-101629738986424.html
23-08-2021||Other||Driver booked for slapping, molesting pillion rider after vehicle blocks his way||PUNE: A car driver was booked for slapping and molesting a woman riding pillion with her fiancé on a two-wheeler after manhandling her fiancé in the Thergaon area of Pimpri-Chinchwad on Sunday. The accused was identified as Hrushikesh Sawant, 40, a resident of Thergaon, but the police have not yet arrested him.The woman in her police complaint stated that she was riding pillion with her fiancé on a two-wheeler near the number 16 bus stop when the accused arrived in a car and signalled to the couple to move their vehicle. The woman signalled back to him to wait, which enraged him according to her. The accused then alighted from his car and approached the couple before beginning to hit the complainant’s fiancé who was riding the two-wheeler. When the complainant tried to intervene, the accused slapped her and touched her inappropriately causing a part of her clothing to fall off, she said. The accused then threatened the complainant’s fiancé and left, according to her.A case under sections 354, 323, 504, and 506 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/driver-booked-for-slapping-molesting-pillion-rider-after-vehicle-blocks-his-way-101629738985873.html
23-08-2021||Other||With 30% deficient rainfall, Odisha asks all collectors to make contingency plans||With 27 of the 30 districts experiencing deficient rainfall this monsoon, Odisha government on Monday asked all district collectors to prepare block and panchayat-wise contingency plans and adopt alternate means of cultivation, officials said.Between June 1 and August 23, Odisha recorded 30% deficit rainfall, receiving 583.7 mm rainfall against the long term average rainfall of 809 mm. As per officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the districts of Keonjhar, Boudh, Angul, Jajpur, and Bhadrak have recorded a severe deficit rainfall (shortfall of 39 to 59 per cent) during June 1 and August 23 while another 20 districts witnessed deficit rainfall (shortfall of 19 to 39 per cent).Not a single district in Odisha recorded a surplus rainfall till now. However, 29 of the 314 blocks in the state are facing a drought-like situation as the land is losing its moisture due to scanty rainfall.Chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra who chaired a review meeting of the agriculture and water resources department said though the state is yet to see a drought-like situation, moisture-stress conditions persist.“The officials in the districts have been asked to emphasize three aspects. We have to make the best use of the existing irrigation projects. Agricultural workers will be provided jobs under MGNREGA or other state schemes if necessary. While 10 lakh person days of work has been generated so far, 20 lakh more person days of work would be created. All the irrigation facilities have to be kept running and uninterrupted power supply should be provided to all irrigation and water supply facilities. Besides, immediate power connection should be provided to newly set up lift irrigation points and borewells,” he said.Agricultural department officials said though good rain in August was crucial for the sowed crops to grow up, Odisha received 50 percent less rainfall in August this year in comparison to last year. While paddy sowing this Kharif is down by nearly 6 lakh hectares, the total crop coverage, including Kharif pulses, cotton etc, has declined by nearly 7 lakh hectares.“An IMD report said most districts in Odisha recorded negative Standardised Precipitation Index values during the period from June 1 to August 21. Negative SPI reveals a dip in soil moisture. “If the condition persists for a few more days, it would be difficult to save the crops,” said a senior official in the state agriculture department.However, the opposition accused the government of not taking the situation seriously. “The government should immediately convene a meeting of natural disaster management committee and all party meet should also be called to discuss steps to combat drought,” said Ganeswar Behera, a Congress spokesperson. The BJP, meanwhile, decided to send 4 teams to visit drought-hit districts.Though officially drought is yet to be declared, last week, the Sambalpur zilla parishad passed a resolution demanding that the district be declared drought-hit. In Ganjam district, villagers are catching frogs from the locality, bathing them with turmeric water and smearing vermilion on their bodies hoping that the ritual would bring rains.Odisha had last experienced drought in 2018 in nine districts of the state, most of them from western Odisha where farmers suffered crop loss of 33 percent and above due to moisture stress in the districts. In 2015, at least 25 of the 30 district had experienced drought due to an erratic southwest monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-30-deficient-rainfall-odisha-asks-all-collectors-to-make-contingency-plans-101629738446373.html
23-08-2021||Other||PMRDA to invite CM for ground breaking of Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar metro line||Work on the Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar metro rail route will start soon and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to be present at the ground-breaking ceremony, PMRDA officials said on Monday.The Pune Metropolitian Region Development Authority (PMRDA) is executing the third metro line in Pune, between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar.The metro line will be run on the PPP model and the contract has been awarded to the Tata Company.PMRDA officials, speaking anonymously, said, “Almost all administrative and planning work is complete. There is progress with land acquisition. Now there is no hurdle for executing work on ground. The car shed work already started, but till the pillars are erected the metro work has not started.”A PMRDA official said that the PMRDA planning to invite chief minister Thackeray for the ground breaking event. “Even guardian Minister Ajit Pawar asked to invite him,” the official said.PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase declined comment.PMC to construct 5 new roads on PPP modelPUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to construct at least five roads using the (PPP) public private partnership model. These will be at Baner, Lohegaon and a flyover at Gangadham chowk.Total cost of the road project is Rs500 crore. In the first phase, PMC approved the PPP model roads at Kharadi at a cost of Rs150 crore.V J Kulkarni, head of the road department, said, “It is true that we are planning five roads on the PPP model at Baner and Lohegaon area. Even a flyover at Bibvewadi is planned on same model. Under this model the developer helps the PMC develop the roads and PMC compensates with a credit note.”There is demand for a flyover at Gangadham chowk for the last many years. The road department confirmed that the PMC is appointing a consultant for same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmrda-to-invite-cm-for-ground-breaking-of-hinjewadi-to-shivajinagar-metro-line-101629738325668.html
23-08-2021||Other||Punjab deploys veterinarians in villages hit by cattle disease||Chandigarh The Punjab animal husbandry department has deployed teams of veterinarians and doctors in districts, where outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease has been reported among cattle. Animal husbandry minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said, “Ring vaccination of 100% livestock within a radius of 5-10 km villages that have been hit has been completed.” Animals in Ludhiana, Moga and Muktsar districts of have contracted the disease. To prevent further spread, the department has distributed over 81,000 doses of the vaccine. “I am collecting daily reports and monitoring the situation,” Bajwa added. Mouth-to-mouth immunization programme is being implemented by the Centre under the National Animal Disease Control Programme (NADCP). “Under this programme, the Centre provides the vaccines. A vaccination drive was started in October 2020 to immunise the state’s cattle. The vaccine could not meet prescribed standards, forcing the Centre’s animal husbandry department to withdraw it. The Centre has, now, told us that it will be resupplied only after its availability with it,” Bajwa added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-deploys-veterinarians-in-villages-hit-by-cattle-disease-101629738206377.html
23-08-2021||Other||Kolhapur: Raju Shetti marches against MVA inaction on farmers’ benefits||PUNE Flood affected farmers took out a protest march in Kolhapur on Monday, under leadership of Raju Shetti, whose Swabhimani Paksha is part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. The protest march was to demand a loan waiver to flood-affected farmers from Kolhapur district, along with waiving school fees of students from affected areas Shetti said if the demands made during the march are not met, he will resort to a “Jal Samadhi” at Narsinhawadi on September 1. “When floods affected most of this part in 2019, the then government waived off loans. We want similar announcement now after recent floods. For the past one year, farmers are already affected by Covid and the natural calamity has only worsened the situation,” Shetti said. Addressing the farmers at the district collectorate in Kolhapur, Shetti added, “We were patient for over a month, but government did not respond to our demands. Now we have given them another week to fulfil our demands, failing to which I will undertake Jal samadhi at Narsinhawadi.” The government had announced financial assistance of ₹50,000 to farmers repaying loans regularly. Referring to the announcement, Shetti alleged that in the 18 months since the announcement, this specific assistance has not been given to farmers. “At least in this situation, help should immediately be given to farmers,” said Shetti, whose name is among 12 persons recommended to the governor the by Maharashtra cabinet for a post on the legislative council. Large parts of Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli districts were badly hit by recent floods as heavy rains lashed western Maharashtra during July. There were incidents of landslides and well as crop damage on large scale during to the flooding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kolhapur-raju-shetti-marches-against-mva-inaction-on-farmers-benefits-101629738025730.html
23-08-2021||Lucknow||Not shaving beard despite directives wrong behaviour by member of police force: Allahabad high court||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has observed that not shaving beard by a member of the police force, despite there being a circular in this regard issued by higher authorities and specific directives by a senior police official to cut the beard, is not only wrong behaviour but also a misdemeanour and misdeed. A single-judge bench of Justice Rajesh Singh Chauhan observed on August 12: “A member of a disciplined force must strictly follow the executive orders or circulars or instructions issued by the department or by the higher authority of the department as those executive orders etc. are as good as service conditions.” The court dismissed a petition filed by Mohammad Farman, a constable who was posted at the Khandasa police station in Ayodhya and had refused to cut his beard despite being issued orders by the station house officer. Superintendent of police (Rural), Ayodhya, had also rejected Farman’s application seeking permission to keep his beard. Constable Mohammad Farman was suspended on November 5, 2020, and issued a charge sheet on July 29 this year. He had challenged his suspension order and the charge sheet before the high court. “As a matter of fact such executive intimation/order has been issued to maintain the discipline in the force directing to keep the appearance and uniform befitting for the members of disciplined force,” the court added. “Further, police force has to be a disciplined force and being a law enforcing agency, it is necessary that such force must have secular image which strengthen the countenance of national integration,” the court observed. “Therefore, non-cutting the beard despite making the petitioner aware by the In-charge Station House Officer of police station Khandasa (Ayodhya) when the petitioner was posted as constable to the effect that the police personnel may not have beard as it is a violation of direction/circular being issued by the higher officials is not only a wrong behaviour but the same is misdemeanour, misdeed and delinquency of the petitioner,” the court observed. “I hereby dismiss the writ petition being misconceived and direct the inquiry officer to conduct and conclude the inquiry against the petitioner in a manner directed above and the disciplinary authority may pass final order strictly as per law,” ordered the court. Additional chief standing counsel Vivek Kumar Shukla appeared on behalf of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/not-shaving-beard-despite-directives-wrong-behaviour-by-member-of-police-force-allahabad-high-court-101629737966165.html
23-08-2021||Other||Potholes on Dehu-Katraj bypass commuters’ nightmare||PUNE A series potholes on the Dehu-Katraj bypass road, part of the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway, has made the commute a nightmare for motorists.The section from Navle bridge to Bhumkar chowk, and the aligning service roads are all riddled with potholes.This portion of the highway is used by many two- wheelers, especially those travelling between Katraj and Hinjewadi. The National Highway Authority of India claims the work filling the potholes is going, however HT’s site visit on Monday did not reveal any work on this section of the road, or on the service road.“The work of filling potholes has started. We will fill all the potholes. The work is going on at Baner .If the weather remains same then in 10-15 days we will fill all the potholes,” said Suhas Chitinis, Pune project director, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).“Due to rain, material does not stay in the potholes properly. All the potholes will be repaired. The priority is the main highway and then the service road,” added Chitinis.Ongoing work at the Chandini chowk flyover and the Pashan-Sus flyover have added to commuter woes.“Many tell us to use service road for commuting, but its condition is very bad,” said Kuldeep Nayse, a daily commuter.BJP Maharashtra unit president and Kothrud MLA Chandrakant Patil on August 13 visited Chandani chowk and reviewed the ongoing multilevel flyover work and consequent traffic snarls in the area.“I hope Chandrakant Patil takes a note of it, we are are facing same problem everyday. Administration has not managed to deal with the traffic issue,” said Indryani Kadgale, a daily commuter.MLA Chandrakant Patil was not available for a comment on whole issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/potholes-on-dehu-katraj-bypass-commuters-nightmare-101629737785727.html
23-08-2021||Other||Wet garbage to briquettes: PMC allows pvt pilot project at Wadgaon biogas plant||PUNE The Pune Municipal corporation (PMC) has started a pilot project where a biogas will be used to process wet garbage and turn into briquettes (a biomass product with multiple uses) as a final product.A private company will operate the Wadgaon-Budruk (Sinhgad road) biogas plant to process 40 tonnes of wet garbage a day.Of a total of 25 biogas plants in the city, the Wadgaon unit is spread over 10,000 square feet and is processing 10 tonnes of wet garbage per day.The plant stopped working after rain damage during the September 2019 flash floods. The PMC tried to, unsuccessfully, resurrect it.Meanwhile, a Pune garbage processing company, Mithras Green Technologies, offered to run the plant with a new technology. A memorandum of understanding (MU) was duly signed.Sanket Jadhav, junior engineer, solid waste department, said,”PMC signed an agreement in November 2020 and handed over the plant for 11 months on an experiential basis. Earlier, we were using compositing and bio-CNG. Both the methods are outdated. Till date, garden waste was being used to make briquettes. It is the first time we are using wet garbage to make briquettes.”He further said, “The new plant will process more wet waste. We were processing 10 tonnes of wet garbage per day. Now, we will process up to 40 tonnes per day.”The PMC wants to hand over its biogas plants to private players on a design-build-finance-operate and transfer (DBFOT) basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wet-garbage-to-briquettes-pmc-allows-pvt-pilot-project-at-wadgaon-biogas-plant-101629737665586.html
23-08-2021||Other||PMC wants Rs11.96 crore for retaining wall on civic properties along Ambil Odha||PUNE: The Pune municipal administration has demanded diversion of funds to the tune of Rs11.96 crore towards erection of compound walls for Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-owned properties damaged due to flooding of the Ambil odha, a stream that flows from Katraj through Bibvewadi, K K market, Padmavati, Aryaneshwar, Sahakarnagar, Dandekar vasti and Rajendra nagar to merge with the Mutha river near the Vaikunth crematorium. While the PMC has already undertaken works on the Ambil odha, including completion of the bridge and widening of the stream wherever possible, the civic administration has now demanded that Rs11.96 crore worth of funds be diverted towards construction of a retaining wall for PMC properties along the Ambil odha. There are several PMC properties along the Ambil odha that need fencing as protection against flooding, according to the civic administration. A proposal to that effect has been put forward before the standing committee.Earlier too, the PMC had put forth a proposal before the state government asking to help private citizens construct compound walls that had been damaged by inundation of the Ambil odha. However, the proposal did not get a nod and owners of private bungalows went ahead with constructing the retaining walls on their own except for some old housing societies which did not have the necessary funds. At the time, the political leadership was willing to help private citizens and mayor Murlidhar Mohol announced it several times but the plan did not go through as there was no provision to help private societies.Meanwhile, some civic officials who did not wish to be identified said that three months into the rainy season and works on the Ambil odha were still not complete due to delay in the tendering and work order process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-wants-rs11-96-crore-for-retaining-wall-on-civic-properties-along-ambil-odha-101629737485592.html
23-08-2021||Other||Pune students opt for online certificate courses to enhance skill sets||PUNE As colleges are online for a second consecutive year, students are signing up for online certificate courses to enhance skills while they are pursuing the traditional educational route. Students are making the most of certificate courses which also have industry recognition and demand.Durgesh Nisal, a student pursuing graduation in Mass Communication, who also did certificate courses on Journalism and Digital Marketing, said an additional skill is the need of the hour.“In the lockdown, the digital platform is now the business platform. This has helped me acquire new skills and add on to the basics of my courses,” said Nisal.He added that the digital marketing platform has helped him understand the difference between fake promotions and genuine promotions.“I am working with a startup. I am freelancing for four clients . These professional certificates have helped me start my own venture right from the comfort of my home,” said Nisal.Kirti Chaudhari, who is now in her second year of Master of Business Administration (MBA), said she has enrolled for five certificate courses to enhance her skills.“I wanted to make the most of the pandemic as the online classes were on and I had plenty of time to enroll for new courses. I have done a course in digital marketing and a basic course in introduction to psychology. When I pass out in 2022, I can put all of these in my resume. As a management student, these extra certificate courses will help me get better job opportunities,” said Chaudhari. She added that her college has tied up with various online platforms to get students to enroll and complete these courses.“Many of my batchmates are finishing these courses. As the world is now digital, courses like digital marketing are the need of the hour,” said Chaudhari.Another student, Sai Waghmare, who is now pursuing her masters after her Bachelor of Ayurveda, Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) in the city, said that she is taking spoken English courses online .“I pursued my BAMS from Latur and now I am in Pune for my Master’s. I want to practice as an Ayurvedic doctor in Pune. I am using my time here to learn how to speak English fluently. Various online certificate courses are helping me enhance this skill,” said Waghmare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-students-opt-for-online-certificate-courses-to-enhance-skill-sets-101629737305573.html
23-08-2021||Other||PMPML cuts down on long routes, forcing suburban passengers to change buses enroute to city||PUNE The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) rescheduled time-table has meant that over the last month, July-August, thousands of passengers from suburban areas, going to work in the city, are having to change buses to get to their destination. This includes residents travelling from Katraj, Upper Indiranagar, Sinhgad road, Dhayari and Katraj. “I used to take a direct bus from Katraj bus stand to Deccan Gymkhana, but this has now been canceled. I need to change two buses from Katraj to Swargate and then from Swargate to Deccan. I was told that to travel within the city there is this Atal bus service. Though it is beneficial to travel within the peth areas, it is not useful for passengers traveling from outer parts of Pune,” said Shalaka Pethe, an officergoer and resident of Katraj. Daily commuter Prasad Harshe said, “The bus from Dhayari to Shanipar bus stand has been canceled and I need to board two buses to reach my shop. I work as a salesman and cannot afford to go by bike due to increased fuel prices. The direct bus is not running any more.”Last month, PMPML had launched a city bus service called Atal “Dus mein Bus” bus service under which passengers can travel within the city for ₹10. PMPML traffic manager Dattatray Zhende said, “As the bus routes from suburban areas are cut down, traffic congestion within the city has reduced. Though we have cancelled long-route buses, there is five-minute frequency between buses, to travel anywhere within the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmpml-cuts-down-on-long-routes-forcing-suburban-passengers-to-change-buses-enroute-to-city-101629736885622.html
23-08-2021||Patna||Murder convict escapes from open jail in Buxar||The police have launched a manhunt for a murder convict who escaped from the open jail facility in Buxar prison on Sunday.Jodhan Sahni, 47, who has been undergoing life imprisonment, was reported missing from the prison around 6 pm, almost 12 hours after he left the prison for treatment at Sadar Hospital, located near the jail premises.“A court convicted him in a murder case in 2009 and awarded him life imprisonment. He was earlier lodged at the Bhagalpur Central Jail and was shifted to the open jail at Buxar in 2020. A search has been launched,” said a prison official, on condition of anonymity.The open jail concept has been introduced in 13 states of the country to encourage good conduct and self-discipline among inmates. As per Bihar Jail Manual 2008, well-behaved life term convicts over 30 years of age and belonging to the state, are eligible to be considered for open jail after spending 10 years behind bars, among other criteria. Inmates convicted either for planned mass murder, murder of a public servant, or under the National Security Act, or court-martialed, aren’t considered for open jail. The Buxar open jail was inaugurated in 2012 and it currently accommodates 50 inmates, along with their dependents. According to the FIR lodged by prison authorities, Sahni, who was staying in the open jail with his wife, slipped away after gaining permission to go to the Sadar Hospital on Sunday morning. “Around 6.10 am, he left for the hospital for treatment, but did not return till 6pm,” said Dinesh Kumar Malakar, the station house officer (SHO) of the town police station. He said a police team has been dispatched for Bhagalpur to search him.A senior prison official said this was perhaps the first instance of a prisoner escaping from the open jail in Bihar. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/murder-convict-escapes-from-open-jail-in-buxar-101629736347638.html
23-08-2021||Patna||PSCWA seeks financial aid to tide over pandemic blues||Jharkhand’s finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Monday lambasted the Centre for denying any financial incentive to the education sector during the pandemic, even though ₹2 lakh crore package was doled out to other sectors to tide over the financial crisis. Oraon was speaking at the inaugural session of the three-day national council meeting of the Private School and Children Welfare Association (PSCWA) in New Delhi. He said that educational institutions were badly hit during the pandemic period and private schools had to bear the brunt of the government’s apathy. Delegates from 28 states and nine union territories participated in the meeting addressed by the governor of Sikkim Ganga Prasad and former Union minister and AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar. Joint secretary of Union ministry of human resources Santosh Shadangi also addressed the meeting. President of PSCWA Shamael Ahmad chaired the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pscwa-seeks-financial-aid-to-tide-over-pandemic-blues-101629736346496.html
23-08-2021||Patna||Rural governance in Bihar: Panchayati raj officers now CEOs of panchayat samities||In a new arrangement to run Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) set-up in Bihar, the state government on Monday notified the block panchayati raj officers as the new executive officers (CEO) of panchayat samities, replacing the block development officers (BDOs). Panchayati Raj minister Samrat Chaudhary said the systematic change was brought in conformity with the recent amendments to the Bihar Panchayati Raj Act during the just concluded monsoon session of the state legislature. The panchayati raj department has also ordered a freeze on all sorts of spending by panchayat samities from Tuesday till the new bodies are elected. “The ban on spending has been imposed in view of the election code of conduct, which comes into force from August 24 when the state election commission formally notifies the elections,” said Chaudhary. Panchayat polls in Bihar are scheduled in 11 phases beginning September 24. The minister said expenditure under the ongoing Har ghar nal ka jal scheme, however, had been exempted from the ban. There are 534 panchayat samities, one in each block, in the state. Amrit Lal Meena, additional chief secretary at the panchayati raj department, said the new arrangement in the PRIs was mooted after it was observed that the BDOs were unable to spare sufficient time for monitoring working of rural bodies. “Panchayat samities are likely to receive huge grants from the Centre and the state government for developmental activities in the next five years,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rural-governance-in-bihar-panchayati-raj-officers-now-ceos-of-panchayat-samities-101629736293268.html
23-08-2021||Patna||BJP a divided house on caste census||The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), which was part of an all-party delegation from Bihar which met the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to press for a caste census in the country, seems to be a divided house on the issue. While several BJP leaders are against the caste census, a few others have supported it.State’s minister Janak Ram, who was part of the delegation from the BJP side, was cautious. “The PM has to take a decision on the caste census demand. Whatever he decides should be acceptable to all parties,” Ram said after the meeting in New Delhi. “PM has proved that development and caste are two different things. I don’t think caste creates hindrances in development,” he told reporters. Others like minister Ram Surat Rai backed caste census categorically. “Both caste census and a law on population control are necessary. The mandate lies with the Centre. It is good that chief minister Nitish Kumar and PM Modi met on the issue,” Rai said. Patliputra BJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav, a former union minister, said BJP “has been ahead of others when it comes to safeguarding the rights of OBCs”.Cooperative minister Subhash Singh, however, is opposed to the idea. “This will lead to social tension,” he had said. While deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad gave no reaction, Bihar BJP chief Dr Sanjay Jaiswal had recently said a caste census might have an adverse impact on social amity. When reached for comment on Monday, he said, “Whatever PM decides will be acceptable to us.” Most BJP leaders had opposed caste census after the Union government ruled out demand for the same in Parliament. “However, they seem to have realized suddenly it would not like to be seen as the isolated party which is opposing caste census,” said Gyanendra Yadav, associate professor and head of sociology department, College of Commerce, Patna. The most explicit support for a caste census has come from Rajya Sabha member and former deputy chief minister of state Sushil Kumar Modi. “BJP has never been against the caste census. That is why we have been part of the resolution passed in the Legislative Assembly and the Council on this issue. BJP is part of the delegation which met Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In the year 2011, BJP’s Gopinath Munde had presented the party’s side in Parliament in favour of the caste census,” he tweeted.The BJP heavyweight in Bihar further said that on the instructions of the central government at that time, when the socio-economic survey was conducted by the ministries of rural development and urban development, crores of errors were found in it. “The number of castes reached into lakhs. The report was not made public due to huge discrepancies,” he said. A senior BJP leader, wishing not to be named, conceded that the demand for caste census has indeed put his party in a dilemma. “BJP cannot wholeheartedly support OBC politics, unlike the JD-U and RJD, because it fears it would antagonise the upper castes. But it can also not been seen as anti-OBC because it has made inroads in the sizable OBC and Dalit vote bank in the state,” he said.The last caste census was held in India in 1931.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-a-divided-house-on-caste-census-101629736292100.html
23-08-2021||Patna||Hands-on training of HCWs at AIIMS-Patna awaits state govt nod||The state health department is yet to firm up the physical training schedule in paediatrics intensive care unit (PICU) management for its doctors and nurses in preparation for the anticipated third wave of coronavirus affecting children. Around 600 doctors and nurses from the state health department have undergone online training through experts from Patna’s All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) so far. However, hands-on training of the shortlisted health personnel is awaited at AIIMS, as the State Health Society, Bihar, is yet to confirm the schedule. “We are in the process of finalising the framework of shortlisting health personnel to be sent for the physical training at AIIMS-Patna. We will share the schedule after we finalise it,” said a government functionary in the know of the programme. The state government has already decided in principle to nominate AIIMS-Patna as the centre of excellence for paediatrics management of Covid-19, in anticipation of the third wave of the pandemic. “We shall release the online training module for trainees tomorrow (Tuesday). Those who perform well will be shortlisted for the physical training, in consultation with the state government,” said Dr Lokesh Tiwari, additional professor and head, paediatrics department at the AIIMS-Patna. The AIIMS proposes to shortlist 125-odd health personnel for physical training. Of this, 50% will be paediatricians and 50% nurses. The shortlisted candidates will be divided into four batches and each batch will have a week-long hands-on training at the institute. “We propose to begin the week-long physical training in PICU management for each of the four batches from August 31. The training session will continue for a month. However, we are awaiting confirmation of the training schedule from the state health department,” added Dr Tiwari. The idea, he said, was to impart hands-on training in PICU management to at least two doctors and two nurses at every district hospital — there are 36 district hospitals in Bihar. These personnel, if needed, could then lead the paediatrics acute care unit at the district level. The remaining 475 health personnel, trained through online mode, would support them at the sub-divisional hospital and the community health centre levels. “We will shortlist a few among the 125 health personnel selected for the physical training, to become trainers, who can then train others at the periphery level,” added Dr Tiwari. The AIIMS sent reminders to the state health department before the online training of health personnel began on August 10. The institute imparted online training to 600 state healthcare workers (HCWs) in five days between August 10 and 18. As many as 200 paediatricians from across all the nine state-run medical colleges were trained on August 10, the first day of the online training programme, while the remaining 400 doctors and nurses from district hospitals were trained over the remaining four days on August 12, 13, 17 and 18. The AIIMS does not want the physical training of healthcare workers to be delayed any further. Bihar reported 20 new cases of SARS-CoV-2 from 10 of its 38 districts on Sunday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 725,588 and deaths 9,649. The number of active cases had come down to 140, with a recovery rate of 98.63%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/handson-training-of-hcws-at-aiims-patna-awaits-state-govt-nod-101629736290838.html
23-08-2021||Patna||Samastipur: Three killed in separate incidents||Five armed miscreants on two bikes looted ₹10 lakh and killed the owner of a milk store located at Ghat Nawada on National Highway 28 under the Dalsingsarai police station area of Samastipur district on Monday. The driver of a milk van was hurt in the incident and later succumbed to his injuries. The incident took place around 12.45 pm. Police said that the unidentified criminals shot dead shop owner Sunil Kumar Rai, injured milk van driver Mohammad Pappu and escaped with cash. Dalsingsarai SDPO Dinesh Kumar Pandey said that police are trying to get details of criminals from the CCTV cameras installed near the shop. An FIR was registered in this regard, he said. Samastipur SP M S Dhillon said, “Raids are on to arrest them,” he added. In another incident, armed miscreants shot dead a boatman at Banbhaura village under Bithan police station of the district over a money dispute with the brother of a muscleman Ranbir Yadav, SHO of Bithan police station Mohammad Khusbuddin said. The incident evoked sharp criticism from opposition leader Tejaswi Yadav who slammed the government for “its failure to check law and order in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/samastipur-three-killed-in-separate-incidents-101629736289643.html
23-08-2021||Other||Rising Mahananda inundates several villages in Katihar||Floodwaters from the Mahananda river have inundated several areas in Katihar, affecting about 4 lakh people across 400 villages in the district.Altogether nine blocks, including Kursela, Barari, Mansahi, Manihari, Sameli, Amdabad, Pranpur, Kodha and Kadwa, have been facing floods from Ganga, Kosi and Mahananda rivers in the flood-prone district.“After Ganga and Kosi, now Mahananda has started intimidating us as it is rising menacingly. We were planning to return to our respective villages but given the Mahananda’s mood, we can’t,” a local from Amdabad block said.As per data available by the Katihar district administration, crops, especially paddy, across 14,022 hectares of land were damaged due to floods. A total of 35,077 affected families have got ₹6,000 each as financial assistance so far.Katihar district magistrate (DM) Udyan Mishra said, “A total of 223 community kitchens and one relief camp at Barari in Katihar are in operation. Besides, two NDRF teams have been pressed into service to rescue people from the flood-hit areas.” “Rising water levels of Mahananda have not reached to threatening stage yet,” he said.Meanwhile, as per Bihar’s disaster management department (DMD), 28 people have lost their lives in floods so far. Around 35.66 lakh people have been affected by floods across the state, besides 34,220 people have been staying across 71 relief camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rising-mahananda-inundates-several-villages-in-katihar-101629736288346.html
23-08-2021||Other||Ex-RLSP leaders join RJD||Several leaders of erstwhile Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP), founded by former union minister Upendra Kushwaha who himself joined Janata Dal (United) earlier this year, on Monday joined the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in the presence of its principal general secretary and former minister Alok Mehta and state vice-president Birendra Kushwaha at Bhabua.Birendra Kushwaha from Kaimur, earlier a close aide of Upendra Kushwaha and RLSP candidate from Bhabua assembly constituency in the last elections, had planned the event. He had joined RJD after Upendra Kushwaha decided to merge his party with the JD-U.Upendra Kushwaha had good following in Kaimur and Rohtas districts, which have a a sizable population of Kushwaha community. He won the parliamentary election from Karakat in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exrlsp-leaders-join-rjd-101629736286166.html
23-08-2021||Patna||BPSC postpones exam for legal officers as matter reaches HC||A day before the statewide written mains examination for the post of assistant prosecution officers (APO) was scheduled to be held, the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) on Monday announced its postponement, citing “unavoidable reasons”, even as the Patna High Court allowed a petition by a few candidates seeking inclusion of their names in the results for preliminary exams.“The mains APO exams scheduled for August 24 and 27 have been postponed due to unavoidable reasons,” said a notification from the BPSC exam controller.Candidates had been demanding postponement of the exam in view of floods in half the state though a relentless campaign on the social media for the last few days even as they awaited the HC’s response to their petition.The last-minute announcement of postponement came even as hundreds of aspirants had already reached Patna between Sunday and Monday from Uttar Pradesh, New Delhi, Manipur and other states.Meanwhile, on Monday, the HC allowed the petition of Utpal Kant and others, seeking direction to the BPSC to allow candidates 10 times the number of vacancies to appear for the mains written exams on the basis of the preliminary exam results published on April 27.Against 553 vacancies, only 3900-odd candidates were declared to have passed preliminary exams and eligible for mains.The candidates also prayed before the court that they be provided to examine the application of reservation roster and the mechanism adopted for deciding cut-off marks in prelims. They also prayed that four marks be given to the candidates who attempted the four wrong questions that were later deleted and the objections of the candidates be considered.The petitioners had prayed that the conduct of main exams be withheld till the disposal of the petition. The court had earlier asked the BPSC to file a detailed affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bpsc-postpones-exam-for-legal-officers-as-matter-reaches-hc-101629736226231.html
23-08-2021||Other||Two from Punjab make it to NBA’s women programme||Chandigarh Yashneet Kaur, 16, of Jalandhar and Kavya Singla, 17, of Patiala are among five budding Indian cagers selected for the NBA Academy Women’s Virtual Programme. The state’s duo are among 50 players from 22 countries that the NBA has selected for an eight-week basketball and leadership development programme. The three other Indian players who have been selected comprise Parnika Srivastava, Sunishka Karthik and Shomira Bidaye. All young girls will take part in basketball and life-skills development training under the guidance of current and former WNBA players and NBA Academy staff. As part of the on-court curriculum, participants will receive virtual lessons, instructions and challenges, where they will compete against peers from around the world.Excited to be part of the program 16-year-old Yashneet said, “The programme has helped me develop skills on and off the court. They are helping me develop strength and sharing tips on gym workout. I am spending extra time on weight training which will help us balance out our athletic training with our studies.” She is the younger sister of rising Indian basketball star Harsimran Kaur. She was also named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the NBA Academy India Women’s Camp in October 2019. Kavya says, “My experience has been brilliant. Interacting with coaches, players, and experts from the WNBA has given me a chance to learn so much, be it basic fundamentals or advanced skills in basketball.” She is a national player and attending Team India’s basketball camp for the 2022 Asian Games. She was also a part of the 2018 and 2019 NBA India camp. Nagpur’s Shomira played in the 2019 Junior NBA Global Championship in Florida. Bengaluru’s Suniksha Karthik was part of the Indian team in the earlier edition and Parnika is from Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-from-punjab-make-it-to-nba-s-women-programme-101629735926130.html
23-08-2021||Lucknow||No fresh Covid case in Lko; UP logs only 7||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh witnessed the steepest decline in the number of fresh Covid cases with the state logging only seven new infections for the first time since the second wave surge while Lucknow saw zero fresh cases on Monday.After May 6, 2020, this was the first time Lucknow saw zero fresh cases while the state’s active case count fell below 400, said an official statement.“The number of fresh infections reported on Monday was just seven, making it the lowest daily case count of the state so far,” said the statement. It added: “With this encouraging sign, the state’s recovery rate stands at a good 98.6%, testifying the success of UP’s Covid-19 Model of intensive ‘trace, test, treat, vaccinate’. Continuing the downtrend, UP has been maintaining the daily Covid test positivity rate (TPR) — the number of positive cases against the total tests done — at 0.01%, the lowest in the country. This rate was at its highest at 16.84 % on April 24 in UP and now remains even lower than the lowest post the first wave of Covid.” High number of recoveries and a low number of fresh cases subsided the active caseload in the state to 362, the statement said. None of the 75 districts reported fresh cases of coronavirus infection in double-digits lately and as many as 69 districts reported no fresh cases in the last 24 hours, whereas six reported new cases in just single digits, it said. Lucknow had reported its first Covid case on March 11, 2020. The maximum cases surfaced on April 16, 2021 when Lucknow reported 6,598 in a single day. “On an average, Lucknow is testing over 14,000 Covid samples every day. Till now, over 49 lakh samples have been tested,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow. UP had so far reported 1709126 Covid cases and 22792 deaths while Lucknow logged 2651 deaths, according to data from the state health department. “Till now, Lucknow has reported 2,38,62 Covid cases. The recovery rate is 98.87%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. There were 26 active cases under treatment in Lucknow. Experts said Covid protocol should be given utmost priority despite steep fall in fresh cases. “People from other states are traveling to UP. We need to give top priority to Covid protocol to ensure infection does not spread,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-fresh-covid-case-in-lko-up-logs-only-7-101629735266285.html
23-08-2021||Other||Rifles snatched from police by youths recovered from stream in Shillong||Three service INSAS rifles which were wrested from a police posse in Meghalaya on August 15 by a group of youths were recovered from a stream in the heart of the state capital on Monday afternoon by the personnel of the Meghalaya Fire and Emergency Services and district police, officials said. Earlier, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma had urged the youths to return the snatched rifles even as he promised to keep their identities secret, in other words, he offered absolute amnesty.Elaborating on the retrieval, assistant inspector general of Police (AIG-A), Gabriel K Iangrai said that the three INSAS rifles which were stolen (police refuse to acknowledge they were snatched) from the personnel on August 15 have been retrieved from Umkhrah river by the Search and Rescue Team (SRT) of the Fire and Emergency Services and the East Khasi Hills district police.On behalf of Meghalaya police, the AIG expressed its sincere gratitude to the Rangbah Shnongs (headman) of Mawlai Town Dorbar (village council) for their continuous support and to the youths who had come forward to inform the police through an anonymous letter released through the media.On August 15, a police vehicle (black Scorpio) belonging to Mawkynroh outpost was set ablaze at Jaiaw. A group of youths accosted a police posse led by the in charge of the police outpost, wrenched the assault rifles from the police personnel and commandeered the vehicle for a ride before converting it into wrangled metal by setting it aflame at Jaiaw.The incident was a mark of protest against the death of former Hynñiewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC), a proscribed militant out, founding general secretary Cherish Starfield Thangkhiew in his residence on August 13 morning in a ‘police encounter’Soon after, the incident went viral online, chief minister Conrad K Sangma urged the youths to return the rifles. “All those who are involved are asked to immediately return the weapon,” Sangma had appealed through the media, while promising that the identity and names of those involved will be kept strictly confidential as the interest of the state was to retrieve the weapons.“Since we are not very clear about the situation and the circumstances, we can’t assume that they (the miscreants) came with the intention of grabbing the weapons at this point of time. We are more concerned about the safety of the people,” Sangma stated. Meanwhile, the four policemen have been suspended and an inquiry has been initiated against them for “deserting their weapons”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rifles-snatched-from-police-by-youths-recovered-from-stream-in-shillong-101629734666153.html
23-08-2021||Other||Agharkar Research Institute, Sentient Labs develop technology generating hydrogen directly from agri residue||PUNE: The MACS-Agharkar Research Institute (ARI) along with Sentient Labs, a research and development innovation laboratory incubated by KPIT Technologies, has developed the world’s first technology that generates hydrogen directly from agricultural residue for use in fuel cell-powered vehicles.The hydrogen generation technology uses agricultural residue rich in cellulose and hemicellulose content – in the likes of paddy, wheat, or maize residue. The process uses microbial culture for the direct generation of hydrogen from agricultural residues. It further generates methane, which is utilised for producing additional hydrogen by steam methane reformation. This process can avoid the burning of bio-mass generated in large measure in the Indian countryside and generate organic manure and CO2 that find application in various industries.Dr Dhakephalkar, director of ARI, said on the occasion, “Hydrogen fuel cell vehicle technology is billed as the next big step in the direction of sustainable mobility as it provides a large operating range, is suitable for commercial vehicles, and leaves a minimal environmental footprint. The need of the hour in crude oil-importing nations is to rapidly move towards self-reliant energy sources and sustainable mobility. The hydrogen generated from this technology will be utilised to power fuel cell vehicles that emit only water, thus making the entire cycle pollution-free.”The vision is to build technology solutions for the electrification of mobility. The bottlenecks in battery technology, fuel cell technology and technology for hydrogen generation have been identified and multiple efforts are underway to create the building blocks required for sustainable mobility.Dr Dhakephalkar said, “Our technology is 25% more efficient as compared to conventional anaerobic digestion processes used today. The innovative two-stage process eliminates the pre-treatment of the biomass, thus making the process economical and environmentally-friendly. This biologically benign process generates digestate rich in nutrients which can be used as organic fertiliser. Its byproducts can be used as soil conditioners while undigested solids for briquetting that can be sold as solid fuel. I thank the scientists and engineers at Agharkar Research Institute and Sentient Labs for this achievement.”While Ravi Pandit, chairman of Sentient Labs, said, “We incubated Sentient Labs to work on technology research and development projects related to mobility and energy. This innovation affirms our commitment to mission hydrogen and the ‘Make in India’ charter by the government. This breakthrough of generating hydrogen from unutilised agricultural residue will help us become self-reliant in terms of energy resources. It will also add a major stream of revenue to the farmers’ community. We will continue research and development and invite partners to come on board for production and commercialising of the same.”The MACS-Agharkar Research Institute is committed to conducting basic and applied research in life sciences to harness the genetic diversity of microbes for bio-energy generation and has been working towards developing solutions that are appropriate for national use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agharkar-research-institute-sentient-labs-develop-technology-generating-hydrogen-directly-from-agri-residue-101629734545481.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cong MLA claims water shortage in Bhiwani villages, Khattar orders probe||Following senior Congress leader Kiran Choudhry said in the assembly on Monday that people of Bhiwani districts have been facing “acute water scarcity for the past three months”, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar ordered an inquiry to be completed within 24 hours to “ascertain” the reality. In her calling attention notice during the second sitting of the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha, the Congress leader Choudhry, who represents Tosham assembly segment of Bhiwani district, said all the villagers of her district have been spending ₹500 to ₹800 daily on water tankers for drinking water. Giving an instance, she claimed in Umravat village people got water on four occasions in six months. “People have been forced to buy the drinking water at a very high rate,” she told the House, evoking strong reaction from agriculture minister JP Dalal, who also comes from Bhiwani district. As the Congress MLA dwelt at length on how people have been reeling under water scarcity in Bhiwani and tried to corner the treasury benches, chief minister interjected and launched the counter offensive. Assuring appropriate action, Khattar announced that an inquiry will be done within 24 hours into the issues Congress leader has raised. He said if the issue raised turns out contrary to the ground realities, appropriate proceedings should be initiated against the MLA for misleading the House. Later, in a release, the government said the committee headed by additional chief secretary (ACS-irrigation and water resources) Devender Singh will be constituted to conduct an inquiry into water shortage in Bhiwani district. The spokesperson said the committee will submit its reports within 24 hours. “The chief minister said that action would be taken against the officers of the department if the statement made by Kiran Choudhry turns out to be true. The report in this regard will be presented to the speaker. The report will make it clear who is misleading the House,” said an official spokesperson, quoting chief minister Khattar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-mla-claims-water-shortage-in-bhiwani-villages-khattar-orders-probe-101629734065445.html
23-08-2021||Other||Alleged kidney racket mastermind arrested in Assam||Police in Assam’s Dibrugarh district have arrested an alleged mastermind in a kidney transplant racket that used to target needy tea garden workers, officials said on Monday. Gautam Sonowal alias Girin Sonowal (50) was arrested on Sunday night from Tengakhat area of the district where he was hiding in an acquaintance’s house. He was produced in court on Monday and remanded to four days of police custody. Another accused, Samar Pal, an associate of Sonowal, had been arrested last week when he was about to leave for Kolkata with three prospective kidney ‘donors’. He is at present in judicial custody. “We had registered a case in Lahowal police station in July this year following a complaint from a person who had sold one of his kidneys in April,” said Bitul Chetia, additional superintendent of police, Dibrugarh. The complainant, Ramu Karmakar, had mentioned that Sonowal had convinced him to sell his kidney for a sum of ₹3.5 lakhs, which was to be transplanted to a doctor. Investigations revealed that Sonowal had received ₹13 lakhs from the doctor but paid only a fraction of it to Karmakar. Buying and selling of kidneys and other human organs is prohibited in India by the Transplantation of Human Organs Act. However, they can be transplanted from donors (who are close relatives of the patient or non-related persons after proper authorization by the government) and from brain-dead patients. Sometimes this provision in the law is used by criminals to lure poor and needy persons to ‘donate’ their kidneys with the promise of large sums of money. “Sonowal told us that he had donated one of his kidneys to a relative around five years ago in Kolkata. During that trip he came in contact with the illegal kidney transplant racket and started luring poor tea garden workers to sell their kidneys to those in need,” said Chetia. “He has confessed to having taken three people in the past two years to Kolkata to sell their kidneys. Sonowal used to take large sums from the kidney recipients but paid only a part of it to the so-called donors,” he added. The kidney racket in Dibrugarh was the second one that came to light in July this year. Forced by poverty and health complications, nearly a dozen villagers in central Assam’s Morigaon district sold their kidneys to another organised gang of criminals in recent years. The racket came to light when Lilimai Bodo, the alleged mastermind, was nabbed by the villagers in July when she visited them looking for more ‘donors’. Bodo’s son and another person, both involved in the racket, were also arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alleged-kidney-racket-mastermind-arrested-in-assam-101629733406795.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Deaths due to oxygen shortage: Congress slams CM for ‘misleading’ the House||Accusing chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar of misleading the state assembly on the issue of deaths due to shortage of oxygen, the opposition Congress MLAs on Monday demanded a high-level inquiry into the matter. The Congress MLAs later staged a walkout after their pleas to have a discussion on the three farm laws were rejected by the speaker on the grounds that the matter was sub-judice. Raising the issue of deaths due to oxygen shortage, leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda attacked Khattar during the zero-hour saying that the chief minister should withdraw his Friday statement that there were no deaths due to shortage of oxygen in the state. “I am not blaming anyone. But my point is that how can a misleading statement on the floor of the House be made. Just think of those who perished due to shortage of oxygen during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Will this denial do any good for the departed souls,’’ Hooda said. When the chief minister said he will make a statement on the issue on Tuesday, the leader of the opposition said that Khattar should either withdraw his previous statement or assert that it was correct. When speaker Gian Chand Gupta told Hooda that a reply cannot be given by the government during zero hour, the leader of opposition said: “I do not want a reply. But I want this to be recorded that the chief minister made a wrong statement on the floor of the House.” The chief minister later assured the House that a committee will be formed to investigate complaints received against hospitals for showing negligence in giving required treatment during the pandemic and strict action will be taken. Khattar said that irregularities were reported in the functioning of certain hospitals of Hisar, Rewari and Gurugram districts and magisterial inquiries were conducted for all such complaints received. “As per the findings of the inquiries, no deaths were reported from Rewari and Gurugram hospitals due to shortage of oxygen. However, negligence by Soni Burns hospital in Hisar was detected during an inquiry. The probe report has been sent to the Hisar superintendent of police for action,’’ Khattar said. The Chief Minister said that some hospitals admitted more patients than their capacity during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. “In Hisar’s Soni Burns Hospital where the matter of negligence came to light, the consumption had reached 80 cylinders per day while the number of cylinders available with the hospital was 20,” Khattar said. The CM also informed the House that about 13,000 people died due to Covid-19 in hospitals across the state. Of these, about 9,500 were residents of Haryana, while about 3,500 were patients from other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-congress-slams-cm-for-misleading-the-house-101629732326345.html
23-08-2021||Other||Water-logged Rajindra Hospital signals ailing administration||Patiala Heavy rain over the weekend and Monday left patients and their attendants high and dry at the Government Rajindra Hospital, with water-logging inside the premises a huge health hazard. On paper, it is an hospital meant for tertiary health care (of the highest order) and is the only super specialty hospital in the Malwa region.The ongoing civil construction and relaying of roads and sewerage system meant that the woes of patients and their attendants have compounded. Water drainage outlets at the hospital remained clogged for over three days.“Not only for patients, it has become an herculean task for the doctors and para medical staff to move from one department to another. This situation is pathetic,” a resident doctor said.Gurdhian Singh, who visited the hospital on Monday, said, “Water-logging is the most severe in the main emergency and the gynae ward; people are wading through knee-deep water.”“The staff had created a temporary path by laying bricks on the corners of the waterlogged area. The stagnant water in the hospital premise is now stinking,” he added. Another resident Baljit Singh said, “People have to move patients on wheel chairs or stretchers through rain water to get their X-ray or CT scan done.”Hospital medical superintendent Dr HS Rekhi said the process of laying down water drainage pipes is on. “The water-logging is result of ongoing construction work. Once, the drainage pipes are laid, the roads will be re-carpeted. The issue will be resolved on priory basis,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/waterlogged-rajindra-hospital-signals-ailing-administration-101629731905773.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Police recruitment paper leak: 3 J&K men held||Three residents of Jammu and Kashmir have been arrested for their alleged involvement in leakage of answer key of a written exam for the recruitment of male constables of Haryana Police recently. Police have so far made 28 arrests in the case. The said examination was scheduled for August 7 and 8.The police, however, did not disclose the identity of the accused but said that they were brought on transit remand from Jammu and Kashmir. Earlier, the police had arrested an accused from Pulwama .In a press statement, Kaithal superintendent of police Lokender Singh said the accused were produced in a local court and sent to 10 days’ police remand. He, however, did not reveal the grounds on which they were arrested.Police had claimed that the main accused, Surender Singh, had purchased the answer key for ₹1 crore and sold it for anywhere between ₹12 lakh to ₹18 lakh per candidate. The police investigation, however, could not establish from where Surender got the answer key.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-recruitment-paper-leak-3-j-k-men-held-101629727405293.html
23-08-2021||Dehradun||Action will be taken if something 'insulting' was said: Uttarakhand ex-CM Rawat||Senior Congress leader and former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat on Monday said that action will be taken against party workers if anyone was found making insulting comments against former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Rawat’s comments come in the backdrop of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s advisor posting a sketch of the former Prime Minister on social media.“She was one of the most popular leaders and a mother figure to us. If something insulting was said about her, we will condemn it and if it is proven during collection of info then action will be taken,” Rawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Rawat also clarified that the party strictly maintains that Jammu & Kashmir is an integral part of India.“Nobody has the right to cast a doubt on that status, let alone issuing a statement,” Rawat said. He however said that there is a possibility that the statements made by Sidhu’s advisors were twisted ahead of the polls which will be held in Punjab next year.Controversy erupted after Sidhu's advisors Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg made remarks regarding the revocation of Article 370 and Article 35A in Kashmir and Pakistan respectively to which Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh took exception. He also asked the newly-appointed Punjab Congress to ‘rein’ in his advisors. “The atrocious and ill-conceived comments were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the state and the country,” Singh said in a statement.Sidhu’s advisor Malvinder Singh Mali however told news agency ANI that the posts made in social media were ‘final’. “Whatever I had to say, I've said on social media, and that is final. If anyone makes a mistake, they should reflect. We must continue to work for the welfare of Punjab,” Mali, who called Kashmir a country of the Kashmiri people, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Garg and Mali were both summoned by Sidhu after their comments led to widespread criticism from the BJP, Shiromani Akali Dal and even from leaders within the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/action-will-be-taken-if-something-insulting-was-said-uttarakhand-ex-cm-rawat-101629725213348.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||3 held in Karnal with 18 stolen bikes||Karnal police claimed to have busted a gang of vehicle lifters with the arrest of its three members. The police have also recovered 18 stolen bikes from their possession. Police identified the accused as Hukam Singh, Praveen Kumar and Surjit Singh, all residents of Karnal city. Rohtash Singh, in-charge of police’s detective staff, said Praveen was arrested with a stolen bike from Newal village of the district on Sunday. During his interrogation, he named Hukam and Surjit as his partners, who helped him in disposing of the stolen vehicles. The accused were produced in a court and sent to judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-held-in-karnal-with-18-stolen-bikes-101629725305098.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi records zero new Covid-19 death for fourth consecutive day||Delhi did not record a single death due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday. This is the fourth consecutive day that the infection has not claimed any life in the national capital.The Covid-19 death toll in Delhi stands at 25,079.This is the 14th time since the beginning of the second wave of the pandemic that the national capital has logged zero fatality due to the disease in a day.Also Read: 'Delta, Alpha variants behind breakthrough Covid cases in India'The national capital registered 17 new cases of the infection in the last 24 hours, which took the overall tally to 14,37,334, according to state government's health bulletin.The number of active cases of Covid-19 stand at 374, the bulletin further showed.So far, 14,11,881 have recovered and the positivity rate stands at 0.04 per cent. On August 10, the national capital's positivity rate was 0.08 per cent.Positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when a dropping positivity rate is coupled with decreasing new cases, it indicates that the spread of the virus is reducing within the community.Twenty-six people have succumbed to the disease this month so far. The cumulative death toll was 25,053 on July 31.On Sunday, the city reported 24 coronavirus cases.From a peak of 25,000 Covid-19 cases every day in April, Delhi has seen a drastic drop in daily numbers. The improvement in the Covid-19 situation led Delhi government to ease Covid-19 restrictions in phases. It removed the 8pm restrictions imposed on the markets, which came into effect from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-zero-new-covid-19-death-for-fourth-consecutive-day-101629724816198.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal couple killed in road accident||A middle-aged couple was killed when a tractor-trailer hit the two-wheeler they were riding on near Kutail village of Karnal district Sunday late night. Police identified the victims as Jai Bhagwan (52) and his wife Nirmala Devi (49), residents of Bijna village of the district.Injured, they were rushed to a hospital where Jai Bhagwan was declared brought dead and Nirmala succumbed to her injuries on Monday. Investigation officer Balbir Singh said that a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified tractor driver. He said that the tractor-trailer has been taken in possession and investigation to trace the driver is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-couple-killed-in-road-accident-101629724959739.html
23-08-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh CM Baghel, Singh Deo to meet party high command in Delhi on Tuesday||Amidst rumours of a tiff over reported power-sharing arrangement in the ruling Congress party in Chhattisgarh, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and health minister TS Singh Deo will meet Congress high command in Delhi on Tuesday, people familiar will the development said, adding that the meeting is scheduled in the afternoon, in the presence of party’s Chhattisgarh in-charge and PL Punia. “The CM’s meeting was scheduled about one-and-half months ago. It is a review meeting and obviously, the power-sharing formula will be discussed. Singh Deo and Baghel both will be present in the meeting,” said a leader close to Baghel. The tension between Baghel and Singh Deo started brewing after June 17, the day when the CM completed two and half years of his post. The CM’s post-sharing formula has been the talking point in Chhattisgarh’s political circle after Congress came to power in December 2018 when Baghel and his two senior cabinet colleagues, Singh Deo and Tamradhwaj Sahu, were leading the contenders for the top post. Since then, speculations were rife that consensus was built for the top post based on a two-and-a-half-year power-sharing formula between Baghel and Singh Deo. In response to the near-constant speculation, both leaders have taken the stance that decisions will be taken by the high command, and they will follow the instructions from Delhi. Singh Deo, when asked about the meeting in Delhi on Tuesday, said, “You should ask Punia ji (PL Punia), he is the correct person to provide more details.” Punia was unavailable for a comment even after repeated phone calls. Earlier this month, Singh Deo was in Delhi and also met some senior leaders in the national capital, but when asked he denied and claimed that he was on a personal visit. People within the Congress believe that Singh Deo was also continuously ignored in some of the important meetings during the Covid-19 pandemic despite him being the health minister which further escalated tension between the two leaders. “We know what is going on between Singh Deo and Baghel in Chhattisgarh. On Tuesday, a possible discussion on everything will take place in presence of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. I don’t know the sequence and timing of the meetings but both will meet the Chhattisgarh leaders and all issues, including the power-sharing formula will surely be discussed,” said a senior Congress leader in Delhi. Last week, Singh Deo wrote a letter to the commissioner of the state public relations department seeking action against a news portal that ran a story saying chief minister Baghel will resign on August 17 and attributed the information to the former. In the letter written to the department on Monday, Singh Deo demanded ‘strict action’ against the news portal saying that it is a ‘planned conspiracy’ to ‘pollute’ the political environment of the state. The issue of power-sharing between the two leaders was raised by assembly speaker and senior Congress leader Charan Das Mahant about ten days back. Mahanta said that he, along with senior leaders Baghel, Singh Deo, and home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, played the semifinals for the CM post and the finale was in progress. “Semifinals were between four people, and only two remained. But one who wins the finals is eventually the winner. Rahul ji (Rahul Gandhi) knows all about this formula and only Delhi can give more information about it,” Mahanta added. On July 27, the differences within the party came to the fore when Singh Deo walked out of the state assembly demanding clarity from his government over allegations that the minister’s relative was involved in an alleged attack on Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh. The issue began after Singh alleged that his convoy was attacked at the behest of Singh Deo in Surguja district, which is the health minister’s assembly constituency. Later, after the intervention of PL Punia, the issue was resolved and Singh Deo returned to assembly after Singh apologised for his statements against the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-cm-baghel-singh-deo-to-meet-party-high-command-in-delhi-on-tuesday-101629724827065.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Arguments in Ranjit Singh murder case heard, verdict on August 26||Final arguments in the Ranjit Singh murder case, in which Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh is an accused, were heard on Monday and the judgment will be pronounced on August 26. Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Gurmeet Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra after he ‘raised his voice’ against the dera head. According to the CBI, Ram Rahim had suspected Ranjit Singh of circulating an anonymous letter, alleging sexual exploitation of female followers at the dera. The dera head has already been convicted twice in separate cases. Ram Rahim was convicted of rape by a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on August 25, 2017, and was sentenced to a 20-year jail term two days later on August 27. His conviction led to widespread violence in Panchkula in which 36 lives were lost and hundreds were injured. In January 2019, Ram Rahim and three others were sentenced to life imprisonment in the journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati murder case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arguments-in-ranjit-singh-murder-case-heard-verdict-on-august-26-101629724585567.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||No Dahi Handi, Maha CM Thackeray urges mandals to focus on health initiatives||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday urged organisers of the upcoming Dahi Handi festival to prioritise health amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic and set aside festivities for a while.Thackeray, who spoke to members of coordination committees that organise the famed Dahi Handi festival across the state to mark the birth of Lord Krishna, said the coronavirus pandemic has forced various restrictions on the daily life of people.The chief minister’s office later said the organisers had responded positively to Thackeray’s request to take welfare initiatives instead of observing the festivities and becoming vulnerable to the virus.At Dahi Handi Coordination Committee meeting, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray requested Dahi mandals to take initiatives of social & health-related activities instead of observing the festivities & being vulnerable to COVID. The mandal responded positively to CMs appeal: CMO pic.twitter.com/VFa9yOzJHvDuring the meeting, state Covid-19 task force chief Dr Sanjay Oak said physical distancing cannot be maintained during Dahi Handi celebrations as people come in close contact with each other while forming human pyramids. "Face masks are of no use if they get wet in water. The Delta plus variant is spreading fast. Even if one person is infected, the entire group runs the risk of catching the COVID-19 infection," he said. He asked organisers to keep the festive spirit up by organising camps to donate blood and COVID-19 treatment equipment.Thackeray said the second wave of the pandemic was receding in some districts of Maharashtra, but peaking in some other places. "This is a window period which we have to utilise to ensure that the livelihood of people is not impacted and the economic cycle continues," he added.Speaking about protests over the restrictions, Thackeray said, "These curbs are meant for the welfare of people. Only a few people speak of protesting against these restrictions. They should rather protest against coronavirus and not against the government," he said.The BJP has demanded Dahi Handi festival be allowed to be organised under certain conditions traditionally."Those who have taken both doses of COVID-19 vaccines must be allowed to organise the traditional Dahi Handi at low heights without crowding. The festival should not be banned," BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said. Thackeray reiterated that a lockdown will have to be imposed again if the daily demand for medical oxygen crosses 750 metric tonnes in MaharashtraThe chief minister said the entire world is reeling under the pandemic which has destroyed many families and orphaned children. "Countries which have vaccinated most of their citizens are feeling the heat of a third wave of the pandemic and are locked down again," he said.The Dahi Handi festival involves communities hanging an earthen pot filled with dahi (yogurt) or other milk-based delicacies, at a convenient or difficult to reach height. Young men, boys and girls form teams, make a human pyramid and attempt to reach or break the pot. The festival enjoys a political patronisation in Maharashtra with various parties organising Dahi Handis and announcing a reward for Govindas, who break the pots.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-dahi-handi-maha-cm-thackeray-urges-mandals-to-focus-on-health-initiatives-101629721531378.html
23-08-2021||Lucknow||Tough to fill vacuum created by Kalyan Singh’s demise: Amit Shah||AGRA Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday paid tribute to former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh, terming the death of the BJP stalwart a “big loss” for the party. He said Kalyan Singh was a big leader of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and always remained active in efforts to make UP the best state of the nation. “With the death of Kalyan Singhji, the BJP has lost a stalwart. It is a big loss for the party. The void created by his death is difficult to fill for a long time,” Shah told media.The minister was at the PWD Guest House at Atrauli in Aligarh on Monday where the mortal remains of the former CM were kept to allow his supporters to pay last tributes. Shah paid tribute to the deceased and consoled his son Rajveer Singh, MP from Etah constituency. “Despite not being in active politics for long, such a huge turnout, especially of youths during the last journey of Kalyan Singh indicates the huge impact Babuji had on Uttar Pradesh. He was a big leader of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and a champion of the cause of uplift of the deprived and backward,” stated Shah. “Babuji didn’t think twice in giving up power and status of chief minister when it came to the Ram Janmabhoomi movement,” added Shah. “I spoke to Babuji (Kalyan Singh) the day when the foundation for Ram temple at Ayodhya was laid. He was pleased and said that the aim of his life was fulfilled with this,” said Shah. The home minister said working for the cause of the deprived and backward would be the real tribute to the departed leader who would always be an inspiration in this task. The mortal remains of Kalyan Singh reached Aligarh on Sunday evening and were kept at Ahilya Bai Holkar Stadium in Aligarh city. Supporters for whom Kalyan Singh was ‘Babuji’ paid tributes to the leader. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh accompanied the ‘yatra’ carrying the mortal remains of Kalyan Singh. The CM stayed in Aligarh after reaching the city on Sunday evening. After leaving the BJP for a short period, Kalyan Singh had won the election as an independent candidate from Etah parliamentary constituency. Currently, his son Rajveer Singh ‘Raju’ is the BJP MP from Etah. Kalyan Singh’s mortal remains were taken from the Ahilya Bai Holkar Stadium in Aligarh to the PWD guest house in Atrauli, about 20 kilometers from the city on Monday morning. The vehicle ferrying the mortal remains was decorated with flowers and garlands and was led by a fleet of cops. On the way, followers of Kalyan Singh raised slogans like ‘jab tak suraj chand rahega, Babuji ka naam rahega’. The mortal remains were kept at the guest house in Atrauli till 1pm before being taken to Narora, a town in Bulandshahr district, where an enclosure was arranged for Kalyan Singh’s last rites. During this journey, locals from Madhauli, the paternal village of Kalyan Singh, came on the road to offer floral tributes. Those who paid tributes to Kalyan Singh in Atrauli included UP governor Anandiben Patel, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, UP deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, BJP leader Jitin Prasada, ministers in state cabinet Surya Pratap Shahi, Suresh Rana and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tough-to-fill-vacuum-created-by-kalyan-singh-s-demise-amit-shah-101629721165104.html
23-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand assembly remembers senior leader Indira Hridayesh||The first day of the monsoon session in the state Assembly commenced with tributes paid to late senior Congress leader and former leader of Opposition, Indira Hridayesh on Monday in Dehradun. Legislators from both Opposition and ruling sides hailed her as a leader who rose above the “concept of ruling party vs Opposition.” Hridayesh who was the senior-most member of the House, died a few months ago from cardiac arrest in Delhi where she had gone to attend a party meeting along with other leaders. The legislators offered their tributes to her along with six other leaders including sitting MLA from Gangotri, Gopal Singh Rawat, former MLAs Bachchi Singh Rawat, Narendra Singh Bhandari, Amrish Kumar, Sri Chandra and former chief minister (CM) of Uttar Pradesh and former Governor of two states, Kalyan Singh. Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami was the first one to speak in the House to offer his tributes to Hridayesh by calling her a “leader of principles with vast knowledge of the legislative process.” “The kind of leader she was, I still can’t believe that she is no more. She was a very learned MLA from whom we learnt a lot. A leader with great oratory skills, she would always shower affection on the junior legislators and help them a lot with the various legislative working of Assembly,” said Dhami. “Her behaviour with others never changed even after rising to the ranks of a cabinet minister from an MLA.” Dhami also offered tributes to Kalyan Singh saying, “Speaking on him is like showing a lamp to sun. He was a political guru to many of us when we were in student politics in undivided Uttar Pradesh. He always worked for the welfare of the poor.” BJP MLA Madan Kaushik who is also the party state president hailed Hridayesh by terming her a leader who listened to all the leaders irrespective of the party she belonged to. “She always tried to work in coordination with the Opposition parties even when she was in the government. We would always seek her guidance whenever we faced issues in any House proceeding. She will always be an inspiration to all of us,” said Kaushik. The newly appointed leader of Opposition Pritam Singh who was attending the House for the first time after being given the responsibility by his party following Hridayesh’s demise said, “Sitting as the Leader of Opposition in her place in the House, I am feeling uneasy.” “She was such a tall personality in the state’s politics that the more is said about her, it is only less. I was fortunate enough to spend some time with her in my political career,” said Singh. He added, “There are very few leaders who would show love and affection to the junior MLAs. She was at the forefront of such MLAs. She always did politics for the development of state and never indulged in ruling vs Opposition party thing.” He said that he can’t believe that she is no more with them in the House. “With the kind of tall leader she was, the real tribute to her would be to walk on the path of principles she was onto,” said Singh. Earlier, before the House commenced, the legislators also paid their tributes to the founder of the Chipko Movement and prominent environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-assembly-remembers-senior-leader-indira-hridayesh-101629721105783.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Long and short of phone calls, does it ring a bell?||It’s been over six months since my younger brother came home from Canada, where he lives. Whenever I go to his room, his mobile phone is fixed to his ear. The other day while looking at him, I was reminded of my own set of callers and was amused to recall their sheer variety. Of them, I know whose call I can take anytime, considering their to-the-point-talk norm and whose call I’ve to avoid at a certain time for the lengthy chats they always indulge in. Whenever my octogenarian grandmother calls from her village home, she disconnects the call within seconds. All she asks is if I am fine and if I’ve had my meals. As soon as my answers reach her, I hear the beep sound, never giving me or anyone who calls her up the opportunity to ask the same questions. Sometimes, I have something new to share but as I commence to unfold, the beep sound stands between us. I dial right away and protest, “I was still talking ….” But I understand, she is old. There are also those with whom you like to talk, but they can’t give up multi-tasking. Take my busy aunt for instance, who runs a clothing boutique from home. Even if she is talking to me, she continues to give instructions to her employees, sometimes scolding along. I may suggest to her that we can talk later, but she never wants to disconnect. Maninder, a friend from school, who now lives in New Zealand, amuses me, when he takes a long pause as I just finish speaking. And I have to follow up, “Hello! Are you still there?” Another pause and he replies, “Yes, I was listening, was just analysing what you just said.” Fortunately, he is not a TV news reporter. When I dial my US-based aunt, she starts sharing spiritual stories. Though I find them inspiring, as she keeps pulling them up, one after the other, it takes so long that I have to find excuses to end the call. An appointment or somebody’s at the door works. Other than this aunt, long calls take place also with my navy officer friend, whose mind carries many travel stories, and no wonder, every time we speak; we go on shuttling from one corner of the globe to the other, swapping our globetrotting experiences, besides our discussions on realisations about life through travel. Because of my zeal for travel, I can go on talking to him. Thankfully, I’m no mobile addict, as I connect even with my favourite callers after several weeks, sometimes months. Longer the gap, richer the conversations turn out. Which is why my phone often reflects missed calls, and as I return calls, I’m reprimanded too, “Why don’t you ever take your calls?” I keep my excuses ready, effortlessly flagging them, from the phone being charged in the other room to it being on silent mode. At times, I switch off as well, when I want to be 100% present somewhere. Therefore, cell phone addicts surprise me, who don’t spare the mobile, even while driving, dining, meeting someone or in the toilet. There are also those, who don’t mind talking over the phone loud and clear, sharing all their personal tales and details even at public places. I don’t deny the plethora of benefits of mobiles, but addiction is a concern. A WhatsApp message sent recently by a friend makes for a perfect conclusion. “When the phone was tied to a wire, we were free. When the phone got free from the wire, we got tied to it.” It perfectly describes our present scenario. rameshinder.sandhu@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/long-and-short-of-phone-calls-does-it-ring-a-bell-101629720744791.html
23-08-2021||Jaipur||12-year-old Rajasthan girl delivers baby, alleges rape by schoolmates||A 12-year-old girl delivered a baby on Sunday night in a hospital in Jodhpur, police said, adding that the girl has alleged rape by three boys of her school.The girl was referred from a nearby town to Jodhpur hospital after local doctors observed complicacy in the case. Both the girl and the baby are said to be healthy.Deputy Superintendent of Police, Rajuram Choudhary, said in her statement, the girl, who is studying in Class-IX told that she was raped by three of her seniors (Class-X students) nine months back when she was returning from school after getting her homework checked.He said a case has been registered and the probe is on.He added that the girl’s statements are confusing as the period, which the girl mentioned, is yet to be confirmed, as most of the time during these days, the schools were closed. Also, the place of the incident is yet to be verified, he said.Chairperson, Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Sangeeta Beniwal, after meeting the girl said the survior is a Class-IX student. She told that some three-four people in a jeep, including one of his classmates, abducted and raped her when she was returning from school.The parents came to know when she complained of stomach ache. They took her for a medical checkup and were told about her pregnancy. She has delivered a healthy baby boy.Beniwal said the girl yesterday identified one of the accused but later retracted. Meanwhile, the survivor’s mother has refused to keep the baby. “We have asked the child welfare committee to look after mother and child,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/12yearold-rajasthan-girl-delivers-baby-alleges-rape-by-schoolmates-101629718886075.html
23-08-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Maha politics unable to shed its casteist lineage, dating back 2 decades||Last week Raj Thackeray reiterated in Pune that caste politics in Maharashtra has escalated after the birth of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in 1999. In Maharashtra, caste and politics have often been inseparable since the formation of the state in the 1960s, even as the nature of the two has changed in the past two decades. If the agitation for the formation of unified Maharashtra was led by Brahmin (leftist) leadership in the form of SM Joshi, Nanasaheb Gore, and SA Dange, post-1960s saw Maratha domination over the power struggle. The formation of Sanyukta Maharashtra also gave birth to the term “bahujans” (majority of people). State’s first chief minister Yashwantrao Chavan emphasised two things: That the state would be governed by Marathi people rather than Marathas (a reference to the Maratha community) and it would usher in an era of Bahujan Samaj. By invoking Bahujans, Chavan wanted to imply non-elite, oppressed, non-Brahmin castes to send a message that the state will be ruled by the represented masses. This also helped him gain more acceptability among various non-Maratha communities. So when Raj Thackeray insisted that he had read the writings of both Prabodhankar Thackeray (his grandfather) and Yashwantrao Chavan, he was reminding Sharad Pawar of how the NCP has come to be known as a party of Marathas. For Maharashtra, its social-political fabric altered post the attack on the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute (Bori), when a bunch of people ransacked the manuscripts at internationally acclaimed institute in 2004. The attack was allegedly prompted by a controversial book from American author James Laine – “Shivaji: A Hindu King in Islamic India”. This changed the equation between Brahmins and Marathas. The attack preceded Lok Sabha elections where parties like NCP made attempts to gain mileage by raking up the issue to whip up Maratha sentiments, to take on the BJP in order to polarise votes. The party reaped rich dividends during that, and subsequent elections, till the issue subsided. Pawar and NCP meanwhile, have tried to project themselves as party of bahujans, though it has had limited success expanding roots among OBCs and Dalits. The party has given prominence to leaders like Chhagan Bhujbal (an OBC) and Madhukar Pichhad (leader of nomadic tribes) to woe the respective vote banks. Pawar himself has on multiple occasions tried to project himself as a bahujan leader as part of his politics to target the BJP, which had a Brahmin face as chief minister of Maharashtra (Devendra Fadnavis between 2014 to 2019), to consolidate the bahujan vote bank in order to retain its stronghold of western Maharashtra. So asking partymen to shun the Puneri pagdi (turban) and instead use the Phule pagdi has suited Pawar in his politics. He chose to clarify his stand during the pagdi episode saying, he is a follower of Shahu Maharaj, Mahatma Phule and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s philosophy of equality and wanted to convey that through this action (of shunning the Puneri Pagdi and instead wearing the Phule Pagdi). While referring to Chavan, Raj Thackeray also spoke about his grandfather – Keshav Sitaram Thackeray, who started a periodical Prabodhan (Awakening) in 1921, and came to be known as Prabodhankar. Prabodhankar was attracted to social reformer Jyotiba Phule’s writings and the core principle of Phule’s Satyashodhak Samaj organisation, to work for the social upliftment of members of the lowest castes. His biography – Majhi Jeevangatha (Story of My Life), also talked about influences in his early life. Although belonging to the Chandraseniya Kayastha Prabhu caste, Prabodhankar wrote against the dominance of Brahminism and advocated eradicating caste hierarchies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-maha-politics-unable-to-shed-its-casteist-lineage-dating-back-2-decades-101629715464448.html
23-08-2021||Patna||In-person training of Bihar healthcare workers awaits govt nod||The Bihar health department is yet to firm up the schedule for in-person training of doctors and nurses in paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) management with the aim to safeguard children from the possible third wave of Covid-19, people aware of developments said.Around 600 doctors and nurses from the state health department have undergone online training given by experts from Patna’s All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). However, hands-on training for shortlisted health personnel is yet to begin at AIIMS due to non confirmation of the schedule, people quoted above added.“We are in the process of finalising the framework for shortlisting health personnel to be sent for onsite training at AIIMS-Patna. We will share the schedule after we finalise it,” a government functionary said requesting anonymity.The Bihar government has decided in principle to nominate the institute as the centre of excellence for paediatrics management of Covid-19.“We shall release the online training module for trainees tomorrow (Tuesday). Good performers will be shortlisted for in-person training in consultation with the state government,” said Dr Lokesh Tiwari, additional professor and head of the department of paediatrics at AIIMS-Patna.The institute proposes to shortlist about 125 paediatricians and nurses (in equal numbers) to be divided into four batches that will get a week’s training each, spread over a month.“We propose to begin the week-long training in PICU management from August 31. The training session will continue for a month. However, we are awaiting a confirmation of the training schedule from the state health department,” added Dr Tiwari.He said the idea was to ensure that at least two doctors and nurses at each of the state’s 36 district hospitals are well trained to not only lead the paediatrics acute care units in districts of their posting but some of them also become trainers. The remaining 475 health personnel, trained through the online mode, are supposed to form a support structure around them at the sub-divisional hospitals and community health centres.The institute provided online training to 600 state healthcare workers in five days between August 10 and 18. As many as 200 paediatricians from across all the nine state-run medical colleges were trained on August 10, the first day of the online training programme, while the remaining 400 doctors and nurses from district hospitals were trained on August 12, 13, 17 and 18.Bihar reported 20 fresh Covid cases from 10 of the state’s 38 districts on Sunday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 725,588 and fatalities to 9,649. The number of active Covid cases has also come down to 140.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/inperson-training-of-bihar-healthcare-workers-awaits-govt-nod-101629714864568.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana minister Anil Vij’s health improving||Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, is responding well to treatment and is in a stable condition, doctors at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, said on Monday. “A team of experts is monitoring Vij’s health parameters. Doctors are conducting medical tests and no complication has been reported yet. His health is improving,” said PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram. Also read: Indian Army grants time scale Colonel rank to 5 women officersVij was admitted to the hospital at 4.30pm on Sunday after his oxygen levels dropped to dangerous levels. He had complained of breathlessness and is undergoing treatment under the head of pulmonary medicine department at the institute. People close to Vij said that he was taken to the hospital by his family members as there was no significant improvement in his oxygen levels and he was to undergo some tests, too. Vij, who also has cardiac issues, had suffered from Covid-19 infection twice during the pandemic and was treated at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-minister-anil-vij-s-health-improving-101629714744392.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Afghan refugees protest before UNHCR office in Delhi for security, resettlement||Refugees from Afghanistan staged a protest before the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in New Delhi on Monday, presenting a list of demands, including refugee cards, resettlement options in third world countries, and assurance of security from the global body and the Indian government.Seeking assurances of security from the Indian government and the global body, a member of the Afghan community said the refugees did not have any access to basic facilities like education and jobs and they . "We are gathered here for three of our demands first, refugee cards to apply for long-term visa (LTV) in India. Second, a resettlement option for which we need a supporting letter from the UNHRC so that we can move to another country. Third, security from the Indian government and UNHRC. We do not have any facilities like education and jobs," said Ahmad Zhia Ghani, head of the community in India.A large number of desperate Afghan citizens are coming to India following the takeover of the war-torn country by the Taliban. On August 17, the Ministry of External Affairs said India will issue emergency e-visas to Afghan nationals who want to come to the country in view of the prevailing crisis in their country. All Afghans, irrespective of their religion, can apply for the 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' online and the applications will be processed in New Delhi. The visas would initially be valid for six months, officials said.Also Read: Which countries are taking in Afghan refugees and which countries are not?While the UNHCR office in New Delhi grants refugee status to Afghans and citizens from other strife-torn nations and issues identification cards. However, as India is not a signatory to the UN Refugee convention of 195, Afghans or any group not recognised by the Ministry of home affairs (MHA) would not be able to enjoy the rights given in countries like the UK or US. Those who are recognised as refugees by UNHCR are issued an identity card, but these are not widely recognised by authorities. The UNHCR also has a resettlement programme which involves providing permanent residence in another country.As of 2019, Afghans accounted for around a third of the nearly 40,000 refugees registered in India, according to the UN refugee agency, but these figures do not cover those who are not registered with the UN. The families of Afghan peace envoy Abdullah Abdullah’s families and former President Hamid Karzai live in India. Karzai himself had spent years of his student life in India. Last year, the Indian mission in Kabul had facilitated the return of about 383 members of the Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi, told Hindustan Times earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/afghan-refugees-protest-before-unhcr-office-in-delhi-for-security-resettlement-101629712810649.html
23-08-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru gold jewellers go on strike against new hallmarking rules||Several jewellers here shut their shops on Monday and went on strike against the central government's new gold hallmarking rules. As per the new guidelines, jewellers across India can now only sell gold items of 14, 18 and 22 carats.C Vinod Hayagriv, Director and Managing Director of C Krishniah Chetty Group, said under the new rules which came into effect from June 16, the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) has recognised only six types of karats: 14kt, 18kt, 20kt, 22kt, 23kt and 24kt.Any piece of jewellery made out of other karats will no longer be valid, said Hayagriv. "They will be allowed to be purchased by jewellers, but jewellers will not be allowed to re-sell even if a consumer wishes to buy such pre-owned jewellery even at a lower price."Also Read | Gold hallmarking mandatory from today: All you need to knowEven the sellers of old or antique jewellery will not get the desired or fair price, said Hayagriv. "We will have to either keep it unsold or melt it and remake it, although certain heritage pieces are worthy heirlooms of the past. Even belonging to large and distinguished families of last centuries."In this process, the valuation of heritage jewellery will come down by up to 30 per cent. "So the customer loses substantial value for such valuable heritage with provenance history, estate and pre-owned fine pieces of art and old jewellery," said Hayagriv.He said any legislation on hallmarking must have implicit approval of the BIS as well as the industry."If there are any disagreements, they should not be overly imposed but must continue to be voluntary till all stakeholders are completely in agreement and rules are completely clear."The government has also done away with mentioning the year of manufacture for all hallmarked jewellery which was a mandatory practice so far."Now both the consumers and jewellers can falsely claim historic value for their jewellery. This is not good practice," said Hayagriv.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-gold-jewellers-go-on-strike-against-new-hallmarking-rules-101629710815696.html
23-08-2021||Other||BJP makes hay as Sidhu takes on Punjab govt on sugarcane prices||Amid continued protests against the three farm laws, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday lapped up Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s statement on sugarcane prices in the state being lower than Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand to give itself a pat on the back. Also read: Sidhu summons advisors as row erupts over their comments on Kashmir, PakSidhu, while seeking a higher state advised price (SAP) in Punjab, said that the sugarcane farmers issue needs to be immediately resolved amicably. “Strange that despite the higher cost of cultivation in Punjab, the state advised price is too low as compared to Haryana/Uttar Pradesh/Uttarakhand. As torchbearer of agriculture, the Punjab SAP should be better!” he tweeted, questioning his own party’s government over its cane pricing policy. The sugarcane farmers are protesting in Jalandhar for the past four days for higher prices. Sidhu admits BJP doing more for farmers: MalviyaThe tweet comparing the sugarcane prices in these states drew quick responses from leaders of the BJP, which has facing farmers’ protests in these states against its central government’s three agriculture laws, in different parts of the country. Amit Malviya, the national in-charge of BJP’s IT department, welcomed the newly appointed Punjab Congress president’s remark. “Good to see Navjot Singh Sidhu, new Punjab Congress chief, admit that BJP governments in UP, Haryana and Uttarakhand are doing a lot more for farmers than Congress-ruled Punjab,” he tweeted. The Haryana BJP also retweeted the Punjab Congress president’s comment from its official Twitter handle, stating that “truth can be rattled, not defeated”. Endorsement of Haryana’s farm policy: Dushyant Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala also said that Sidhu’s statement was an endorsement of the pro-farmer policies of the Haryana government. Referring to Sidhu’s tweet, Delhi BJP general secretary Kuljeet Singh Chahal said that farmers must understand the reality. The BJP MP from Kachchh, Vinod Chavda, said that Sidhu had admitted that the BJP governments in these three states were doing more for farmers than in Congress-ruled Punjab. Punjab has a Congress government headed by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, while Haryana, UP and Uttarakhand are ruled by the BJP. Though the Punjab government last week hiked the SAP by ₹15 per quintal to ₹325 for the early variety, the protesting farmers are not satisfied and want it to bring the price on a par with ₹350 per quintal in neighbouring Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-makes-hay-as-sidhu-takes-on-punjab-govt-on-sugarcane-prices-101629712644362.html
23-08-2021||Jaipur||Addicted to porn, 16-year-old molests cousin in Rajasthan||A 16-year-old boy has been sent to a juvenile home for allegedly molesting his four-year-old cousin in Jaipur. Station house officer, Vidhyadhar Nagar police station, Virendra Kumar said the girl, along with her mother, was visiting her aunt in Jaipur a month ago. One day, both the women went to market, leaving the child with the aunt’s son. On their return, the mother saw the girl quiet but she wouldn’t tell why. She, however, narrated the incident on their return to Delhi. The mother then approached the aunt. When there was no action from the aunt’s family, she lodged a complaint on Saturday. Also Read | BJP cannot tolerate criticism, considers it sedition: GehlotOn the complaint, the accused was detained and later presented in court. He was sent to a juvenile home. It was learned that the boy was a porn addict and was caught watching it at home earlier. His mother also took him to a psychiatrist for treatment. Police said the boy’s father died of Covid19 and he lives with his mother and sister. Commenting on the incident, Head of Psychiatric Centre, Dr Paramjeet Singh, said porn addiction is increasing among adolescents, mostly in age group of 12-16 years. “In last one year, I have treated 7-8 cases where girls and boys were addicted to porn,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/addicted-to-porn-16-year-old-molests-cousin-in-rajasthan-101629710844001.html
23-08-2021||Kolkata||No readymade solution on whether to reopen schools amid Covid-19: Amartya Sen||Speaking in an online discussion organised by Pratichi in Kolkata on Sunday, Nobel laureate Amartya Sen said that there is no instant answer to the debate over the opening of schools amid the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.He noted that children are suffering a lot as schools are closed, but concerns over their health cannot be ignored as well if campuses reopen."In America, there is an ongoing debate between two groups on the same issue. In India, there are different opinions. But, what may be applicable in the east of Birbhum (West Bengal) may not work in the west of Bankura (also West Bengal). There cannot be a readymade reply, an instant reply at hand, the situation is not so," Sen said.On the evaluation model in the present scenario, the economist said acquiring and sharing knowledge is more important."Even if we put emphasis on the evaluation, we must remember it is the last thing. Acquiring and sharing knowledge comes first. There are reasons to believe that the issue should be seen from different sides and perspectives," he said."When we learn something for the first time, when we first comprehend the matter … is that linked with evaluation? We have to see. Evaluation will be certainly of use, but how much and in what way? We have to see if there is a link between evaluation and real education," Sen pointed out.Asked about the threats to the environment, he said that either the world is aware of the problems and knows the solution but not proceeding in the right path or there needs to be threadbare discussions to find the directions to solve the crisis."Environment is an integral part of every work, every step taken by us," he reasoned.Sen, who is currently a Thomas W Lamont University professor, and rofessor of Economics and Philosophy at Harvard University, also stressed on tapping alternative energy resources such as solar and nuclear to protect the environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/no-readymade-solution-on-whether-to-reopen-schools-amid-covid-19-amartya-sen-101629707973963.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Now Sidhu hauls Amarinder Singh over sugarcane prices, says issue must be resolved immediately||As sugarcane farmers in Punjab continued to protest against the Congress-led government, demanding a hike in prices of their produce, the party's state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday called for a resolution of the issue. Sidhu pointed out that despite the higher cost of cultivation in Punjab, the state-advised price (SAP) is lower than what Bharatiya Janata Party-led Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have.Taking to Twitter, Sidhu urged that the state assured price in Punjab should be better. “The sugarcane farmers issue needs to be immediately resolved amicably …. Strange that despite the higher cost of cultivation in Punjab the state assured price is too low as compared to Haryana / UP / Uttarakhand,” he wrote on the microblogging site.This is being seen as yet another tussle between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu after a tenuous truce between them. Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was recently given charge of the top Congress post in the state, has been at loggerheads with the Punjab government and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh over several issues.Also Read| Punjab cane farmers continue rail, road blockade as talks with govt remain inconclusiveOn Monday, the cricketer-turned-politician summoned his advisors regarding a controversy over their remarks on Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan and late prime minister Indira Gandhi. Chief minister Singh earlier warned the advisors against making such comments which were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of Punjab as well as India.Since last Friday, scores of sugarcane farmers launched an agitation for an indefinite period and asked the Congress-led government in Punjab to accept their demands of raising the SAP of sugarcane and clearing payment of arrears to the tune of ₹200-250 crore.The sugarcane farmers issue needs to be immediately resolved amicably …. Strange that despite the higher cost of cultivation in Punjab the state assured price is too low as compared to Haryana / UP / Uttarakhand. As torchbearer of agriculture, the Punjab SAP should be better !On Sunday, the farmers continued to block roads, railway tracks and also blocked one national highway in Jalandhar as a meeting between their representatives and cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and other officials remained inconclusive. During the meeting, the farmer leaders expressed disappointment as the government increased the SAP of sugarcane from ₹310 to ₹325 without taking them into confidence.“Not much was achieved from today’s meeting. It remained inconclusive,” farmer leader Jagjit Singh Dallewal was quoted as saying as news agency PTI on Sunday. However, Dallewal pointed out the government assured that outstanding arrears of private mills will be cleared within the next 15 days and those of the cooperative be settled by the first week of September. Another farmer leader, Balbir Singh Rajewal, said the blockade will continue until the demand for a hike in cane prices is met. The farmers are expected to hold another round of meetings on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sugarcane-farmers-issue-needs-to-be-resolved-immediately-sidhu-101629708402674.html
23-08-2021||Other||ED raids conman Sukesh Chandrasekhar’s bungalow on Chennai outskirts||Officials of the Enforcement Directorate on Monday began raiding alleged high profile conman Sukesh Chandrasekhar’s bungalow on the outskirts of Chennai, confirmed an agency official. Reports say the officials have seized more than a dozen of his luxury cars, laptops and cash from the Kanathur property. Also Read | TN begins home vaccination for 80+, 24x7 jabs at hospitalsChandrasekhar was earlier accused of running an extortion racket of several crores while he was behind bars in Tihar jail. He was also arrested in the two-leaves symbol bribery case in 2017 in which Chandrasekhar allegedly acted as a middleman by taking money from TTV Dhinakaran to bribe the Election Commission to allot the AIADMK’s two-leaves party symbol to the faction headed by his aunt VK Sasikala.At that time, the symbol was frozen following former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s death in office and the AIADMK split. The symbol eventually went to the faction led by Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam who continue their dual leadership of the AIADMK while Dhinkaran went on to float a party with Sasikala’s supporters called Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam with an aim to retrieve the AIADMK.Chandrasekhar has been accused in several criminal cases including extortion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-raids-conman-sukesh-chandrasekhar-s-bungalow-on-chennai-outskirts-101629708624953.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal inaugurates smog tower at CP, says more to come up||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday inaugurated his government's first smog tower in the Connaught Place area in an attempt to fight rising air pollution in the national capital. “To fight pollution, we have installed India's first smog tower in Delhi today. It can help clean the air within one-kilometre range. It has been installed on an experiment basis and data from it will be analysed by IIT-Delhi and IIT-Bombay,” Kejriwal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.According to news agency PTI, more such smog towers will be installed in the national capital, which suffers from choking pollution every year before, making the city toxic to live, if the pilot project is successful.A control room has also been set up at the site to monitor the operations of the smog tower. According to a report by PTI, a two-year pilot study will be undertaken to ascertain the effectiveness of the smog tower after it becomes operational. Another 25-metre-tall smog tower, built by the central government at Anand Vihar, is expected to become operational by August 31.The two smog towers are built by the Tata Projects Limited (TPL). The Delhi government had approved the pilot project in October last year.NBCC India Ltd has been appointed as a project management consultant.According to IQAir, New Delhi was the world's most polluted capital for the third straight year in 2020. Last year, New Delhi’s average annual concentration of PM2.5 in a cubic meter of air was 84.1, the study said, more than double the level of Beijing, which averaged 37.5 during the year, making it the 14th most polluted city in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-inaugurates-smog-tower-at-cp-says-more-to-come-up-101629706292198.html
23-08-2021||Kolkata||Four kids run over by train while playing games on mobile phones in West Bengal||Four children in the age group of 13- 14 years were allegedly run over by a train while they were busy playing with their mobile phones on railway tracks late Sunday night at Islampur in north Bengal’s Uttar Dinajpur district, officials said.“Four minor boys were killed when they were hit by a train late on Sunday. The villagers buried the bodies. We have not received any complaints of any foul play,” said Sachin Makkar, superintendent of police, Islampur police district.A senior railway official, who didn’t want to be identified, said they were informed about the tragedy at Chopra, around 50 km from New Jalpaiguri, around 10 pm on Sunday.“A team of (Government Railway Police) GRP and Railway Police Force (RPF) officials rushed to the spot and a search was carried out in the area. As it was dark, we could not locate any bodies. The search was renewed in the morning, when broken parts of mobile phones were found on the tracks. Later we came to know that villagers had already removed the bodies,” the railway official quoted above said.When a team of police and railway officials reached the village, they found that the family members had already buried the victims to ensure their bodies were not subjected to post-mortem,” said the railway official.“If we receive any complaints of foul play, an investigation would be initiated and the bodies would have to be exhumed for a post-mortem,” a police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/four-kids-run-over-by-train-while-playing-games-on-mobile-phones-in-west-bengal-101629706044324.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC stays Pune Police probe against web series host, producer||The Bombay high court has temporarily restrained Pune Police from continuing their investigation in the FIR registered against Sony Pictures. The investigation was initiated based on a criminal defamation FIR registered at the behest of Karad Urban Cooperative Bank for alleged depiction of its logo in one of the episodes of the web series “Scam 1992: The Harshad Mehta story.” The division bench of justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar, while hearing the petitions filed by Sony Pictures and Sameer Nair, the CEO of Applause Entertainment Pvt Limited which produced the web series, was informed that the petitions sought to quash the FIR registered in Pune in July and a stay on the investigations till the petitions were decided. The FIR stated that in the third episode of the web series, a logo resembling the bank’s trademark was displayed in the background which has caused serious damage to its financial, commercial and social reputationAlso Read | Will Dahi Handi be allowed? CM Uddhav Thackeray to take a decision todayAccording to the petition by Sony, the web series was owned and produced by Applause Entertainment and it was a cinematic adaptation of the book titled “The Scam: Who won, Who lost, Who got away”. The petition stated that a disclaimer -- that the series does not bear any resemblance to any actual person and hence was not liable for any content -- was displayed prior to every episode. The petition further states that the Bank of Karaj used in the series was a pseudonym for Bank of Karad and their alleged involvement in the scam was in public domain and confirmed by the RBI. “However, for ulterior motives, the complainant appears to have zeroed in with a laser beam on the fleeting display of a logo appearing on a calendar at the back of actors in a scene and registered the FIR,” says the petition. Shirish Gupte, senior counsel for Sony, submitted that the investigations were not in conformity with section 115 (4) of the Trademarks Act which stipulates that an officer of a rank not less than deputy superintendent (DySP) of Police has to conduct the probe, however the notice issued to his client was by a police inspector (PI). Amit Desai, senior advocate for Nair, said the web series could not be covered under the definition of goods under the Trademarks Act and hence no offence was made out under the said law. The court ahs granted ad-interim relief and stayed the investigation for three weeks and posted hearing of the petitions on September 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-stays-pune-police-probe-against-web-series-host-producer-101629705863978.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||CM Kejriwal inaugurates Delhi government’s first smog tower||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday inaugurated India’s first smog tower at Connaught Place, which will filter pollutants in the air within a one-km radius. Inaugurating the smog tower at Baba Kharak Singh Marg, Kejriwal said it has been designed using “American technology” which will suck in polluted air from the top, filter out pollutants, and release clean air from the bottom. “This is among Delhi government’s many efforts to improve the air quality of the city. We are operating this on a trial basis and teams from Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) will be monitoring how effective this is,” said Kejriwal. He added, “If it proves successful, more such towers will be set up all over Delhi. This has been developed under the expert supervision of scientists from IIT-Bombay and IIT-Delhi, so we are hopeful that it will yield the desired results.”The smog tower, which was constructed on the directions of the Supreme Court, is 20-metre high and was cost ₹20 crore. Senior DPCC officials said that the effectiveness of the tower will be studied for the next two years and the initial findings are likely to come out by the next month. Another such smog tower is coming up at Anand Vihar. This is being constructed by the Central Pollution Control Board and is likely to be inaugurated by August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cmkejriwal-inaugurates-india-s-first-smog-tower-101629705143961.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi gets smog tower in Connaught Place: All you need to know about it||Delhi got another smog tower on Monday, after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the pollution fighting structure at Baba Kharak Singh Marg in the Connaught Place. It has been inaugurated months before the pollution level spikes in the national capital due to burning of crop waste by farmers.The Delhi government plans to add more smog towers after studying the impact this one makes on pollution. Delhi's environment minister Gopal Rai said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will form a team of experts for the study which is expected to last two years.Here's everything you need to know about the newly-inaugurated smog tower:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gets-smog-tower-in-connaught-place-all-you-need-to-know-about-it-101629704405418.html
23-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Iffco Chowk flyover closed for traffic after retaining wall collapses||The Iffco Chowk flyover (Delhi to Gurugram side) was closed for traffic on Monday morning after a portion of its retaining wall collapsed, news agency ANI reported. The area has was flooded on Sunday due to heavy rainfall, which lasted for five hours.The flyover was inaugurated in 2019. It helps commuters travelling from Jaipur, Manesar, Sukhrali, Sector 17/18 road by offering a U-turn towards MG Road and Rajiv Chowk without approaching the congested Iffco Chowk junction.The four-lane flyover is 917 metres long and has four continuous spans of 21 metres each.Gurugram has been experiencing heavy rainfall over the past few days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast “generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers” for Monday. The skies are expected to clear up from Tuesday.During the downpour on Saturday, heavy waterlogging was also reported on the dividing road of sectors 3 and 5, Sushant Lok-1, Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, and Rezangla Chowk-Sector 5 stretch.Iffco Chowk junction had far higher rainwater accumulation than usual despite moderate rainfall and was the worst-affected area on Saturday.Iffco Chowk is arguably the busiest junction in Gurugram, as it not only carries traffic from New Delhi into the city and vice versa but is also an opening to the malls and corporate offices located on MG Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-iffco-chowk-flyover-closed-for-traffic-after-retaining-wall-collapses-101629700871636.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra group ties Rakhis to street animals, vows to protect them||About 30 children and 40 adults from the Pure Animal Lovers (PAL) group of Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan, and Navi Mumbai tied Rakhis to street animals promising to care for them throughout the year. The PAL group was created in September 2020 by Sudhir Kudalkar, the assistant commissioner of police with the anti-corruption bureau at Worli to take care of street animals during the pandemic. The young members of PAL group recently made and circulated videos with their views on animal cruelty and appeals to stop it. On the occasion of Rakshabandhan, they not only spread this video message but also tied Rakhis to street animals in their neighbourhood with the pledge to protect them from harm.Kudalkar said, “Raksha Bandhan means a bond of protection. Our voiceless animals are our best companions, protectors, who share an unbreakable bond of love with us. This time, we all celebrated the sacred relation with our strays by taking a pledge to protect them and care for them with all our hearts. So, many group members including the younger ones tied Rakhi to street animals on Sunday with the pledge to take care of them.”Six year old Diya Wadkar said Covid-19 was also tough on animals and the strays needed to be treated as part of the society. “This Rakshabandhan, I pledge love and respect to the street animals. I have seen elders asking watchmen to beat and remove street animals from our housing society, which is wrong... I promise to take care of cats or other animals from our area and to never harm them,” Wadkar said. 27-year old Mansi Rege from Mulund rescued 14 street dogs during this year’s flood. Now, everyone from her family has tied a Rakhi to these dogs, promising to take care of them.“We should not limit ourselves to sharing sweets and gifts on this Rakshabandhan, we should do something for others. Animals cannot speak about their problems and hence need greater care. On this Raksha Bandhan, I took a pledge to take care of them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-group-ties-rakhis-to-street-animals-vows-to-protect-them-101629700703305.html
23-08-2021||Lucknow||As a tribute to Kalyan Singh, UP govt announces road named after him in Ayodhya||The road leading to the Ram Janmbhoomi complex in Ayodhya will be named after Kalyan Singh as a tribute to the senior BJP leader, Uttar Pradesh’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya announced on Monday. “One road each will be named after Babu ji, Ram Bhakt Late #kalyansinghji, by the Public Works Department in Ayodhya, Aligarh, Etah, Bulandshahr and Prayagraj. Babu ji gave up power for Ram Mandir but did not fire at kar sevaks !! Instructions to the officers to submit the proposal soon !!” Maurya’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.Kalyan Singh died on Saturday at a hospital in the state capital of Lucknow following a long illness. Kalyan Singh was admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences on July 4 following a deterioration in his condition. He was 89.Also read | Kalyan Singh lived for public welfare: PM ModiA two-time chief minister from June 1991 to December 1992 and September 1997 to November 1999, Singh also served as the governor of Rajasthan. Singh also held various organisational posts in the BJP, both at the state and central levels. Singh was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister when the Babri Masjid was demolished by a mob of "karsevaks" in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. He along with veteran BJP leaders LK Advani and MM Joshi were among the 32 people acquitted in the demolition case in September last year.Also watch | 'Pray for space at Lord Ram's feet...': PM Modi pays tribute to Kalyan SinghAlso read | Remembering Kalyan Singh: BJP’s first UP chief ministerOn Sunday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said he will be holding a cabinet meeting soon to discuss whether the newly-constructed mini airport in Aligarh should be named after Kalyan Singh. Adityanath’s comments came after several Bharatiya Janata Party leaders in Aligarh reiterated their demand to name the city airport after Kalyan Singh.Officials have said the last rites of Kalyan Singh will be performed on Monday at Rajghat in the Narora area of Bulandshahr district with full state honours. The mortal remains of the BJP leader were kept at Ahilya Bai Holkar stadium in Aligarh and taken to his village Madholi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/as-a-tribute-to-kalyan-singh-up-govt-announces-road-named-after-him-in-ayodhya-101629698264092.html
23-08-2021||Patna||Security lapse allows murder convict to escape from open jail in Bihar||Bihar police claims to have launched an extensive manhunt for a murder convict who escaped from the open jail facility in Buxar prison on Sunday morning.Jodhan Sahni, 47, undergoing life imprisonment, was reported to be missing from the prison around 6pm, a good 12 hours after he was allowed to leave the prison for treatment at Sadar Hospital, located near the jail premises.“A court convicted him in a murder case in 2009 and awarded him life imprisonment. He was earlier lodged at the Bhagalpur Central Jail and was shifted to the open jail at Buxar Prison in 2020. He has fled from the open jail. A search has been launched,” said a prison official, who didn’t wish to be identified.Open jail concept has been introduced in 13 states of the country to encourage good conduct and self-discipline among inmates. As per Bihar Jail Manual 2008, well-behaved life term convicts over 30-years of age, belonging to the state, are eligible to be considered for open jail after spending 10 years behind bars among other criteria. Inmates convicted either for planned mass murder, murder of a public servant, or under the National Security Act, or court-martialed, aren’t considered for open jail. The Buxar open jail was inaugurated in 2012 and it currently accommodates 50 inmates along with their dependents.According to the FIR lodged by prison authorities, Sahni, who was staying in the open jail with his wife, slipped away after gaining permission to go to the Sadar Hospital on Sunday morning. “At around 6.10 am, Sahni left for the hospital for treatment but did not return till 6pm,” said Dinesh Kumar Malakar, the station house officer (SHO) of Town police station. He added that a police team has been dispatched for Bhagalpur to search him.A senior prison official said this was perhaps the first instance of a prisoner escaping from the open jail in Bihar. The incident was being seen as a security lapse and it is being questioned how a convict involved in a heinous crime was allowed to stay in the open prison, which allows for greater freedom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/security-lapse-allows-murder-convict-to-escape-from-open-jail-in-bihar-101629698482983.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Ghaziabad man arrested for providing SIM cards to cyber fraudsters in Mumbai||The Samta Nagar Police cyber cell in Mumbai’s Kandivali have achieved a breakthrough in the case of people being duped into buying fake insurance schemes with the arrest of a 25-year-old man who allegedly supplied SIM cards to the gang.The accused, Vikram Kumar Baburam, is a resident of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. The police said Baburam provided SIM cards to the cyber criminals using the identity of some other people. In June, the police received a complaint from a 70-year-old man that he was conned of ₹18 lakh by cyber fraudsters who lured him into buying fake insurance schemes.Also Read | Mumbai crime branch takes over probe in extortion complaint against Param Bir SinghThe complainant said he received a call from an insurance agent offering him some lucrative schemes on insurance policies. The agent promised him a loan of ₹12 lakh on the policy and a cover of ₹21 lakh on maturity of the plan.The complainant invested ₹18 lakh in the name of his grandson but he approached the police when he did not get any policy document. Police registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the IT Act.While investigating the case, the police traced the calls received by the complainant to Ghaziabad. On verifying the numbers, the police found that several people were not using the SIM cards registered in their names.On scanning the CCTV footages of the shops, police narrowed down on the buyer of the SIM cards and intercepted Baburam. On August 19, Baburam was arrested and brought to Mumbai on transit remand.On Sunday, he was presented before a metropolitan magistrate who remanded him to police custody till August 26. “We found out that Baburam used to buy SIMs using documents of other people and then provide those cards to gangs who posed as telecallers,” said a police officer from Samta Nagar cyber cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ghaziabad-man-arrested-for-providing-sim-cards-to-cyber-fraudsters-in-mumbai-101629694042745.html
23-08-2021||Patna||Aspiring teachers in Bihar use creative tweets to demand appointment letters||Candidates awaiting recruitment as government teachers in Bihar took to Twitter in the run up to Rakshabandhan to step up their demand for counselling and appointment, having successfully completed the first two rounds of the sixth phase of recruitment for over 90,000 teaching vacancies.#BiharTeachers’sAppointment has gained a lot of traction in the last few days with aspirants tagging chief minister, education minister, additional chief secretary (education) and others with the plea to “release appointment letters”. Women aspirants wrote their messages on their palms using henna before posting it online to align with the festival of Rakshabandhan. “Till the Bihar government does not give appointment letters to all the selected candidates [in the two rounds] and announces counselling dates for the third round, our Twitter campaign will not end,” the twitter handle @ShikshaBihar declared.Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said aspirants should not worry as the delay was procedural in nature. “I have assured them not to worry. All those who have been selected will get their appointment letters but the processes have to be completed. The third stage counselling will also begin and we will issue appointment letters for all of them after verification of documents to avoid hassles post appointment,” he said.The state government is treading cautiously with recruitment of teachers to ensure the process is error-free, unlike the past, leading to reprimands from courts and allegations of irregularities. A couple of months ago, those who had qualified in the secondary teachers’ eligibility test (STET), were lathi-charged by the police as they protested following a confusion over the merit list issued by the Bihar school examination board (BSEB). The minister later clarified that the STET merit list was only for determining eligibility and the merit list for appointment will be issued by the recruiting agencies at the level of panchayati raj institutions as per the laid down processes.Earlier, counselling in 400 recruiting agencies at the panchayat level had to be cancelled due to irregularities in the preparation of the merit list. Some more irregularities have surfaced, while the administration awaits counselling reports from around 22 districts.“Once the reports come and the verification of documents is done, appointment letters will be issued to all those selected, but the processes have to be followed. The schedule for [appointment of] another 30,000 teachers in secondary schools will also be out soon. There are vacancies and the government wants to fill all of them to make sure schools run properly,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/aspiring-teachers-in-bihar-use-creative-tweets-to-demand-appointment-letters-101629692602593.html
23-08-2021||Jaipur||ArcelorMittal interested in establishing solar park in Rajasthan||ArcelorMittal Group has expressed their interest to establish a 4,500 MW capacity solar park in Rajasthan with an investment of about ₹19,000 crore. Group chairman LN Mittal met chief minister Ashok Gehlot in this regard at the latter’s residence on Sunday. According to an official statement, the CM said industries were investing in the state through the Rajasthan Industrial Promotion Scheme-2019. Also Read | BJP cannot tolerate criticism, considers it sedition: GehlotIn Rajasthan, a total of 11,297.65 MW of renewable energy plants have been installed as on 30-06-2021, which includes 6,580.7 MW of grid-connected solar power and 245.03 MW of off-grid or decentralised solar power. It is estimated that Rajasthan has a solar energy potential of 142.31 GW.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/arcelormittal-interested-in-establishing-solar-park-in-rajasthan-101629692242379.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh University to set up chair in Virbhadra Singh’s memory||Himachal Pradesh University will set up a chair in memory of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who passed away on July 8. A scion of the Rampur-Bushahr royal family, Congress leader Virbhadra Singh or Raja Sahib as he was popularly known, was a six-time chief minister, nine-time state legislator and five-time member of Parliament. He was educated at Colonel Brown Cambridge School, Dehradun, St Edward’s School, Shimla, and Bishop Cotton School, Shimla, before he graduated in BA English honours from St Stephen’s College, Delhi. Also read: Rainfall over NW India likely to reduce from todayThe decision to set up a chair after him was taken at a meeting of the university’s executive council, presided over by vice-chancellor Sikandar Kumar, in Shimla on Saturday. The council also decided to set up chairs in memory of Savitribai Phule, a 19th century social reformer who worked for women’s rights and who is also regarded as the nation’s first woman teacher, and Bhakti movement mystic-poet Guru Ravidas, who founded the Ravidassia sect in the 15th century. Relief for clerical staff The university’s executive council waived a condition under which employees promoted to Class 3 posts of clerk were required to produce a six-month computer course certificate. It approved an additional seat each for the newly appointed assistant professors in every university department and affiliated colleges against sanctioned PhD seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-pradesh-university-to-set-up-chair-in-virbhadra-singh-s-memory-101629692122585.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Will Dahi Handi be allowed? CM Uddhav Thackeray to take a decision today||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will on Monday hold a meeting with coordination committees that organise Dahi Handi programmes in Mumbai to take a call on allowing the celebrations during the upcoming Janmashtami festival amid the coronavirus pandemic. According to news agency ANI, Uddhav Thackeray will virtually hold the meeting after several Dahi Handi mandals requested the state government to allow them to hold the celebrations saying they will keep it small scale.The chief minister is expected to appeal mandals to cooperate with the authorities by following restrictions. The state government may issue an SOP for the Dahi Handi mandals, including rules on restrictions on the height of human pyramids and the number of people to be allowed.Also read | Maharashtra issues Ganeshotsav guidelines amid Covid situationEarlier this month, members of Dahi Handi coordination committees met state minister Aaditya Thackeray and said they would form small pyramids and allow a limited number of participants, who are fully vaccinated. They also said that since Ganeshotsav has been allowed to be held on a small scale, the government can give permission for Dahi Handi as well.Last year, many mandals cancelled the celebrations amid the coronavirus pandemic and government restrictions.Also read | Covid: Lalbaugcha Raja Mandal to celebrate Ganesh Charturthi in traditional way“We will definitely celebrate the festival. However, the scale of the celebration will depend on the relaxations granted,” the Bharatiya Janata Party’s legislator, Ram Kadam, was quoted as saying by Mid Day.The Maharashtra government has issued a number of guidelines, including capping the height of Lord Ganesha idols, during Ganeshotsav, which will begin from September 10. The government has said no crowding for ‘aarti’ will be allowed but has not given a nod for processions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-dahi-handi-be-allowed-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-take-a-decision-today-101629690856761.html
23-08-2021||Patna||APO aspirants seek postponement of mains exam due to floods in Bihar||Several candidates formed pressure groups on social media demanding postponement of assistant prosecution officer-(APO) 2019 mains examinations, scheduled from August 24 to August 27, citing their “inability” to travel to examination centers in the capital city of Patna due to floods in more than 16 districts in Bihar. The APO examination is to be conducted by the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) for 3,900 aspirants who cleared the preliminary test in February this year. The mains exam will be held at three examination centres in capital Patna.The protesting aspirants formed several groups on WhatsApp, Facebook and Telegram to air their grievance and to muster support for their demand for postponement. They also used Twitter to tag messages to chief minister Nitish Kumar, Speaker of Bihar legislative assembly Vijay Kumar, Sinha, ex-chief minister Jitam Ram Manjhi, Opposition leader Tejaswai Yadav, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tej Pratap, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders.“Bihar ma baarh ki avastha ko dekhte hue BPSC ko Tuglaki Farman Vaspas lena chahiye,” an aspirant Himanshu Kumar Dubey tweeted to ask the examination conducting body to withdraw its “unreasonable” decision to hold the mains test on the chosen dates in view of the flood situation in the state.Rupesh Jaiswal said, “@Nitish Kumar respected sir, please cancel the assistant prosecution officer exam which is going to be conduct[ed] between August 24 and August 27.”RJD leader Ritu Jaiswal came out in their support and stressed that the examinees will face immense difficulties in reaching Patna due to the floods in 16 districts.Shivandan Bharti, an advocate at Patna high court, said, “Many parts of the state are flooded and it is not possible to reach Patna from Katihar, Kishanganj, Saharsa, Purnia, Ara and some other districts. BPSC should rethink dates for mains examination.”He added, “Some students have also filed a case against the preliminary test result for APO examinations in the Patna high court, which will be heard on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/apo-aspirants-seek-postponement-of-mains-exam-due-to-floods-in-bihar-101629688642052.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots case: Court to hear Umar Khalid’s bail application today||A Delhi court will on Monday hear the bail application moved by former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid in connection with the Delhi riots conspiracy case. Khalid was arrested in September of last year under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).Khalid’s bail plea was originally listed to be heard on August 20 but the date was brought forward to August 18 after an early hearing application was filed on his behalf. However, on August 18, additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat adjourned the matter till August 23.In an earlier hearing of Khalid’s bail application, Delhi Police told the court that his bail plea was “meritless”. "The application filed by the applicant/ Umar Khalid has no merit as would be revealed and demonstrated before this Court by reference to the charge-sheet filed before this Court and as such the prosecution does not seek to file a detailed reply to the present application," Delhi Police stated in its reply on August 7.Khalid has been granted bail in another case pertaining to the northeast Delhi riots. The court while granting him bail noted that he cannot be put in jail for infinity simply on account of the fact that the others involved in the rioting incident in Khajuri Khas have to be identified and arrested.The first information report (FIR) on the Delhi riots conspiracy case includes stringent charges under Sections 13, 16, 17, 18 of the UAPA, Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act and Section 3 and 4 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act,1984, and various offences included in the Indian Penal Code, 1860, reported Live Law.The northeast Delhi riots broke out on February 24, 2020, which left at least 53 dead and 200 injured. Delhi Police have registered more than 750 cases and filed over 250 charge sheets. Besides Khalid, JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar, Jamia Millia Islamia's Asif Iqbal Tanha, former Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain, and several others, have also been booked under UAPA.Kalita, Narwhal, and Tanha have been granted bail by the Delhi high court, while Zargar was released on bail on June 23 of last year on humanitarian grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-case-court-to-hear-umar-khalid-s-bail-application-today-101629687755391.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM to inaugurate smog tower in Capital today, AAP says it’s India’s 1st||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will on Monday inaugurate a smog tower at Baba Kharak Singh Marg in the Connaught Place area to help combat rising air pollution in the national capital. According to environment minister Gopal Rai, this is the country's first smog tower. The Delhi cabinet gave approval for the project in October 2020. Rai said last week that the 20-metre-long structure, which has been set up to improve air quality in a radius of around one kilometre, will function at full capacity after the monsoon season. The tower, built at a cost of ₹20 crore tower, has been funded by the Delhi government.“Thereafter, experts will ascertain its impact on pollution. Based on the results, we will take a decision on installing more equipment,” he told reporters. Earlier, the minister said the construction work of the smog tower was delayed due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Also Read| Pollution control measures key in big development projects: ExpertsA smog tower is a structure designed to work as a large-scale air purifier in order to reduce air pollution particles. It is essential equipment for Delhi, which is one of the most polluted cities across the country and the world and has seen a major fall in its air quality for the past few years.Environment minister Rai also said on Thursday the smog tower at Connaught Place will be able to purify 1,000 cubic metres of air every second. An official told news agency PTI that a two-year study will be undertaken to ascertain the effectiveness of the tower after it starts operating, adding a control room has also been set up at the site for monitoring its operations.Meanwhile, the Centre has also built a 25-metre-tall smog tower at Anand Vihar which might become operational by the end of August, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said on Thursday.Both the smog towers were built by Tata Projects Limited (TPL) with technical assistance from IIT Bombay in collaboration with IIT Delhi. The National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) India Ltd has been appointed as the project management consultant.PTI also reported that Delhi Pollution Control Committee is the nodal agency for the smog tower in Connaught Place while the CPCB is the nodal agency for the tower in Anand Vihar. Both the towers will use 1,200 air filters each developed by experts at the University of Minnesota in the United States. They are estimated to reduce the concentration of PM2.5 up to 70 per cent in a one-kilometre radius around them.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-to-inaugurate-india-s-1st-ever-smog-tower-in-capital-today-101629679937770.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Anindita Mitra to take over as Chandigarh MC chief today||Anindita Mitra, a 2007 Punjab cadre IAS officer, will join as the Chandigarh MC commissioner on Monday.She will be joining on an inter-cadre deputation from the Punjab cadre to AGMUT cadre (Chandigarh segment). Incumbent commissioner KK Yadav got officially relieved on Sunday. He will join his parent cadre in Punjab on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anindita-mitra-to-take-over-as-chandigarh-mc-chief-today-101629666919800.html
23-08-2021||Other||Panchkula reports no new case; tricity’s daily count back to single digit||The tricity’s Covid-19 count dropped to a single-digit for the first time in five days as Panchkula reported no new case while Chandigarh and Mohali contributed four and three cases, respectively, to the daily tally on Sunday. None of the three jurisdictions reported any death.In Chandigarh, the fresh cases were detected in Sector 15, 32, Khuda Lahora and Mauli Jagran while in Mohali, the infections were found in Mohali city and Dera Bassi. While the UT now has 41 active cases, its recovery rate on Sunday was 98% and the positivity rate was 0.1%. Panchkula has 12 active cases while Mohali was left with 57 cases after three patients recovered on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchkula-reports-no-new-case-tricity-s-daily-count-back-to-single-digit-101629666800691.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adds 3,000 ‘backlog’ Covid cases to its tally||A backlog of 3,000 Covid-19 cases from Chandigarh was uploaded on the ICMR portal on Sunday, taking the city’s cumulative count of infections to 65,066. As on Saturday, the total tally of the city stood at 62,062 and only four fresh cases were added on Sunday.Dr Amandeep Kang, director, UT health services, told mediapersons that a backlog of 3,000 cases have been added to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal. These 3,000 patients were infected before October, last year and have successfully recovered. The fatality count in Chandigarh stands at 812 and no patient from these cases had succumbed to the virus.She further said that sometimes, the hospitals, where Covid-19 tests are conducted or patients get admitted, do not upload the data on the ICMR portal on time but once the records are rechecked, the patient’s names are added to the infected list.Dr Kang also said that the central government’s online portal is getting updated till August 24 and more such backlog cases can be added to Chandigarh’s tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-adds-3-000-backlog-covid-cases-to-its-tally-101629666559871.html
23-08-2021||Other||6 yrs on, GMADA fails to approve layout plan to develop Sector 90||Even after six years of land acquisition, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has failed to approve the layout plan to develop Sector 90, situated near Lakhnaur village in Mohali. Around 700 allottees, who have got letters of intent (LoI), are still awaiting possession. In 2015, GMADA had acquired 229 acres under a land pooling scheme, of which around 70 acres was under litigation till February this year. A senior GMADA official, who is dealing with the project, said, “Our layout plan is ready but some area near Lakhnaur is under the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900, on which we have to carry out afforestation first. We are hopeful of doing it in coming days.”Gurjot Singh, a resident of Lakhnaur and one of the allottees, said, “Even after six years, 700 allottees are waiting for possession while the nearby sectors are all developed. We request the authorities concerned to expedite work on developing Sector 90.” Under land pooling, farmers were offered housing and commercial sites in lieu of their land, he said.As per the plan, GMADA was to initially develop 144 acres. Residential plots measuring 100 to 500 square yards will come up over 29 acres, commercial sites will come up over 14 acres and 11 acres will be earmarked for institutions. Parks will be developed over eight acres, waterworks will take up two acres and roads will be constructed over 28 acres.GMADA chief engineer Davinder Singh said: “We are waiting for the layout plans from the town planning wing, following which we will start the process of seeking environment clearance. We are hopeful of starting the development soon. Sector 90 is a prime location for residential end-users, commercial real estate markets, and investors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-yrs-on-gmada-fails-to-approve-layout-plan-to-develop-sector-90-101629666139807.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chances of light rain Chandigarh from today||After 0.4mm rain in the city on Sunday, scattered showers are likely from Monday onwards as per India Meteorological Department (IMD).Speaking about this, IMD officials said, “While the intensity is likely to be lower as compared to the weekend, chances for light rain up to 20mm are likely in the city till Wednesday.”While the temperature dipped due to the rain on Saturday, it started going up again from Sunday. The maximum temperature of the city went up from 26.2°C on Saturday to 31.7°C on Sunday. The minimum temperature went up from 25.2°C on Saturday to 25.8°C on Sunday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 32°C and 34°C while the minimum temperature will remain between 25°C and 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chances-of-light-rain-chandigarh-from-today-101629665960617.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh advisory council’s tenure extended by 6 months||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has extended the tenure of the administrator’s advisory council by another six months.The council’s two-year tenure, which was to end on August 5, has been extended to March 31, 2022. The present 60-member council was constituted in August 2019.The apex advisory body of the administration last met in February this year. In its two-year tenure, the council proved inconsequential in the delivery of any crucial decisions or resolving long-standing issues of the city.Headed by the UT administrator, it is responsible for advising the administration on development issues and policy matters affecting the city, and gives a platform to residents to air their views on a range of issues concerning the city.In addition to all senior UT officials, it includes the current and former members of Parliament, mayor, residents’ and business association representatives, and other prominent citizens. It also has 10 standing committees, which are subject-matter-related groups headed by a chairman.Panel’s working under scrutiny The working and relevance of the council has come under increasing scanner in the last couple of years.Its last meeting, which was two hours long, saw UT officials making presentations on the administration’s achievements. The Chandigarh Police gave a presentation for around 15 minutes, which was followed by a 45-minute presentation by UT chief engineer CB Ojha.Thereon, only some council members, mostly political leaders and bureaucrats, got an opportunity to speak. As a result, representatives of the market, residents’ and industry associations sought changes in the format of the meeting.Suggestions were also made for action-taken reports to be tabled before the council members, to apprise them of the measures taken by the administration on the previously-issued recommendations by the council and its sub-committees.Critics have also voiced concern over the irregular nature of meetings and it “not being a truly people’s representative institution”. “While most of the time, there are no discussions in the council, the members are not even informed of the results of their deliberations, if any,” said a member who didn’t want to be quoted.Sub-committees ineffectiveThe current and former members have contended that even the sub-committees have no relevance in the scheme of city’s governance. Though considered as expert committees, set up to threadbare examine specific subjects, the committees lack adequate subject-matter experts. Their decisions and recommendations are now not even compiled as “minutes of meeting” but only as “issues discussed”.In recent times, the committees have even contradicted each other’s findings and recommendations.For instance, on the issue of allowing construction of new nursing homes in residential areas, the panel on health and urban planning differed, reaching different conclusions.The standing committee on urban infrastructure and planning for the city, in a meeting held in July last year, rejected the proposal. Their contention was that these were purely commercial activities and offered expensive health care facilities. All its members opposed the move.But later, the matter was referred to another panel, committee on health, which, in its meeting held in March this year, unanimously recommended the opening of nursing homes in residential areas, but with certain conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-advisory-council-s-tenure-extended-by-6-months-101629665660207.html
23-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana residents thrash man over theft bid||The residents of Janta Nagar thrashed a man for attempting to steal valuables from a scooter on Sunday and handed him over to the police.The locals said that they noticed the man taking rounds of the street on Sunday evening. Suddenly, he broke open the lock of the boot space of a scooter parked in the street and tried to steal valuables.The owner of the scooter noticed him and raised an alarm. The alerted locals then nabbed the man and thrashed him.Amarjit Singh, a local, said that the man appeared to be high on drugs.Sub-inspector Balkar Singh, SHO at Shimlapuri police station, said the police have been questioning the accused and will lodge an FIR after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-residents-thrash-man-over-theft-bid-101629663619610.html
23-08-2021||Other||Amritsar beat Ludhiana to enter semi-finals of inter-district U-16 cricket tourney||Amritsar registered a comfortable eight-wicket victory over host Ludhiana in the semi-finals of the PCA inter-district U-16 cricket tournament at GRD Global Education institute.Continuing from their overnight score of 88 runs for 9 wickets in 56 overs, Ludhiana was bundled out for 93 runs in 63.2 overs.Varundeep Singh of Amritsar took five wickets for 39 runs, while Aviraj and Sehbaj Gill took two wickets.Amritsar was off to a flying start and chased the target for the loss of two wickets. Rahul Kumar played scored 49 runs in 66 balls with the help of eight boundaries. Anmoljot took two wickets for 21 runs.In first innings, Ludhiana scored 139 runs for 10 wickets (all out) in 73.3 overs. Amritsar scored 165 runs for 10 wickets (all-out) in 86.5 overs. In second innings, Ludhiana scored 93 runs for 10 wickets in 63.2 overs while Amritsar scored 70 runs for 2 wickets in 24.4 overs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-beat-ludhiana-to-enter-semi-finals-of-inter-district-u-16-cricket-tourney-101629663560570.html
23-08-2021||Other||Jewellers in Ludhiana to observe strike against new hallmarking norm||Jewellers affiliated to Swarnkar Sangh association announced that they will observe a strike on Monday against the imposition of Hallmarking Unique ID (HUID) by the government.The decision was taken during a meeting of the association. Association chairman Prempal Bhandhari and president Gopal Bhandhari said they favour Hallmark jewellery but they are against HUID.General secretary Rakesh Verma said that Punjab jewellers’ body has announced a one-day strike against the HUID and they will close their shops in support.Anand Sikri, president of the association, said that all jewellers’ associations of Ludhiana are supporting the strike.He added that the government had made it mandatory for all jewellers in 256 districts to hallmark gold jewellery from June 16.Senior vice president of Ludhiana Swarnkar Sangh Suman Verma, Suresh Gogna, vice-president Raman Gogna, advisor Shammi Kapoor and Vinod Sehdev, were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jewellers-in-ludhiana-to-observe-strike-against-new-hallmarking-norm-101629663499655.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gym owner booked for raping woman, uploading pictures||A gym owner was booked for raping a married woman after giving her sedative pills and injections in the gym and clicking lewd pictures of her, the police said on Sunday.The accused, identified as Dharminder Kumar, alias Sunny Khubban, of Mohalla Hargobind Nagar, raped the victim for almost six years, blackmailing her with the pictures. The accused had even demanded ₹5 lakh from the victim, and when she had refused to pay, he had sent the lewd pictures to her son and also uploaded them on social networking sites.The 40-year-old woman stated that she had joined the gym on Jassian road in 2015 along with the other women of the colony. She added that the accused had started calling her to his other gym in Hargobind Nagar claiming that he had modern machines there.The woman said in her statement that the accused had administered an injection and also given her some tablets to swallow. After she lost consciousness, he raped her in the gym and also recorded videos and clicked pictures of her. From then on, the accused had been raping her, extorting money and leaking her pictures on social media.Inspector Satwant Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 67A of the Information and Technology Act was registered. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused, the cop said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gym-owner-booked-for-raping-woman-uploading-pictures-101629663259593.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||37% turnout in Delhi gurdwara body polls, Counting of votes on August 25||The polling for the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections witnessed a low turnout of 37.27 per cent on Sunday, officials said.The DSGMC which controls shrines in the national capital, including Rakabganj and Bangla Sahib gurdwaras as well as various academic institutions and hospitals, goes to polls every four years. The DSGMC elects 46 members from as many wards through polling and the rest are appointed from different seats of Sikh religion and groups.The elections being conducted by the Delhi government’s directorate of gurdwara elections, has 3.42 lakh voters. The voting percentage of male voters was 39.95 per cent and it was 34.95 per cent for females, officials said. The Punjabi Bagh ward recorded the highest voting percentage of 54.10 per cent while Sham Nagar recorded the lowest 25.18 per cent, according to the figures issued by the directorate.Counting of votes will take place on August 25. A total of 312 candidates, including 132 independents, are in the fray.The major players include Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) which has fielded candidates from all the 46 wards. SAD’s Manjinder Singh Sirsa is currently the president of the DSGMC.Manjit Singh GK-led Jago Party has fielded 41 candidates while Akali Dali (Delhi) headed by Paramjit Singh Sarna is contesting in 45 wards. Both Manjit Singh and Sarna are former presidents of the DSGMC.In the previous elections held in 2017, SAD came to control the DSGMC by winning 35 wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/37-turnout-in-delhi-gurdwara-body-polls-counting-of-votes-on-august-25-101629663139541.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||BSF repatriates Pak national who crossed border inadvertently||As a goodwill gesture, the Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday repatriated a Pakistani national, who had inadvertently crossed over to the Indian territory. In a press release, the BSF said the troops of the 144-Battalion apprehended the Pakistani man while roaming inside the Indian territory in the Amritsar sector on Friday. During the investigation, nothing objectionable was found on him. The BSF didn’t identify the man. This year, the BSF has so far repatriated 9 Pakistani nationals who inadvertently crossed the border on humanitarian ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-repatriates-pak-national-who-crossed-border-inadvertently-101629663079443.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||SC stays trial against ex-Haryana CM Hooda, 21 others in Panchkula industrial plots allotment case||The Supreme Court (SC) has stayed the trial under provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 21 others in Panchkula industrial plots allotment case. Hearing a bunch of petitions, a three-member bench of the apex court comprising justice AM Khanwilkar, justice Krishna Murari and justice V Ramasubramanian on August 19 granted a stay on the PMLA court’s trial on the basis of a December 2019 apex court order. The SC, in its December 2019 order, had stayed trial in a similar PMLA case pending before the special court, principal sessions judge, city civil court, Chennai. The December 2019 SC order came after a bench of the Madras HC had dismissed a petition which sought quashing of PMLA proceedings as the predicate or scheduled offence investigated by the CBI was closed by the order of the court. Vikram Chaudhari, counsel of the petitioner and an accused in Panchkula industrial plots allotment case, Lt Col OP Dahiya (retd) had invited the attention of the apex court to the December 2019 order passed in a special leave petition and sought similar interim protection for the petitioner as the facts and circumstances were similar to that petition. About the grounds taken by Lt Col Dahiya in his petition before the apex court, his counsel Chaudhari told HT that since the CBI has not filed a chargesheet in the Panchkula case and no trial has begun for the predicate or scheduled offence, the trial under PMLA cannot proceed. “We have also challenged a 2019 amendment in section 44 of the PMLA wherein an explanation was inserted,’’ Chaudhri said. The explanation inserted in 2019 for removal of doubts about section 44 of PMLA said the jurisdiction of special court while dealing with the offence under PMLA, during investigation, inquiry or trial under this act, shall not be dependent upon any orders passed in respect of the scheduled offence, and the trial of both sets of offences by the same court shall not be construed as joint trial. Chaudhri said the SC had in Nikesh Tarachand Shah case had in 2017 held that trial of both the predicate offences and PMLA go together. However, the 2019 amendment in PMLA changed this, he said, adding this amendment is also under challenge. In February, the Enforcement Directorate had filed a prosecution complaint (a chargesheet) under PMLA in a trial court against Hooda and others in the Panchkula case despite the fact that CBI which was probing the matter was yet to submit a chargesheet for the predicate offences registered under IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act. The ED document had triggered discussions on why the agency submitted a chargesheet charging the accused for money laundering before the CBI, probing the predicate offence, could do so. The ED says that every scheduled offence is a predicate offence and the occurrence of the same is a pre-requisite for initiating investigation into the offence of money laundering. The predicate offences are investigated by agencies such as police, customs, SEBI, NCB and CBI, under their respective Acts, the ED says. Legal experts said the answer to ED’s urgency in submitting the chargesheet lay in the 2019 amendments made in the PMLA which now provided that attachment of property involved in money laundering will remain valid during the period of investigation for 365 days. In this case, the 14 industrial plots were attached by ED in August 2019 and the attachment was confirmed by the adjudicating authority in February 2020. “Once the attachments have been confirmed by the adjudicating authority, the ED will have to submit a chargesheet in court within a year. Otherwise, these attachments would become invalid,’’ said a law expert. Experts say that the 2019 explanation was inserted in section 44 to insulate the trial of money laundering offences from the outcome of the trial of the predicate offence by CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-stays-trial-against-ex-haryana-cm-hooda-21-others-in-panchkula-industrial-plots-allotment-case-101629662900053.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Couple thrash elderly woman, rob her of gold earrings in Ludhiana||A couple has been booked for thrashing a 78-year-old woman and robbing her gold earrings on Saturday evening after breaking into her house in Harcharan Nagar where she lived alone. The accused have been identified as Raja and his wife Simran. The victim, Sudarshna Rani, said she knew the couple as they lived in a rented accommodation near her house. They had shifted to another place three months ago. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said the woman suffered injuries to her face and around her eyes. She was living alone as she had lost her two sons and husband. A case under Sections 379-B (snatching using force) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrong­ful restraint) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Division Number 3 police station. A hunt is on for the duo’s arrest. The ASI added that the victim’s neighbours had seen the accused roaming around in the vicinity on multiple occasions and had been planning the robbery for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/couple-thrash-elderly-woman-rob-her-of-gold-earrings-in-ludhiana-101629662719617.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panchayat secy suspended for embezzling funds in Kaithal||The Kaithal deputy commissioner has ordered suspension of a panchayat secretary and recommended departmental action against a BDPO, SDO and JE of the panchayati raj department in a case of alleged financial irregularities. Kaithal deputy commissioner Pardeep Kumar Dahiya ordered the suspension of panchyat secretary Parveen Kumar, posted at Dera Gadla village of the district for alleged embezzlement of panchayat funds. The action was taken on the basis of an inquiry report which had found Parveen Kumar, Kaithal BDPO Surinder Sharma, SDO panchayati raj Kaithal Vivek Kumar and junior engineer (panchayati raj) Krishan Chutani of wrongdoings with regard to a ₹17.85-lakh development works. On a complaint of the villagers, the deputy commissioner had ordered an inquiry and it was found that the tender of the said works was not put online, which is a must for all works valued above ₹5 lakh. Also, the payments were disbursed even before the physical delivery of material, the inquiry found. The resolution for the said work was passed by the BDPO and the secretary, while the bills were cleared on the verification and recommendation of the SDO and JE, said the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchayat-secy-suspended-for-embezzling-funds-in-kaithal-101629662599500.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends lockdown till Sept 6, existing relaxations to continue||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the Covid lockdown by a fortnight while allowing various relaxations permitted earlier to continue.The relaxations include the opening of restaurants, bars, malls, clubhouses and shops.“The Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (a term being used by the government for lockdown) is extended for another fortnight, that is from August 23 (5 am onwards) to September 6 (till 5 am) in the state of Haryana along with guidelines to be implemented during this period issued vide earlier orders,” an order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said on Sunday.The order was issued in the exercise of powers under various provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.As per other relaxations allowed earlier, conduct of entrance and recruitment examination by different universities, institutes or government departments and recruitment agencies will continue to be permissible. All Covid-related guidelines including those related to social distancing, sanitisation and seating capacity, however, will have to be followed, the order said.Universities and colleges will be allowed to reopen for students for doubt classes, practical classes in laboratories, practical examinations and offline exams with strict adherence to the Covid-related norms, earlier orders provided.Vice-chancellors of universities in the state are advised to plan the reopening of universities from the next academic session and share the programme of the same with the concerned department of the state government.Immediate action may be initiated/ensured by the university administration to fully vaccinate all hostel students, day scholars, faculty and other staff including the outsourced ones, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-sept-6-existing-relaxations-to-continue-101629662422971.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC fund crunch: Projects worth ₹380 cr in limbo||Development works worth more than ₹380 crore -- planned and ongoing -- may get stalled, with the municipal corporation struggling to source funds for them.The fund-starved MC had recently assessed its capacity to undertake the works spread over this year and the findings don’t promise a bright road ahead. As per a report compiled by the UT engineering department, on the directions of former MC commissioner KK Yadav, liabilities of around ₹380 crore stand for the department if it is to implement different development projects in the city.Projects that are likely to be impacted include all the capital works, village and ward development works, and extended road recarpeting works.The village development works include new roads, laying stormwater pipes and sewer lines, electrical and horticulture works, supply of water and installing more than 1,000 tube-wells for improving water supply.“Except for the dedicated funds for road recarpeting and deposit works (expansion of the water storage capacity at water works), the MC is likely to face severe fund crunch to start or complete other development projects. Every month, MC has fixed liabilities of around ₹62 crore for salaries alone,” said an MC official who didn’t want to be named. There is also concern that the administration will release reduced quarterly grant-in-aid to the MC as the Union government had imposed a 20% restriction on spending.The MC had started the current fiscal with a deficit of ₹670 crore. Against a budget of ₹1,641 crore for 2021-22, the civic body had estimated only ₹971 crore in its kitty.Liabilities as per stage of projectOnly a section of the works is currently underway, while the rest are in different stages of implementation.A liability of ₹33 crore stands for projects which have been approved by the MC General House and the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC), but are awaiting administrative approval. Projects in which all approvals are in place but the tender process is yet to start are around ₹116 crore.“Then there are projects, worth around ₹71 crore, for which the tender process has already been initiated. For around ₹116 crore worth projects, work has already been allotted but these are yet to start. Even the ongoing works, worth ₹152 crore are at stake,” said the official.Recent fund requestsFacing severe fund shortage, the MC had recently written to the administration to grant ₹26 crore on account of electricity duty.Earlier, with the administration not releasing the full grant promised under the dedicated fund for development of 13 villages, the MC had written to it to either release ₹20 crore or have these works done by the UT engineering department.“Funds of ₹15.85 crore are required for repairing internal streets, ₹2.04 crore for repair of buildings, ₹1.17 crore for horticulture and electrical works,” said the official.Notably, the UT has already junked MC request for the release of ₹90 crore as additional grant for the current fiscal. The additional grant was sought in lieu of the estimated loss in revenue on account of stay on hike of water tariff.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, said, “We have funds for all the works, for which tenders have already been allotted. More funds are in the pipeline. For instance, the administration has already agreed in principle to transfer the electricity duty. A reminder on Fourth Pay commission funds have been sent to Union government. There will be no shortage of funds for any of the development works planned this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-fund-crunch-projects-worth-rs-380-cr-in-limbo-101629662359575.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tension in Fatehabad village as Dalit, upper caste families lock horns over Ambedkar statue||Tension prevailed in Fatehabad’s Buwan village in Bhuna tehsil over a statue of Dalit icon BR Ambedkar that was installed at a ‘chaupal’ on August 15. The people belonging to the upper caste are seeking removal of the statue, leading to tension in the village.Personnel of the CRPF and Haryana Police have been deployed in the village as a precautionary measure and the village has been sealed. People belonging to the Dalit community during a meeting in the village hit out at the administration for not letting their supporters in.Rajat Kalsan, a Dalit activist, said they always co-operate with the upper caste families, including in their protest against Centre’s farm laws. “They opposed the installation of Ambedkar’s statue in the village. A youth had hurled stones at the statue and police have failed to take action against him. We have lodged a complaint against them, but the police are yet to register an FIR. Police are not letting our supporters enter the village. We have decided to boycott the farm agitation. Our members have pledged to install BR Ambedkar’s statue in every village of Haryana by December 31,” he added.Fatehabad deputy commissioner Mahavir Kaushik and superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar met both the groups but couldn’t succeed in striking a compromise. The Dalit community members have asked the administrative officials to rename the ‘panchayat ghar’ as BR Ambedkar Bhawan.Fatehabad SP Kumar said heavy security has been deployed in the village to control the situation. “Two-layered barricading has been done in the nine streets of the village. We have asked both the groups to resolve the issue amicably. We will take strict action against those who will try to vitiate the atmosphere,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tension-in-fatehabad-village-as-dalit-upper-caste-families-lock-horns-over-ambedkar-statue-101629662240018.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Biodiversity park to come up in Bathinda to revive south Punjab’s vanishing tree species||With a view to reviving the vanishing native tree species of southern Punjab, the state forest department has decided to convert a 3-km-long stretch along the Sirhind canal on the outskirts of Bathinda city into a biodiversity park. The work on the ‘green lungs project’, as it is called, has begun after the state government approved ₹50 lakh fund for the initiative that will help create a thick tree cover in the city’s vicinity, said divisional forest officer (DFO) Swaran Singh. In the first phase, a 1-km stretch with 37-metre width will be developed as a green cover. A total of 65 native tree species will be grown whereas the Nanak Bagichi section will have 36 varieties of medicinal plants. The green belt will also have 10 bamboo species besides conifer, ficus and other native fruit varieties like karonda (black currant), phalsa (blueberry) and sitaphal (custard apple). A butterfly zone will also be developed with dense vegetation of flower-bearing plants like sadabahar, jasmine and chandni etc. “Trees like vann (salvadora oleides), jand (prosopis cineraria), simbal (bombax), ber (Indian jujube) and mulberry were once commonly found in the semi-arid and arid regions of south Malwa. But these trees with medicinal and commercial value are now rarely spotted. In the absence of enough knowledge, people have switched their liking to ornamental plants or the species not ideal for climatic conditions of the belt,” Swaran Singh said. Vann and jand too are among the vanishing tree species in the region, he added. “The wood of vann was commonly used for making of charkha. Lightweight and sturdy, the wood was preferred for furniture making. We have some vann trees in Bathinda and adjoining districts but they are dying. Flowering on jand is preferred by apiculturists and they go to Rajasthan where jand groves are found in abundance,” said Singh, whose team’s project concept of the botanical garden was appreciated by the chief minister’s office. The department has identified the stretch along the canal banks behind its nursery. The vicinity is already home to a variety of fauna such as jungle babbler, peacocks, parrots, and red-wattled lapwing.Due to official apathy, the area was being used as an unauthorised waste dump by several marriage palaces and banquet halls. “An all-season pathway will be built without using any concrete material and the green belt will be powered by solar energy,” the DFO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/biodiversity-park-to-come-up-in-bathinda-to-revive-south-punjab-s-vanishing-tree-species-101629662135276.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||No dairy to be allowed to operate in city after Sept 30: Patiala MC||The Patiala municipal corporation (MC) has said that it will not allow any dairy unit to operate within the city limits after September 30. The corporation has already directed the dairy owners to shift their businesses to the allotted site at nearby Abolowal village. The dairy owners had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the corporation’s move but their petition was quashed last week. Patiala has as many as 257 dairies that cause frequent choking of sewers and water-logging in the city. The dairy owners have been given plots at government-controlled rates at the 21-acre site at Ablowal village. The owners have to deposit 5% of the reserved price, while the remaining amount will be paid in instalments. The MC missed the June 30, 2020, deadline for the completion of first phase of the project due to the pandemic. Nearly 6,000 milch animals will be relocated to the new site.Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said all preparations have been made to shift the dairies out of the city before September 30. “We are not going to allow dairy operations after September 30. We have already developed the site and more than 150 dairy owners have been allotted the plots,” he said.The state government had floated tender for the shifting project to a private company, NH Constructions, in February last year. The project cost is pegged at ₹13.5 crore as work on approach roads, a sewage treatment plant, veterinary hospitals has started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-dairy-to-be-allowed-to-operate-in-city-after-sept-30-patiala-mc-101629662132105.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: Man unable to perform father’s last rites due to disrupted train schedules||With railway schedules remaining disrupted for the last three days amid the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Jalandhar railway lines, many commuters have had to face a host of travails with at least 50 trains cancelled, 20 diverted and 10 short terminated. The cancellations perhaps had the most gut-wrenching consequences for Dalbir Singh, a resident of Farrukhabad, Uttar Pradesh, whose bookings were cancelled thrice, due to which he could neither be there with his ailing father when he breathed his last nor was he able to perform his last rites. Dalbir, who works at a food joint in Jammu and Kashmir, immediately boarded a roadways bus with his relatives upon learning that his father was critically ill. However, they were stuck in a massive traffic jam amid the farmer protests at a highway near Jalandhar. They managed to reach the Ludhiana railway station, hoping to board a train, but have been stranded there since Friday. “My father passed away waiting for me. I have been running from pillar to post for the last three days, but to no avail. Our reservations were cancelled three times and we cannot afford to board a private bus due to the steep fares,” he said. When he approached the railways staff, Dalbir alleged that he was rudely brushed off. Dalbir is not alone. Dheeraj, a resident of Nirwana, Rajasthan, came to Ludhiana for Raksha Bandhan, says, “I had booked a Kota special train that was scheduled to depart at 5:50am on August 23, but it has been cancelled. I have come to the station for a refund. I am planning to take an alternative means of transport.” Vinay of Bhawani Mandi, Rajasthan, was also in the same boat as his train, the Jamnagar special scheduled for 4pm on Sunday was cancelled. “I have to report to work on Monday, but I’m stuck. I might have to take an alternative mode of travel,” says Vinay. Primarily, trains running towards Amritsar and Katra were affected. Other than cancellation and diversion of routes, a few trains also got delayed for hours including the Paschim Express which plies on Amritsar-New Delhi route.Shiv Salwan, a Ludhiana resident said that he had to reschedule his meeting in Delhi as Paschim Express which was scheduled to reach Ludhiana station at 10:20 am arrived at 1:25 pm. Among the trains that have been cancelled include the Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi, the Vande Bharat express which runs on the New Delhi to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra route, the Haridwar-Amritsar Jan Shatabdi and Amritsar-Hazur Sahib Nanded special train.Routes of 10 trains, which were to run on Monday, have been diverted and around 25 trains have been short terminated and short originated.Notably, till the filing of this report, the railway had issued a refund of ₹1.2 lakh to passengers. A senior railway official said that the refund was issued on the spot at the three railway windows. Disgruntled passengers take to Twitter Disgruntled passengers whose trains were either cancelled or halted bombarded the Firozpur division of Northern Railways with queries and complaints.A Twitter user, Bhism Narayan Sharma, mentioned his Passenger Name Record (PNR) number and raised the issue of absence of catering services in his train, which had been diverted to another route. “I don’t know where we are headed to, there is no on-board catering, neither is the train at any station. I do know when we will reach our destination and when we will get food”, read his tweet.The Northern Railways responded to the query saying the matter had been forwarded to the Ferozepur divisional railway manager.Many others tweeted their queries as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-man-unable-to-perform-father-s-last-rites-due-to-disrupted-train-schedules-101629662002248.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to hold 200 job fairs every year: Dushyant||Haryana government has set a target of organising 200 job fairs every year to provide employment opportunities to the youth in the private sector, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has said. It will be mandatory to organise at least one employment fair or placement drive every quarter by the district employment office in every district, he said, listing out initiatives taken by the state government to increase employment opportunities.He said a new employment portal has been launched to connect the skilled youth of Haryana with the private sector job market. Private sector employers and job-aggregators have also been integrated on the portal and a 35-seater call centre is there to facilitate the job-seekers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-hold-200-job-fairs-every-year-dushyant-101629662000355.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||SSB jawan loses wife, daughter in Karnal accident||A woman and her four-year-old daughter were killed and her husband, Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawan, sustained critical injuries when a truck hit the motorcycle they were riding on near Malikpur Kadiyan village of Karnal district, the police said. According to the police, the deceased have been identified as Rinki Rani (30) and her daughter Gagandeep (4), while her husband Yogender Singh is undergoing treatment at a hospital. The family belonged to Sampla village of Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh. Police said the family was going to Rinki’s parental house in Panipat to celebrate Rakshabandhan when a speeding truck hit their motorcycle. Rinki and Gagandeep died on the spot, police said. The truck driver managed to flee, leaving the vehicle behind. Investigation officer Karambir Singh said the truck driver has been booked under sections 279 and 304A of the IPC and investigations are on to trace him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ssb-jawan-loses-wife-daughter-in-karnal-accident-101629661880599.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cane farmers continue rail, road blockade as talks with govt remain inconclusive||The deadlock between the Punjab government and sugarcane growers protesting for hike in crop prices continued on Sunday after the farmer representatives’ meeting with cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and officials in Chandigarh remained inconclusive. The protesters continued blockade of the national highway and railway tracks at Dhanowali village in Jalandhar district, affecting road transport and train movement. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, BKU (Doaba) president Manjit Singh Rai and others met Randhawa. It was decided after the meeting that the farmers will hold another meeting with government experts on Monday over the production cost of sugarcane and chief minister Amarinder Singh will take a final call on the issue the next day. The farmer leaders expressed disappointment over the state government increasing the sugarcane’s state agreed price (SAP) from ₹310 to ₹325 without taking them into confidence. “The farmers were requested to clear the rail tracks so that fertilisers could reach in the state,” said a farmer representative. In the meeting, the government experts claimed that production cost should be ₹350 per quintal, the farmer unions pegged it at ₹392. Randhawa also made a senior farmer leader to talk to Amarinder Singh over phone, it is learnt. Talking to mediapersons, Randhawa said, “We will clear the pending dues of sugarcane crop within 15 days. The farmer leaders will hold a meeting over the price comparison with experts from Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and government officials.” He said there was ₹43 crore pending of the Phagwara sugar mill. “I have directed the Kapurthala administration to get it cleared or take action against the mill. We have assured them that the government will not let the Phagwara mill shut at any cost,” added Randhawa. Rai said it was shocking that the e experts didn’t inform the government over the production cost. “In meeting, the experts admitted that the production cost is ₹350 per quintal while Punjab government gives us ₹325 per quintal rate,” he said. 83 trains affected The Ferozepur railway division said a total of 83 trains were affected due to the blockade on the Ludhiana-Amritsar rail track. Of these, 48 were cancelled, 12 diverted and 23 short-terminated, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cane-farmers-continue-rail-road-blockade-as-talks-with-govt-remain-inconclusive-101629661703602.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda flooded after rain, man dies in roof collapse||A six-hour-long downpour, the heaviest in Bathinda this monsoon season, brought the city to a standstill on Sunday, exposing the ill-preparedness of municipal authorities yet another time.The city received 81 mm rain, said Dr Raj Kumar, an agro-meteorology scientist at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU)’s regional research centre in Bathinda. There was a flood-like situation in most parts of the city represented in the Punjab assembly by finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, with the water level reaching over 5 feet at some places. Low-lying areas such as Paras Ram Nagar, Power House Road, Mall Road and Sirki Bazaar were the worst-affected by the rainfall that started around 5am and continued till 11am.Manohar Singh (50), a local resident, died while his son Azad Singh (22) sustained serious injuries after the roof of their house at the city’s Bhalerian Wala Mohalla collapsed during rainfall on Sunday.Azad is under treatment at the civil hospital. Residents from various localities complained of water entering their houses, causing damage to buildings and household items. Even the posh localities like Model Town and vicinity of Sepal Hotel faced waterlogging probably for the first time. Many were forced to stay in their houses on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan.The municipal authorities started an operation to drain out the water.Former Bathinda legislator Sarup Chand Singla blamed political interference in the functioning of the municipal corporation, demanding compensation for the loss of property and goods of the city residents. “Waterlogging is a chronic problem in the city and the Congress leadership failed to take any concrete step. Flooding is caused due to poor maintenance of drains and failure of enhanced capacity to flush out the rainwater. Haphazard repair of streets ahead of the state elections disturbed road levels and flooded streets,” said Singla.Municipal commissioner Bikramjit Singh Shergill said the civic body for the first time pressed into service 940 hp capacity pumps to drain out water.“Last year, pumps of a total maximum capacity of 440 hp were deployed. Had it been the last season’s situation, it would take us to drain water in more than 24 hours whereas the city roads will be cleared of water before Sunday midnight,” said Shergill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-flooded-after-rain-man-dies-in-roof-collapse-101629661702314.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal’s mill to start producing sulphur-free sugar from this season||KARNAL Newly set up cooperative sugar mill at Karnal will start operations as scheduled from the coming crushing season in November. Officials said this will be the state first sugar mill to produce sugar free of sulphur, an additive used for the purpose of purifying sugar. A month-long trial of the new sugar mill had already been completed earlier this year. “The sugar mill with a capacity of 3,500-tonne crushing per day (TCD) will provide a big relief to farmers as its capacity has been increased from 2,200TCD,” said Aditi, managing director of the Sugar mill. Mill officials said the trial of the new sugar mill had started in April this year and it produced 94,460 quintals refined sugar by crushing 10.30-lakh quintals sugarcane. The mill has set a target to crush 55-lakh quintals sugarcane. The managing director said the sugar mill has an 18MW power generation plant and it will produce electricity for self-consumption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnals-mill-to-start-producing-sulphur-free-sugar-from-this-season-101629661581945.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Work to clean Buddha Nullah starts with release of 200 cusecs fresh water in Ludhiana||The project to transform the polluted Buddha Nullah (seasonal rivulet) into a clean dariya (river) kicked off with the release of 200 cusecs of freshwater here on Sunday.The ₹9.8-crore project, under which 200 cusecs of fresh water will be released into the Buddha Nullah daily, was inaugurated by Samrala MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon, Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha and Ludhiana mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu.Initially, water resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu were to inaugurate the project, but both leaders cancelled at the last minute, triggering speculation that they had backed out due to the agitation.However, the mayor said that Sarkaria had cancelled his visit due to heavy rain and traffic snarls near Jalandhar. “Ashu entrusted us to inaugurate the project,” said Sandhu, adding that the project to release canal water into the Neelon Drain was part of the Punjab government’s ambitious ₹650-crore project to clean the nullah.Special earthmover arranged from Meerut Ludhiana drainage division executive engineer Harjot Singh Walia said that it was for the first time that a project had been executed without stopping or diverting the flow of water in the Sirhind feeder canal, for which a special earth mover was arranged from Meerut.The water resources department used sheet piling technology to build an escape regulator channel to carry 200 cusecs water from the Sirhind Feeder Canal.In preparation for the project, four village road bridges and five field paths were repaired and the Neelon river was cleaned within eight months. The project is being funded by the Ludhiana municipal corporation and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).The mayor said that work has already started on two new sewage treatment plants (STPs) with a combined capacity of 285 MLD – Jamalpur 225 MLD and Balloke 60 MLD; the rehabilitation of existing STPs with a treatment capacity of 418 MLD, two effluent treatment Plants (ETPs) for the treatment of 6 MLD wastewater from two dairy complexes in Tajpur and Haibowal, six intermediate pumping stations and the laying of a 10-km pipeline under the ₹650-crore rejuvenation project. “The project will be completed by December 2022,” he said. Bouquets and brickbats However, Jaskirat Singh, of the Naroa Punjab Manch said that the Buddha Darya Rejuvenation Project should be led by eminent scientists not politicians and bureaucrats. “Did they conducted any study before initiating the ₹9-crore project. A project that could impact on the health and lives of millions should be led by an eminent scientist who can assess the consequences of the project,” he said. Kapil Arora, the president of the counsel of engineers, says the release of 200 cusec of water into the Buddha Nullah from Neelon is merely a cosmetic activity. “The dyeing and electroplating industries have always been saved by the PPCB. Now, with the release of water from Neelon before Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs) become operational will help mask the fact that industries are primarily responsible for polluting the rivulet,” he said, adding that if mixing of freshwater would have effectively reduced pollution, the polluted waters of Sutlej would not have caused serious health problems such as cancer and Hepatitis-B among citizens residing hundreds of kilometres away from Ludhiana. Rahul Verma, a social activist, said, “I can see Buddha Nullah turning into Budha Dariya in the next two years. Simply blaming the industry will not provide a solution. The contribution of the industry cannot be ignored. The industry is playing a pivotal role in the development of the city and providing employment to many. As responsible citizens, we should also reduce the use of detergents, dishwasher, toilets cleaners and other chemicals as the city is the biggest consumer of such products in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/work-to-clean-buddha-nullah-starts-with-release-of-200-cusecs-fresh-water-in-ludhiana-101629661520398.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tribunal awards ₹16 lakh to Ambala man who lost limb in mishap||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Chandigarh, has awarded a compensation of ₹16.09 lakh to an Ambala resident, who lost his limb in a road accident.Vinod Kumar, 30, of Jhiriwala village, Ambala, filed a complaint against canter driver Ranjit Singh, owner Om Parkash and insurer SBI General Insurance Company Limited, Chandigarh.Kumar was working as a driver of goods vehicles, earning ₹12,000 per month. He told the tribunal that on the intervening night of February 24/25, 2015, he was going from Kala Amb to Panipat in a canter being driven by Ranjit Singh at high speed and in a rash and careless manner.Kumar said that despite several requests, Singh did not slow down. At about 2am, when they reached near Tepla village on Saha-Ambala road, an animal suddenly jumped in front of the canter and they met with an accident.Kumar was severely injured and his left leg from the knee-down was amputated at PGIMER. He said that he was still under treatment and was confined to bed being 100% permanently disabled, unable to do any work or earn anything. A sum of ₹3 lakh was spent by him on his treatment and would need another ₹3 lakh for an artificial limb, he said.Ranjit Singh and Om Parkash denied all allegations and prayed for the dismissal of the petition. The representative of the insurance company stated that no premium covering the risk of two drivers was received by them. “The driver of the truck was not holding a valid and effective driving licence and truck was being plied without valid RC, fitness certificate at the time of the alleged accident. Denying all other averments, a prayer for dismissal of the petition was made,” the company stated.After hearing the arguments, the tribunal directed the insurance company to pay ₹16.09 lakh along with an interest of 9% per annum from the date of institution of the claim petition till realisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tribunal-awards-16-lakh-to-ambala-man-who-lost-limb-in-mishap-101629661222296.html
23-08-2021||Other||Mohali-based 8-year-old golfer dreams of winning gold in Olympics||When Indian golfer Aditi Ashok missed the Tokyo Olympics 2020 podium by a whisker and finished fourth, many were heartbroken back home, one of them being 8-year-old Mohali-based budding golfer Ojaswini Saraswat.Aditi Ashok might not have won a medal, but talented Ojaswini now aspires to be like her and win a medal for India at the Olympics one day. And if her coach Harmeet Kahlon is to be believed, Ojaswini of Mohali Golf Range can very well achieve that dream.Having won 46 tournaments out of 48 she has competed in, Ojaswini is a golf prodigy by all means. Her most impressive outing was in Johannesburg when she won the U-7 title with a gross score of 83 in the US Kids Big 5 South African Open Invitational Tournament.“Golf comes naturally to Ojaswini. She is gifted and too good for her age. Seeing her consistent winning streak in the last 3-4 years, she is a prospective medallist for India in golf in the Los Angeles 2028 and Brisbane 2032 Olympics and Asian Games in Qatar 2030 and Riyadh 2034,” says Harmeet, who is an Arjuna awardee.Focussed on turning professionalPlaying in her first international tournament, Ojaswini shot a total of 83 (39-44) in Johannesburg to lead in the U-7 category. Fondly called as Oz, Ojaswini is focused on turning professional golfer.Harmeet feels Ojaswini should move to the United States of America and aim for top-class Ladies Professional Golf Association junior tournaments. Her mother, Rakshita Saraswat, who has played badminton at state level for Himachal Pradesh, too wants Ojaswini to play the sport at the top level.“It was a blessing that our house was situated near the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority-run Mohali Golf Range when Ojaswini was born. When she was 3.5 years old, she started playing golf and it looked as if she knew the sport beforehand. All credit goes to coach Harmeet and GMADA official Amit Dhaka for promoting and encouraging Ojaswini. Golf is an expensive sport but with their assistance she managed well. We want to shift to the USA in the next two years for her growth,” says Ojaswini’s mother, whose six-year-old son Ojasv also plays alongside her sister.She achieved priority status level 11 in 2019, the highest level in any US kids golf local tour, which made her represent India in category 7 and under in different world’s major tournaments. She has been invited to the Big 5 South Africa Open 2020, Australian Major 2020, European Championship 2020 along with Brazil Invitational World Championship 2020. She has won more than 40 tournaments in 2019 while playing in India’s toughest and most well-designed golf courses.She was ranked number one in her category year 7 and under in 2019 and ranked second in albatross junior golf merit list 2019. She has also secured first position in the official qualifier for Flogas Champion of Champions Ireland 2022.Ojaswini also looks up to India’s ace golfer Shubhankar Sharma whom she met during the Shubhankar Sharma All India Junior Invitational Series 2021 held at Forest Hills six months ago. She secured first position by 12 strokes in category E Girls (age 10 and under) with a score of 1 under par 34 with 4 pars and 3 birdies.“Shubhankar bhaiya encouraged me and also gave me some tips. I follow him. Golf is my life and it was difficult to stay away from the sport due to Covid restrictions,” says Ojaswini, who is a student of Manav Rachna School.Youngest member at Mohali Golf Range, Chandigarh Golf ClubShe is the youngest member at Mohali Golf Range and Chandigarh Golf Club. She also qualified for FCG Callaway World Championship California, representing India in category E, however, the tournament got postponed due to the pandemic.Ojaswini, who is seeking sponsorship, nailed top position at the Indian Golf Union Junior Feeder Tour 2021, held at Golf Club, Panchkula, with scores of 3 under in round 1 with 4 birdies and level par on day 2 with 2 birdies, to make a mark.“She is not only shining at the sport but also working hard on her fitness. Full of confidence, she plays four hours of golf every day. She does meditation and yoga regularly. She knows that mental strength is as important as physical fitness,” adds Harmeet, who praised her for winning in category E girls in the recently conducted opening event of Bogey Sport’s India Middle-East Golf Tour, Road to Abu Dhabi, in Noida.Ojaswini will now take part in this tournament’s next event to take place at the Chandigarh Golf Club from August 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohalibased-8-year-old-golfer-dreams-of-winning-gold-in-olympics-101629661221264.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to digitise annual performance review of its employees||The Delhi government will soon do away with the manual process of annual performance review of its employees and completely digitise the system from this year, said senior government officials on Sunday.Between August 15 and 21, the government issued circulars to its departments, directing them to upload employee databases on a portal by the end of this month in a format that was prescribed by the government’s services department on June 29, said the circular, copies of which HT has seen.“From this year, employees will fill up their performance review forms online and reporting managers will review and forward filed online with the help of a digital infrastructure that has been developed. Directions have been issued to all departments asking them to upload databases with employee details on a portal for which links have been provided to department heads,” said a senior government official.From this year, the Delhi government also made it mandatory for its nearly 400,000 employees to fill in their health details in the review form.The circular mentions that the Delhi government will use the SPARROW -- smart performance appraisal report recording online window -- portal which was developed and implemented across departments by the central government in 2019.It further mentions about a series of meetings starting January 11 in which all department heads were briefed about the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-digitise-annual-performance-review-of-its-employees-101629660433497.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Had Godse killed Jinnah instead of Gandhi, partition would’ve been averted: Shiv Sena||In the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to observe August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, the Shiv Sena has questioned what did the people, who are now vouching for undivided India, do when the country was on the verge of the partition. The Sena has also said that the believer of ‘Undivided Hindurashtra’ had admitted to the two-nation theory and run away from the battleground. Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column Rokthok in party mouthpiece Saamana, has said that there would have been no need to observe such a day had Nathuram Godse, who killed Mahatma Gandhi, had trained his gun on Jinnah, the man responsible for creation of Pakistan. “Godse held Gandhi responsible for partition and killed him. Was Jinnah less responsible? Had Godse killed Jinnah, there would have been no need to observe Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in the first place, after 75 years. Jinnah secured Pakistan only on the strength of his typewriter and legal skills. Jinnah’s killing would have averted the creation of Pakistan,” said Raut.Raut has also outlined that partition of India was indeed a horrific event which left wounds on Hindus, however, those who opposed it just laid down their arms like the soldiers in Afghanistan. Raut said those who advocate ‘Akhand Hindustan (Undivided India) and reunification of India and Pakistan were the ones who at the time of independence had accepted the idea of Pakistan and did not fight for it. He quoted Marathi scholar Narhar Kurundkar, who said that these people accepted the Muslim League’s theory of partition and had retreated from the battlefield.Raut said that Jinnah and other Muslim leaders had left the Congress as Mahatma Gandhi refused to accede to their unreasonable demands for Muslims. He said it was Lokmanya Tilak who had accepted the demand for Separate Electorates for the Muslims, which was eventually scrapped by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru after India got freedom.While signing off the article, Raut said if Modi wants to create ‘Akhand Hindustan’, it was a welcome move, but he needs to specify what will be the fate of 110 million Muslims residing in that country.Reacting on the remarks in the column, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ram Kadam said it was an attempt by the Sena to whitewash the deeds of the Congress. “(Sena founder) Balasaheb Thackeray used to bash the Congress for its role in the partition of the country and here we have this Sena defending its role. This shows how they have compromised their ideology to remain in power. Sena should understand that PM Modi’s aim was to remind the present and the future generations that such incidents need to be prevented,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/had-godse-killed-jinnah-instead-of-gandhi-partition-would-ve-been-averted-shiv-sena-101629660501022.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Man booked for defrauding bank of ₹4 lakh using fake cheque in Chandigarh||A man has been booked for allegedly defrauding a bank of ₹4.08 lakh by encashing a fake cheque. The matter came to fore when the man tried to dupe another branch of the bank using the same cheque.As per the police, the bank’s branch in Sector 19 had received a fake cheque in their drop box. Upon checking, it was found that a cheque of the same serial number, account number and amount had been passed on November 13, 2020, at their Sector 9 branch. When the cheque cleared by the Sector-9 branch was examined under the blue and white light, it was found that the logos were fake.Following this, the bank officials lodged a complaint. As per the police, the accused has been identified as Parmod Kumar Singh, but he is yet to be nabbed. He has been booked under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector-3 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-booked-for-defrauding-bank-of-4-lakh-using-fake-cheque-in-chandigarh-101629660379662.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar power official booked for sexual harassment||Police have booked a superintendent engineer (SE) posted with the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) in Yamunanagar district for sexually harassing a woman working as an assistant lineman at his office. The woman told the police that the accused had been posted at the office last month. She said that on July 30, he called her to his office and held her hand without permission. Then, he twice asked her to meet him outside office, but she refused. Then, he called me at his office again and caught hold of my hand and said that the CCTV cameras installed in the room are switched off. In fear, I ran out of office, the victim added. She alleged that the SE is now harassing her by stopping her salary through the contractor, who told her that she did not have relevant documents for the job, even though she had submitted them earlier.A case was registered under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 354-A (sexual harassment and punishment for same) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Yamunanagar Women police station on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yamunanagar-power-official-booked-for-sexual-harassment-101629660262856.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University panel recommends postponing UG entrance test to Sept 19||Panjab University’s (PU) admission facilitation committee has unanimously recommended that the common entrance test for undergraduate courses (PUCET-UG) be postponed from September 5 to September 19, as the varsity will not be able to get examination centres due to UPSC examination scheduled on the same day. This was discussed on Friday during an online meeting of the committee, which has been constituted by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar. The exam was initially scheduled for June, but was postponed to August 14, before it was again deferred to September 5. The recommendations of the panel are subject to the V-C’s approval. During the meeting, it was also observed that the number of candidates who have applied is less than previous year’s record. According to sources, there is a gap of around 1,500 applications in the UG entrance exam, compared to last year’s number.A varsity official said, “We are getting a number of requests to extend the date of the entrance exam.” The panel also recommended reopening the website of PU-CET (UG) from August 23 for registrations. The varsity has already conducted the common entrance exam for postgraduate courses. Last year, the varsity had scrapped the UG and PG entrance exams in view of the pandemic and admissions were conducted on merit basis. But the exams will be held in physical mode this year. Panel recommends postponing of Phd entrance exam The panel has also recommended that the PU-MPhil/PhD entrance exam be postponed from September 19 to October 3. It was initially scheduled for August 22. Regarding admission to PG courses, the panel recommended that the date of filling online admission forms be extended up to August 30. Meanwhile, the Panjab University Tourism and Hospitality Aptitude Test (PUTHA)-2021, is scheduled for August 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-panel-recommends-postponing-ug-entrance-test-to-sept-19-101629660261079.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Mataur police station gets its own building||The Mataur police station, which was operating from a site in Phase 7, has now got its own state-of-the-art building in Sector 71. The new building has been constructed for ₹2.79 crore. Apart from the Mataur SHO, SP (city) will also sit at this building. Earlier, SP City used to sit at the SSP’s office and his office was also there. Manphool Singh, the first SHO posted in the new building, said that residents will benefit from the new building and it is also a huge relief for police personnel. He added that the building also has a separate lock-up for women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mataur-police-station-gets-its-own-building-101629660259419.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Deadlines lifted, eateries hope for swift return to normal in Delhi||With a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order lifting timing restrictions on the operations of restaurants, malls, and other establishments, thousands associated with the sector said they hope business will now return to normal and help recover losses.Starting from Tuesday, restaurants and bars in the city will no longer need to wrap up operations by 10pm, a deadline that adversely restricted activity and operations during a crucial window of the day.The state imposed a complete lockdown in the Capital from April 19 amid an intense rise in Covid-19 cases. As infections started declining, the government began implementing a phased relaxation process from May 31. Markets were allowed to open everyday from June 14 but with restricted working hours till 8pm. Meanwhile, restaurants were allowed to open till 10pm.Restaurateurs said that restrictions on business in the evening reduced dinner sales and were hampering recovery.“We welcome and applaud the relaxation of rules by the Delhi government in terms of operational hours. It is an extremely encouraging move for the F&B [food and beverage] industry, which will help us to recover and revive our business slowly but surely. A lot of our dinner guests, at both SOCIAL and Smoke House Deli, have been wanting to stay past 10pm and extend their night, and being operational for longer will allow us to do just that. It also gives us room to cater to our guests comfortably without overcrowding at any point in time,” said Satyajit Dhingra, chief regional officer (north), Impresario Handmade Restaurants.Ahead of the festive season, a return to normal business timings is expected to benefit restaurants looking to cover losses.“Our strict safety and hygiene protocols remain in play, with 50% capacity and adequate social distancing at all our restaurants,” Dhingra added.Saurabh Suman, manager of Pebble Street in New Friends Colony (NFC), said restricted timings discouraged guests from visiting the outlet for dinner, a crucial driver of daily sales.“Guests were not comfortable due to the early wrap-up deadline. People usually arrive for dinner by 7.30-8.30pm. By then, we already need to start preparing for the closure. Due to these limitations, people stopped planning dinner outings.”Welcoming the move, SN Kaushal, senior manager of Kwality restaurant at Connaught Place, said, “It doesn’t look good when someone is out for dinner and we have to constantly remind them to wrap up early. Some guests would also complain about the same. Now, we will be able to serve our guests as before,” said Kaushal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deadlines-lifted-eateries-hope-for-swift-return-to-normal-in-delhi-101629660126004.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||2 arrested for threatening Mumbai developer||The anti-extortion cell (AEC) of crime branch arrested two people after a private developer received threats on multiple occasions. The accused have been identified as Anant Shetty, 47, and Hemant Banker, 71. The police said the complainant had met Banker through a common friend in 2018 and had helped them in business. The complainant alleged that a few months later, Banker’s son and his wife withdrew ₹35 crore from his account in Dubai by submitting his fake documents and signature. A case has been registered in the matter in Dubai against Banker’s son and wife, who are reportedly in the United Kingdom (UK), said a crime branch officer. When the complainant started asking his money back from Banker, the accused stopped receiving his phone calls. The complainant further alleged that a man, who identified himself as gangster Vijay Shetty, had called him on July 16, 2019. He allegedly threatened the complainant against taking any legal action on Banker, added the officer. “The complainant alleged that between July and August 2019, he had received multiple threat calls from Vijay Shetty. Banker also called the complainant and told him that he required more time to return his money,” the remand application of the accused stated. The complainant approached the police, where a case was registered. “During investigation, we learnt that Banker had allegedly asked Anant Shetty, who knew the gangster, to threaten the complainant, said the officer. The police then arrested Anant Shetty on August 19, while Banker was held two days later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-arrested-for-threatening-mumbai-developer-101629660141579.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: After Kirit Somaiya’s plaint, Shiv Sena’s Milind Narvekar razes part of his bungalow||After Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Kirit Somaiya complained of illegal construction at Dapoli seashore, Ratangiri, to the Union environment ministry, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close confidant and Shiv Sena secretary Milind Narvekar has demolished the structure on Sunday. The ground-plus-two-storey structure was being constructed by Narvekar allegedly without taking permissions related to coastal regulation zone (CRZ) despite the land in Murud village in Dapoli – a popular holiday destination – falling within the restricted area. It is located on a plot spanning around 1.80 acres, which was purchased by Narvekar. Narvekar was not available for comment despite several attempts, while Shiv Sena leaders refused to comment on the issue. Narvekar has been an influential figure both in the party and government. The action is considered as a blow to the party, especially when the relations between Sena and BJP have strained to a great extent. After Somaiya’s complaint, a team of officials from the ministry had visited the site about a month ago. The team reportedly directed the state authorities to take action. The state authorities are said to have warned the Sena leader of action against the illegal construction. To avoid any further embarrassment, Narvekar himself demolished the illegal structure. “I am not aware of it [demolition]. I will have to seek the information from local level officials,” said BN Patil, district collector, Ratnagiri. According to the officials from Dapoli tehsil office, Narvekar has removed the extra construction which had no permission. “The structure was on 2,500 sq ft of which 940 sq ft had permission. Remaining area has been demolished on Sunday morning. There was no intimation given to the local authorities,” the official said. Somaiya said he would be visiting the bungalow site and will demand a criminal action against Narvekar. “After my complaint to the environment ministry, a central team had visited the site of illegal construction a month ago. Narvekar failed to submit proof to corroborate his claim of having taken all the permissions. The central team had directed the state government, district collector and state environment authorities for action. The authorities had warned the Sena leader of action, after which he removed a portion of the bungalow and claimed that the illegal structure was demolished. I visited the site last week and exposed his lie, after which state authorities woke up. To avoid further embarrassment, Narvekar himself demolished the construction,” he said. Somaiya said that though the structure has been demolished, it is a serious violation of the CRZ norms and attract penal action. “I will visit the bungalow site on Monday to ensure that the structure has been fully demolished. I will also meet the local administration and demand that an FIR (first information report) be filed for the illegal construction. The hearing against the illegal construction by another Sena leader and state transport minister Anil Parab is in its last leg at the National Green Tribunal, after which action will also be taken against his structure too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtraafter-kirit-somaiya-s-plaint-shiv-sena-s-milind-narvekar-razes-part-of-his-bungalow-101629659900733.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 41 fresh cases||Punjab reported 41 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the total tally to 6,00,266, according to a medical bulletin. However, no Covid-related death was reported in the state. Of the fresh cases, Amritsar reported the maximum of seven cases followed by five in Ferozepur and four each in Ludhiana and Sangrur. No new cases were reported in Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur, Moga, Rupnagar and Tarn Taran. The number of active cases is also down to 488.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-41-fresh-cases-101629659899521.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Jeweller killed near Mumbai: 10 police teams on lookout to nab killers||Ten police teams are on the lookout across the nearby cities and states for the two killers of a Nallasopara jeweller who was murdered in his shop on Saturday morning. The victim – Kishore Jain, 45 – had not employed any staffers. On Saturday, he came to the shop at 10.40am. The CCTV of the shop has captured two men, wearing caps and masks, entering the shop. They headed to the strong room. The police said the duo tied Jain, gagged him and then slit his neck and stabbed him on stomach when he did not give them the keys of the safes. They were then seen walking towards Nallasopara station in CCTV. “Some silver jewellery is missing. The killers couldn’t open the two safes where gold was kept,” said senior inspector Vilas Supe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jeweller-killed-near-mumbai-10-police-teams-on-lookout-to-nab-killers-101629659839493.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||‘Intense spells of rain harming Delhi's ecology’||Up until the evening of August 20, Delhi stood at a 60% monthly rainfall deficit. On August 22, the city’s rainfall recordings showed a surplus of 11%, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data.This leap was a result of intense rainfall the national capital received largely within a span of six hours on Saturday. Scientists and weather experts said that such short, intense spells may appear to be a positive indication, but they are not doing any good to the city’s ecology.IMD recordings showed that as on Sunday afternoon, the Safdarjung weather station, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a monthly rainfall surplus of 11% and Lodi Road station recorded a surplus of 5%. The Palam observatory still stands at a deficit of 19%.On Sunday, only the weather station at Ridge received “trace rainfall” – light rain that is not enough to be recorded.While the rain recorded till Friday was 63.7mm, it rose to 211.2mm by August 22, as against the normal 190.2mm by this time of the month. With no rain on Sunday, the jump of 138.8mm was the highest single-day rainfall to be recorded in August over the last 14 years and the ninth highest since 1961, IMD records showed.IMD records show that previously, Delhi received such a heavy 24-hour spell in this month on August 2, 2007, when the city got 166.6mm rainfall. The highest-ever single-day rainfall recorded during this month is on August 2, 1961 (184mm).IMD’s forecast says that light rain is likely to continue in the city for the next few days, but from August 25, Delhi could see another dry spell.Met officials also said that Delhi this year is likely to see a “near normal to surplus” monsoon season.Met officials said that the majority of Saturday’s rain (138.8mm) was concentrated between a six-hour window of 2.30am and 8.30am.“If you look at the actual number of rainy days in August this time, there have only been four. From August 9, north-west India entered into a break monsoon phase and even before that, the month had a slow start to rain. The interesting bit is that from Tuesday, there is another dry spell in the forecast. So, essentially, the surplus that Delhi has recorded this month is a result of a single day’s rainfall,” a senior IMD official said.Experts said that such short, intense spells, which Delhi has been observing over the last decade, are not conducive for the city’s ecology.An analysis carried out by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) last year showed that this trend of short, but intense rain spells is making usable water scarce in Delhi. The analysis showed that between August 13 and August 19, 2020, the city’s rainfall produced enough wastewater to meet nearly 13% of the daily water demand.In this period, Delhi received nearly 118.4mm of rainfall —143% more than the average. Such a heavy spell can produce around 87,000 million litres of water, the analysis showed. Apart from usable water going to waste, episodes of urban flooding and flash floods are also increasing because of this trend.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at the Skymet Weather Services, said: “We can explain the scenario with a small example; if we are thirsty we will benefit from drinking water at regular intervals. What happens if someone forcefully pours it down your throat? Your body’s natural reaction will be to spit out the excess. That is what is happening with nature too. Because these rains are excess, in short durations, they are not helping the ground water recharge. Water is just flooding into the city and going down the drain.”The Minto Bridge, which is an annual pain point for the Capital, was finally flooded on Saturday despite the authorities putting in place a new drainage mechanism there which had kept it dry during the rains over the past couple of months. Authorities barricaded the road below the bridge, where a man drowned last year.“The whole concept of modern day city planning is to adapt to an area’s natural circumstances. If rains are getting more intense and if population is increasing, then the infrastructure and it’s management will also have to adapt to it. We need a dedicated monsoon plan for the city, which addresses all aspects of the city – drainage, traffic, manpower management etc.,” said Sewa Ram from School of Planning and Architecture||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/intense-spells-of-rain-harming-delhi-s-ecology-101629659758570.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: How to plan for an early retirement||Planning retirement early is an art that wholly depends on how well you plan your finances to ensure fiscal independence. However, mere savings may not be enough given the rising inflation and expenses associated with a retired life bereft of any regular income. If you want to retire early, here are some thumb rules. Assess your expenses How much money you will need every month once you retire is more important than how much you spend now. Start with essential expenses on food, rent, clothing, transportation, insurance premiums and money needed for other utilities. Do not ignore loans that you may have taken, check your credit card debt and work towards paying off all your bills, debts, and loans. It is essential to plan for a debt-free retirement, which means no accumulation of bad debts or saving enough to repay off the long-term loans even after you retire. Also, a lot depends on how early you wish to retire. If you will still have dependent children after you retire, you must allocate a sum of money to pay towards premiums in life insurance policies and continuing health insurance plans. Money requirement Now that you have budgeted your post-retirement expenses, focus on how much money you would need to retire. There are no fixed ways to evaluate this though the thumb rule is to set aside at least 25-30 times your budgeted yearly expenses on retirement along with enough cash to cover at least a year’s worth of expenses. Estimating your needs when you’re 40 or 50 years would require you to find out how inflation affects daily living costs. For example, your monthly expenses are ₹20,000 at present that translate to ₹2,40,000 every year. Dividing ₹2,40,000 by four per cent equals to ₹60,00,000 per annum. This means that you would need ₹60, 00,000 every year after you have retired. Save and invest regularly Financial planning is futile without timely action. You must start saving early to ensure enough funds when you retire. However, saving alone will not help and, hence, you must choose from among the different investment options -- shares, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, sovereign gold bonds, crypto currencies, real estate, fixed deposits, recurring deposit accounts, post office schemes, corporate bonds -- available to allocate your money in a way that yields you enough funds when required. The idea is to see your money grow. Active management of investments Investing money and then forgetting it is a deadly financial sin. Track your investments and check if your portfolio is diversified enough. For example, you can put your money in high-performing equity mutual funds or stocks if you are willing to take risks and wish to accumulate a large corpus after 15-20 years. However, if you are a conservative investor and cannot handle the turbulent nature of the stock movement, approach debt funds that earn higher returns than bank deposits sans the risk of losing your investments. The real estate market is expected to boom with the market now opening to new business and employment opportunities post the Covid-19 pandemic. With home loan rates at an all-time low, it would make sense to invest in property now to sell it at a higher price later. To save on the money spent on payment of medical bills and expenses associated with both pre-and post-hospitalisation, you must buy proper health insurance that will take care of your treatment expenditure. Last, but not least, never underestimate the importance of a term insurance plan, which would ensure financial security for your dependents after your death. Choose a term cover amount after considering your nominees’ financial needs and your debts, if any. This is especially true if you have taken a loan that must then be taken care of by your nominees. Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-how-to-plan-for-an-early-retirement-101629659719393.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Festival dip? Just over 2,500 get jabs in national capital||Just over 2,500 people were administered doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the national capital on Sunday, a usual weekend dip that, coupled with Rakshabandhan festivities, led to daily inoculations dropping to their lowest in over a month, according to data from the CoWin dashboard.On Saturday, over 92,300 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Delhi, of whom 64,931 received their first dose, according to official data.The vaccination bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday said over 12.3 million doses have been administered in Delhi since the inoculation exercise started on January 16.So far, 3.4 million people have received both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine, it said.According to the Delhi government’s data, the city had over five lakh vaccine doses — over 200,000 Covaxin and 299,000 Covishield — left as on Sunday morning.The bulletin said the stock can last up to four days.Health department officials had recently told the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) it will take another year to fully vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries aged above 18 against coronavirus at “the present rate of vaccine supply”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/festival-dip-just-over-2-500-get-jabs-in-national-capital-101629659545855.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Eknath Shinde: Narayan Rane is trying to create confusion within MVA||Senior Shiv Sena leader and state urban development department minister Ekanth Shinde has said that Union minister Narayan Rane’s remarks were baseless and he was trying to create confusion with Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government (MVA). During the Jan Ashirwad Yatra on Saturday, Rane had said that Shinde was fed up with the Shiv Sena as he has no freedom in taking decisions. “Shinde is fed up with the Sena as he has to ask Matroshee (chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s residence) before signing any file. He is in trouble in the Sena. If he approaches us [Bharatiya Janata Party], we will induct him in our party,” the Union minister said. On Sunday, Shinde said that he has full freedom in his department and there was no interference from the CM or any Sena leader. “I am happy in my party. Whatever Rane said was in an attempt to create confusion within MVA government. BJP leaders have been doing it since beginning of the formation of MVA government. I have full freedom in the government. CM Uddhavji Thackeray has final word in any department as is the case in any government,” Shinde said at Gadchiroli. He also said MVA government was doing a good job and that he has been taking decisions related to his department independently. “Be it the decision related to the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Expressway or the Unified Development Control Rules, my department has been working independently. Rane, who has been a Maharashtra CM, would know the hierarchy in decision-making and as a Union minister. He, too, would be answerable to the Prime Minister while taking any policy decision,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eknath-shinde-narayan-rane-is-trying-to-create-confusion-within-mva-101629659602655.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||10 Punjab schools renamed after Olympic medallist hockey players||School education and public works minister Vijay Inder Singla on Sunday said the state government has named 10 schools after Olympic medal winner hockey players. Singla said chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh gave the approval to rename schools after 11 players of the Indian hockey team that won bronze medal at Tokyo Olympics 2020. Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS) Mithapur, Jalandhar, has been named after hockey team captain Manpreet Singh, he said, adding that the school will now be known as Olympian Manpreet Singh Government Senior Secondary School, Mithapur. Singla said the GSSS, Timmowal, in Amritsar has been named after vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh. The Government Primary School, Mithapur, Jalandhar has been named as Olympian Mandeep Singh, he said.The other schools renamed include GSSS Attari, Amritsar, which will now be known as Olympian Shamsher Singh Government Senior Secondary School, Attari, after the name of the midfielder. The minister said the Government Middle School, (Basic Girls), Faridkot, has been named as Rupinderpal Singh Government Middle School.The Government Middle School, Khusropur, Jalandhar, has been named after Olympian Hardik Singh while Government Primary School Khalaihara, Amritsar, has been named as Olympian Gurjant Singh. The Government High School, Chahal Kalan, Gurdaspur has been named as Olympian Simranjit Singh Government High School Chahal Kalan, Gurdaspur.Singla, who is also holds the charge of the PWD, said apart from this, roads connecting to the residence, village or area of the respective medal winner player will also be named after him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-punjab-schools-renamed-after-olympic-medallist-hockey-players-101629659599283.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister: Proposal for welfare of orphaned kids pending, deputy CM not cooperating||Congress has once again complained of the secondary treatment in Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Senior party leader and women and child development (WCD) minister Yashomati Thakur has trained gun at deputy chief minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar for not releasing funds for the schemes related to her department and echoed the dissident voice raised earlier by her other cabinet colleagues. Thakur said that a proposal to increase the grant given to the orphaned and the children who have lost either of their parents is pending with the finance department for months. She said that the deputy chief and finance minister Ajit Pawar was not cooperating with her the way he should. She raised the issue during a public meeting in Akola, in the presence of the revenue minister and Congress’s legislative party leader Balasaheb Thorat. “The grant given for the upbringing of the children who have lost one or both parents have been recently increased to ₹1,125 from ₹450. We wish to further increase it to ₹2,500. The proposal is pending with the chief minister and deputy chief minister. The deputy chief minister has not been cooperating with us the way he should have,” Thakur said. She also requested Thorat to look into it. Under the scheme, 17,845 children who have lost both or either of their parents get ₹1,125 a month for their upbringing. The grant is given to the family or relatives who take care of these children. Another 15,000 such children have been added to the category amid the Covid-19 pandemic due to the deaths of their parents. According to the officials from WCD, the proposal is to increase the amount further by ₹2,500 for the better maintenance of these children. “It has been moved almost two months ago, after which a couple of meetings were held. The finance department is not positive about the proposal as the annual burden is expected to go up to ₹40 crore from around ₹20 crore. The finance department has asked for the information from all other departments on similar schemes to avoid duplicity,” the official said. This is not the first time that any Congress minister has spoken about the secondary treatment by the three-party government. Senior Congress leaders and ministers like Thorat, Ashok Chavan, Vijay Wadettiwar had expressed their discontent openly over the release of funds to the local bodies the party control. Chavan had said last year the municipal councils and district council under them did not get development funds. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole had last month in Lonavala attacked Ajit Pawar for undermining Congress leaders in Pune. He had later retracted his statement. NCP Member of Parliament Supriya Sule said that there is nothing to read anything into it. “There no other meaning to what Yashomatitai has said. The finance department had released ₹5 lakh for the Balsangopan scheme in the past. The MVA government is sensitive about the issues related to children. I am sure the demand will soon be complied with,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-minister-proposal-for-welfare-of-orphaned-kids-pending-deputy-cm-not-cooperating-101629659479353.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Capt slams Sidhu’s advisers over remarks on Kashmir, Pak||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday took strong exception to the recent statements of two of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s advisers on sensitive national issues like Kashmir and Pakistan, warning them against “atrocious and ill-conceived” comments that were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the state and the country. The CM urged Sidhu’s advisers to stick to giving advice to the PPCC president and not speak on matters of which they clearly had little or no knowledge, and had no understanding of the implications of their comments. He was reacting to reported remarks of Dr Pyare Lal Garg questioning his (Captain Amarinder’s) criticism of Pakistan, as well as the earlier controversial statement of Malwinder Singh Mali on Kashmir. Both of them were recently appointed by Sidhu as his advisers. Amarinder expressed shock at the extraordinary statements of Mali and Garg, which, he said, were totally misplaced and antagonistic to the stated position of India and the Congress on Pakistan and Kashmir. He urged the Punjab Congress president to rein in his advisers before they end up doing more damage to India’s interests. “Kashmir was and is an inalienable part of India,” he said, adding that with his proclamation to the contrary, Mali had effectively and inexplicably toed Islamabad’s line. “This is totally anti-national,” he said, also slamming Mali for failing to withdraw his statement despite the widespread condemnation it had evoked not only from other parties but also from within the Congress. Ridiculing Garg’s statement that criticism of Pakistan by him (Amarinder) was not in the interest of Punjab, the CM said he was clearly disconnected from the ground reality. “The fact, which every Punjabi and in fact every Indian knows, is that Pakistan’s threat to us is real. Every day, the neighbouring country is pushing weapons and drugs into Punjab via drones in a brazen attempt to destabilise our state, and our nation. Punjabi soldiers are dying at the borders at the hands of Pak-backed forces,” he added. The CM said Garg might have forgotten the thousands of Punjabi lives lost in the fire of Pak-backed terrorism of the 1980s and 1990s, but he had not, nor have the people of Punjab. “And we will continue to do everything in our power to fight off Pakistan’s dangerous games,” asserted Amarinder, urging Garg not to undermine the sacrifices of Punjabis with his irresponsible and patently politically motivated statements.Veteran Cong leader takes up matter with Sonia Congress leader and veteran trade unionist MM Singh Cheema has taken up PPCC chief’s adviser Malvinder Singh Mali’s recent media utterances with AICC president Sonia Gandhi, stating that these seriously compromised the party’s stand.Cheema said he had lodged a strong protest against the appointment of these “so-called” advisers to PPCC president while knowing their past stands on critical issues. These successive appointments without wider consultation and approval of the Central leadership were bound to create an avoidable mess, he said in a statement. The Congress leader said that Punjab had faced a major brunt during the height of militancy and people with overnight elevation may not understand the pain of traditional Congressmen on nationalist issues. “There are certain norms and precedents which need to be respected by every responsible Congressman and just escapist silence on certain issues is not at all welcomed, it is high time to set the record straight and all these appointments made in last 30 days be dispensed with to start afresh,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-slams-sidhu-s-advisers-over-remarks-on-kashmir-pak-101629659419174.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 4,141 fresh Covid-19 cases; one death in Mumbai||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 4,141 Covid-19 new cases and 145 deaths, taking the tally to 6,424,651 and toll to 135,962. Mumbai’s tally reached 741,164 and toll 15,947 with the addition of 294 infections and one death — the city’s lowest one-day toll since March 2020, when the pandemic broke out.There were 167,881 tests done on Sunday, while the number of recoveries clocked 4,780. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 53,182, of which Pune tops with 12,069, followed by Thane with 6,980 and Satara with 6,974. In terms of fatalities, Pune saw the most with 18,853 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,947 and Thane with 11,237.A total of 53,007,364 vaccines doses have been administered in the state till Saturday. A total of 14,037,839 citizens have been fully vaccinated.Dr Ramaswami N, commissioner, family welfare, and director, National Health Mission, said that vaccine allocation is a dynamic process and given according to the needs of a region. “There is a set formula where various factors like positivity rates as well as performance as well as backlog is taken into consideration and the vaccines are allotted,” said Ramaswami.Ramaswami denied any discrimination or bias in the entire process. “In cities like Mumbai and Pune, the private sector is very active and they contribute to this number,” he added.Dr Gilada, secretary general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said that state needs to adopt a smart policy with regards to vaccination. “Since there is shortage of vaccines, first the vulnerable section should be targeted. If the people in backward regions are resisting, then efforts must be made to encourage them. It should be a holistic approach as there is lot of intra-state movement,” said Gilada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-4-141-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-mumbai-101629659244006.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Sikhs taking refuge at Kabul gurdwara angry at two MPs for ‘leaving them behind’||Sikhs taking a refuge at Gurdwara Singh Sabha Karte Parwan at Kabul are enraged over their leaders, Anarkali Kaur Honaryar and Narender Pal Singh, who are MPs in Afghanistan, for leaving them behind overnight to fly to India.Both the MPs were among the 24 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus who were safely airlifted along with other Indian nationals by the Indian Air Force (IAF) from Hamid Karzai International Airport, Kabul, on Sunday morning. Other Afghan Sikhs evacuated are said to be relatives and close associates of both the parliamentarians. While 24 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus have been evacuated, around 260 Sikhs and Hindus are still waiting to be airlifted. “They (MPs) have solved their purpose, but they did not take care of us. They should have ensured evacuation of other community members first,” said a Sikh, who was part of the group that was not allowed by Taliban to board the evacuation flight of India on Friday and Saturday.Another Sikh said: “The way the MPs have left the country was not fair and the sangat is not happy with them.” However, some other members of the minority communities are hoping that they will also be evacuated soon. “We have been told by Gurdwara Karta-E-Parwan president Gurnam Singh that he is in contact with some officials and representatives of international organisations and we will also be evacuated soon,” said another Sikh.“We convinced them to let us save their lives first. Very painful to leave behind your legacy, business and become a refugee,” said Vikramjit Singh Sahney, philanthropist and World Punjabi Organisation (WPO) president, as 168 Afghanistan evacuees reach India.Meanwhile, United Sikhs, the Supreme Sikh Society of New Zealand and the Gurdwara Guru Nanak Darbar (GGND), London, UK, wrote to the New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Kate Laurell Ardern urging her to resettle Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, who are fleeing the country.“We have chosen to write to you because of your reputation and track record for swinging into action where only eagles dare, an attribute admired by all,” was stated in the letter, signed by Mejindarpal Kaur, international legal director of the United Sikhs, Jaswinder Singh Nagra, president of the SSSNZ and Davinder Singh, trustee of GGND.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikhs-taking-refuge-at-kabul-gurdwara-angry-at-two-mps-for-leaving-them-behind-101629659239215.html
23-08-2021||Noida||Stopped from drinking in car, three thrash traffic constable in Greater Noida||A 33-year-old traffic police constable was allegedly beaten up by three persons when he stopped them from consuming liquor in a car. The incident took place on Saturday evening in Greater Noida West, police said, adding that a case was registered against unknown persons at Bisrakh police station.The constable, Sushil Kumar, said that he was managing traffic near Chipiyana village when the three men reached there in a Maruti Suzuki Alto. “There was traffic on the road due to the festive season. The suspects stopped the car in the middle of the road, affecting movement of the traffic,” he said.Kumar said he reached the spot and found one of them talking over phone. “The other two persons were consuming liquor in the car. When I objected, the suspects got down from the car and beat him up,” he said. The constable said in the melee, his uniform was also damaged. Then he informed police and a team from Bisrakh police station reached the spot. However, the suspects managed to escape. Police said that the constable was able to capture a photo of the car’s registration number plate.Anita Chauhan, station house officer of Bisrakh police station, said a case was registered against three unknown persons under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC on Saturday. “We are trying to trace the vehicle through its registration number. The suspects involved in the assault will be arrested soon,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/stopped-from-drinking-in-car-three-thrash-traffic-constable-in-greater-noida-101629659058669.html
23-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar health department to administer 12,150 vaccine doses on Monday||The Gautam Budh Nagar health department on Sunday said that it has decided to accelerate the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the district that has been facing shortage of vaccine for the past few weeks. Officials said that a total of 12,150 doses will be administered at 27 government-run Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) on Monday. According to the officials, in the coming seven days (from August 23-28), more than 80,000 doses will be administered at various CVCs across the district.GB Nagar chief medical officer, Dr Sunil Sharma, said that the health department has planned to inoculate more people than last week. “In the last week (August 16-21), we administered 76,124 vaccine doses, which was more than double of 30,526 doses in the earlier week (August 9-14). We hope that the vaccination figures will go up in the coming weeks,” he said. The officials said that the district hospital in Sector 30 and the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida will administer 1,500 doses each on Monday.“Apart from primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs), the vaccination centres will also be stationed at some government schools in the district,” Sharma said. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, said that at present, the district health department is left with around 25,000 doses of vaccines. “With the available stock, we can run the drive for two more days. However, we’ve sent our requisition for vaccines to the state government and will get adequate supply on Monday. After that, we’ll be able to restart the drive in the district at full swing,” he said. It may be noted that during the single-day mega vaccination drive on August 3, there were 200 CVCs in the district. On August 4, the number came down to 42 and after that it reduced to only 16 on August 7. Now, as the supply of vaccines has increased, the number of vaccination centres are also increasing accordingly, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-health-department-to-administer-12-150-vaccine-doses-on-monday-101629659000662.html
23-08-2021||Noida||Noida police launch beat policing system for women personnel||The Gautam Budh Nagar police on Saturday launched the beat policing system for women police personnel as part of third phase of ‘Mission Shakti’ in Greater Noida. The women constables have been allotted beats within their jurisdiction, senior officials said, adding that the move is aimed at improving women’s safety in the district.Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety), GB Nagar, said that the police department has started women beat policing from Jarcha police station area. “The women police personnel have been assigned areas and asked to make a coordination with the local women. They will listen to women’s problems and address them. They will also inform their seniors in cases related to women safety,” she said. Shukla said that the system will strengthen communication between police and people, and women will be able to express themselves more comfortably. The officials said that an event was organised for launching the third phase at Santhali village in Jarcha that was attended by GB Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh and Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar. In beat policing, police personnel are deployed in their respective areas for a specific time period each day to meet residents in that particular area and cultivate sources and strengthen the policing network. The UP government’s ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign focuses on ensuring safety and dignity of women in the state. The first phase of the programme was launched by the state government in October 2020, while the second phase started in March last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-launch-beat-policing-system-for-women-personnel-101629659000172.html
23-08-2021||Noida||Traffic jams continue for second day in Ghaziabad||The woes of commuters in the city continued on Sunday as several major roads like GT Road at Mohan Nagar and a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway near Lal Kuan witnessed long hours of traffic jams due to waterlogging. The situation has prevailed in the city since Saturday morning after heavy rains that continued on Sunday morning. “I had to travel from Karhera to my home at Rajendra Nagar, a distance of about 4km that usually takes 10-15 minutes. But, the long jams created a bottleneck near Mohan Nagar intersection, and it took me more than an hour to reach home,” said Jatin Kumar, a resident of Rajendra Nagar. He said that long jams were also witnessed on GT Road and at the underpass near Sahibabad railway station. Similarly, the Delhi-Meerut Expressway stretch at Lal Kuan, which is witnessing the construction of 16-lane rail over bridge (ROB) near ABES College, witnessed a chaotic traffic situation on Sunday. “I generally travel about 7km to Kavi Nagar from Vijay Nagar. It took me about two hours to cross the ROB and almost an hour when I travelled back home on my motorcycle. The waterlogging and muck on the road created problems for the commuters,” said Pradeep Kumar, a Vijay Nagar resident. Gauging the situation, officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that they temporarily opened up four new lanes of the under construction ROB in order to ease the traffic. “Earlier, there were four lanes. With the four more lanes opened temporarily, the commuters now have four lanes to go to Delhi and four others to reach Ghaziabad,” said an NHAI officer requesting anonymity. Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic), said that all the personnel of the traffic police as well as police post in-charges were helping out in managing the traffic situation. “The traffic jams on Sunday were a result of waterlogging that is getting cleared. The NHAI temporarily opened up new lanes in order to ease traffic situation. Our personnel were deployed at major stretches on Sunday as well to manage the traffic,” he added. The Ghaziabad municipal corporation on Saturday identified 13 heavily waterlogged areas and deployed a team of three officers for each area for round the clock monitoring of the situation. They were tasked to monitor and get cleared the waterlogged areas. Despite repeated attempts, municipal commissioner MS Tanwar could not be contacted on Sunday for his comments. Meanwhile, the NHAI officials said that the six new lanes of the ROB are likely to be opened by August 30 this year. “We have completed the load testing of the new lanes. The six new lanes will be opened up officially by August 30. This will give 10 lanes to commuters and ease up pressure,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traffic-jams-continue-for-second-day-in-ghaziabad-101629658999596.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Afghan Sikh lawmaker breaks down after reaching India, says everything is finished||“All achievements of the last 20 years in Afghanistan have been lost. Nothing is left. It’s zero now,” said Afghan lawmaker Narender Singh Khalsa soon after his arrival along with 167 others at the Hindon airbase on Sunday as part of India’s evacuation mission from Taliban besieged Kabul.Khalsa and senator Anarkali Honaryar as well as their families were among those flown out of Kabul in a C-17 heavy-lift aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Sunday morning.The Sikh lawmaker thanked the Indian government for rescuing him, his family and several other members of his community following the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul and most parts of Afghanistan.“India is our second home. Even if we are Afghans and live in that country, people often call us Hindustanis,” the lawmaker told reporters at the airbase near Delhi.Asked about the current situation in Afghanistan and how he felt about the latest developments in the country, Khalsa, with tears in his eyes, said all the gains of the past 20 years have been undone.“I feel like crying. Everything is finished. It is a very difficult and painful decision to leave the country. We have not seen such a situation. Everything has been snatched away. It’s all over,” he said.The Taliban took control of Kabul and almost all major cities and provinces of Afghanistan 20 years after it was ousted by a US-led military coalition following the 9/11 attacks.Recalling the harrowing experience of the past seven days after the Taliban took control of Kabul, Khalsa said the situation is “very bad” and appealed to the Indian government to rescue the remaining stranded Hindus and Sikhs from the war-torn country.“Situation is very bad. We had to face a lot of difficulties. Thank God for saving our lives as we had to face harrowing times in the last few days. My expectation from the Indian government is that all those who are still stuck are brought back,” he said.“The Taliban used to ask us to remain in Afghanistan saying your security is our responsibility. As there are so many groups of Taliban, we do not know whom to speak to and whom to believe. That’s why we decided to leave as the situation is serious,” he added. Khalsa said almost all Indians and Afghan Sikhs were taking shelter at gurdwaras in Kabul and elsewhere and that some 200 other Indians and Indian-origin people are waiting to be rescued.“The gurdwaras are serving people by providing shelter and food. We are worried about our people who are still staying there,” he said.Asked about the brief detention of Indians and the Afghan Sikhs and Hindus on Saturday by the Taliban when they were on their way to the Kabul airport, he said all of them had to face harrowing experiences.“They separated us from the Indians...In each of the gates at the airport, 5,000-6,000 people were standing. Initially, we could not go inside,” he said. “A person from Taliban harassed us. Then we left the place and came to a gurdwara. Our Indian friends were also harassed. It was difficult to understand who was a good person and who was bad. Then around 8pm, we entered the airport by a VIP entry point,” he added.Khalsa said the temples and gurdwaras in Afghanistan are unharmed and safe so far.India on Sunday brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul.A total of 168 people, including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown from Kabul to Hindon airbase near Delhi in a C-17 heavy-lift military transport aircraft of the IAF. Another group of 87 Indians and two Nepalese nationals were brought back in a special Air India flight from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated to the Tajikistan capital in an IAF aircraft, officials said.Separately, a group of 135 Indians who were earlier evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days by the US and NATO aircraft, were flown back from Doha to Delhi on a special flight, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/afghan-sikh-lawmaker-breaks-down-after-reaching-india-says-everything-is-finished-101629658999152.html
23-08-2021||Other||Gupkar alliance likely to meet in Srinagar tomorrow||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration is likely to meet here on Tuesday to discuss the prevailing situation in Jammu and Kashmir and have wider consultations on the way forward.The PAGD is an alliance of six mainstream political parties seeking the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, which was revoked by the Centre in August 2019.A leader, pleading anonymity, said the meeting will take place at alliance chairman Farooq Abdullah’s residence at Gupkar at around 11am.“This meeting will be a different one from the earlier ones. This time it is not only the top leadership of the constituent parties which has been invited for consultations but the middle rung leadership as well,” he said.The leader said it has been left to the alliance parties to select the party leaders for the meeting. “The participants will be from the length and breadth of the Valley and we expect around 150-200 leaders to take part in the meeting,” he said. The meeting has been called to discuss the prevailing situation in Jammu and Kashmir and “have wider consultations on various issues,” he said.“It (the meeting) will discuss the way forward and it is the first such attempt in Kashmir by the alliance to get a broader perspective on the issues. We wanted to have this kind of consultation before but factors like Covid prevented such a gathering,” the leader added.Meanwhile, the National Conference (NC) on Saturday denounced the jibe taken by the People’s Conference at a meeting of Opposition parties convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi as “unfounded and out of sync with reality”.The People’s Conference said the leaders from Jammu and Kashmir should either get the national Opposition to endorse the demand for restoration of Article 370 so that there is some hope in the future or just keep out of the united platform.CENTRE NOT AFRAID OF MUFTI’S FALSE THREATS: VIJAYVARGIYAINDORE Slamming former J&K CM and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti over her demand to restore Article 370 in the UT, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya on Sunday said the Centre is not afraid of Mufti’s false threats.Vijayvargiya said people of J&K have recognised her real face of Mufti.Vijayvargiya said, “Centre does not care about Mehbooba Mufti’s false threats. Leaders who exploited J&K have been exposed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gupkar-alliance-likely-to-meet-in-srinagar-tomorrow-101629658940043.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: 7 pm at Barakhamba||The evening sky is stained in pale but pellucid pink. Such a gauzy shade materialises only by the chance entwining of the monsoon clouds with the setting sun. Meanwhile, birds are wheeling about in the air. Down under, humans are mechanically going about their business.This 7 pm scene at Barakhamba traffic light in central Delhi’s Connaught Place rivals the sunsets of mountains and seas. The area’s sights-cum-sounds are vividly conveying the poignancies of a worn-out city in sundown. Conveniently for the spectator, the sidewalk besides the traffic light, at the mouth of M Block in Outer Circle, happens to have a small seating facility. It is an idyllic location to immerse in the ambiance of the moment.The theatrical sky above is claimed by two groups of birds—one is circling around the multi-storey Gopaldas Bhawan; the other is circling around the multi-storey Statesman House. Both towers face each other like hostile powers. The two groups of birds too are seeming to confront each other in that same unfriendly spirit, but stage an abrupt retreat, flying back to their respective territories. Only to start the same tension-filled drama again.Meanwhile, quite a few pedestrians are settling down into the sidewalk seats, like a passenger drifting towards an unoccupied chair in an airport lounge. (Oblivious to the world around them, they are staring at their mobile phone screens.)Now a middle-aged man in pants and a full-sleeve shirt stops by the traffic light, probably waiting for it to turn red so that he can cross to N Block. The masked gent is holding a leather laptop bag in one hand and a lunchbox in another. His shoulders are stooped, a belly is loosely popping out of his otherwise gaunt figure. The Statesman Tower stands directly behind him, looking like a genie that has suddenly emerged out of Alladin’s lamp. The traffic light changes. The man walks ahead, his face down. A lively young couple overtakes him in quick steps, they are holding hands.Half an hour later the sky turns black. A beggar occupies a corner of the seating space and starts to eat a half-eaten cake that a passerby gave him moments back. The atmosphere of the place becomes sombre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-7-pm-at-barakhamba-101629658688580.html
23-08-2021||Other||PDP’s Parra moves HC, wants FIR registered by police quashed||Senior PDP leader and close aide of former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra has approached the Jammu and Kashmir high court for quashing of an FIR against him by the J&K Police, citing violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution and similarity of charges also being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).In the petition, Parra’s counsel Shariq Reyaz submitted that his client was investigated for the same offences by the NIA as well as the Counter Intelligence Kashmir (CIK)) wing of J&K Police separately, which is in violation of laid down norms under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).Justice Vinod Chatterji Koul, after hearing arguments on the petition challenging the framing of charges in the police case by a designated court last month, had issued notice to the CIK last week for filing its response within a month.Reyaz drew a table in his petition of the two FIRs and two charge sheets filed by the NIA and the CIK to draw similarities in the offences being investigated by the two probe agencies separately.In his petition, the counsel termed the framing of charges by the designated court in Srinagar on the charge sheet filed by the CIK a “mechanical exercise” and referred to judgments of the Supreme Court “wherein a word of caution has been administered to the trial courts to carefully examine the evidence and after analysing the same frame charge under the rigorous scheme of UAPA”.The counsel also mentioned that the FIR by the CIK is “clearly tainted with the vice of malice in law, having been registered only to attain a collateral purpose of detaining the petitioner (Parra) illegally and unlawfully being in blatant abuse of police power, violating with impunity the constitutional guarantees guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India”.Reyaz submitted before the HC that the “impugned investigation/ prosecution in the present case, if allowed to continue, would not only offend against the mandate of constitutional guarantee guaranteed to the petitioner under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India but is also sure to result into the grave miscarriage of justice”.“Therefore, to prevent the miscarriage of justice from being perpetuated the impugned FIR...as well as the impugned investigation initiated and commenced against the petitioner in pursuance thereto, is liable to be quashed”.Reyaz also challenged the sanction for prosecution, a mandatory requirement under the UAPA, given by the Home Secretary of Jammu and Kashmir, saying under the Reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir Act of 2018, law and order is a subject of the Centre and the officer concerned is not competent to issue any such order. The designated court in July last had framed terror charges against Parra on a police chargesheet claiming that he was an asset for Pakistan-based terror groups and that his 13-year journey as a journalist and politician from 2007 was a “saga of subterfuge, deceit and double-dealing”. The eight-page order stated that “prima facie there is sufficient evidence against the accused for alleged commission of offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pdps-parra-moves-hc-wants-fir-registered-by-police-quashed-101629658820081.html
23-08-2021||Other||Both factions of Hurriyat Conference likely to be banned under UAPA||A ban under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act may be imposed on both factions of the Hurriyat Conference which has been spearheading the separatist movement in Jammu and Kashmir for over two decades, officials said.They said a recent probe into the granting of MBBS seats to Kashmiri students by institutions in Pakistan indicates that the money collected from aspirants by some organisations which were part of the Hurriyat Conference conglomerate was being used for funding terror organisations in the UT.The officials said both the factions of the Hurriyat are likely to be banned under Section 3(1) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or the UAPA, under which “if the central government is of opinion that any association is, or has become, an unlawful association, it may, by notification in the official gazette, declare such association to be unlawful.”They said the proposal was mooted in accordance with the Centre’s policy of zero tolerance against terrorism. The Hurriyat Conference came into existence in 1993 with 26 groups, including some pro-Pakistan and banned outfits such as the Jamaat-e-Islami, JKLF and the Dukhtaran-e-Millat. It also included the People’s Conference and the Awami Action Committee headed by Mirwaiz Umer Farooq. The separatist conglomerate broke into two factions in 2005 with the moderate group being led by the Mirwaiz and the hard-line headed by Syed Ali Shah Geelani. So far, the Centre has banned the Jamaat-e-Islami and the JKLF under the UAPA. The ban was imposed in 2019. The officials said a probe into funding of terror groups indicated alleged involvement of secessionist and separatist leaders, including the members and cadres of the Hurriyat Conference who have been acting in connivance with active militants of proscribed terrorist organisations Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Dukhtaran-e-Millat (DeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The cadres raised funds in the country and from abroad through various illegal channels, including hawala, for funding separatist and terrorist activities in Jammu and Kashmir, they said. The funds collected were used for “causing disruption in Kashmir by way of pelting stones on security forces, systematically burning schools, damaging public property and waging war against India as part of a criminal conspiracy,” they claimed. Supporting the case for banning the two factions of the Hurriyat Conference under the UAPA, the officials cited several cases related to terror funding, including the one being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in which several of the conglomerate’s cadres were arrested and jailed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/both-factions-of-hurriyat-conference-likely-to-be-banned-under-uapa-101629658579082.html
23-08-2021||Gurugram||14-year-old, accompanying father for treatment, raped at Faridabad hospital||A 14-year-old girl, who accompanied her father for his dialysis treatment at a private hospital in Faridabad Sector 16, was allegedly raped by a hospital staffer who reportedly took her to the building’s basement on the pretext of “some urgent work”.Police said the incident happened on Saturday and the suspect, identified as Raj Kishore (24) of Bharat Colony in Faridabad, was arrested within hours. He worked as a housekeeping supervisor in the hospital for the last few months, said police.OP Singh, commissioner of police, said the suspect asked her to follow him “for some urgent work regarding her father’s treatment” while she was returning from the washroom. “He raped her and fled from the spot. The victim narrated her ordeal before her family members who reported to Sector 16 police station. We registered the case under Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act, teams were formed within minutes and medical examination of the victim was conducted,” he said.Police said Geeta, inspector from the women’s police station in Sector 16, also reached the spot along with her team and the crime branch.Singh said the suspect was identified through the CCTV footage with the help of hospital staff. “The teams arrested him within hours based on human intelligence and technical surveillance. He was sent to judicial custody on Sunday,” he said.The police is examining his past records to see if he was involved in any other criminal incidents. They have also recorded the statements of hospital staff and family members.Police said the victim will be given counselling session through the child welfare committee once she is stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14yearold-accompanying-father-for-treatment-raped-at-faridabad-hospital-101629658398662.html
23-08-2021||Other||Gurugram: Police teams search for man who murdered 36-yr-old woman in hotel||Gururgam: Two days after a 36-year-old woman was brutally murdered in Sector 14, Gurugram police on Sunday said they have formed four teams from Sector 14 police station to identify and locate the suspect. Police said crime investigation units are also conducting raids at different locations based on technical and human intelligence. A 36-year-old woman, Imrana, was stabbed to death allegedly by an acquaintance at a hotel in Sector 14 after they had checked into a room on Friday. In a purported video of the incident, which was shared widely on social media, the woman, who sustained 12 stab wounds, is seen chasing the man and later falls down a staircase. The hotel staff said that this is the first time such an incident has happened in the premises.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they have not identified the suspect yet as the Aadhaar card and mobile number given at the reception were found to be fake. “The woman was a regular visitor to the hotel and had asked the suspect to book a room there. It seems the motive of the suspect was to kill her and that is the reason why he attacked her within minutes and fled. In the entire 25 minutes within the hotel and inside the room, the suspect did not remove his face mask,” he said. Imrana’s husband Mohammad Shahid said they have three children. “My relatives and I had come to Agra for cremation. We are also trying to find out the suspect’s identity through the last calls received on her phone,” Shahid said. Sangwan said they are also scanning the call details of the victim. “We are checking CCTV footage from different locations. The auto driver picked up the suspect from Iffco Chowk around 7.45pm. The victim had already boarded the auto but then he switched off her mobile phone while on the way to the hotel,” he said. Police suspect the accused has fled to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugrampolice-teams-search-for-man-who-murdered-36-yr-old-woman-in-hotel-101629658339865.html
23-08-2021||Other||Covid curbs to stay for another week in J&K, Block Diwas events to resume||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has decided to allow the resumption of ‘Block Diwas’ — a day when government officials hear grievances of the public — in all districts even as the Covid-19 containment measures will continue for another week in the UT. The administration is also contemplating staggered re-opening of educational institutions where the staff and students are fully vaccinated. The Covid-19 situation was reviewed in a meeting chaired by chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta on Friday. In an order on Sunday, Mehta said there was a need to continue with the existing Covid containment measures in all the districts in view of the “uneven trend in daily infections”. “The maximum number of people permitted to attend any indoor or outdoor gathering shall be 25,” said Mehta who is also the chairman of the state executive committee (SEC). The order said Block Diwas shall resume in all the districts subject to the ceiling of 25 people only with due compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Necessary modifications in the conduct of the event may accordingly be made by the district magistrates concerned,” the order said. “The night curfew shall continue to remain in force in all the districts from 8pm to 7am,” it said. Jammu and Kashmir administration on July 25 had lifted the weekend curfew from all the districts.The order reiterated that while all the schools, colleges and coaching centres will continue to remain closed for on-site and in-person teaching, the educational institutions are permitted to seek attendance of vaccinated staff for administrative purposes.“The government shall consider phased re-opening of institutions where 100% vaccination of staff and students has been achieved,” the order said. The deputy commissioners have been asked to focus on the positivity rate in their respective medical blocks and intensify management and restriction of activities. “There shall be renewed focus on panchayat-level mapping of cases and effective micro-containment zones shall be constituted wherever unusual spike of cases is noticed,” it said.The officials have been asked to also focus on second dose vaccination. “Intensive vaccination drives shall be taken up in all districts to ensure timely second dose, besides covering vulnerable groups for first dose,” the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-curbs-to-stay-for-another-week-in-j-k-block-diwas-events-to-resume-101629658282515.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Tunnel projects near Mumbai’s SGNP made U-turn on green nod?||Two key infrastructure projects – the twin-tunnel link roads between Goregaon-Mulund and Thane-Borivli – which will pass under the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), are expected to begin construction within the next year. Both the projects have been exempted from carrying out a precautionary environmental impact assessment (EIA) study.Publicly available documents, however, show that this was not the case initially. Both the projects had separately applied to the Union environment ministry in 2017, seeking environment clearance (EC) for ‘Category-A’ projects. Unlike Category-B projects, these require mandatory public hearings, an EIA report and scrutiny by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change’s (MoEFCC) expert appraisal committee (EAC).The projects, which are being executed by two different authorities, were subsequently delisted or rejected by MoEFCC on identical grounds: that the roads are not state or national highways, and hence do not require ECs.This move is within the ambit of the law, as road building as an activity is not covered under EIA Notification, 2006. But given the unique nature of these projects – the first ones wherein tunnels are being proposed under a protected area anywhere in the country – experts and environmentalists have been insisting on applicability of environmental clearances, in addition to clearance by the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL). Goregaon-Mulund Link Road (GMLR)The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had first applied to MoEFCC, seeking EC for GMLR project on June 29, 2017. The twin tunnels will pass through SGNP for a length of 4.7km and will occupy about 21 hectares of subterranean area under the national park. They are expected to reduce travel time between the eastern and western suburbs by an hour.In September2017, BMC had complied with certain conditions laid down by EAC and submitted additional details as part of this regulatory process. The Terms of Reference (ToR) were obtained in January 2018. It was only in April 2018 that the matter was delisted by the Union environment ministry, essentially exempting it from EC and thus an EIA as well.Documents show that this was done at BMC’s behest. In the minutes of their 187th meeting – held on April 12, 2018 – EAC noted, “As the proponent did not provide correct information at the time of submission of online application, the ministry considered the proposal and issued ToR. However, now the proponent has informed that the said project does not require prior EC because it is only a development plan road of BMC and does not even form part of any expressway or state/national highway.”The exemption has also allowed BMC to skip certain essential conditions and studies which had otherwise been imposed by MoEFCC. These include a public hearing, a cumulative impact assessment of all the projects being planned within, around and through SGNP and a separate study on the project’s impact on Tulsi and Vihar lakes, which are about a kilometre away from the tunnels’ proposed alignment.“By allowing this project to be positioned as a development road, the ministry has in turn allowed BMC to bypass essential safeguards. The tunnels are still within the boundary of a protected area, and so should mandatorily be treated as a Category-A project. This is not just a development road, but a fairly sophisticated infrastructure project that will pollute and disturb one of the city’s last remaining silent zones. It is a situation unique to Mumbai because no other city is planning to disturb the protected areas for the sake of private car owners,” said Stalin D, director of non-governmental organisation (NGO) Vanashakti.An official with BMC’s bridges department, seeking anonymity of name, pointed out that the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) has been appointed to conduct a three-year study of the project’s impact at the instruction of NBWL, and that possible impact on the aquifers of Tulsi and Vihar lakes have been duly considered. “The only alternative to tunnels is an above ground road, and that would be more damaging to SGNP. Any disturbance is temporary, and does not warrant an EIA in case of GMLR,” the official said.Borivli-Thane Link RoadA similar sequence of events can be observed in the case of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (MMRDA) Borivli-Thane twin-tunnels’ project, which is around 8kms in length and runs parallel to GMLR, toward the northern end of SGNP.The project had sought EC from MoEFCC in November 2017, when it was being executed by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). At the time, MoEFCC pointed out: “As per the information furnished by you the present proposal is not national highway / expressway or state highway. Hence, the present proposal is not admissible under EIA Notification, 2006.”In response, MRDSC insisted that the project should be considered under the same. “The applicability of environmental clearance is justified as the project alignment is passing through SGNP and traverses 153m away from Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary and 900m away from the boundary of Karnala bird sanctuary and also falls within the protected radius of Matheran eco-sensitive zone.”In this case, it was the Union ministry which declined to accept this justification, and ToR for the project was never eventually granted. In September 2018, MSRDC swapped the project with MMRDA and instead took over the construction of the Virar-Alibag multi-modal corridor (which will also pass through SGNP).An MSRDC executive engineer, seeking anonymity of name, said, “We applied for EC because the project is situated in an ecologically fragile zone and there is bound to be some disturbance to wildlife because of the tunnelling and vibrations. This was not accepted by the ministry, and so the project fell outside the scope of EC.”A forest department official, who has previously served in a senior position at SGNP, not wishing to be identified, said, “Like the way BNHS is doing a survey around GMLR, the Wildlife Institute of India is being considered for a similar study along the Borivli-Thane tunnel.Cumulative impact study requiredEnvironmentalists and citizens have argued that instead of piecemeal clearances, authorities need to assess the cumulative impact of both the link roads on the larger ecology of SGNP, as had been recommended by MoEFCC in case of GMLR.They pointed out that the Virar-Alibag multi-modal corridor and the Delhi-Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) dedicated freight corridor will also pass through the national park, and while ECs for those have been granted separately, there has been no attempt from the state government to find out what the combined effects of these developments will be.“It is not enough to just look at each project and appraise it in isolation. What is their combined zone of influence? What risks do they pose in relation to one another? An independent body needs to assess all this before construction work is allowed. It is bizarre that both the link road projects applied for EC, but neither process led to an EIA. It calls into question the role of the Union ministry, which has allowed this to happen,” said Stalin D. Despite repeated attempts, G Mallikarjuna, chief conservator of forests, SGNP, did not respond to calls and messages, seeking comment for this story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tunnel-projects-near-mumbai-s-sgnp-made-u-turn-on-green-nod-101629658279201.html
23-08-2021||Other||6 more Covid deaths in HP||With 114 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday, Himachal’s total case tally rose to 2,11,746 while the death toll mounted to 3,553 after six patients succumbed to the conagion.Of the new cases, 31 were reported in Shimla, 24 in Mandi, 22 in Chamba, 12 in Solan, 11 in Kangra, eight in Hamirpur, three in Una, and one each in Bilaspur, Kullu and Sirmaur.The active came down to 2,074 while recoveries reached 2,06,094 after 310 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 46,334, followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,312 and 26,635 cases, respectively.Solan’s case tally reached 22,519 cases, Sirmaur 15,419, Hamirpur 15,071, Una 13,512, Bilaspur 13,291, Chamba 13,286, Kullu 9,406, Kinnaur 3,371 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,855.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-more-covid-deaths-in-hp-101629658160365.html
23-08-2021||Other||Haryana PCB project to measure noise levels in Gurugram, Faridabad||Gurugram: In a first, the state pollution control board will start monitoring noise pollution levels in Gurugram and Faridabad districts before mid-September, said officials on Sunday, adding that the objective is to bring the issue to the forefront, along with other problems like air and water pollution.S Narayanan, member secretary of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said, “We all know about noise pollution as a concept, it has always been a neglected area. In today’s time, the importance of measuring noise pollution is increasing by the day. We have now decided to start monitoring noise pollution in Gurugram, followed by Faridabad, and then other districts.”The official further said that with the data, they will generate awareness about noise pollution among citizens and the impact it has. According to HSPCB officials, noise pollution measuring devices will be installed at five locations in the district, mostly in areas with heavy traffic movement or footfall. The agency is yet to identify the locations.After studying the data, officials said, the pollution control board, with the help of experts, will form strategies on how to control it. At present, noise pollution levels in the city are measured only during Diwali.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, permissible noise levels around a residential area is 55 decibels (dBA) during the day and 45 decibels at night. For industrial areas, the permissible limit is 75 dBA during day and 70 dBA at night. In silence zones, that is an area of 100 metres around hospitals, educational institutions, courts, and religious places, noise levels shouldn’t exceed 50 dBA during the day and 40 dBA at night. In June this year, the National Green Tribunal, while hearing a petition, observed that a noise-free environment is part of the right to life and its violation is a criminal offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-pcb-project-to-measure-noise-levels-in-gurugram-faridabad-101629658099983.html
23-08-2021||Other||After rain relief, temperatures in Gurugram likely to rise this week, says IMD||Gurugram: After relief over the weekend due to rain, temperature in the city is likely to rise owing to fewer showers this week, according to forecast by India Meteorological Department.“Temperature in Delhi-NCR is likely to increase this week as intensity of rain will reduce. There is a possibility of rain in the coming weekend around August 28, but temperatures will rise during the week,” said an IMD official. IMD has forecast one or two spells of rain or thundershowers on Monday, and only cloudy skies from Tuesday.According to IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature over the next four days is likely to touch 35°C and the minimum temperature can rise till 27°C. On Sunday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 32.8°C, which was one degree below normal, and the minimum temperature was recorded at 22.5°C, three degrees below normal. In the 24 hours till 8:30am on Sunday, Gurugram received 33.8mm of rainfall, bringing slight relief from heat. During the day, parts of the city witnessed light drizzle only for around 15-20 minutes. Meanwhile, the air quality in the city improved in the past two days. The Central Pollution Control Board recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 46 on Saturday, corresponding to a “good” air day, and dropping slightly to 52 on Sunday, in the “satisfactory” category. Over the next five days, air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to deteriorate marginally but remain in the “satisfactory” to “moderate” category, according to a bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-rain-relief-temperatures-in-gurugram-likely-to-rise-this-week-says-imd-101629658039697.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to put digital performance review system in place for its staff||The Delhi government will soon do away with the manual process of annual performance review of its employees and completely digitise the system from this year, said senior government officials on Sunday.Between August 15 and 21, the government issued circulars to its departments, directing them to upload employee databases on a portal by the end of this month in a format that was prescribed by the government’s services department on June 29, said the circular, copies of which HT has seen.“From this year, employees will fill up their performance review forms online and reporting managers will review and forward filed online with the help of a digital infrastructure that has been developed. Directions have been issued to all departments asking them to upload databases with employee details on a portal for which links have been provided to department heads. This step marks the beginning of the larger process,” said a senior government official.The circular mentions that the Delhi government will use the SPARROW -- smart performance appraisal report recording online window -- portal which was developed and implemented across departments by the central government in 2019. It further mentions about a series of meetings starting January 11 in which all department heads were briefed about the process.Delhi government has a collective strength of around 400,000 employees across all its departments which includes finance, administration, revenue, education, health, transport, planning, home, urban development, environment, social welfare, power, water, public works, food and art & culture among others.“It is a larger part of the government’s paperless governance policy. If a paperless budget could be tables in the assembly then why not paperless performance review of employees, which is traditionally an annual affair? Its importance was highlighted by the difficulties witnessed during the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a second senior government official.From this year, the Delhi government also made it mandatory for employees to fill in their health details -- with details on surgeries and annual health check up assessment details -- in the annual performance review form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-put-digital-performance-review-system-in-place-for-its-staff-101629657979584.html
23-08-2021||Other||30-year-old murdered in Dwarka||New Delhi: A 30-year-old man was killed by some miscreants who came riding on a scooty in Dwarka sector 10 area. Police said that the man was stabbed multiple times and the accused are yet to be caught.The deceased was identified as Govinda Yadav, who hailed from Siwan district of Bihar. He had been staying in Dwarka to help a relative who was getting medical treatment. On the day of the incident, he had left the house to go shopping with his relatives. But on the way, the miscreants committed the crime and fled.The Dwarka South Police Station has started investigating the incident by registering a case of murder.According to the information, Govinda was going to Golokdham market on Saturday with his relatives but as they reached Sector 10, a scooty stopped in front of them. There were two boys on the scooter. A boy asked Govinda the way to reach Sector 10 market and before he could react, the men stabbed and fled. Police are scrutinizing the CCTV footage to trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30yearold-murdered-in-dwarka-101629657979114.html
23-08-2021||Other||Gurugram: Two booked for kidnapping, assaulting 22-year-old over tiff||Gurugram: The city police booked two men for allegedly kidnapping and assaulting a 22-year-old supervisor of a private company when he was returning home to Gurugram’s Sector 37C. Police said the victim, Sector 37C resident Mukul, was formerly acquainted with the two suspects, Nikhil and Doni, and the alleged assault was the result of a tiff regarding another common friend.According to police, the suspects allegedly forced him at gunpoint to drive his scooter to an isolated stretch, where they hit him with a metal knuckle punch and bricks and stones on Friday night. A case under sections 323 (assault), 341 (wrongful restraint), 365 (kidnapping), 506 (threatening for life) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was filed at Sector 10 police station on Saturday. Police said they are on their lookout for the two suspects.Around 8pm on Friday, Mukul had stopped at a friend’s shop in Saraswati Enclave while on his way back from office. “Two men started misbehaving with me and forced me to board my scooter which was parked outside. Nikhil threatened me and asked me to drive towards Sector 37, to an area behind a private school,” he said. Once there, police said the suspects allegedly assaulted him and “even threatened to kill him”.Police said after raining blows for over 10 minutes, the suspects fled after a tractor driver, who came across the assault, rushed to Mukul’s aid. The victim was taken to Sector 10 Civil hospital.Vijay Kumar, station house officer of Sector 10 police station, said that they recorded Mukul’s statement late on Friday night. “The suspects were known to him and were old friends. They recently had a tiff related to their common friends and were holding grudges... They assaulted him when they found him alone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-two-booked-for-kidnapping-assaulting-22-year-old-over-tiff-101629657978629.html
23-08-2021||Other||37.27 pc turnout in Delhi gurdwara body polls||New Delhi: The polling for the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee elections witnessed a low turnout of 37.27 per cent on Sunday, officials said.The DSGMC which controls shrines in the city, including Rakabganj and Bangla Sahib Gurudwaras as well as various academic institutions and hospitals, goes to polls after every four year. The DSGMC is a membered body, of which 46 are directly elected from 46 wards in Delhi. Rest of the members are appointed from different seats of Sikh religion and groups.The elections being conducted by the Delhi government’s Directorate of Gurdwara Elections, has 3.42 lakh voters. The voting percentage of male voters was 39.95 per cent and it was 34.95 per cent for females, officials said.The Punjabi Bagh ward recorded the highest voting percentage of 54.10 per cent while Sham Nagar recorded the lowest 25.18 per cent, according to the figures issued by the directorate.Counting of votes will take place on August 25. A total of 312 candidates, including 132 independents, are in the fray.The major players include Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) which has fielded candidates from all the 46 wards. SAD’s Manjinder Singh Sirsa is currently the president of DSGMC.Manjit Singh GK-led Jago party has fielded 41 candidates while Akali Dali (Delhi) headed by Paramjit Singh Sarna is contesting in 45 wards. Both Manjit Singh and Sarna are former presidents of DSGMC.In the previous elections held in 2017, SAD came to control the DSGMC by winning 35 wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3727-pc-turnout-in-delhi-gurdwara-body-polls-101629657919716.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||NCR village’s prehistoric roots fade into obscurity||A vortex of unpaved streets, with overflowing sewage, leads to the heart of the Anangpur village in Faridabad, located around 30 kilometres from the national capital. Teeming with people, queries regarding the village’s historical significance draw blank stares from all quarters. Haryana’s first Palaeolithic site was discovered in the village in 1986, a memory that barely a handful recollect.Excavations in the village by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in 1991 also unearthed tools from the late Acheulean period.Experts said that evidence from the lower to upper Paleolithic Age was found in Anangpur, and that late Acheulian tools belonging to the lower Paleolithic period were discovered here, and with the recent discovery of cave paintings and tools from the Upper Palaeolithic age in the Aravalli ranges, there is a renewed focus on the importance of granting protection to such pre-historic sites and increasing awareness about them. But residents of the village are mostly oblivious to Anangpur’s connections to the region’s prehistoric lineage.“There is no such site or connection to an excavation of this nature,” said Kashmiri. This is a common refrain from several middle-aged and elderly residents of the village, many of whom lived there during ASI’s investigations.“I don’t recall any such excavation that was undertaken here. We used to visit the mountains daily for labour but never heard about any discovery here,” said Savitri, an octogenarian resident, while sitting at the entrance of her house. Her neighbours nod in agreement and shift focus to the more contemporary issues plaguing the village.“Look at the broken roads here. The sewage is overflowing and there is no direct water supply. There is absolutely nothing to suggest here that an important historical finding took place here,” said Kashmiri, a woman in her 70s. Married at the age of 14, she has lived in the village for five decades now. “The generations before us might have seen something worthwhile, but all that we found were stones of no value,” said Kashmiri.The women are not alone. Despite being imbued in history that predates modern civilisation, awareness of the findings made by ASI remains scant among most residents, except those who were lucky to have witnessed the excavations nearly three decades ago.Gyan Chand, a 49-year-old, recalls watching the excavations as a curious teenager in the early 190s. He recalled how a team led by the ASI undertook extensive surveys and over two weeks.“Digging was carried out for nearly 15-20 days. They used to collect stones and take them every day. We were told that the tools demonstrated human evolution and were being sent to a lab,” said Chand.But, he added, the team never returned and the site was left unattended over the next three decades.“We never dwelled much on what followed but it’s worth pondering. What was the outcome of the excavations that were undertaken here? If the discovery was historically significant, why were there no follow-ups? It almost seems like the exercise never happened or was covered up. We never heard back anything about the site here and our village never became famous,” said Chand.Satveer, 42, another resident who faintly recalls the excavations, shared that he and many others thought the team was looking for treasure. He said that people’s interest waned as they realized that no such treasure was being searched. “Who cares about stones? We were under the impression that gold and silver were possibly hidden in the mountains. Once we realised that they were only looking for stones, people stopped caring,” recalls Satveer, who goes by his first name.Shyam Babu, who was 15 when the team visited, shared that the team was looking for some things in the vicinity of the already-existing fortifications in the area.“The team came every day for 15-20 days. They used to dig out stones. I don’t recall if they shared the significance of the stones. There are big boulder-like stones here even today. It seems that the place was used as a workshop by early humans, but one can’t be sure, because the team never came back. Most people don’t even recall the excavations now,’ said Babu, who used to accompany his grandfather to the site.While the site was discovered in 1986, ASI undertook excavation at the site in the early 90s. AK Sharma, who discovered the site, was accompanied by former joint director general of ASI SB Ota and other experts from ASI’s prehistoric branch.According to the report published by Sharma and Ota, the interesting feature noticed in Anangpur was that the working point of the handaxes was broken due to usage.The absence of abraded tools and occurrence of a large amount of waste products such as cores and flakes clearly suggest that the site at Anangpur was a habitation and factory of Early Man,” said the report, published in 1991.Ota said that while it was always known that there was a possibility of Acheulean sites in Aravalli, Anangpur was the first site where a large number of artifacts had been found. He, however, added that it was crucial to determine the significance of such sites.“If you look at the richness of the site, there are probably more than 1,000 sites that are better than Anangpur in the country. If you explore the complete Aravalli area, you may find more than 200 sites similar to Anangpur. Hence, it’s important to weigh the strategic importance since it’s not possible to grant protection to so many sites,” said Ota.Banani Bhattacharyya, deputy director of the Haryana department of archaeology and museums, said that the site was not under state protection. She said that it was crucial to understand that the approach towards conservation of pre-historic sites differed when compared to the protection proceedings that are undertaken for historic sites.“Pre-historic sites exist in a scattered manner. Since the individuals were hunter-gatherers, they used to travel over a huge area. It is not possible for us to grant protection to such sites based on contemporary boundaries unless the sites are concentrated in the same area,” said Bhattacharyya.She added that pre-historic sites required meticulous documentation due to which taking such sites under protection required a lot of time. “Each and everything needs to be meticulously documented. The processes take time. Documentation at Bhimbetka caves is taking place even today. The methodologies for conservation of pre-historic sites are slightly different. EverDespite multiple attempts, ASI officials could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-faridabad-village-s-prehistoric-roots-fade-into-obscurity-even-for-its-own-residents-101629657919343.html
23-08-2021||Gurugram||Pvt lab owner booked for unlawful tests at centres in Gurugram, Delhi||The Gurugram police on Sunday booked five people, including the owner of a private lab chain, for allegedly conducting unlawful tests relating to pre-natal diagnostic techniques, including running regulated tests without necessary checks and employing unqualified persons for collecting and analysing samples. Health department officials also said that the collection centres of the lab was allegedly not registered and did not maintain any records of the tests.Officials said three centres of the private lab -- in Gurugram sectors 63 and 14, and Rohini in Delhi -- were allegedly involved in the offences.Police said a case under IPC sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 34 (common intention) and 120 B (conspiracy) and several sections of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation and Prevention of misuse ) (PCPNDT) Act, 1994, was registered at Sector 65 police station on Sunday. Deepak Kumar, station house officer of Sector 65 police station, said that this is for the first time that such a case has come to Gururgam police notice. “We have registered the case and suspects are yet to be arrested,” he said.The health department said a team of three doctors and a clerk -- constituted by Dr Virendra Yadav, civil surgeon, Gurugram -- investigated the lab’s alleged malpractices.The team sent a decoy patient to the lab which unveiled non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT) -- a well-known genetic testing technique primarily meant for detecting genetic abnormalities in the foetus -- being conducted at the lab through their collection centres in Gurugram and Rohini in Delhi.Such testing can only be carried out as per conditions and guidelines laid down in the PC-PNDT Act, including being registered under the Act. Additionally, the Act mandates that the test can be conducted only on women who have undergone two abortions and are above the age of 35 years. The health department official said that the decoy sent to the lab was only 26 years old who had undergone just one abortion in the past.Medical officer at Patel Nagar urban primary health centre, Dr Umang, who goes by a single name, said that it is for the first time in the country that such a raid for NIPT was planned and executed successfully.Dr Umang said that the labs were charging between ₹15,000-25,000 for the unlawful tests. “We received secret information following which a team was constituted and a decoy customer who was four months pregnant was sent to give her blood sample for conducting pre-natal diagnostic test on August 10 at the Sector 63 lab. The in-charge of this laboratory asked her to get ‘maternal blood for foetal DNA (NIPT)’ pre-natal diagnostic test, took her blood sample and charged ₹15,000,” she said.Dr Umang said that on August 13, the victim received the test report on WhatsApp. “During enquiry, the team came to know that this sample collection centre has not fulfilled the requirement as per provision of PC-PNDT Act rules. During questioning, the in-charge revealed that after getting the blood sample, the same was sent to Sector 14 lab for further processing and later was sent to Rohini in Delhi,” she said.During the enquiry, the investigating team found that the private lab chain in Delhi also did not maintain records as per the provisions under PC-PNDT Act, and were also in violation of several other conditions laid down by the Act.The health department said such collection labs are running and working as franchises of the private lab chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pvt-lab-chain-owner-among-five-booked-for-unlawful-tests-at-centres-in-gurugram-and-delhi-101629657859583.html
23-08-2021||Other||Air quality panel asks NCR states to prepare plan on farm fires||New Delhi: Ahead of the harvesting season, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) has asked Delhi and neighbouring states to ensure the adoption and application of a standard protocol developed by ISRO for estimation of crop residue burning fire events using satellite data.The commission, mandated to devise and execute plans to prevent and control air pollution in the national capital region and adjoining areas, has also asked Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan to develop a time-bound comprehensive action plan, in consultation with stakeholder agencies responsible for monitoring and reporting of agriculture residue burning events, based on the protocol.The commission had stressed the need to develop and implement a standardised methodology across NCR and adjoining areas for the monitoring of fire events at meetings with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) at a meeting held in December last year.The protocol has been prepared in consultation with stakeholder agencies like State Remote Sensing Centers and Indian Agricultural Research Institute, it said.“Now, therefore, in view of the compelling need to monitor and control air pollution from stubble burning, the commission…hereby directs government of NCT of Delhi to ensure adoption and application of the standard protocol for estimation of crop residue burning fire events using satellite data,” the directions read.The commission said the protocol should be adopted uniformly across the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Delhi, and not restricted to Punjab and Haryana alone.The panel on air quality has also asked these states to submit a compliance report on the adoption of the protocol by August 30.The northern states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15.Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left behind after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR.Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between the harvesting of paddy and sowing of wheat.The high cost of manual or mechanical management of straw is a major reason why farmers choose to burn it.State governments are providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for in-situ management of paddy straw, installing paddy straw-based power plants and running a massive awareness campaign against stubble burning.But these measures are yet to make any significant impact on the ground.According to a recent study by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), a Delhi-based not-for-profit policy research institution, a relatively longer stubble-burning period and unfavourable meteorological conditions were primarily responsible for Delhi’s worsening air quality in winters last year.The analysis showed the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 levels exceeded 30 per cent for seven days (between October 10 and November 25) in 2020 as against three days in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/air-quality-panel-asks-ncr-states-to-prepare-plan-on-farm-fires-101629657858587.html
23-08-2021||Other||Gurugram sees drop in weekly Covid-19 cases||Gurugram: The weekly cases of coronavirus disease in the district has dropped from 51 cases in the first week of August to 39 cases reported last week, with health officials attributing the decline to high testing rates and increased vaccination. Gurugram saw only six new cases on Sunday.According to the district health bulletin on Sunday, the active case count is 78 while the total tally touched 181, 023 with 921 deaths. Currently, the test positivity rate – the proportion of people testing positive for the infection out of the total samples tested – is 0.1%, which is less than 5% fixed by the World Health Organisation as safe.Data collated through the district health bulletin shows that from July 18 to 24, the weekly cases were 52. The weekly cases maintained in the same range in the subsequent weeks -- 50 from July 24-31; and 51 from August 1-7.Subsequently, weekly cases dropped to 36 from August 8-14 and increased marginally to 39 from August 15-21.“Despite the decline in cases, the department conducts 3,750 tests on an average every day. A 24x7 antigen testing kiosk is functional at the civil hospital in Sector 10 and the polyclinic in sector 31 to facilitate testing. Currently, Gurugram is doing maximum tests, while other districts are administering only 2,000 tests or less than that. With increased testing, we can keep a check on the doubling rate and timely isolation of patients,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Vaccination in Gurugram is also the highest among all districts. Till now, 2,186,392 doses -- about 1.6 million first doses and over 500,000 second doses -- have been administered in Gurugram.Experts said that people should not stop wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Senior epidemiologist Dr Rajesh Kumar, the former head of the community medicine department and school of public health, PGIMER-Chandigarh, said, “Vaccination and decline in Covid-19 should not stop people from following preventive norms. Vaccination can only protect from the severity of the disease, hospitalisation and death. It does not prevent the transmission of the virus. Even after being vaccinated, people may contract the virus. It is important to follow Covid-19 protocols like social distancing, avoiding gatherings, ensuring proper ventilation, sanitisation and mask discipline. In a few northern states, cases have increased slightly in some pockets.”According to Kumar, the local administration and police should issue advisory and prevent the gathering of people in market areas, considering that festival season is around the corner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-sees-drop-in-weekly-covid-19-cases-101629657859116.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Fees hurdle hampers poor students’ higher education dreams||Raju Singh, a student of a Delhi government school, scored 94% in his CBSE Class 12 boards this year, and wants to enrol in mechanical engineering programme to support his family of four. But the 19-year-old is unsure about how to arrange for his fee and is currently preparing for his Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) without any solution in sight.“After my father died around four years ago, my mother has been working as a domestic help to run our family. Two of my siblings are still in school and we have no assets that can be sold. Though I am preparing for JEE, I have no idea how I will arrange the admission fee. I don’t know who to approach for help,” said the Naharpur resident, who graduated from a Delhi government school in Rohini this year.While the graduation percentage in Delhi government schools improved two percentage points from last year to 99.96% and the number of students scoring over 95% jumped from 442 to 885, many of these students are now expressing concerns over their higher education prospects especially in the face of the financial distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.Sunita Bhati, a Class 12 teacher at a government school in New Kondli, said institution’s faculty members have been helping students by providing study material and books. However, the pandemic had aggravated the financial problems for several of these families.“Many students ask us for financial assistance and later for their college education as well. These students are very shy, so they refuse to take money directly from us. An institutional mechanism to address these concerns will help,” she said.In June 2019, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, issued an order asking government schools to help over 1,000 meritorious students who scored above 90% in their class 12 examinations to “track their applications to colleges and sort out any issue in their admission.” Schools were also asked to submit a status report by July 31 that year with details of the course pursued by these students and track their progress for “at least during the first year of college.”While schools followed these directives, most treat it as a one-time order and now help students only on an informal basis—meaning several students may be left out of the net. Currently, there is no formal mechanism in place to help all students and record data on their higher education applications.Principals of at least five government schools HT spoke to said they try to arrange for help for underprivileged students. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of a government school in Rohini, said, “We maintained the data for that year and sent it to the education department. But after that, we have been in touch with students at our own level, helping them out in whichever way we can. We have also maintained a strong connection with our alumni so that they too could help in guiding our students.”Lack of an institutionalised mechanism means not all students know who to approach for help. Another government school student Sanjay, who has applied for an undergraduate course at Delhi University with 94.25% aggregate, said, “My father works as a utensil vendor and hasn’t had much work in the past two years due to the pandemic. Even if I get through a good college, it might propel us towards another cycle of debt as he would have to take a loan for my fee. I don’t know who to approach for help. Though there are scholarships, I don’t know if I would be eligible for them or not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fees-hurdle-hampers-poor-students-higher-education-dreams-101629657798535.html
23-08-2021||Other||Delhi: Restaurant owners feel time relaxation will help businesses||New Delhi: With a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order lifting timing restrictions on the operations of restaurants, malls, and other establishments, thousands associated with the sector said they hope business will now return to normal and help recover losses that have piled over the past year-and-a-half.Starting from Tuesday, restaurants and bars in the city will no longer need to wrap up operations by 10pm, a deadline that adversely restricted activity and operations during a crucial window of the day. The state government imposed a complete lockdown in the Capital from April 19 amid an intense rise in Covid-19 cases. As infections started declining, the government began implementing a phased relaxation process from May 31. Markets were allowed to open everyday from June 14 but with restricted working hours till 8pm. Meanwhile, restaurants were allowed to operate till 10pm.Restaurateurs said that restrictions on business in the evening reduced dinner sales and were hampering recovery. “We welcome and applaud the relaxation of rules by the Delhi government in terms of operational hours. It is an extremely encouraging move for the F&B [food and beverage] industry, which will help us to recover and revive our business slowly but surely. A lot of our dinner guests, at both SOCIAL and Smoke House Deli, have been wanting to stay past 10pm and extend their night, and being operational for longer will allow us to do just that. It also gives us room to cater to our guests comfortably without overcrowding at any point in time,” said Satyajit Dhingra, chief regional officer (north), Impresario Handmade Restaurants. Ahead of the festive season, a return to normal business timings is expected to benefit restaurants seeking to recoup losses. “With the festive season around the corner as well as the Covid-19 numbers reducing in the city, people are more comfortable with dining out. That said, our strict safety and hygiene protocols remain in play, with 50% capacity and adequate social distancing at all our restaurants. This helps us ensure a safe dining experience for all,” Dhingra added. Saurabh Suman, manager of Pebble Street in New Friends Colony (NFC), said restricted business timings discouraged guests from visiting the outlet for dinner, a crucial driver of daily sales. “Guests were not comfortable due to the early wrap-up deadline. People usually arrive for dinner by 7.30-8.30pm. By then, we already need to start preparing for the closure. Due to these limitations, people stopped planning dinner outings. Our relationship with our guests was getting affected since visitors were not getting sufficient time to enjoy. Hopefully, now, our guests will be able to enjoy as before,” said Suman. He added that extended working hours will aid in the recovery of business as well. Welcoming the move, SN Kaushal, senior manager of Kwality restaurant at Connaught Place, said that the extension of timings will benefit guests who were earlier being compelled to wrap up early due to the cap on working hours. “It doesn’t look good when someone is out for dinner and we have to constantly remind them to wrap up early. Some guests would also complain about the same. Now, we will be able to serve our guests as before,” said Kaushal. He added that a significant jump in footfall is likely starting from Tuesday. “In comparison to the previous lockdown, recovery has been better this time. With the restrictions on timings getting lifted, we are optimistic that more people will return to our outlet,” said Kaushal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-restaurant-owners-feel-time-relaxation-will-help-businesses-101629657738549.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Couple kills 2-year-old boy out of hatred, arrested||A couple arrested for kidnapping and murdering a two-year-old boy in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden area were planning the crime for over an year, the police said on Sunday after arresting them. They said the couple was allegedly jealous of the boy since the family members loved him more than their six-year-old daughter.Investigators said Yamuna and Rajesh kidnapped the boy on Friday when he was playing on a footpath, assaulted him and then drowned him in a drain in Punjabi Bagh. The accused and the victim’s families are unemployed and sleep on the footpath near a flyover in the area.The boy’s body was found in the drain in Saturday.Incidentally, nobody reported the matter to the police. Urvija Goel, DCP (West) said that no PCR call was made in this case, and the incident came to light when a police patrol team spotted a woman crying on the footpath. When they asked her grievance, she told them that her son has gone missing, the DCP said.Goel said footage from more than a dozen CCTV cameras from around the spot from where the family lived was scanned. The footage showed a couple taking the boy towards Punjabi Bagh.An investigator said the couple was identified from the footage, and they were arrested from a slum cluster in Raghubir Nagar. He said the couple has confessed to their crime.After coming to know that the accused have drowned the boy in the drain, rescue operations were immediately launched to find him. Since it rained heavily on Saturday, the drain was flooded. A second investigator said that more than 100 people that included flood department workers, police officials and local residents looked for the body of the boy. It was fished out after hours of search.The second investigator said during further probe to make a watertight case against the accused couple, the police questioned more than 30 ragpickers who are active around that particular stretch of the footpath. One of them, who identified herself by her first name, Ismi, recognised the couple from their photograph. She told the police that she saw them picking up the boy from the footpath on Friday.Ismi’s statement has been recorded before a magistrate, the investigator said.A senior official said that a day after their arrest, more than 30 rag pickers were questioned, and one eye-witness of the incident was identified. A woman named Ismi gave her statement in the court today and identified the couple as the ones she had seen picking up the boy while he was asleep and running away.Quoting what Yamuna told the police during interrogation, the first investigator said that ever since the boy was born, he was given the maximum attention by his grandmother, Geeta. Yamuna felt that Geeta had started ignoring her daughter ever since the boy’s birth.Yamuna wanted to eliminate the child and kept planning. However, her first husband’s death delayed her plans. She got married to Rajesh two years ago, and the two were looking for an opportunity to get rid of the child, the police said.Police said that the couple’s daughter has been left with Rajesh’s family as of now.A case under sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 364 (Kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 302 (punishment for murder), 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 120 (B) (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Rajouri Garden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couple-kills-2-year-old-boy-out-of-hatred-arrested-101629657739074.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Kabuli Gurdwara: A sanctuary in Delhi for Afghan violence victims||Guru Arjan Dev ji Gurdwara, located in a narrow lane in the bustling New Mahavir Nagar in the Tilak Nagar area is better known as ‘Kabuli Gurdwara’--- and not without reason. Few people know that it is the nerve- centre of the Afghan Sikh community in Delhi, which built it in the 1990s. In fact, of the estimated 15,000 Afghan Sikhs in Delhi, about 90% live in west Delhi areas such as New Mahavir Nagar, Shiv Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Fateh Nagar, Vikaspuri, and Tilak Nagar. In the streets around gurdwara, one can hear elderly Afghan Sikhs talking to each other in a mix of Pashto and Punjabi language. The gurdwara also has ‘saroops’ ( copies) of Guru Granth Sahib that Sikhs from Afghanistan brought as they fled threats and religious persecution over the past several decades.“ This gurdwara is manged and run by local Afghan community, and we have always helped Sikhs who arrive from Afghanistan, in every possible way. We are also taking care of many Afghanistan Sikh families who were evacuated to India last year,” says Kuldeep Singh, vice-president of the gurdwara’s management committee. In March last year, 25 Sikhs, were killed in an attack on Kabul Gurdwara, after which the Indian government evacuated many Sikh families. Many of them are settled in New Mahavir Nagar in the vicinity of the gurdwara.On Sunday, an Indian Air Force (IAF) C-17 Globemaster aircraft landed at the Hindan airbase in Ghaziabad with 168 travellers, including 107 Indians, from Kabul. About 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were among those evacuated.“We are happy some of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus have been evacuated safely by the government. We are talking to them and will help them in every possible way. We are also in touch with Hindus and Sikhs who are still in Afghanistan. We hope they too will be evacuated soon, ” Kuldeep Singh.Amrik Singh, who was among the passengers and is a native of Ludhiana in Punjab, said, “It took us about five hours to reach Delhi from Kabul, as we have to come through Iran. There were lot of issues there (in Afghanistan). There was firing all around, ” he said.Afghanistan MP Narender Singh Khalsa was also among those airlifted to India from Kabul on Sunday. He broke down as the plane touched down at Hindan airbase.“I feel like crying...Everything that was built in the last 20 years is finished. It’s zero now,” ANI quoted the MP as saying after landing in Ghaziabad.The Taliban marched into Kabul on August 15 after the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Most of the top leaders of the group, including Abdul Ghani Baradar, have returned to Afghanistan and are engaged in consultations of forming a government.India evacuated its envoy, diplomats, officials, security personnel and some nationals on two C-17 heavy lift aircraft last week. The government is focused on the safe repatriation of Indians still stuck in the country.Talking about the difficulties that the Afghans who came to India last year are currently facing, Mirwan Singh, 29, said: “My uncle was killed in the Kabul gurdwara attack last year, and we had no choice but to leave Afghanistan. I worked with the Afghan government in Kabul, but life has been pretty tough here in the last one year.” Mirwan Singh works in the Kabuli Gurdwara as a computer operator, taking care of the paperwork relating to visas, citizenship applications and other such. “I am lucky to have got some kind of work here, but most other Afghan youngsters who came last year with us either have no work or working as helpers in shops.”Kuldeep says that the gurdwara pays house rent and provides for all the Sikhs who lost their family members in attacks in 2018 and 2020 in Jalalabad and Kabul respectively, and came to Delhi.“We had offered to help them with ration and rent for a year, but they are in a financially difficult situation and still need our help,” he says. “ A large number of Afghan Sikhs who have arrived since the 1990s have not got citizenship, which makes life difficult for them. And this is one of the reasons why most Sikhs who are currently in Afghanistan wants to be evacuated to Canada and the US rather than India.”A room adjacent to the gurdwara is packed with large sacks of flour, rice, and pulses. “We distribute the ration between first to fifth day each month to about 600 Afghanistan Sikh families. Most of the money comes from members of Delhi’s Afghan Sikh community and donations at gurdwara,” says Harman Singh, 75, who coordinates relief efforts. He came to India from Afghanistan in 1991 and is now an Indian citizen.The gurdwara also runs a school in an adjacent building, which was attended by 280 children before the pandemic -- about 90 of them belonging to Afghan Muslim families and the rest, Sikhs.In the early 1990s, says Kuldeep, there were about 100,000 Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan. Most of them were well off and lived in Jalalabad, Ghazni, and Kabul, he said. “They were the biggest exporters and importers in Afghanistan, but facing threats from Mujahideen (or Taliban), they fled to countries such as Canada, the US and India. I still have my shop there in Kabul,” says Kuldeep, who had a wholesale grocery and cosmetics business in the Afghan capital. He came to India in 1991 and has not returned since.“ But most Sikhs who are now left in Afghanistan run small businesses such as grocery store and general stores,” he said.While many Sikhs and Hindus left Afghanistan during the Soviet-Afghan war between 1979 to 1989, the mass exodus of Sikhs and Hindus from the war-torn country started in the early 1990s as Mujahideen took control of most of the country and President Mohammad Najibullah was ousted. Under the Mujahideen, there were constant threats, harassment, extortion, and, religious persecution, targeting Sikhs and Hindus.Harpreet Singh, who looks after the maintenance of all the facilities run by Kabuli Gurdwara, says most of those who arrived in Delhi in the 1990s live in Tilak Nagar area, and many of them have their business in Tank Road in Karol Bagh. The gurdwara complex also has a hospital and a reception hall for organising weddings and other functions.“Those members of our community who cannot afford a banquet hall or a hotel organise weddings here. Most Afghan Sikhs marry within the community because of the reasons of language and culture. But now many youngsters are getting married outside the community too,” said Harpreet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kabuli-gurdwara-a-sanctuary-in-delhi-for-afghan-violence-victims-101629657678576.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||With new world-class sports facilities, Najafgarh capital’s major sports hub||The evening sun is shining bright on the face of Kunal Kharab as he begins the run-up to throw the javelin. He runs a short distance, holding the spear slightly above his head and sends it soaring into the air. It lands about 60 metres away. There are about 50 other youngsters practising the game in the newly built javelin arena of the Mundhela Kalan complex in Najafgarh. Besides, there are over a hundred others playing football on the new synthetic turf, and practising long jump and running around a 400-metre new synthetic track.“Najafgarh is no longer just about wrestlers or cricketers, it is the city’s biggest sports hub with the best sporting facilities in the city, where children are playing every possible sport, ” says Vikas Lakra, an athletics coach at the complex.“Since Neeraj Chopra’s stunning Olympic gold victory, the number of people wanting to learn javelin throw has doubled here,” he adds.Today, one can see hundreds of youngsters and children as young as six year old practising sports such as boxing, volleyball, badminton, football, hockey, shooting, wrestling at several private and government sports facilities, which have come up in the past few years in Najafgarh. In fact, today, the area boasts over 50 indoor and outdoor sports academies, which have been set up in the past few years.The Delhi government has also made a big sporting infrastructure push in the area, investing about ₹150 crore in developing multi-sports complexes. Apart from Mundhela Kalan complex, which has a football ground with synthetic turf and athletic tracks, the government is also developing an 18-acre sports residential complex in Kair village at a cost of ₹140 crore.A FIFA approved football field , and a cricket ground is ready at Kair, and work is in progress to develop tennis and basketball courts, swimming pool and residential quarters for players. Besides, the government has set up wrestling and kabaddi mats in Vyayamshalas ( gymnasiums) in many villages such as Dichaon Kalan, Mitraon, Dhansa, Issapur, Mundhela Khurd.“ We are creating world- class sports facilities in Najagfarh, where sports has been a way of life. Earlier, because of the lack of good sporting facilities, children from the area used to travel to different parts of Delhi, now sportspersons from other parts of the city and even neighbouring states come to Najafgarh, ” says Kailash Gahlot, the local MLA and Delhi’s transport’s minister. “These new sports complexes, where sportspersons will get specialised training will go a long way in encouraging local talent and enable them to compete at the international level, ” adds Gahlot, himself a former football player.Najafgarh and the surrounding villages have been a hub of traditional Indian sports such as kabaddi, wrestling and Kho- Kho. It has produced famous wrestlers, including Sushil Kumar, and kabaddi and Kho- Kho players.Villages such as Rawta, Malakpur Zer, and Kair have been known for their kabaddi teams; Baprola, the village of Olympic medal winner Sushil Kumar, was famous for its wrestlers. Mitraon village had a Kho-Kho team that has won several zonal Kho Kho tournaments in Delhi.Almost all the villages in Najafgarh have their akharas, where the young wrestlers honed their skills. From their village akharas, they often graduated to Bhagwat Swaroop Akhara, the most famous akhara in Najafgarh, and from there to Chhatrasal Stadium in Delhi, where India’s three Olympic medallists Sushil Kumar, Yogeshwar Dutt and Ravi Dahiya got trained.“Youngsters here played traditional rural sports with a view to joining the armed forces. But now the new generation is adopting many other sports such boxing, badminton and those who can afford are getting into cricket,” says Anil Solanki , a sports coach who lives in Baprola village. “Cricket is an expensive game and it gained ground in Najafgarh only after Virender Sehwag played for India.”Indeed, until Sehwag, who earned the nickname of the Nawab of Najafgarh, played for India, cricket was a fringe game in Najafgarh, with no training facilities. In 1990, a cricket coach named Sashi who ran Surmount Club started a summer cricket coaching academy in Najafgarh. Sehwag joined the academy and played for the club. He later trained under AN Sharma at his Vikaspuri cricket coaching centre.His rise to fame in the early 2000s inspired many local youngsters to play cricket and Najafgarh has since produced many players such as Pradeep Sangwan, Kapil Yadav, Nitin Yadav, who has played IPL and represented Delhi in first-class cricket. Today, it has many cricket academies many of which came up in the past decade in what were not so long ago agricultural fields.Nepal Singh, who says he played cricket with Sehwag in Najafgarh during his formative years, today runs a badminton academy that has four indoor courts with green maple wood and synthetic victor flooring. He is currently busy adding another court inside his academy. “More and more youngsters here are getting into individual sports in their quest for a deeper sense of personal achievement and glory. The demand for these sports academies in Najafgarh is rising fast because all parents here want their children to be in sports. Most academies are run by local sportspersons,” he says.It is a late afternoon and about a dozen young boys and girls are practising in his indoor academy. One of them is Akshit, who spends six hours at the academy in the morning and evening. Ask him why he has chosen badminton and he says, “I hope to play at the international level one day. Besides, this game is affordable and I think it will help sharpen my body and mind. Unlike in the past, there are good badminton training facilities here in Najafgarh,” he says. Nepal Singh says many of his wards have played at the state level and in Delhi Badminton League (DBL).Today, Najafgarh has several private badminton and tennis courts. But if one goes by the number of sports academies, boxing seems to be one of the most popular sports in the area. Over a dozen boxing academies have cropped up in the past five years where one can spot hundreds of children and teenagers — both girls and boys and some as young as five — practising their punches.Boxing coaches say this fast-growing interest in the combat sport has been inspired by the growing number of Indian boxers making it big in international events, the increasing number of boxing tournaments and championships in India, and the glamour associated with boxing. “Young people in this predominately rural area are intelligent and well-built, and boxing is an aspirational sport for them,” says Brij Mohan, who started MB boxing Academy three years back.“Nowhere in the city is the craze for boxing as intense as in Najafgarh. In fact, I have many students who have given up kabaddi and wrestling for boxing. Many of our students are children of former and current wrestlers, and kabaddi players,” says Mohan. About a dozen of his 50 students are girls, including Vishi Balyan, 16, who gave up kabaddi for boxing. “Women are as good at boxing as men. My sole objective is to win an Olympic medal. If Lovlina Borgohain can do it, so can I, ” says Balyan as she awaits her turn for a practice bout in the ring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-new-world-class-sports-facilities-najafgarh-capital-s-major-sports-hub-101629657558577.html
23-08-2021||Other||Fake currency racket busted in Delhi, cops recover cash worth over ₹4 lakh||New Delhi: The city police’s special cell has busted a racket supplying fake currency notes after arresting two men, and recovered notes with a face value of around ₹4 lakh from the suspects.The police identified the two men as Mohammed Zakir and Alam.The police said interrogations revealed that the suspects smuggled fake notes printed in Pakistan into the country via Bangladesh, and added that the syndicate has already circulated fake notes worth over ₹15 lakh in Delhi. Police said that all the fake notes were in denominations of ₹100 and ₹200.During questioning, Zakir told the police that he received the fake notes from an associate in south-east Delhi’s Jamia Nagar and communicated with him on WhatsApp.“The accused said they decided to circulate the fake notes in small denominations of ₹100 or 200, as no one would pay much heed to these small amounts and they can be easily circulated in the market,” a police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-currency-racket-busted-in-delhi-cops-recover-cash-worth-over-4-lakh-101629657559051.html
23-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro replaces existing conventional lights with LED units||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Sunday said it has started replacing conventional lighting in its stations such as incandescent bulbs and florescent lamps with LED lights to save energy.In a statement issued on Sunday, the DMRC said LED lights will be installed at 155 locations, including Metro stations, depots, parking, and other facilities that were constructed under the networks first (2005) and second (2010) phases.“The DMRC has already installed one lakh (100,000) LED lights at 155 locations, and by the end of October this year, it will install 35,000 additional LED lights in other locations,” the Metro statement said.The Metro body added that it has “covered 75% of the drive”, and will complete replacing the remaining lights by the end of October this year.The Delhi Metro said the LED-based light system will help DMRC save around half of the energy expenditure as against the existing system.The network also said that it will recover the cost of the new lights in around two years.The lifespan of an LED system is longer compared to conventional existing lights, with much reduced maintenance cost. On an average, an LED system lasts 50,000 operating hours or more, it said.An LED source is more than 40 times higher in lifespan than an incandescent bulb. In addition, LED lights have energy efficiency component which makes them consume very low amount of power, officials said.Undertaking this drive at already operational stations was a challenging task for the DMRC maintenance teams, it said.“Even during night, the work could be carried out for around two hours only in a day since the time window available from the close of last passenger service and commencement of first passenger service is very limited, and other important operational preparedness and routine maintenance activities are undertaken in this period only,” the DMRC said.The DMRC had to arrange special scaffoldings and cranes to cover the spaces at twice or thrice the normal height of a building which is again very tricky and a time-consuming exercise, it said. The DMRC has already implemented LED-based lighting solutions at its Phase-III stations and similar system will be adopted for upcoming Phase-IV stations also, officials said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-replaces-existing-conventional-lights-with-led-units-101629657498527.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||Guru Nanak death anniv: Pak allows fully vaccinated pilgrims to visit Kartarpur||IslamabadPakistan has decided to allow fully vaccinated Sikh pilgrims to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur from next month with strict Covid-19 protocols, ahead of the 482nd death anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak on September 22, media reports said on Sunday.On the occasion, three-day rituals will be held at the shrine from September 20. Guru Nanak died in Kartarpur on September 22, 1539.Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March 2020 because of the Covid-19 outbreak.The decision to open the Kartarpur shrine was taken by the national command and operation centre (NCOC) on Saturday. Dawn newspaper reported that the NCOC meeting unanimously decided to allow Sikh pilgrims to visit Kartarpur next month under strict Covid-19 protocols.Due to the Delta variant, India was in category C in Pakistan from May 22 till August 12, and a special approval was required for people coming from the country, including Sikh pilgrims.However, fully-vaccinated persons with certificates will be allowed to enter Pakistan provided they show Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test reports, which should not be more than 72 hours old.Apart from this, a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) will also be conducted at airports and in case of a positive result, the individual will not be allowed to enter Pakistan.According to Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions (NPIs), a maximum of 300 people will be permitted to assemble at a time at the gurdwara.The ministry of national health services (NHS), Pakistan, had introduced three categories to deal with the coronavirus spread. “Countries in category A are exempted from the mandatory Covid-19 test, travellers from areas falling in category B are required to present a negative PCR test that must be taken within 72 hours of the travel date, while visitors from nations in category C are restricted and can travel only under specific NCOC guidelines,” the official said.India signed the Kartarpur corridor agreement with Pakistan on October 24, 2019. Under the pact, Indian pilgrims of all faiths are allowed to undertake round-the-year visa-free travel through the Kartarpur Corridor to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, one of the most revered shrines of Sikhs in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guru-nanak-death-anniv-pak-allows-fully-vaccinated-pilgrims-to-visit-kartarpur-101629657259113.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||NRI shoots dead mother-in-law, injures wife in Hoshiarpur||HoshiarpurAn NRI opened fired on his wife and mother-in-law, killing the latter at Jhungian village under the Chabbewal police station on Sunday. The accused fled from the spot after the crime.According to reports, accused Mandip Singh of Bharsinghpura village, had recently returned from the USA after three years and had gone to his in-laws house to see his wife Shavdeep Kaur on Saturday evening. Around 6am on Sunday, he took out a revolver and opened fire on her and her mother Balbir Kaur. Balbir died on the spot. Injured Shavdeep was rushed to a hospital by neighbours, who saw Mandeep escaping in a car.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Satvir Singh said police teams were conducting raids to nab Mandeep and an lookout circular had been issued against him to prevent him from fleeing abroad.“The motive of the crime is not yet known but on the statement of his wife, we have registered a murder case against Mandeep,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nri-shoots-dead-mother-in-law-injures-wife-in-hoshiarpur-101629657080147.html
23-08-2021||Chandigarh||40kg heroin haul: Police identify Malaysia-based smuggler as kingpin of racket||Investigation into the 40kg heroin haul case has found that the smuggling racket was being operated by an entity from Malaysia. Police have identified the kingpin as Jagga Malaysia, who got the consignment smuggled through some Pakistani contrabandists. The Border Security Force (BSF) and Punjab Police seized 40.810kg of heroin from along the Indo-Pak border in the Dera Baba Nanak sector of Gurdaspur district during a joint operation in the wee hours of Saturday.The contraband was packed in 39 plastic packets and pushed into the Indian territory through a PVC pipe in the Panjgraian border outpost (BOP) area. “Our preliminary investigation has found that Jagga Malaysia is the main entity behind the racket. He had been in contact with some Pakistani and Indian smugglers,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP-Amritsar rural) Gulneet Singh Khurana.He said there were four persons, including Nirmal Singh, alias Sonu Mayer, a notorious smuggler of Gharinda area, who had come to the border to take the consignment. “One more person has been identified as Lovely while our investigation to ascertain the identity of two others is still on,” he added. Sonu Mayer is also wanted in another drug case wherein 1kg of heroin was seized in Tarn Taran district’s Sara-E-Amanat Khan area last year. Police have launched a hunt to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/40kg-heroin-haul-police-identify-malaysia-based-smuggler-as-kingpin-of-racket-101629657019118.html
23-08-2021||Other||Heavy rain causes ₹799 crore damage in Himachal||Heavy rains, floods, cloudbursts, landslides and related incidents have so far claimed 301 lives in Himachal Pradesh so far, besides causing monetary damage amounting to over ₹799 crore, as per the data released by the State Emergency Operations Centre. Eleven people are still missing.As per the report, since June 13 when monsoon entered Himachal, 142 people have died in road accidents while landslides killed 51 people. Ten people died in cloudburst and 28 due to drowning while the remaining casualties occurred in other incidents.Maximum 44 people have died in Kinnaur – the tribal district battered by frequent landslide this year.In a major landslide on July 26, nine people were killed after shooting stones hit a tourist vehicle at Batseri in Sangla area of the district.Twenty-eight people were killed when a major landslide buried a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, an SUV and several other vehicles.As many as 42 people have died in Shimla, 31 in Kangra, and 29 each in Chamba and Sirmaur.The heavy rains have damaged more than 800 houses and 537 cowsheds across state. More than 500 cattle head have been lost.PWD SUFFERS ₹497 CRORE LOSSThe public works department (PWD) has suffered maximum losses amounting to ₹497.75 crore. Infrastructure worth ₹221.18 crores of the Jal Shakti Department was washed out. The power department suffered losses amounting to ₹43.7 crore, agriuculture ₹27.66 crore, and horticulture ₹25.22 crore.The state government, during the recently concluded monsoon session of the state assembly, had said that climate change is affecting not just Himachal and India but the world.Government, in the Vidhan Sabha, had attributed unseasonal rain, hailstorm and snowfall. Besides the extreme weather conditions, deforestation, urbanisation, hydro projects and mining were others reasons stated by the Jal Shakti minister for triggering disasters.Meanwhile, rain triggered landslides caused damage to a make-shift structure on the main Tutti Kandi- Dhalli bypass. A tree was uprooted near Khalining due to landslide on the main Tutti Kandi Khalini bypass, one truck and three cars were also damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rains-causes-799-crore-damage-in-himachal-101629655041709.html
23-08-2021||Pune||Ahead of Maha local body elections all cases against organisers of, participants in bullock cart races withdrawn||With local body elections in Maharashtra drawing closer, the state government has decided to go soft on bullock cart racing. The government has now decided to withdraw all cases against those who participated in bullock cart races, including during lockdowns. A meeting has been organised on Tuesday to explore legal ways to resume the races in Maharashtra. The announcement with regard to withdrawing of cases was made by Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil on Saturday. Walse Patil, while speaking in Ambegaon, said, “We are on the same side here and want to restart races. However there is ban by the Supreme Court, which will not be taking cognisance of your protest. At the same time, the government has decided withdraw all cases across the state against bullock cart owners,” said Walse Patil.Earlier last week, BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar and some 50 others were booked for allegedly organising a bullock cart race in Atpadi tehsil of Sangli, defying a ban on the activity. The race took place in the early hours of Friday near Jhare village, a little away from the venue that was advertised among local residents and where a huge police posse was deployed, an official said. Padalkar said police had told them that the race could create a law and order problem and organisers cooperated. ‘However, we came to know that some other farmers organised a bullock race somewhere else. The state government must respect the sentiments of people and allow such races. It should approach the Supreme Court for resumption of bullock cart races,’ he said. An Atpadi police station official said Padalkar and 41 supporters and some 8-10 unidentified people have been booked under IPC, Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Disaster Management Act provisions. Sangli’s superintendent of police Dikshit Gedam said bullock cart races are banned in the state and action would be taken against those violating it. Maharashtra minister Jayant Patil said a meeting has been organised by the animal husbandry minister to explore if the bullock cart races can resume in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/all-cases-against-organisers-of-participants-in-bullock-cart-races-withdrawn-101629652098100.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Unnerving, crushing fatigue tops post-Covid complaints, say doctors||Bhandup resident Prabhavati Nilve wakes up at 6.30am, but it takes another two hours for her to gather the energy to get out of bed. “The weakness irritates me,” said the 50-year-old who had tested positive for Covid-19 in January, but still struggles from the lingering aftereffects of the viral infection. Nilve, like hundreds of Covid-19 patients battling the long-term impact of the virus, find themselves at the post-Covid outpatient departments (OPDs) often with one question: Why is my body not feeling all right?The second wave in Mumbai may have settled but post-Covid OPDs continue to be busy with patients. The Hindustan Times met Nilve on Thursday at the Fortis Hospital’s post-Covid-OPD in Mulund, the first such clinic that opened in the city last August. A typical day at the OPD sees patients from across the city, many who were admitted for Covid treatment at Fortis, and some like Nilve who were treated at other hospitals but require post-Covid rehabilitation.An IT manager in a pharmaceutical firm, Nilve was admitted to Surana Hospital in Chembur for five days after she tested positive for Covid. Doctors told her that the infection had spread to her lungs and she was put on a cocktail of drugs including steroids, antibiotics and Remdesivir. After discharge, she felt better, but her sugar levels and blood pressure had shot up, for which she had to be put on medication. In May, her palpitations, weakness and shortness of breathing increased so much that she had to be admitted to a local nursing home for four days where she was put on nutritional supplements.“My family doctor told me that the symptoms I was experiencing were all a part of the post-Covid effect,” said Nilve who was among the six patients who visited the OPD on Thursday. This was her second visit to the OPD. “I have become irritable. At times, it’s hard for me to have a conversation with people,” Nilve said, adding that she is also troubled by immense hair fall.According to infectious disease consultant Dr Kirti Sabnis who examined Nilve, nearly 30% of patients complain of severe, debilitating fatigue, unable to resume their daily activities like bathing, cooking, walking or working from home. In some cases, the symptoms persist for two to six months. “It plays on their mind, often making them anxious,” said Sabnis, as she screened the files of a husband-wife duo who had contracted Covid-19 in July. The couple from Vikhroli was on their second post-Covid consultation. The husband had recovered, but the wife who was put on steroids during Covid-19 treatment showed a tendency of high blood sugar. “Blood sugar levels fluctuate generally after patients are put on steroids. You have to exercise and maintain a low carbohydrate diet,” Sabnis told the woman, prescribing them a two-dose pneumococcal vaccine and a single dose influenza vaccine as a precaution against other viral diseases. “After Covid, patients generally have low immunity which makes them susceptible to other viral infections. We, therefore, recommend them to take the flu and pneumonia shots,” she said.Another patient, Sunil Kumar Bandhu, 58, who came from Kharghar, was recovering from a bout of viral infection. He had contracted Covid-19 in August last year and was on his fourth follow up at the OPD. An avid walker, Bandhu had recovered well considering that he had spent 24 days in the hospital on oxygen support battling Covid, 10 of them in the intensive care unit (ICU). “We have observed that people who have been actively exercising recover better. The lung patches also resolve,” said Sabnis, who advised Bandhu to undergo a pulmonary function test (PFT)- a test to determine how well the lungs are functioning.Patients undergo a battery of blood tests during their first visit to the OPD. Those with persistent complaints undergo a chest X-ray, PFT, and high-resolution CT (HRCT) scan of the chest for a better understanding of the impact on their lungs. Typically, post-Covid clinics help patients to build endurance with nutritional supplements and diet planning in addition to breathing exercises for improved lung function. Some patients need bronchodilators, while some have to be eased into simple activities like taking stairs. Doctors said that at least one in 10 patients require counselling, however, most refuse to get a consultation. “Put simply, post-Covid care is like preparing a person for a marathon,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a critical care specialist at Fortis Hospital and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force.Just five months into the pandemic, the Fortis Hospital had started receiving patients with severe myalgia, chronic fatigue, unknown fear, disturbed bowels habits, insomnia and some cases of thrombosis after Covid. “By then, we had realised that there were post-Covid impacts. The medical fraternity across the country had started sharing observations on internal groups, social media, and other platforms,” recalled Sabnis.The KEM Hospital in Parel, Apollo Hospital in Navi Mumbai and some jumbo centres also opened post-Covid care setups due to the increased demand. In the first wave, the Fortis OPD received eight to 10 patients every day. During the second wave, their daily footfall hovered between 10 to 12 patients. The numbers highlight the need for more robust post-Covid setups as we anticipate the third wave amidst widespread Delta variants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/unnerving-crushing-fatigue-tops-post-covid-complaints-says-doctors-101629652039352.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees single Covid death on Sunday||Only one Covid-19 death was reported in the city on Sunday, for the first time since the outbreak of pandemic in city. The toll in the city now stands at 15,947, with a case fatality rate of 2.1%.Mumbai recorded 294 new Covid cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 741,164. Mumbai now has 3,280 active Covid-19 cases. The single death reported in Mumbai on Sunday was a female Covid-19 patient, in the age group of 40 to 60 years. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), she had no comorbidity. The drop in the number of cases and deaths could also be because of the lag in reporting on weekends, according to the officials. During the second wave, the number of deaths reported in a day in Mumbai began to drop to a single digit from the first week of June. Total deaths reported in Mumbai now contributes to 11.7% of total deaths reported in the state, with Maharashtra recording 135,962 cumulative Covid deaths. Alongside the improvement in case fatality rate, the positivity rate in the city has also gone down. On Sunday, Mumbai showed a positivity rate of 0.9%, as BMC conducted 32,616 Covid-19 tests on Saturday. Positivity rate is calculated as a per cent of positive cases reported for the total number of tests done during a particular time frame. Mumbai’s recovery rate has shot up to 97%, and the overall growth rate of cases is 0.04%. The doubling rate for Mumbai has gone up to 2,030 days. The doubling rate is calculated as the number of days taken for the present number of cases to double. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive will continue in Mumbai on Monday between 9am and 5pm. Last week, the drive was suspended on Thursday and Friday, due to a shortage of doses. On Thursday night, BMC received 160,240 vaccine doses. Mangala Gomare, executive health officer said, “Mumbai has sufficient doses to operate all vaccine centres on Monday.” So far, 2,161,939 citizens have completed both doses of the vaccine, and 6,340,138 beneficiaries have received their first shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-single-covid-death-on-sunday-101629651678696.html
23-08-2021||Pune||Army Sports Institute, Pune, at the forefront of India’s sports development||Thirty-four Olympians, 22 Commonwealth Games’ medallists, and 21 Asian Games’ medallists, apart from six medallists at international youth meets – this is what the Army Sports Institute (ASI) has given to Indian sports over the last 21 years.Tokyo Olympian Neeraj Chopra, gold medallist in the javelin throw, trained at ASI during the initial years of his career.Since its inception in July 1, 2001, ASI has been the first choice for Indian athletes to train at, ahead of any multi-national sport event.Ahead of the Tokyo Olympics, India’s boxing contingent trained at the centre, while archers Deepika Kumari and Atanu Das also trained at the ASI.The Indian Boxing Federation of India shifted the national camp to Pune from Delhi after a surge of Covid-19 cases in the national capital in May.At that time, BFI secretary Hemanta Kalita had said, “Considering the safety of boxers, coaches and support staff, we have created a training plan in separate clusters to minimise the risk. These are tough times, we have to be careful, but we also have a job at hand.”Pune was also hit badly by the second Covid wave, but ASI held the camp successfully,” said an ASI coach, requesting anonymity.“We were all ready with our preparation to keep Covid away from ASI and none of the Olympic-bound athletes faced any problem during their training.ASI provides world class facilities for Archery, Athletics, Boxing, Diving, Wrestling, Weightlifting and Fencing. For each discipline we have a batch of separate coaches.The sports science faculty is a key attraction for athletes started when began its ‘Mission Olympics’ programme. The faculty is helping to generate scientific data about athletes’ performances which has made a big difference,” added the coach.The world class facility is helping athletes to produce results on the international stage.Avinash Sable, steeplechase runner who qualified for the Tokyo Olympics, said, “ASI is one of best facilities in the country. It is due to the Army I was able to identify my talent. Easy access to grounds and other training facilities makes it more comfortable to stay at ASI.”Sable did not qualify for the final, although he set a new national record with a timing of 8:18:12 improving his personal best from 8:20:20.“Before coming up with these facilities, the Army researched what other countries are providing to their athletes and then planned a complete structure. That is why it produces results for the country,” added the coach.31 Olympians from defence services who trained at ASIArcherySubedar Tarundeep Rai, VSM - Recurve 2004Subedar Majhi Sawaiyan, VSM - Recurve 2004Subedar Tarundeep Rai, VSM - Recurve 2012Subedar Tarundeep Rai, VSM - Recurve 2020Havaldar Pravin Jadhav - Recurve 2020AthleticsSubedar Surender Singh - 10000M 2008Subedar Irfan KT – 20km walk - 2012Subedar Basant Bahadur Rana – 50km walk 2012Subedar Ram Singh Yadav - Marathon 2012Subedar Sandeep Kumar – 50km walk 2016Subedar Ganpathy K – 50km walk 2016Subedar Gopi T - Marathon 2016Subedar Nitender Singh Rawat - Marathon 2016Subedar Kheta Ram - Marathon 2016Subedar Jinson Johnson - 800M 2016Subedar Arokia Rajiv - 4 x 400 relay 2016Subedar Kunhu Md 4 x 400 relay 2016Subedar Neeraj Chopra Javelin - 2020 (gold medal)Subedar Avinash Sable 3000M S/C 2020Subedar Irfan KT – 20km walk 2020Subedar Sandeep Kumar – 20km walk 2020GDR Rahul 20km walk - 2020Havaldar Gurpreet Singh 50km walk 2020Subedar Arokia Rajiv 4 x 400M mixed relay 2020BoxingSubedar L Debendro Singh, VSM – 49kg 2012 (Bronze) Subedar Amit, VSM 52kg 2020Subedar Manish Kaushik 63kg 2020Subedar Maj Satish Kumar +91kg 2020WeightliftingSubedar Ravi Kumar, VSM 69kg 2012WrestlingSubedar Ravinder Khatri 85kg (GR) 2016Subedar Deepak Punia 86kg (FS) 2020||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-sports-institute-pune-at-the-forefront-of-india-s-sports-development-101629651318180.html
23-08-2021||Pune||Pune varsity opens international student centre’s hostel to Afghan students in city||Afghan students in the city can relocate to Savitribai Phule Pune University’s international student centre’s hostel. We are all in support of Afghan students and will help out in any possible way ,” said SPPU vice-Chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar. Karmalkar speaking at a meeting held with a delegation of Afghans studying in Pune on Saturday.SPPU has launched a helpline for Afghan students studying at the university and it’s affiliated colleges. At the meeting, Afghan students in Pune shared issues and problems they are facing after the crisis began back in Afghanistan with the Taliban takeover.“We are having a serious discussion on fee reduction or even a complete waiver of fees for these students for this academic year. Also, there are students who have completed studies and are in need of jobs. We are working on that as well. We are thinking of extending the scholarships of some students,” said Prof Karmalkar.There are 300 Afghans currently in Pune studying in various universities and colleges. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 70 per cent returned to Afghanistan in the last one year. The Afghanistan Students Association in Pune is coordinating with the Indian Government, embassy, and university about student-related issues and now about visa extensions for most students.Association coordinator Farzana Amiri, a student at the SPPU who was at the meeting said, “Our students delegation met the SPPU vice-chancellor and we conveyed the various issues students are facing currently in Pune. They responded positively and now a dedicated helpline number has been launched for Afghanistan students in Pune.”HelplineHelpline number for Afghanistan students in Pune - 020 25621938||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-opens-international-student-centre-s-hostel-to-afghan-students-in-city-101629649697924.html
23-08-2021||Pune||Pune district: 0.3% of those aged below 20 years have succumbed to Covid-19||Despite anticipation about a third Covid-19 wave affecting children, data shows that 0.3% of those aged below 20 years have succumbed to the Covid-19 infection. Since a Covid-19 vaccine for children is yet to be allowed in the country, those aged below 18 years are thought to be a vulnerable population. The current data shows that of the over 18,575 deaths reported due to Covid-19, 57 deaths are of those below the age of 20 in Pune district.As of August 21, of the 57 deaths of those aged below 20 years, 20 are in the 0-10-year group and 37 are in the 11-20- year age group, which accounts for 0.3% of those who succumbed to Covid-19 in the district.Out of the 57, the maximum deaths were reported from Pune city which is 37. Sixteen are from Pune rural, including villages, nagar parishads and cantonments, and four from PCMC. The mortality rate among children has been constant due to Covid-19. The state had also reported 266 deaths due to the infection in the age group of 0-20 years, of the over 47,000 deaths reported as of December 2020. This puts the mortality rate of this age group at 0.5% in the state.Experts believe that although children could remain symptomatic during the course of a Covid-19 infection, they are highly susceptible to post Covid-19 infections and could also behave as spreaders in the first two weeks of the infection. Dr Sagar Lad, a paediatrician who works as a consultant at multiple city hospitals said, “It is true that children do not show severe symptoms or deaths due to Covid-19. However, the worrying trend is that most children who remain asymptomatic or with mild symptoms during the acute Covid-19 period, could act as a spreader of the infection to others in the family for the first two weeks, and then the post Covid-19 complications begin. The multi-inflammatory syndrome in children, also known as MIS-C, leads to more complications are we are getting a few cases even now. MIS-C primarily includes high grade fever about 102-103 in some cases, diarrhoea, red eyes, rashes on the body and other viral flu like presentation. The reason for this is the high number of IgG antibodies in children which leads to a cytokine storm and thus inflammation and damage to vessels and tissues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-0-3-of-those-aged-below-20-years-have-succumbed-to-covid19-101629649337927.html
23-08-2021||Mumbai||Contempt of court power must be used to protect rights: Bombay HC||The power of contempt of court is to be used not to ‘protect the dignity of the court’ but “to protect and vindicate the right of the people so that the administration of justice is not perverted, prejudiced, obstructed, or interfered with” a bench of the Bombay High Court at Goa led by Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court Dipankar Datta has said.Disposing of a contempt petition filed by Kashinath Shetye, a public spirited person, who had hauled one David Cleaver, a British citizen before the court alleging that he was uploading videos on YouTube making ‘scurrilous’ allegations against the lower judiciary, the High Court ruled that “such content is best treated with contempt, rather than in contempt.”“In such matters, we remind ourselves that it is the people that have a vital stake in the free and effective administration of justice. The Court has the duty of protecting this interest of the community in the due administration of justice and, so, it is entrusted with the power to punish for its contempt. This power is to be only sparingly exercised, not to protect the dignity of the Court against insult or injury, but, to protect and vindicate the right of the people so that the administration of justice is not perverted, prejudiced, obstructed, or interfered with,” the bench of the Chief Justice and Justice M S Sonak, said.“According to us the shoulders of our institution are broad enough to shrug off such scurrilous allegations. The dignity and authority of our judicial institutions are neither dependent on the opinions allegedly expressed nor can the dignity of our institution and its officers be tarnished by such stray slights or irresponsible content. Such content, allegedly uploaded by respondent no.1 (David Cleaver) is best treated with contempt, rather than in contempt particularly (he) has neither bothered to cite any specific instances nor bothered to lodge any complaints backed by even, prima facie, credible material,” the High Court said.The High Court said that after inquiries, comments were revealed to be ‘irresponsible’ and were possibly used by “some disgruntled litigants.”“Therefore to take this matter any further might only serve to feed the publicity craze of those that have uploaded this content to provoke rather than out of some concern to bring to fore some genuine grievance concerning the administration of justice in Goa,” the High Court said.Shetye, who appeared in person had alleged that Cleaver by making false and scurrilous allegations against some judicial officers of the District Judiciary and uploading this content on Youtube and Whatsapp has committed criminal contempt. He also received consent from the Advocate General before filing the petition.The Court agreed that the content “prima facie’’ is quite contumacious and might, if established, constitute criminal contempt. But said it preferred not to proceed with the matter since it was “better to proceed with confidence in our institutions and our judicial officers who function to the best of their abilities without fear or favor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/power-of-contempt-to-be-used-not-to-protect-dignity-of-court-but-right-of-people-bombay-hc-chief-justice-101629618077732.html
