26-08-2021||Mumbai||Police seal Nagpur’s 200-year-old red light area||Days after clamping section 144 of the CrPC in city’s Red-Light district in central Nagpur – Ganga Jamuna – following complaints of open solicitation by commercial sex workers, the Nagpur police Thursday banned prostitution in the area for two months. The flesh trade has been running at Ganga Jamuna for the last 20 years from the Bhonsale regime. Issuing a notification under the Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act (PITA), Nagpur commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar warned of legal action against those flouting the orders. With the ban in place, the police can now jail a person found indulging in prostitution in the area. As per the notification issued under Section 7(1) (b) of PITA, the CP has power to notify public places within a distance of 200 meters of which prostitution cannot be carried by any person on any premises. The police have appealed to the citizens to send their objection by email to the commissioner’s office or submit a written complaint at CP Office, Nagpur. “It was brought to my notice that several offences have been registered during the last five years under PITA for carrying out prostitution in or in the vicinity of Balaji Mandir, Chinteshwar Mandir, Baba Kamlishah Dargah, Durga Devi Mandir, Sharda Devi Mandir, Radha Swami Satsang, NMC’s Chinteshwar Hindi Primary School, Hindustan High School (all these places are situated in the vicinity of Ganga Jamuna),” stated the notification. “The premises within a distance of 200 meters from the above referred public places shall not be used for the purpose of prostitution and hereby it is declared that the violation of notification will attract liability and prosecution of such violator, under Section 7 (1-A), Section 7 (2) (a), 2 (b) and 2 (c) of PITA and relevant Sections of law, depending upon the nature of violation.” The statistics issued by Nagpur police prove that minors were forced into flesh trade in the Ganga Jamuna area. The police have rescued 109 minors from here in the last 10 years and as many as 1,137 accused persons were booked by the police during the period. Senior Nationalist Congress Party leader Jwala Dhote, who is the daughter of once stormy petrol of Vidarbha, late Jambuwantrao Dhote, condemned the police action and launched an agitation along with sex workers. “Police cannot take such arbitrary action without providing the (CSWs) an alternative employment,” she insisted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-seal-nagpur-s-200-year-old-red-light-area-101630002563630.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||SGPGI Lucknow gets NABH accreditation||The Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) has been recognised by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH), a body set up to establish and operate hospital accreditation programmes and set benchmarks for health sector. SGPGI is the only medical institute in UP to have got the NABH accreditation, according to a press release issued by the institute. The Institutional Ethics Committee (IEC) of SGPGIMS that functions as per the guidelines and the drug and clinical trial rules of the government successfully completed the NABH survey, the release added. Professor Vinita Agrawal, member secretary of IEC, informed that SGPGIMS has one of the oldest IEC which was constituted in 1988. “Through rich contributions of doyens like late Prof BN Dhawan, the IEC has maintained a rich tradition of following guidelines and upholding the interests and safety of participants. About 350 projects including clinical trials are reviewed each year,” Professor Agrawal said. The IEC of SGPGIMS has also received international recognition and has been awarded thrice consecutively in 2011, 2015 and 2018 with the prestigious award from International Forum for Ethical Review Committees in Asia and the Western Pacific Region (FERCAP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sgpgi-lucknow-gets-nabh-accreditation-101630002323700.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 14 Covid cases in a month, Kandivli residential complex sealed||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday sealed a residential complex of five buildings in Kandivli (West) after 14 Covid-19 cases were found in a period of one month. Civic officials said eight of the 14 patients have recovered. However, none of these 14 cases were of Delta or Delta plus variant, clarified BMC. Sandhya Nandekar, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC’s R-South Ward that covers Kandivli, said, “We got 14 cases in one housing society complex due to which we sealed it as per the protocol. However, there is no reason to panic considering these 14 cases have been reported over the past one month and eight people have recovered.” The BMC said the cases started coming from two families and later others in the housing society also tested positive. They were symptomatic. Overall, in Kandivli, five Delta plus variant cases have been reported in the last one month and all five have recovered, according to BMC officials. Overall, the civic body has sealed 22 and 1,089 floors in the city. The BMC seals a part of the building only when multiple cases of Covid are detected in a housing society. In case of one or two isolated cases, only the particular floor of the building is sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-14-covid-cases-in-a-month-kandivli-residential-complex-sealed-101630002085067.html
26-08-2021||Other||Who stands to gain with single-member ward systems in PMC, PCMC||PUNE The state election commission on Wednesday asked government to prepare a draft report for delimitation of wards under the single-ward system in 18 municipal corporations including Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The new system – a deviation from current four-member ward system in Pune - can lead to massive defections, political leaders observed. Some Congress leaders said a single-member ward is more beneficial to the Maha Vikas Agadi (an alliance of Congress-NCP-Shiv Sena ruling the state) than the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in power in the PMC. Leaders from the local BJP unit demanded two- member wards in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “NCP is ready to contest elections under any structure. But we are hoping that the state government would have two -member wards for Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.”Political observers noted that those with a strong network of workers can be beneficiaries, while others wanting to ride their party’s image can suffer under the single-member system. For BJP and NCP, the new system may not be very beneficial, while for Congress, which is struggling to get a foothold in Pune, it can provide some relief. NCP sources however, maintained that the party is considering that if the two-member ward structure is allowed, it would be more helpful for the party to win maximum seats. A senior BJP member from the city accepted that the single and two-member ward structure is more helpful for the MVA. The BJP wants to fight the PMC elections on the basis of the party’s overall image, instead of relying on candidates. The BJP currently rules the PMC with 99 corporators, while NCP has 42, Congress has 10, Shiv Sena has 10 and the MNS has 2 corporators in the house of 164 members. A BJP leader, speaking anonymously said, “Now that the MVA is ruling in the state, they will make the ward system convenient to them. There are some pockets in each city, which are favourable for specific parties. So the ward structure makes a difference.” With the merger of 23 villages under PMC, the tally of corporators is likely to go up to 166. As per the reservation system for local bodies, 50% of wards have to be reserved for women. The BJP, with a strong women’s wing, may benefit under this system. Congress and Shiv Sena are both comfortable with single-member wards in the city. Congress leader Aba Bagul and Sena leader Prithviraj Chavan said, “We are happy with the present single-member ward structure and are ready to contest. The state government will take the final decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/who-stands-to-gain-with-single-member-ward-systems-in-pmc-pcmc-101630001662995.html
26-08-2021||Other||NGO, Kirloskar Vasundhara launch project with schools to revive Ram nadi||PUNE World Water Week, observed from August 23 to 27 is an annual event that focuses on global water issues. Organised by the Stockholm International Water Institute since 1991, the theme this year is “Building Resilience Faster”.On the occasion, the Ram Nadi Rejuvenation mission and the Kirloskar Vasundhara foundation inaugurated a new project involving school students to help restore the Ram nadi (river).“We have selected 25 schools which are along the 19km stretch of the Ram nadi. Teachers will be trained to introduce the Ram nadi to their students. Most of the schools are corporation schools and there are some public schools,” said Virendra Chitrav, co-ordinator, Kirloskar Vasundhara.“The teachers will be trained by to look at the history of rivers and how human culture has grown and flourished along rivers. Evidence that many human cultures have been lost due to the disappearance of rivers can be seen in the history of human beings,” Chitrave said, adding that the plan is to revive the Ram nadim, which is in a very bad condition.Managing director of Kirloskar Pneumatics, Dr Suresh Mijar said, “We have to give to society the values that Shantanurao Kirloskar inculcated many decades ago. Thus, we have joined this NGO and participated in the river revival work. The teacher is considered to be a sensitive and responsible factor. The stories told through them are instilled in the minds of children at a receptive age in an effective manner. Therefore, the role of teachers will be important in the rehabilitation of rivers.”This school campaign was launched on Wednesday in the presence of Chandrakant Patil, along with managing director of Kirloskar Pneumatics, Dr Suresh Mijar, Pune Municipal Corporation education board president Manjushree Khardekar, Anil Gaikwad from Vasundhara Abhiyaan, corporator Swapnali Saikar, and corporator Jyoti Kalamkar in Baner.Saving the Ram nadiThe Ram nadi flows through Khatpewadi, Bhugaon, Bhukum, Bavdhan, Pashan, Baner and Aundh and has been in a troubled state for decades. Years of uncontrolled dumping of garbage and untreated waste have nearly destroyed the ecological diversity of the river.In 2015, the National Green Tribunal, while responding to complaints of encroachment and dumping of garbage, had called for a stop to all construction along the river’s banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngo-kirloskar-vasundhara-launch-project-with-schools-to-revive-ram-nadi-101630001603766.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||MCDs illegally waived licence fee for BJP, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) of illegally waiving the licence fee for contractors who put up advertisement hoardings and billboards, thereby perpetrating financial irregularities to the tune of ₹2,640 crore.“The MCDs have acted against the law. They have maliciously and illegally waived the entire licence fee for advertisement contractors. The BJP is conspiring with contractors to get free advertisements in return for waiving the licence fee amounting to crores of rupees. The BJP manipulated advertisement contractors to put up hoardings in Delhi for free,” said AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj in a press conference at the party head office in central Delhi.He further said, “The BJP-ruled MCDs could have earned ₹2,640 crore in advertising revenue, but the BJP is looting that money through corruption. Minutes of the standing committee meeting were illegally changed to cover up BJP’s scam.”Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor dismissed the allegations and said the AAP leaders are frustrated after the exposure of the financial irregularities taking place in the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) since 2015, when AAP first came to power. “Nobody knows where loans amounting to ₹60,000 crore, taken by the DJB in past 7 years, have gone. Similarly they are frustrated because a CBI inquiry has been ordered Into the DTC scam. To save face, AAP leaders are raising baseless allegations against the three MCDs regarding the advertising revenue. Everybody knows that private companies are not spending on ads and advertising contractors are in loss. Trying to correlate that with the party’s political advertising is a concocted theory,” he said. The BJP had earlier alleged irregularities in the Delhi government’s procurement of new buses, which they had termed the “DTC scam”.Kapoor said Bhardwaj should first tell the people of Delhi who had paid for the hundreds of hoardings put up by AAP leaders, greeting CM Arvind Kejriwal on his birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-illegally-waived-licence-fee-for-bjp-alleges-aap-101630000882903.html
26-08-2021||Other||Delhi Police arrest gunrunners who supplied arms to alleged Khalistani activists||New Delhi: The Delhi police on Thursday said that they have arrested two gunrunners from Madhya Pradesh who allegedly provided funds to purported Khalistani activists.Police said the two men Rajender Singh Barnala,22, and Bablu Singh,30, were arrested on Wednesday from north Delhi’s Rohini area with 18 semi-automatic pistols and 60 live cartridges.Sanjeev Yadav, deputy commissioner of police(special cell), said the police had inputs that alleged Khalistanis were in touch with illegal firearms suppliers from Madhya Pradesh. “We learnt that these weapons suppliers were operating on social media platforms, where radical groups of Khalistan supporters and gangsters were getting in touch with them to buy weapons. We were watching their activities,” Yadav said.Police said they were monitoring some social media accounts for the past three months. “More than three months of surveillance led the team to a private Facebook page dedicated to the Khalistan movement. Access to this page was denied as the group was private. Technical approaches were used to gain access to the page and it was kept under surveillance. A person was posting photos and videos of firearms for sale on the account. A virtual phone number given on the handle was cracked by the special cell team,” Yadav said.Monitoring of the cell phone number led to information that two men associated with the racket will be coming to Karala -Barwala road in Rohini area on Wednesday around 8.30pm. A police team arrested the two suspects from the spot, DCP Yadav said. During interrogation, Rajender said many people from Barwani town in Madhya Pradesh were engaged in this racket. He said the firearms were sent through human ‘couriers’. Initial investigation has shown that the two suspects learnt to run the racket online from members of the Lawrence Bishnoi group. Bishnoi is a notorious gangster who has criminal cases registered against him in Delhi, Rajasthan and Punjab. “Rajender Singh told the police that the used to supply illegal weapons to Khalistani activists in Punjab. He used to communicate through social media and other apps to avoid detection by the police,” added Yadav. During questioning, Rajender told the police the they used to sell a pistol for ₹25,000- ₹50,000.The other suspect, Bablu Singh is Rajender’s relative, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-arrest-gunrunners-who-supplied-arms-to-alleged-khalistani-activists-101630000823666.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 5,108 new cases with 159 deaths||Maharashtra on Thursday breached the 5,000-mark for the second day in a row as it recorded 5,108 new Covid-19 cases and 159 deaths.Mumbai’s saw 398 new cases with seven deaths.The state’s Covid-19 tally has now reached 6,442,788, while the toll stands at 136,730. There were 2,07,265 tests done on Sunday while the number of recoveries clocked 4,736. There are currently 50,393 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 13,085 patients followed by Thane with 7,092 active patients and Satara with 5,381.The state government is likely to request the state election commission to postpone the forthcoming municipal corporation and district council election to prevent escalation in the Covid cases. The issue was also discussed at length at the state’s cabinet meeting. State health minister Rajesh Tope said “The third wave is imminent; hence it would be better if elections can be postponed in Maharashtra. Chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray), deputy chief minister (Ajit Pawar) and members of the state task force will explain to the concerned authority why it is necessary to postpone polls in the state.”“We want the state election commission not to make any announcement before consulting the state government as we all are worried about the anticipated third wave,” said a senior minister on conditions of anonymity.Tope even held a telephonic meeting with the Kerala health minister after the state recorded 31,455 cases on Wednesday. “Kerala’s health minister told me that there was a surge in the number of cases after the Onam festival. They have now increased the rate of testing,” said Tope.“We will be appointing 1,200 doctors by September 5. In addition, the 1,200 metric tons of oxygen is being increased to 2,000 metric tons. We have purchased 1,000 ambulances and have taken ₹5,000 crore loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for the construction of hospitals,” said Tope. “We had 6.5 lakh active patients during the second wave and this time, we anticipate 13 lakh active patients. We have beefed up our infrastructure to accommodate them,” said Tope.He added that the Central government has promised to give 18 million doses to Maharashtra, which is an increase of five million from the previous month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-5-108-new-cases-with-159-deaths-101630000763839.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Work on 100-bed mother, child ward to be completed by Oct 15: Jain||Anticipating a third wave of Covid-19 that may affect children more than adults, state health minister Satyender Jain said the Delhi government has decided to complete the construction of a mother and child ward with over 100 beds by October 15. On Thursday, Jain visited the under-construction site with chief of Delhi Commission for Women Swati Maliwal. This comes a day after the minister inaugurated a 30-bed rapid response centre for Covid-19 patients at Rajeev Gandhi Superspecialty Hospital, that will provide immediate treatment to patients down with the viral infection even before admission. “These wards at the LNJP hospital will be equipped with all necessary Covid-19 related medical facilities like oxygen beds, ventilators, and ICUs. October 15 has been set as the deadline for the construction of these wards,” said Jain. The Delhi government plans to keep 37,000 beds, including 12,000 ICU beds, ready across hospitals and makeshift facilities as part of its preparation for the third wave. During the April-May surge in Covid-19 cases, over 20,000 people with the infection were admitted at a go across facilities, according to the government data. The city ran out of ICU beds in April-end when there were just over 4,700 ICU beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients.The number was further scaled up to over 6,000 in May. “We are closely monitoring the situation in Delhi and all the necessary lessons are being taken from the previous Covid-19 waves to form appropriate policies in the public interest. The Kejriwal government is focused on strengthening the bed capacity of the Delhi government hospitals to ensure high-quality treatment that is accessible to all, in case there is a third wave of Covid-19,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/work-on-100-bed-mother-child-ward-to-be-completed-by-oct-15-jain-101630000643016.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Forest dept plants over 1,000 saplings along Ghazipur drain to mask stench||To mask the stench from the Ghazipur drain, the Delhi forest department has started a mega plantation drive around the sewer, one of the largest in the city, senior officials said. Aditya Madanpotra, deputy conservator forests (central division), said the plantation drive along the Ghazipur drain started earlier this month and, so far, the department had planted nearly 1,100 saplings along the drain. “The idea behind this drive is to filter out the foul smell from the drain and to increase the green cover in the area. This season, over 1,100 saplings have been planted along the drain,” said Madanpotra. According to the government’s irrigation and flood control department records, the Ghazipur drain in north-east Delhi spans a length of 6.24km and has a catchment area of 6,741 hectares. The profuse discharge of untreated sewage into the drain has resulted in high toxicity and a foul stench permeating the areas nearby the drain. The regular dumping of solid waste has also worsened the situation, officials said. Senior forest department officials said plantation along the Ghazipur drain is a pilot project, and if it yields the desired results, such drives will be carried out alongside other major drains in the city. “The science behind increasing the green cover along a natural drain is that trees and shrubs absorb a large amount of pollutants and toxicity released from the drain. As years go by, and the area becomes greener, the trees will also act as a natural boundary and discourage encroachments on the drain,” said a forest official, requesting anonymity. The official further said, “After some time, these trees and shrubs will create a natural ecosystem and help replenish the soil.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/forest-dept-plants-over-1-000-saplings-along-ghazipur-drain-to-mask-stench-101630000583801.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC dismisses plea challenging reserved treatment facilities for govt officials||The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed a plea by a Delhi based doctor challenging the decision of the Delhi government to link four hotels with two hospitals for the treatment of government officials and their families during the second wave of Covid-19. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said there was no merit in the contentions raised by petitioner Kaushal Kant Mishra who argued that creating such exclusive facilities for officials violated the fundamental rights of the citizens of Delhi, who were deprived of Covid-19 treatment owing to limited resources.The court refused to accept the submission of the petitioner’s counsel that resources of the state remained unutilised due to the exclusive reservation of facilities for government officials and their families. It said the plea has not considered the ground reality during the second wave.In an April 27 notification, the Delhi government had reserved 240 rooms in four hotels and linked them to two hospitals for Covid-19 treatment of officials of various public authorities and their families.According to the notification, 70 rooms in Hotel Ginger at Vivek Vihar, 50 rooms in Hotel Park Plaza in Shahdara, and 50 rooms in Hotel Leela Ambience at CBD Ground in Karkardooma were linked to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and all the rooms in Hotel Golden Tulip at Hari Nagar were linked to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital (DDU) for the treatment of officers/officials of the Delhi government, autonomous bodies, corporations, local bodies and their families.On Wednesday, while dictating a part of the order, the court questioned how the government machinery would have functioned if its employees were not assured treatment.“The wheels of administration in the NCT of Delhi would have come to a grinding halt without this much assurance to the officials that they will receive treatment, they would not have been able to discharge their duties without fear,” the bench had said.“We are not living in ivory towers. We were seeing what was happening in the city during the second wave on a daily basis. Thousands of people were looking at the state for some relief…In our view such officers clearly constitute a different class on account of their duties which they were required to perform during the peak of the pandemic. They were required to come to duties by stepping out of the comfort of their homes and they had no option to remain inside,” the court had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-challenging-reserved-treatment-facilities-for-govt-officials-101630000583060.html
26-08-2021||Other||PM to dedicate renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial to country on Saturday||AMRITSAR Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh Samarak to the nation on Saturday at 6.25pm, via video-conferencing. He will also inaugurate the museum galleries developed at the Samarak. A Press Information Bureau (PIB) said the four museum galleries showcase the historical value of events that unfolded in Punjab during that period, with the fusion of audio-visual technology, including projection mapping and 3D representation. A sound and light show has been set up to display the events that happened on April 13, 1919.Multiple development initiatives have been undertaken at the complex. Elaborate heritage restoration works have been carried out in sync with the local architectural style of Punjab. The Shaheedi Well has been repaired and restored with a redefined super structure. The heart of the Bagh, the flame monument, has been repaired and restored, the water body rejuvenated as a lily pond, and the pathways made broader. Newer areas have been developed for housing the Salvation Ground, Amar Jyot and Flag Mast.Union minister of culture; Union minister of housing and urban affairs, ministers of state for culture, the governor and the Punjab CM; CMs of Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh; all Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs from Punjab, members of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, among others, will be present, virtually, on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-to-dedicate-renovated-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-to-country-on-saturday-101630000403650.html
26-08-2021||Kolkata||All teachers administered Covid vaccine jabs: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that all teachers in the state have been inoculated with Covid-19 vaccines, a day after Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said two crore additional doses will be made available across the country for them.Banerjee, after chairing a meeting of health department officials, also said that the state is "prepared to tackle the possible third wave" of the Covid-19 pandemic, and priority for vaccination was being accorded to parents of children who are 12 years of age and below.Chief secretary HK Dwivedi, transport minister and chairman of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, were also present at the meeting.Amid concerns that the third wave might pose a greater threat to kids, the chief minister said, "We are trying to prioritise vaccination of parents of children who are 12 years old and below. Around 10,000 beds have been readied for handling the third wave. Also, we have vaccinated 100 per cent of the teachers," the CM, who holds the health portfolio, told reporters at Kolkata's SSKM hospital.Mandaviya had on Wednesday said that more than two crore additional doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be distributed among states this month for vaccinating all school teachers on priority before Teachers’ Day on September 5. The CM, while talking to the reporters, further said that experienced nurses and those who have put up exceptional performances would be promoted to the post of "practitioner sisters".They will have responsibilities "quite similar to that of the doctors", she said. "These nurses can pitch in when there is a dearth of doctors. The health department will come out with an official guideline in the matter," she added.Banerjee stated that quack doctors in the state’s rural areas will be given adequate training and asked to serve at primary health centres. Lauding all healthcare professionals for their hard work and dedication amid the pandemic, she said that a 10-acre land will be allotted by her government for doctors and nurses to build a housing complex. A decision has also been taken to set up a hostel on Lee Road here for the doctors and nurses of state-run SSKM hospital, she underlined. The CM said she would hold another meeting on the health infrastructure of the state on September 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/all-teachers-administered-covid-vaccine-jabs-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-101629999410324.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad HC says custodial deaths 'concern for civilised society'||The Allahabad High Court has refused bail to a policeman, accused of causing custodial death of a man, observing that "custodial violence, custodial torture and custodial deaths have always been a concern for civilised society". Rejecting the bail application of Sher Ali, Justice Samit Gopal quoted the judicial verdict of the apex court passed in the case of DK Basu vs State of West Bengal where the Supreme Court had expressed its anguish over custodial deaths and had issued guidelines for arrest in order to check such incidents. In the present case, complainant Sanjay Kumar Gupta alleged that on December 28, 1997, some policemen came to his house and took away his father Gokrakhnath alias Om Prakash Gupta. Later, he was told by the policemen that his father died due to heart attack. Denying the version given by the police, Gupta alleged that his father was mercilessly and inhumanly assaulted due to which he died in the police station. The FIR was registered against Ali under section 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 304 (culpable homicide) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-says-custodial-deaths-concern-for-civilised-society-101629997229782.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||Urdu poet Munawwar Rana’s son gets bail within hours of arrest||A Rae Bareli court on Thursday granted bail to Urdu poet Munawwar Rana’s son Tabrez Rana just hours after he was arrested on Wednesday night for allegedly scripting an attack on himself with the intent of framing his relatives, said his lawyer.Tabrez was arrested from his house in Lucknow after a Rae Bareli court issued a non-bailable warrant against him for not appearing before the court on August 13 in the matter.His lawyer Yassab Rizvi said the arrest was against the Allahabad high court order of not initiating proceedings against Tabrez Rana under IPC section 307 for attempt to murder.The lawyer said an application has also been forwarded to additional director general (ADG) zone, SN Sabat, about the suspicious role of Rae Bareli police in the entire incident. “The complainant has demanded action against the Rae Bareli police as it was violation of his rights as he was arrested with the intent of harassment,” Rizvi said.Sharing further details, the lawyer said Tabrez had alleged that two motorcycle-borne shooters had opened fire on his SUV when he had stopped at a petrol pump under the Rae Bareli city police station limits on June 28. He said four people reported to have been involved in the attack were arrested on July 2 and they alleged that the attack was planned with the consent of Tabrez.According to police, Tabrez had sold off his 18 biswa land in February this year. It was his parental property and his other relatives also had a share in it. Tabrez’s relatives were raising objection on the issue and demanding their share, after which he allegedly hired shooters to stage the attack on his SUV with the intent of framing his relatives.The lawyer said the Rae Bareli police had initially registered the FIR under IPC section 307 for attempt to murder on June 28 but later added section 211 for framing a person after self-scripting the attack and section 120-B for criminal conspiracy. He said the police were initiating proceedings against Tabrez Rana under IPC section 307 but high court on July 13, 2021 had ordered not to take action under this section while the remaining two sections 211 and 120-B were bailable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/urdu-poet-munawwar-rana-s-son-gets-bail-within-hours-of-arrest-101629998423774.html
26-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram murder spree: Statements of accused, family members contradictory, say cops||The police said they found contradictions in statements given by the family members of a 59-year-old retired army subedar, who surrendered to the police after allegedly killing his daughter-in-law and three tenants at his Sector 105 residence on Tuesday. They will take the suspect to the crime scene to establish the correct sequence of events, officials said.“The suspects, their son and daughter are changing their statements during questioning. On Thursday, they changed their statements at least seven times,” Deepak Saharan, the deputy commissioner of police, who is investigating the case, said.“Although we have recorded his statement and his wife’s statement, before she was sent to judicial custody, the sequence of events will be recorded on camera. We want to match both the sequences to complete our dossier and this will be recorded for further proceedings,” Saharan said. He said the police were analysing CCTV footage, call detail records and other sources to fill the gaps pertaining to the four murders that are likely to have taken place between 2am and 5am on Tuesday. According to the police, the main suspect, Rao Rai Singh, told them that he killed his daughter-in-law, Sunita Yadav, 40, over a suspicion that she was having an extramarital affair with a tenant, Krishan Tiwari, 45. Singh allegedly confessed to also having killed the tenant, his wife Anamika Tiwari, 35 and their nine-year-old daughter. A three-year-old daughter of the tenant survived the attack and was reported to be stable on Wednesday evening, after undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. She was attacked four times on her head, neck, arms and chest, the police said. A day after Singh’s surrender, the police arrested his wife, Bimlesh Yadav, 55, for her alleged involvement.Saharan said that during the investigation, they found that Singh had been previously married and Bimlesh Yadav is his second wife. “His first wife died in mysterious circumstances within 10 months of getting married. She was cremated without a post-mortem examination. We are trying to check from her relatives and family members regarding Singh’s conduct,” Saharan said.The police said that besides Singh’s son, a lawyer at the Gurugram court who claimed to be in Rajasthan at the time of the murders, they also questioned his daughter, who lives with her husband and in-laws in another part of the city. “The son of the suspect who was in Rajasthan when the crime took place has given evidence of his presence in a religious place but we are yet to establish the same,” Saharan said. Saharan said that they analysed the son’s mobile phone and found it suspicious that there were only a few selfies from different locations earlier this week, but no other photos of the places he had visited. “We have checked his mobile and have scanned the data. He has only clicked selfies on Monday and Tuesday, which is unusual. We have recovered CCTV footage from a few locations and our three teams visited different spots in Rajasthan to check his sequence of events,” he said. The family members and relatives of Sunita Yadav said they would meet the police commissioner on Friday and approach the court to get legal custody of her nine-year-old daughter, who was sleeping on the first floor at the time of the incident. The three-year-old daughter of the tenants will be taken to Siwan in Bihar by her relatives on Monday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-murder-spree-statements-of-accused-family-members-contradictory-say-cops-101629997883460.html
26-08-2021||Gurugram||Vaccine mixup at Sector 49 session site||An incident of Covid-19 vaccine mixup was reported from a government-run session site at Rosewood City in Sector 49 on Wednesday, when a 22-year-old beneficiary who had taken the first shot of Covaxin was inoculated with Covishield. “The man had taken the first shot of Covaxin. At the site, when our team asked for the first dose certificate, he could not show it. The vaccinating officer refused to give him the shot but he assured to that he would ask a friend to send the certificate through WhatsApp. A few minutes after getting vaccinated, he realised that he had to be given Covaxin and not Covishield,” Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said.The beneficiary, Harteerath Singh, refuted the allegations made by the health department. “The vaccination centre had both the vaccines. I showed the certificate at the site. Then the staff asked me to wait while they were feeding the details into the portal. Thereafter, they vaccinated me and congratulated me on getting the second dose of Covishield. I panicked upon hearing that I was given Covishield and reached out to a senior medical officer about the mixup done by the vaccinator. I was kept under observation for nearly two hours,” said Teerath.He said he took the vaccine shot at the Tigra urban primary health centre around 11.20am on Wednesday and developed fever and body ache on Thursday. He works as a community development director with a non-governmental organisation. However, health department officials denied that the side effects were due to the vaccine mixup.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “We are inquiring into the matter.”On Wednesday, Singh had tweeted: “First dose Covaxin, second dose Covishield despite showing the certificate. Please advise urgently on what to do.” In a second tweet on Wednesday night, he tweeted: “I am educated enough to know the difference between two kinds of vaccine and won’t suddenly realise. Even the doctor at the vaccination centre admitted to human error.”This is the third case of vaccine mixup in Haryana after similar incidents in Kaithal and Mahendergarh. Dr VK Paul, the head of India’s Covid-19 task force, on May 27 said that vaccine mixups are unlikely to have any significant health impact.In May, a major controversy erupted after a group of villagers in Siddharth Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh were given mixed doses. Studies are ongoing to understand the mix-and-match approach to Covid-19 vaccines for protection against coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccine-mixup-at-sector-49-session-site-101629997829329.html
26-08-2021||Gurugram||Offices reminded to strictly follow Covid-19 safeguards||With government and private offices starting to reopen with full staff strength, the health department on Thursday reached out to the district administration and police commissioner’s office to circulate an advisory on the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by offices for preventing transmission of the Covid-19 infection.“As directed by the state health department on Thursday, both government and private offices have to follow the office SOPs to prevent Covid-19 infection from spreading. The district administration will be circulating the advisory to all corporate offices and industrial units that are running with full attendance. Even as the daily Covid-19 cases are on a downward trend, offices will have to follow appropriate Covid-19 behaviour, observe social distancing and ensure their staff is fully vaccinated,” Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said.The district on Thursday reported six new cases of coronavirus infection. At least 72 cases are currently active, while the total tally is 181,039. The death toll is 922.According to Yadav, offices will have to follow SOPs issued by the union ministry of health and family welfare on February 13 this year. This includes symptom checks at entrances, extra precautions for workers who are at a higher risk of contracting the infection, like older people, pregnant women and those with underlying health conditions, mask hygiene at all times inside the offices, restrictions on the number of people in elevators and regular sanitisation of office premises in case positive cases are detected.The district administration officials are also preparing for a possible third Covid-19 wave and met representatives of private companies regarding the installation of Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants for medical use.Additional deputy commissioner Vishram Kumar Meena said that 14 oxygen plants will be installed in the district under Corporate Social Responsibility, of which six plants have been set up by Maruti Suzuki India Private Limited and one by Powergrid, which is the biggest oxygen plant in the state with a capacity to generate 1,650 litres per minute ( LPM). In a statement issued by the district administration, the remaining plants to be set up by other companies are in the process of being installed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/offices-reminded-to-strictly-follow-covid-19-safeguards-101629997827762.html
26-08-2021||Gurugram||Multilevel car parks to come up near Iffco Chowk Metro station, Sector 29||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) will develop two multilevel parking facilities near Kingdom of Dreams in Sector 29 and the Iffco Chowk Metro station, a letter issued by the office of the chief administrator, HSVP, stated. Tenders for these two facilities will be floated next month.These two facilities will have the capacity to accommodate 2,500 cars in total, while 30% of the space will be allocated for commercial operations.According to the letter, the facility in Sector 29 will be constructed on 2.2 acres and will be able to accommodate 1,100 cars. Likewise, the facility site near Iffco Chowk Metro station is being planned on 2.89 acres, with a capacity to accommodate up to 1,450 cars.Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, Gurugram, said that there is an acute need to increase designated parking spaces in the city as the number of vehicles has increased over the years. “On weekends, parking space is difficult to get in Sector 29 and with people returning to offices, more space (for parking) would be needed on MG Road. After the creation of these facilities, there is a need to strictly enforce traffic rules and ensure vehicles are parked in these spaces. This will end traffic jams and reduce congestion on city roads,” he said.To prepare a detailed tender for these two projects, a committee comprising superintending engineer one, estate officer two and senior officials from accounts and related departments was created, while another committee, headed by the chief administrator of Gurugram, will evaluate the bidders.“The recommendation of the above said committee shall be put up to the chief administrator, HSVP, for arranging the formal approval of the competent authority i.e meeting of the authority, under the chairmanship of chief minister cum chairman, HSVP,” stated the letter (a copy of which is with HT) issued by the additional chief engineer, headquarters, chief administrator, HSVP, Panchkula.Amit Arya, a media advisor to the Haryana chief minister, who is the HSVP chairman, said, “Two such facilities are already coming up in Old Gururgam and these two in sector 29 and near Iffco Chowk will help in decongesting busy roads. The projects will also include commercial space and this will make it a viable option as well.”As a part of the 30% commercial component, the facilities can have restaurants, shopping malls and automobile showrooms. These will be developed on a build-own-transfer basis and the height of these buildings would be 30 metres. The project will have to be developed in 21 months from the date of start, the letter stated.Prof Sewa Ram, a transport expert with the School of Planning and Architecture, Delhi, said that the parking facilities are required near Iffco Chowk and in Sector 29, as both are commercial and corporate hubs with a high volume of traffic. “There is a metro station near both these places and lot activities take place in malls and corporate offices, while residents also frequent these areas. This move will reduce on-street parking but the key would be offering parking at the right price. It is also important that last-mile connectivity is also facilitated,” he said.These two multilevel facilities would be in addition to the facilities being developed at Sadar Bazar and Kaman Sarai by the Municipal Corporation Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/multilevel-car-parks-to-come-up-near-iffco-chowk-metro-station-sector-29-101629997824773.html
26-08-2021||Gurugram||Key new sector road from Dhankot Chowk to Delhi to be repaired by GMDA||A key 11-kilometre unnamed road between Dhankot Chowk and Delhi-Haryana border will be repaired and upgraded by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) from October, officials said on Thursday.The stretch between sectors 99 and 115, running parallel to the Dwarka Expressway, provides new sector residents connectivity with areas in Delhi, such as Sector 29 in Dwarka, IGI Airport, Chhawla, and other parts of southwest and west Delhi. The stretch also runs parallel to the Najafgarh drain.With the construction of the Dwarka Expressway still underway, there is a high volume of traffic on this six-lane, 75-metre wide stretch throughout the day. Barring a two-kilometre portion between New Palam Vihar and Delhi border, which was constructed in 2018, the remaining nine kilometres are heavily pothole-ridden.To fix this, the GMDA on Wednesday floated a tender for hiring a contractor to maintain the stretch for one year. GMDA officials said that the contractor will carry out patchwork, which primarily involves filling potholes and levelling the stretch, from October.“The sector 99-115 stretch is among many roads across the city that was constructed by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in the early 2000s. The liability period of such roads is over and traffic patterns have changed. The rationale behind original road designs have also changed dramatically over time,” Shweta Sharma, the executive engineer of infrastructure division 1, GMDA, said.Sharma, who floated a ₹1.87 crore tender on behalf of the GMDA, said that all roads are designed with a life span of five years for the top layer and 15 years for sub-layers.“The life spans of both the top layer and sub-layers are over. Through augmentation, special repairs, annual maintenance of major stretches, GMDA is aiming to upgrade them to such a standard that they not only meet today’s demands but also adhere to the master plan, keeping future developments in mind,” said Sharma.Till the early 2010s, the HSVP used to carry out all major development projects, such as construction and maintenance of roads and drains. These were gradually transferred to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) upon its creation in 2008.In March 2018, the MCG transferred amenities such as master roads, green belts and master drains to the GMDA six months after its creation.Satbir Singh, a resident of Sector 102, who uses this stretch every day, said that until the Dwarka Expressway is completed, the 11-kilometre stretch will continue to be highly accessed by commuters as it not only provides a shorter route for new sector residents to reach the Delhi airport, Dwarka, or head towards west Delhi, but also helps them avoid congestion on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road.“For residents living along Dwarka Expressway, the 11-kilometre road is a lifeline and provides connectivity to thousands who work in Delhi and do a daily commute by this route. In patches, the stretch has a large number of deep potholes that not only make driving difficult but also leads to minor accidents. Its repair has been a longstanding demand and an upgrade would facilitate faster and safer travel,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/key-new-sector-road-from-dhankot-chowk-to-delhi-to-be-repaired-by-gmda-101629997823408.html
26-08-2021||Other||Saplings take over this human meeting of minds||PUNE: When Ayurvedic doctor, educator and workaholic Vinaya Dixit began to feel the effects of the lockdown and of being tied down to one place, she decided to start what most women love – bhishis or get-togethers - but with a difference! Unlike traditional bhishis that involve the exchange of money, Dixit’s bhishis are all about the exchange of plants and saplings and what’s more, they now comprise as many as 54 women members.“The lockdown had almost everyone finding it difficult to keep themselves busy, more so if they were intelligent and used to multitasking. Hence, I opted to hone my skills by learning about plants. It started with growing small plants like ova (ajwain) which purifies the air and later, I thought of giving the plants I was growing to my colleagues. I began by asking the residents of my building if they were interested in such a group activity to be carried out mostly online and by following social distancing,” Dr Dixit said.“We have Basil, Aloe Vera, Wala, Paan Ova, Paan betel leaf Guduchi, Gavti chaha as well as flowering plants like Hibiscus, Mogara, Chafa, Gulab, Jaiee, Juiee, Kanher, Chinese rose, Parijatak and Gulbakshi to name a few,” she said. The highlight of Dixit’s bhishi is that the plants are free-of-cost and exchanged between the women members of the group.What started on a trial basis later brought several medicinal and kitchen plants in exchange. If this was not enough, some of the women also experimented within their homes with kitchen plants and greens such as Palak, methi, pudina, aaloooo leaf, potato, sweet potato, onion, lasun, karela and tomato.A bhishi member, Reshma Punde, resident of Treasure Park, said, “During the pandemic, I started gardening as a hobby, which helps my body and mind. It decreases the risk of depression, lowers blood pressure and cholesterol levels. Gardening is also helpful when it comes to stress. Every day, it brings me hope and positivity. Sharing ideas on how to grow and take care of plants has been a big plus of this group activity which I have experienced.”Another member, Madhuri Kolhatkar of Sainandan Apartments, said, “There is no investment as such, for we are not buying or selling but simply exchanging plants, explaining their benefits as air purifiers, and the best part is anyone can grow these plants indoors or outdoors or in shady or semi-shady places.”As part of the bhishi, women members share tips and tricks about cultivating plants, preparing compost and jiwamrut, understanding the benefits of neem as a natural fungicide, and recycling coconut leaves and plastic containers among others.“I have learned how to grow plants from cuttings using coconut shells and so on. We’ve also been drinking a lot of coconut water during the pandemic,” added Dr Dixit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/saplings-take-over-this-human-meeting-of-minds-101629996982752.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||President Kovind says he’s hopeful that India will be a developed nation by 2047||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday said he was hopeful that India would be a developed nation without social inequalities by 2047 when it celebrates the centenary of independence.He was addressing the ninth convocation of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU) in Lucknow.“In 2047, when India celebrates 100 years of its Independence, I am hopeful that it will be known as a developed nation without social inequalities. I hope that India of that time would have successfully assimilated the traits of brotherhood, justice and equality in our society to become an egalitarian nation which Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar dreamed of,” the President said.He also urged students to become entrepreneurs.“I hope that all of you become job givers instead of job seekers in the future,” said the President.“Today half of the country’s population is below 25 years of age…when in 2047, we celebrate centenary of independence, you youths will be leading the country,” he said.First Lady Savita Kovind, governor Anandiben Patel and chief minster Yogi Adityanath also shared the stage with the President at the convocation event.The President praised the efforts of BBAU for providing quality education to students.“I am happy to know that the university is making efforts to provide better education facilities to students and striving to make a better society,” he said.This is the second time the President has attended the convocation of BBAU as the chief guest. He had also attended the convocation event here in 2017.President Kovind said that a study of the life and teachings of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar would be helpful in nation-building.Speaking about the National Education Policy(NEP)-2020, the President said: “The New Education Policy has been made with an aim to make the country an education superpower. The new education policy is as per the requirements and demands of the 21st century. Our aim of gaining excellence in science and technology will come true only with the efforts of teachers and students.”The President went on to praise Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath for including the New Education Policy in higher education institutes of the states.“Education is the best tool for social development and uplift. The efforts being made to promote education by the Uttar Pradesh government must be applauded,” said Kovind.The President also laid the foundation stone of the BBAU’s Savitri Bai Phule Girl’s Hostel.“The work done by Savitri Bai Phule towards women’s education will forever be remembered,” he said.Mentioning the efforts made by women in nation- building, the President said, “Our daughters always do better whenever they get a chance. Very often, they outperform our boys if given equal opportunities. The efforts made by our daughters in Olympics have made all of us proud.”“The everlasting dream of Babasaheb was women empowerment which seems to be coming true,” he added.The President shared an instance from the life of Ambedkar and his stress on modesty.“Babasaheb, while addressing a group of women social workers, said that we must try to make our hearts pure. Our inclination must be towards good behaviour. The modesty of men must also improve along with his education. Without modesty, education is nothing,” the President said.The President quoted Swami Vivekananda to conclude his speech: “Dare to be free, dare to go as far as your thoughts lead. Be bold, face the truth, conquer yourself and the whole universe is yours.”Earlier, Prakash C. Bartunia, the chancellor of BBAU, declared the formal opening of the convocation ceremony. It was held with a limited audience considering the Covid-19 pandemic. Vice-Chancellor Sanjay Singh welcomed the guests at the function and presented the academic report of the university, before inviting the President to the stage.On the occasion 1,424 students were given graduation, post graduation, PhD and MPhil degrees and gold medals were awarded to six of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/president-kovind-says-he-s-hopeful-that-india-will-be-a-developed-nation-by-2047-101629996803448.html
26-08-2021||Other||Gang of women fraudsters held for faking marriages, blackmailing groom||Patiala District police have arrested a woman for marrying eight different persons, and then threatening each of the men and their families of registering rape, molestation, dowry cases etc to extort money. The accused, Veerpal Kaur, has been arrested along with other gang members Uma and Paramjit Kaur, middle-aged women who arranged her marriages after zeroing in on their victims. The kingpin of the gang Ranvir Singh has also been arrested.Superintendent of police Varun Sharma said, “Uma extoterd money of families that she was married into at various points of time. The gang used to target gullible persons and blackmail them on the threat of getting registered a false case of rape, dowry and physical assault post marriage.”He added that the accused also looted gold ornaments and money from their victims. The matter came to light when the police received a complaint from these accused women about a Kaithal man that Veerpal had married for the eight time.  “During investigation into the matter, police found the complaint bogus and rounded up the women. During interrogation, the women confessed that they made hefty money by blackmailing their victims,” a police source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-of-women-fraudsters-held-for-faking-marriages-blackmailing-groom-101629996443425.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Alumni, heritage foundation to raise ₹120 crore to build new hostel complex for IIT-Bombay students||Students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) will soon get a new 1,000-1,500-room hostel, thanks to the institute’s alumni association and heritage foundation. On Wednesday IIT-Bombay signed a partnership agreement with its alumni organisations — Indian Institute of Technology Bombay Alumni Association (IITBAA) and Indian Institute of Technology Bombay Heritage Foundation (IITBHF) — to fund, design and build a new world- class hostel complex. Under this partnership agreement, IITBAA will be primarily responsible for all funding, design, construction and project management activities. Alumni will help build this hostel complex that will replace the existing site that houses H7 and H8 on IIT-Bombay campus.In a statement issued Thursday, the institute said, “IIT-Bombay reached out to its alumni to support the institute in its quest to provide world-class facilities to its students to promote the best learning environment. Responding to the request, a group of volunteers have come together for planning, fundraising, and implementation of the new hostel complex. This is the first of its kind project wherein alumni of IIT-Bombay will seek to raise ₹120-135 crore and take the lead role in project planning and implementation. The new hostel complex will come up in the old location of H8.” The institute has been facing a space crunch to house its students. In the past two decades, the number of students on campus has increased from 3,000 to over 10,000. With limited infrastructure funding and infrastructure, IIT-B has been looking to upgrade its living infrastructure. Last year, IIT-B tied up with student housing start-up, Your Space, to accommodate its students by booking 80 beds with the start-up which offers co-living spaces to students in various parts of the country. In addition to wings for male students, it will also have a wing for the growing number of women students at IIT-Bombay, the institute said. Zenobia Driver, Class of 1998, H10, said, “It is a matter of joy and pride that more and more girls are choosing STEM as their career. IIT-Bombay has undertaken several initiatives to promote gender diversity. The new hostel complex is another step in this direction”. Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of IIT-Bombay, said, “Students are the essence of all academic institutions. IIT-Bombay has been recognised as an ‘Institution of Eminence’ owing to the hard work put in by the best and brightest of the country. We strive to provide world-class learning as well as living atmosphere to our students. We are grateful to our alumni for taking the stewardship role in building the new hostel complex which is the need of the hour. IIT-Bombay sincerely thanks IITBHF and IITBAA for the roles that they have played over the years in various initiatives of the Institute”.Kirat Patel, Class of 1975 and a resident of H8, said, “IIT-Bombay’s alumni have always supported the institute’s goals and vision. We have full faith that they would come forward to help us yet again in this pioneering initiative. Together, we can create world-class hostels for our students, who are the future of our country”. DC Agrawal, Class of 1969 and President IITBHF, said, “IIT-Bombay students deserve the best facilities to compete in the current global environment. We are determined to help build a hostel complex that is consistent with IIT-Bombay’s goals of being a leading world-class Institute”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/alumni-heritage-foundation-to-raise-120-crore-to-build-new-hostel-complex-for-iit-bombay-students-101629996323464.html
26-08-2021||Other||Low wholesale veg prices fail to reach end user as retailers look to cash in||PUNE The Agriculture Produce Market Committee, the body that runs the city’s wholesale centre at Market yard, on Thursday, came down heavily on vegetable retailers for keeping the prices of fruits and vegetables “artificially high”.Madhukar Garad, APMC’s chief administrator said, “Such low wholesale prices was not expected. Every year due to rain in August, vegetables get destroyed, but the situation is different this year so all farmers have good crops. Prices are low due to excess availability.”“Wholesale prices have dropped, as vegetable supply has increased from all parts of the district. The district has received good rainfall, so farmers have seen a good crop. The prices should drop and remain low for a few more days,” said Vilas Bhujbal, president of a body representing agents, at Market Yard.Ayaz Khan, a vegetable retail shop owner said, “People get fresh vegetables near their home so they should pay some extra money. We only charge extra as we have to take care of other expenses. Profit margin is very less for us.”“We saw news about tomatoes bought at Rs3 per kg wholesale, and being sold for Rs15 per kg, retail. A little margin is fine, but they are charging five times more,” said, Shubhangi Kelkar, a resident of Hadapsar.“Retailer have the habit crying foul in Kothrud. All the retailers in area fix a rate. You will only get to know the difference when you visit Market yard, where even the retailers sell vegetables at a lower price than here,” said, Sunita Gosavi, a resident of Kothrud.“Retailers charge extra because the count the cost of ferrying the vegetables from the Mandai market to Baner. That is their explanation,” said Megha Patil a resident from Baner.Hoteliers in the city are happy with the wholesale cost of vegetables.“We have started taking more vegetables in the last one week, as customers have started coming back in numbers. It is not the same like the pre-Covid era, but much better than what it was before the relaxations,” said Utsav Belsare, owner of Devika Hotel on Sinhgad road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/low-wholesale-veg-prices-fail-to-reach-end-user-as-retailers-look-to-cash-in-101629996262756.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to restore yet another century-old pyaav, at Dadar||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to restore yet another century-old heritage — the Vitthal Koli Pyaav, a public drinking water fountain, at Dadar. This is part of BMC’s project to restore all heritage pyaav’s in the city, that the civic body has been able to locate and create a tourism circuit of all heritage structures in the city.Around 37 to 40 pyaavs have been located across the city, and many others are lost or were demolished over the years. Of the existing pyaavs, 29 are owned by BMC. Over 20 more pyaavs will be restored by the civic bodyMany of these are seen at busy junctions and crowded public places and were a prominent source of drinking water for commuters, travellers, and animals.The restoration work includes comprehensive cleaning, repairs and restoration of the pyaav structure, providing new elements to the structure where the original ones are damaged or broken, so as to restore the look of the structure, dismantling and shifting the pyaav on the same footpath to the location decided, reinstating drinking water supply with proper plumbing and filtration systems, landscaping of the adjoining premises which includes paving, creating steps, and mural work on the wall behind the pyaav.BMC has already appointed Vaastu Vidhaan Projects as the heritage conservation architects for the project and recently invited bids to appoint a contractor for the implementation of work. Vaastu Vidhaan has helped conceptualise the design of the project, the restoration methodology, and draw up cost estimates for the project with BMC’s heritage cell.Primary estimates peg the cost of the project at ₹6,480,269, which includes the actual repair and restoration work estimated to cost ₹5,605,769, and comprehensive maintenance work for three years, according to BMCs bid document.The Anand Vitthal Koli Pyaav is located on Gokhale Road in Dadar, on the footpath outside BMC’s ward chowki. It was built in 1929 by Anand Vitthal Koli, in Malad stone, popularly used in the construction of many heritage structures across the city.Conservation Architect Rahul Chemburkar, from Vaastu Vidhaan, said, “This pyaav is not just a drinking water facility, it is an expression of architecture of its time. It has two decorative troughs for pedestrians on its two edges, and a large trough for animals at its base. One of the side troughs is now missing.” According to information from Chemburkar, the pyaav was a source of drinking water for workers in the nearby Jupiter, Shriram, and Stanrose mills, which later shut down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-restore-yet-another-century-old-pyaav-at-dadar-101629995783513.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body proposes to extend flyover to connect Link Road with WEH in Borivli||To decongest traffic around Borivli station area, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to propose an extension of the under constructed 970 metres flyover between Link Road and SV Road in Borivli up to Western Express Highway (WEH). The BMC maintains that the 860 metres extension will decongest the Kora Kendra Junction that handles thousands of vehicular traffic daily.Currently, a 970-metre flyover is being constructed between Kora Kendra Junction on SV Road and Link Road. However, the BMC plans an extension up to WEH to decongest the arterial roads of Borivli.According to the plan, motorists now coming from Link Road will now be able to skip Kora Kendra Junction on SV Road as they will directly be able to head to WEH via a set of two flyovers. Due to this, the construction cost is expected to shoot up from around ₹160 crore to over ₹650 crore. Apart from extension, the BMC has also made technical changes in construction that it says has increased construction cost.The BMC says the escalation is not only due to extension but also considering the guidelines for load-bearing have been changed, mandating additional safety measures to be taken. This has increased construction costs.AV Shenoy from Mumbai Mobility Forum said, “The extension will be worth it to reduce vehicular traffic. However, if the extension does not help motorists skip the SV Road junction, the project will just mean diverting the congestion from one place to another.”However, corporators from Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have questioned the manner in which the process is being followed. Bhalchandra Shirsat, BJP corporator said, “We are not against the development, but the proper process should be followed. The BMC could have floated separate tenders for the work. We expect the BMC to come out clean on this.”Vinod Mishra, corporator and party leader of BJP in BMC said, “I am going to write to the BMC that proper process should be followed.”Ravi Raja, leader of Opposition and Congress corporator said, “We are not against the work, but the proper process should be followed. The BMC has given insufficient information to the standing committee for approval of the variation.”The BMC had tabled the proposal in the standing committee on Wednesday, but it was put on hold after opposition from the BJP and Congress. The proposal was similarly tabled two months ago in the standing committee during which it was even shot down.Meanwhile, the BMC in its justification submitted to the standing committee has said, “Despite a cost escalation of ₹490 crore, the BMC will save around ₹63 crore considering it has not tendered the additional works, rather allotted the construction to the existing contractor working on the 970 metres flyover.” This contractor BMC says has shown intention in doing the work on old rates that will help the corporation save around ₹63 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-proposes-to-extend-flyover-to-connect-link-road-with-weh-in-borivli-101629995723799.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Railways issue 3.8 lakh passes in 2 weeks||The railways have issued 3.8 lakh monthly season passes to suburban railway passengers in a fortnight. The Central Railway has issued 2.74 lakh passes to passengers on its mainline, harbour and trans-harbour railway lines, while the Western Railway has issued 1.11 lakh monthly season passes. The highest number of passes were issued at Dombivli and Borivli railway stations on the Central and Western Railway. The Western Railway also issued 552 monthly season passes for air-conditioned (AC) local trains.Railway officials, however, said that the number of passes issued has been less than what was anticipated earlier.“We had anticipated a higher number of passes that would be sold. After the online registration process started, it would have become smooth to apply for passengers. However, we did not witness any rise in the number of passes issued,” said a senior Central Railway officials General commuters were allowed to travel by local train after four months on August 15. Train services were suspended for the general public on April 15, due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in the city. The eligibility criterion for travelling is the completion of 14 days since receiving the second dose of Covid-19. Passengers can apply for a universal pass through online and offline systems. In the offline system, the municipal bodies have set up vaccine verification help desks outside the suburban railway stations, after verification, the passengers can get their tickets issued at the railway booking counters. Through the online system, passengers can register on http://epassmsdma.mahait.org for verification and purchase a season monthly pass from any suburban railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-railways-issue-3-8-lakh-passes-in-2-weeks-101629995483384.html
26-08-2021||Other||Leasing of amenity spaces: NCP’s “yes, no, maybe” forces BJP to adjourn PMC GB meet||PUNE The much-awaited general body meeting of the Pune municipal corporation on Thursday turned into a game of “noughts and crosses’, with decision made by members of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) being changed, and then, the ruling BJP having to respond. The sum total at the end of the day is that the PMC’s plan to lease out its amenity spaces has been put on hold for the time-being, at least until the next GB meet in September. The day opened with senior NCP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Vandana Chavan informing the media that the “NCP will support the proposal (leasing of amenity spaces) at the general body meeting if the ruling party accepts their (NCP’s) suggestions”. This caught the BJP by surprise as Chavan has been a most-vocal critic of the proposal. There was much discontent within the NCP ranks, post Chavan’s “we will support it” statement. It’s not clear if calls were made to NCP high command in Baramati and Mumbai, but an hour before the GB meeting was to begin, a directive was issued to all NCP elected members – proposal to lease amenity spaces was to be opposed. The BJP, caught in the crossfire, decided to adjourn the general body meeting so as to avoid having to take a decision on the proposal. Then came the explanations. NCP’s city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “Vandana Chavan told the media that if the BJP accepts suggestions, then the party would support it. But, when we got the proposal, we found that the BJP did not keep its promise and we decided to oppose it. The NCP remains with the Maha Vikas Aghadi on the issue.” MVA alliance members treaded carefully. Congress leader Aba Bagul and Shiv Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar issued a joint statement that read: “We took a stand to oppose the proposal from day one and remained firm. BJP leaders approached us and tried to convince us, but we remained firm.” BJP leader of the house Ganesh Bidkar said, “We are firm on the proposal. As the mayor’s relative passed away, we postponed the general body meeting. It is well if the NCP comes with us, otherwise the BJP has the numbers to pass proposal. We will give it the nod at the next meeting. “With a decision on the controversial proposal postponed, citizen activist and NGOs all opposing the proposal will have more time to ensure that no matter who wins the “noughts and crosses” poltical game, the city’s amenity spaces will not be leased. Several important decisions have now also been delayed due to the PMC’s general body meeting being adjourned on Thursday. Decisions on charging stations for e-vehicles, the Katraj Metro route, and the sale of apartments owned by the PMC will also have to wait for the next GB in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/leasing-of-amenity-spaces-ncp-s-yes-no-maybe-forces-bjp-to-adjourn-pmc-gb-meet-101629995062667.html
26-08-2021||Other||IISER Pune develops sustainable chemical manufacturing method for iGEM competition||PUNE: A team of undergraduate students of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Pune has carried out research for the prestigious iGEM (Internationally Genetically Engineered Machine) competition - an annual competition where student teams from across the globe work to solve real-world problems using synthetic biology. Synthetic biology is an interdisciplinary field that seeks to create novel biological systems or redesign existing ones using engineering principles.The IISER team’s work involves developing an alternative method for chemical manufacturing that does not depend on fossil fuels and does not produce any new carbon emissions. The team is developing this idea in line with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals - climate action, clean energy, and sustainable production.Likhith Chandragiri, a member of the team, said, “Carbon dioxide concentration levels in the atmosphere are higher now than at any other time in human history, and they are only projected to rise due to human activities. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, which plays a crucial role in regulating the surface temperature of the planet.”“As it continues to accumulate, it leads to a net increase in average global surface temperatures. We are already experiencing the effects of climate change due to global warming - from more extreme rainfall, drought, cyclones and wildfires to the extinction of numerous plant and animal species. If global warming continues unabated, it spells truly catastrophic effects on humanity and the natural world,” Chandragiri said.The IISER team is developing a solution to tackle a major source of carbon emissions - the use of fossil fuels to generate industrial chemicals like fuels, plastics, pharmaceuticals, synthetic fabrics, etc. These chemicals are principally made of carbon, which is sourced from coal and crude oil as raw materials. Inevitably, some of this carbon is lost into the atmosphere as carbon dioxide gas. The students aim to create a sustainable alternative method for chemical manufacturing that does not depend on fossil fuels and does not produce any new carbon emissions. Their two-step technique first traps some of the carbon dioxide from the atmosphere photosynthetically to generate renewable carbon reserves; and then produces chemicals from these reserves.Another member, Misaal Bedi, explained, “Each step is facilitated by a genetically engineered species of bacteria. The carbon dioxide is taken up by Synechococcus Elongatus, which belongs to a group of photosynthetic bacteria called cyanobacteria. The stored carbon is recycled by the microbiologist’s favourite, Escherichia Coli. To avoid any wasteful extra steps, the two will be grown in the same vessel. The cyanobacteria will be genetically modified to continually fix carbon dioxide as sucrose (table sugar) and to secrete it out. E. Coli will be engineered to be capable of consuming this sucrose and converting it into chemicals such as Butanol, a biofuel.”The team envisions their co-culture system as a sort of microbial cell factory which can sustainably produce industrial chemicals from light and carbon dioxide. Switching one strain of E. Coli with another appropriately modified strain will allow one to switch which final product one wishes to manufacture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iiser-pune-develops-sustainable-chemical-manufacturing-method-for-igem-competition-101629994762587.html
26-08-2021||Other||Bullet casings “rain down” on Katraj metro site; 1 worker injured||PUNE A case has been registered against unidentified people after bullets “rained down” on a Maha-Metro site at the Katraj garbage depot. One bullet, grazed the chest of a metro worker, but fortunately did not cause any major injury, according to metro officials.The worker was identified as Anjaykumar Srinathprasad Asthana (25), a native of Bihar.“They were working as usual at the shed, but around 5:30-6pm on Wednesday, the bullets started falling from above and one grazed against his chest. The workers cleaned up his wound and searched the shed and found three casings. The police was informed and the next day, the police found more casings,” said Hemant Sonawane of MahaMetro.The police are looking for possible sources of the bullet casings, but have not named anyone in the FIR yet.“There was firing on going in the defence firing range around 1.5km beyond the hillock near the shed. It was probably for practice. Our investigations are on in that direction, but we cannot be sure just yet,” said Police inspector (crime) Balasaheb Badhe of Kothrud police station.A case was registered under Sections 337 of Indian Penal Code and Sections 3(25) and 27 of Arms Act at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bullet-casings-rain-down-on-katraj-metro-site-1-worker-injured-101629994644053.html
26-08-2021||Other||Builders death by suicide: 2 arrested||PUNE Two people have been arrested, and five others are booked in a case involving the death by suicide of a builder. The accused are believed to have not paid the builder for various construction projects he had completed for them.The 48-year-old builder died by suicide after being duped of ₹1.94 crore by different groups of people, for whom he had completed a construction project, according to the police. The arrested were identified as Rahul Bhandari and Lalit Jain, according to assistant inspector Mahendra Ahire of Nigdi police station who is investigating the case.“The man had left a suicide note with all the names of people who had failed to pay him. These are different groups of people who had individually failed to pay him, according to the note. We have arrested two people,” said API Ahire.A complaint against seven people was lodged by the deceased man’s brother-in-law who claimed that the people had failed to clear payment worth ₹1,94,01,616 to the man.The man had allegedly took the drastic step on Tuesday and succumbed to the injuries on Wednesday morning.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 306 (abetment to suicide), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/builders-death-by-suicide-2-arrested-101629994643191.html
26-08-2021||Other||Farmer duped of ₹85 lakh by veg exporter||PUNE A farmer has been duped of ₹85 lakh by a trader who exported his produce for three months but defaulted on the payment.The farmer from Moshi was identified as Sandeep Shankarrao Khandagale (47), a resident of Moshi Pradhikaran, Pune.The accused trader was identified as a 63-year-old man from Shastrinagar in Yerawada, whose name is being withheld pending his arrest.“The farmer sent produce like chillies, lemons, tomatoes for three months and the man was a middleman, who sold it outside the country, but did not pay for it,” said police inspector Shivaji Gawari of MIDC Bhosari police station.The trade was done between September 18, 2019 and October 30, 2019, according to the complainant.The accused man paid the farmer with a cheque that bounced due to insufficient funds. The man then went back to the trader to ask for the money. The 63-year-old man, however, threatened to break his arms and legs, and also to kill him, according to his complaint.A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at MIDC Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmer-duped-of-85-lakh-by-veg-exporter-101629994642547.html
26-08-2021||Other||Builder arrested for cheating investors of ₹2.03 crore||PUNE: The Sinhagad police have registered a case against a builder and his associates for allegedly cheating 22 investors to the tune of ₹2.03 crore for a residential project in Dhayari in 2015.The arrested accused have been identified as Akash Arvind Mohite, 40, a resident of Khadi machine chowk; Sambhaji Baban Nivgune, 41; and Popat Gulabrao Nivgune, 40.Santosh Ramchandra Salvi, 46, a resident of Janta vasahat, lodged a complaint against them stating that he had booked a flat with Mohite and made a payment of ₹10.95 lakh to him in 2015, signing a legal memorandum to avail the said flat in 11 months. However, in a breach of trust, Mohite failed to honour his commitment and went on to threaten Salvi that he would demolish the building if Salvi complained to the police.Following their arrest, Mohite and the other accused were presented before a local court where the prosecution demanded police custody on grounds that it was a serious crime and that the police wanted to investigate further into the money trail and seize incriminating documents related to the crime. The prosecution sought seven days’ custody, citing that more investors had been cheated by the builder and his associates. The court then remanded the accused to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/associates-arrested-for-cheating-investors-of-2-03-crore-101629994585102.html
26-08-2021||Other||596 women among 1,582 new sub-inspectors in Bihar Police||In a big boost to the understaffed Bihar Police, 1582 sub-inspectors, of them 596 women, were inducted into the force on Thursday at the passing out parade at Bihar Police Academy at Rajgir in Nalanda, where chief minister Nitish Kumar was the chief guest.Speaking on the occasion, Kumar said no state had as many women in the police force as in Bihar, which is due to his decision to introduce 35 per cent reservation for women in police services.“Bihar has 80,000-strong police force, while 20,000 more are in the pipeline. My aim is to take the number to 1.40 lakh,” Kumar said.The chief minister emphasises the role of female police officers in enforcing Prohibition, which his government imposed in the state in April 2016 to ban sale and consumption of liquor. “It was the women again on whose demand I imposed Prohibition in Bihar. Some people are still involved in doing mischief and the noose has to be tightened around them,” he said.Kumar urged female cadets to focus on protecting women and children. Police academy’s director, additional general of police Bhrigu Sriniwasan, said the 2018-batch of 1,596 sub-inspector who entered active duty today had received extensive institutional training in cyber crime, crowd management, ATM cloning, bank fraud, human rights, drugs and special training for Prohibition at the academy for the first time after the bifurcation of Bihar. Before Bihar’s bifurcation in 2000, training for Bihar police was held at police academy at Padma in Hajaribagh (now in Jharkahnd). The 1994-batch of 1400 sub-inspectors trained at Chandigarh in Punjab and at Padma while 2009-batch SIs trained at Nathnagar constable school in Bhagalpur.Speaking at the Rajgir academy on the occasion on Thursday, Bihar’s director general of police Sanjiv Kumar Singhal said most of new officers came from villages and remote districts of the state and they would help in crime control and addressing grievances of the needy. The last police recruitment was in 2009, when around 2,100 sub-inspectors were inducted. In 1994, the passing out parade for 1400 probationer sub-inspectors was held at Gandhi Maidan in Patna, where the chief guest was Lalu Prasad, the then chief minister of undivided Bihar, which then included the present day Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/596-women-among-1-582-new-sub-inspectors-in-bihar-police-101629994584508.html
26-08-2021||Other||Scindia’s letter to CM revives hopes for five airports||Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia’s letter to chief ministers of five states, including of Bihar, seeking their personal intervention in matters related to land allocation and funding to boost aviation infrastructure has rekindled hopes for an airport at Purnia, Raxual and Muzaffarpur, extension of runway at Patna airport and upgrade of navigational aids and building a civil enclave at Darbhanga airport.In his letter, Scindia requested the CM to instruct officers concerned to initiate action on matters such as deposition of funds with the Regional Air Connectivity Fund Trust and viability gap funding support for international UDAN flight operations, according to a statement by the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA). Under the regional connectivity scheme UDAN, financial incentives from the Centre, state governments and airport operators are extended to select airlines to encourage operations from unserved and underserved airports, and keep airfares affordable.Purnia has an Indian Air Force base, whose airport’s runway length (11,000 X 150 feet) is approximately same as in Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Mangalore, but the Airport Authority of India (AAI) has asked for an additional 50 acres of land for a civil enclave, approach road and modernization of the airport, officials said. The land acquisition is already in progress and the government has already released over ₹20 crore towards compensation, district officials said. “Some landowners, while objecting to the land acquisition, filed a case at Patna high court creating a hurdle,” a senior district official, unwilling to ben named, said.The Indian Air Force station in Purnia, spread over 700 acres, was established in 1963, a year after the Indo-China war. In his letter to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, the Union minister also underscored the land requirement of 49.5 acres at the Patna airport for runway extension and other works, 121 acres at Raxaul to develop the airport for ATR72 type of aircraft, 475 acres at Muzaffarpur airport to develop it for operation of A320 type of aircraft, 78 acres at Darbhanga for development of new civil enclave along with a new light system.He also requested Kumar to consider the provision of 100 per cent viability gap funding support for commencing international UDAN flights from Patna and Gaya (Gaya-Bangkok, Gaya-Kathmandu, Gaya-Yangon, Patna-Kathmandu and Patna-Dubai).“On receipt of the consent of the state government for 100 per cent viability gap funding support, routes will be put for bidding (under the UDAN scheme) for the airlines,” the MoCA mentioned.Contacted for his response, Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s additional chief secretary (cabinet secretariat) said, “We haven’t received the letter as yet.”Headline: Delhi’s demandIntro: Besides land, civil aviation ministry has demanded money into Regional Air Connectivity Fund Trust and viability gap funding support for international UDAN flight operationsAirport: Land requirementPurnia: 50 acres for civil enclave at Indian Air Force basePatna: 49.5 acres for runway extension, other amenities Raxaul: 121 acres to develop the airport for ATR72 type of aircraftDarbhanga: 78 acres for new civil enclave, new light systemMuzaffarpur: 475 acres develop the airport for operation of A320 aircraft||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scindias-letter-to-cm-revives-hopes-for-five-airports-101629994583334.html
26-08-2021||Patna||Delay by discoms in fixing snag worries power consumers in Bihar||Around 18 lakh power consumers in the state will feel the financial burden of having to pay their combined energy bills of July and August next month. A snag in one of the two billing servers on July 30 has not only crippled generation of energy bills, but also disrupted online payments partially. A team of software engineers from New Delhi have been camping here for the last three weeks as they grapple to fix the bug, which has hit both the discoms in the state — the north and the south Bihar power distribution companies limited (NBPDCL & SBPDCL). “We expect to rectify the snag this week and shall resume generation of energy bills from September 1,” said Sanjiwan Sinha, managing director of the SBPDCL. “Online payments are now possible, allowing consumers to make advance payment, which they were unable to do earlier. The advance amount will be adjusted against their next energy bill, after the problem is resolved,” said Sinha. The engineers have been able to fix the problem only partially. Online advance payments through mobile applications — Suvidha and Bihar Bijli Bill Pay — are still not possible. Online bill payment through the portal of the two discoms is also not fully functional. The payment portal of the two discoms has not been updated. As a result, it shows arrears in case of many consumers who have already paid their bills for June. “The SBPDCL portal showed an outstanding amount of ₹3,100 (approx.) for June despite the fact that I had paid my energy bill on July 8, well before the payment due date of July 23,” said Sushant Kumar, a domestic subscriber (consumer account number 101004351) of New Patliputra Colony in Patna. Suresh Narayan Lall, a retired electrical engineer and domestic subscriber (consumer account number 101109023), residing at Patna’s Bahadurpur Housing Colony, said the SBPDCL portal showed an arrear of ₹1,300 (approx.) against his energy bill generated in June that he had already paid. Kumar and Lall were able to make advance payment of of ₹5001 and ₹5,000, respectively, through the SBPDCL portal on Wednesday. Dr Sandeep Sen of Sen Diagnostics, however, wasn’t lucky enough. He was unable to pay advance money through the SBPDCL portal for the three energy metres (consumer numbers 100841141, 100833773 and 100842272) installed on his premises at Patna’s Budh Marg, under the New Dak Bungalow electrical division of the Patna Electrical Supply Undertaking. “I have been trying repeatedly for the last one week but am unable to make an advance lump-sum payment for my energy bill of July. I get different messages on the portal. Initially, it said ‘error retrieving bill details, please try again’. Today, it said the consumer number is not registered with the SBPDCL,” said Dr Sen. The NBPDCL and the SBPDCL, however, claimed that payments were smooth through their respective portals. “Total 194 (online) payments were received today till now. Team is constantly monitoring the same,” read a text message from a senior officer in the NBPDCL. Payment collection data till 1pm on Wednesday, shared by another senior officer in the SBPDCL, claimed 2,053 online transactions led to realisation of ₹30.79 lakh in urban areas while 5,894 transactions led to remittance of ₹73.30 lakh in rural areas. Chaturbhuj Mishra, SBPDCL chief data based administrator, the officer tasked to resolve the crisis and facing the heat for delay, did not respond phone calls and text messages. SBPDCL managing director, however, allayed fears of delayed payment surcharge being levied for late payment of energy bills for previous months during the period of the snag. “The bill pay-by-date has been extended till August 31 for consumers whose payment due date was between July 30 and August 15. They will also be allowed rebate for timely payment, which will reflect in their next energy bill. All adjustments will be done in the next bill of consumers who have paid in excess of the billed amount,” said Sinha. The snag has affected around 7 lakh power consumers under the NBPDCL and 11 lakh under the SBPDCL across 63 towns in 35 of the 38 districts of Bihar, excluding Muzaffarpur, Gaya and Bhagalpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/delay-by-discoms-in-fixing-snag-worries-power-consumers-in-bihar-101629994527510.html
26-08-2021||Other||Boat capsizes in Gandak, two missing||At least two people went missing after a boat carrying 21 people capsized in the Gandak river in Bagaha subdivision, West Champaran district on Thursday morning, officials said.The mishap occurred at around 8.30 am. Most of the passengers were daily commuters headed to an agricultural field in diara areas (riverine areas).Nineteen of the total passengers on the boat were rescued by local fishermen and divers, officials said. Shekhar Anand, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Bagaha, said that as many as 21 passengers were on the boat when the mishap took place. “While 19 people have been rescued, two villagers were still traceless,” the SDM said, adding that an NDRF team has been pressed into the rescue operation. Officials said the mishap might have been caused by overloading and a high water current in the Gandak river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boat-capsizes-in-gandak-two-missing-101629994525593.html
26-08-2021||Ranchi||Thakur appointed as new J’khand Cong chief; choice of working presidents raises eyebrows||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday appointed Rajesh Thakur president of the party’s faction-ridden Jharkhand unit, besides appointing four new working presidents. The party also appointed Member of Parliament (MP) Geeta Kora, legislator Bandhu Tirkey, Jaleshwar Mahto and Shahzada Anwar as working presidents of the state unit. While a majority of party leaders, including ministers and legislators, congratulated the new appointees, a section in the party started raising questions over the choice of working presidents by the central leadership, saying that at least three of the four working presidents joined the party in the past couple of years. While Geeta Kora, wife of former chief minister Madhu Koda, had joined the party ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Jaleshwar Mahto, former minister and ex-president of Jharkhand JD(U), joined the party ahead of the 2019 assembly polls and contested unsuccessfully from his traditional seat Baghmara. Mandar legislator and former minister Bandhu Tirkey joined the Congress after 2019 assembly polls following a split in his party JVM (P) and is facing an anti-defection complaint being heard by the Speaker. “Though they might be political heavyweights in their own pockets, they are new to the party. There were many deserving candidates, including senior party workers, who were deserving but have been sidelined. Whether they would be able to draw support of the rank and file is very difficult to say, especially when most of the Congress ministers and several legislators are senior to them,” a senior party leader said. Jharkhand Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey, who was close to the outgoing president Rameshwar Oraon, even questioned the choice of president Rajesh Thakur saying the party should have stuck with a tribal face. “Rameshwar Oraon was the tribal face of the party under whose leadership party won a historic number of seats in 2019 assembly polls. Will Thakur be able to catch tribal votes for the party?” added Dubey. Thakur was one of the five working presidents of the party in Jharkhand, besides being the media in charge of the state unit since ahead of the 2019 assembly polls. Before that, he was a state spokesperson. Another Jharkhand spokesperson M Tauseef backed the new appointments while calling Thakur an “energetic and dynamic party worker.” “He worked hard both as working president and media in-charge and helped a great deal in building the narrative against the then BJP government. And as far as the tag of outsiders is concerned, those raising such questions now never spoke about it when these people had joined the party and also contested in Lok Sabha and assembly election. They are very much a Congressmen now and have been appointed by the party president,” Tauseef added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/thakur-appointed-as-new-j-khand-cong-chief-choice-of-working-presidents-raises-eyebrows-101629994524460.html
26-08-2021||Ranchi||Deoghar AIIMS: BJP MLA demands exclusive treatment ward for tribals||Jharkhand BJP legislator Narayan Das has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya for setting up an exclusive ward for treatment of scheduled tribes at Deoghar’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Mandaviya on Tuesday inaugurated the outpatient department (OPD) service at the newly established institute.In his letter to the PM and the health minister on Wednesday, Das has argued that Deoghar AIIMS was located in tribal-dominated Santhal Pargana division of Jharkhand and a special ward for the community would ensure better healthcare for them.“Including my assembly constituency of Deoghar, Santhal Pargana division is a tribal-dominated area. There are six districts in the division and people from Bihar and West Bengal would also benefit after the establishment of AIIMS at Deoghar. Therefore, a Scheduled Tribe (ST) special treatment ward should be established there so that tribals could benefit from it as they have remained undeveloped even 7-8 decades after the independence,” read Das’ letter to the PM and the health minister.When asked if he was demanding some sort of reservation for a particular community in health service, Das said it should not be seen with the prism of quota.“All political parties demand welfare and development of vulnerable groups, including the poor, Dalits and the tribals. My only intention is to seek better healthcare for the tribals in the region,” Das said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/deoghar-aiims-bjp-mla-demands-exclusive-treatment-ward-for-tribals-101629994523420.html
26-08-2021||Other||Punjabi University V-C meets Manpreet on financial crisis ailing varsity||Patiala Punjabi University vice-chancellor Arvind, accompanied by a battery of senior officials of the varsity, met Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and other top functionaries of the state government on Wednesday to apprise them about the acute financial crisis plaguing the functioning of their institution. The VC have a detailed presentation on the measures the varsity had taken to generate income from its own resources. According to budgetary proposals for this fiscal year, the varsity expects to generate an annual income of ₹342 crore, including government aid. With the expenditure, however, at ₹472, the university has to bridge a fiscal deficit of ₹130 crore. At the moment, the varsity is toiling hard to meet its mostly fixed and committed expenditure, including payment of salaries and pensions to its employees, on time. V-C Arvind said, “We have informed them that the university has taken key steps, including restructuring and rationalization of staff in external centres, 10% increase in fee, starting new courses and other related measures to generate income of its own.”He added that the government was also apprised about recent actions taken against those who were involved in financial irregularities. “The minister gave a patient hearing to our presentation. Now, we want the government to look into the issue of our finances and decide positively on providing financial assistance to the institution,” he added. Recently, a five-member committee had been formed under the varsity’s finance officer Rakesh Kumar to prepare detail report on its finances and how it could be improved.“We informed the government about the gap between income and expenditure and how it could be bridged,” the V-C added. Meanwhile, an official present at the meeting said discussions were also held on increasing the varsity’s monthly grant to ₹25 crore from the present ₹12 crore. The government has also been briefed in a debt of ₹120 crore that the varsity has taken from banks to meet its monthly expenditure. On March 8, the Punjab government had come to the rescue of cash-strapped varsity with its announcement of a special grant of ₹90 crore in its annual budget. The varsity has already received the first instalment of ₹27 crore of this money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabi-university-v-c-meets-manpreet-on-financial-crisis-ailing-varsity-101629993805232.html
26-08-2021||Other||Barnala man held for thrashing 9-year-old daughter||Barnala Police have arrested a 50-year-old man, Gurjant Singh, of Mehta village near Tapa town, for thrashing his nine-year-old daughter with a bat, after a video of the incident went viral on social media on Thursday. Police say Gurjant is an alcoholic and thrashed his child in an inebriated state. In the video, the child is seen crying for help and withering in pain, with injuries to her head also visible. The accused was booked following a complaint of his neighbours, who had shot the video and uploaded it. Punjab State Commission for Protection for Child Rights has sought a report from Barnala senior superintendent of police within three days.Barnala SSP Bhagirath Singh Meena said that the accused was an alcoholic and had been arrested after registration of a case at Tapa Police Station. “The relatives of the girl have been called in, we will take a decision on her future place of staying after a discussion with them,” the SSP added.Tapa DSP Baljit Singh said the accused also used to indulge in domestic violence and thrashed his wife, following which she had left home years ago. They have an 18-year-old son, who also left house due to the disturbed conditions in the family. Gurjant has been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 342 (wrongful confinement) and under the Juvenile Justice Act at Tapa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barnala-man-held-for-thrashing-9-year-old-daughter-101629993263268.html
26-08-2021||Other||Expedite road projects in Pune region: Gadkari||PUNE Union minister of Road Transport and Highways, Nitin Gadkari, held a meeting to review progress on road infrastructure in the Pune region on Thursday. Gadkari took stock of the work in progress under road development agencies such as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation and (MSRDC) and Public Works Department (PWD). While instructing officials to expedite the work, he also asked them to adopt a strict approach towards the contractors who would not meet the deadline and also for substandard work. “Review of all the projects in Pune region under NHAI, MSRDC and PWD was taken in today’s meeting by him. He has instructed to expedite the projects. He said that the bidding of the projects which are in pipeline should be done at the earliest and work which has been going should be completed early,” said Suhas Chitnis, Pune project director of NHAI. At the meeting, Nitin Gadkari expressed strong disappointment over the potholes near Khed Shivapur on the Pune-Bengaluru highway. He also asked officials to adopt a strict approach towards the contractors who would not do the proper work.“At the meeting all projects under Pune region were discussed. Problems such as land acquisition, and delays were also discussed,” said an official who was present at the meeting but asked not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/expedite-road-projects-in-pune-region-gadkari-101629992902517.html
26-08-2021||Other||Jalandhar police book singer Gurdas Maan for hurting religious sentiments||Jalandhar Police have booked noted Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan for hurting religious sentiments on Thursday for his statement, given last week, on Nakodar Dera Murad Shah founder, Sai Laddi Shah, and the third Sikh master, Guru Amardas. A video of his statement had gone viral on social media. Jalandhar rural SSP Naveen Singla said, “A case has been registered against Maan and investigation is on.” On August 24, Maan had posted a video on social media, offering an apology for his statement made during the annual mela at Dera Murad Shah in Nakodar. “Gurus should never be compared with anyone and I can never even think about insulting the great gurus. If my words have hurt anyone’s sentiments, I apologise to them a 100 times,” Maan, who is also the chairman of Dera Murad Shah, says in this video. Sikh organisations, including members of the Satkar Committee, had lodged a police complaint and sought a case against Maan. Members of these organisations had also started an indefinite protest against Jalandhar police opposite the SSP office for the past four days. On Thursday, Sikh protesters upped the ante and gathered at the Rama Mandi Chowk on the Jalandhar-Ludhiana national highway and blocking traffic. It was then that the police lodged the FIR and got protesters to clear the highway. Maan has been booked under Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code at Nakodar City police station in the district. Maan had also courted controversy after in 2019, after he supported the idea of ‘One Nation, One Language’ for the country in a radio talk-show in Canada and faced protests from a section of Punjabi community, during his live show in Canada. A senior Punjabi writer, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Gurdas Maan did not compare anyone with the guru. The issue is being blown out of proportion, even as Maan has tendered an apology. Even otherwise, many sections of society openly claim to be the descendants of the gurus or Sikh warriors. They are never booked.” Noted writer Gurbhajan Gill said, “Celebrities should be vigilant of what they say. Promoting dera chiefs etc is not their brief.” Nakodar dera management refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jalandhar-police-book-singer-gurdas-maan-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-101629990923166.html
26-08-2021||Jaipur||Over 1 crore people fully vaccinated against Covid in Rajasthan: Health minister||Over one crore people have been administered both doses of Covid-19 vaccine in Rajasthan, state health minister Raghu Sharma said on Thursday.With this, 20 per cent of the target population in the state has been fully vaccinated, he added."A total of 4, 12, 67,359 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the state. Of them, 3, 12, 58,116 have been given the first dose and 1,00,09,243 beneficiaries have received both doses," the minister said.Sharma said that there are 3,177 vaccination sites in the state, of which, 3,109 are government and 68 are private sites.The minister said in view of a possible third wave of coronavirus, the infrastructure of all the hospitals in the state is being strengthened.He said availability of medical oxygen, along with ICU beds, is being ensured in 332 community health centres (CHCs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/over-1-crore-people-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-in-rajasthan-health-minister-101629987534346.html
26-08-2021||Other||Amritsar man held with 17-kg heroin in Pathankot||Amritsar Police have arrested a local resident, Ranjit Singh, alias Sonu, of Shaheed Udham Singh Colony, for smuggling 17-kg heroin from Jammu and Kashmir to Punjab on Thursday morning. The contraband was concealed in two specially-designed and fabricated compartments placed in the bottom floor of the vehicle, an Innova cab with registration number PB01A6708. The arrest was made from Madhopur in Pathankot district, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said. The arrest comes few days after the Amritsar Rural Police foiled a major drug smuggling bid by Pakistan-based smugglers by recovering 39 packets of heroin, weighing around 41kg, from Panjgraian Border Outpost (BoP) area of Amritsar. The DGP added following an input that Sonu was on the way to Amritsar via Pathankot, SSP Amritsar (rural) Gulneet Singh Khurana constituted special teams under the supervision of Majitha assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Abhimanyu Rana and DSP, detective, Gurinder Pal Nagra to nab the accused. “Police teams successfully intercepted the Innova car being driven by Sonu in Madhopur and recovered 16 packets of heroin, weighing 16.9kg, concealed inside specially-designed cavities beneath the vehicle,” the DGP added.During his preliminary interrogation, Sonu revealed that he had picked up the contraband consignment from Naushera area of J&K on the instructions of Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, of Patti in Tarn Taran (currently in Faridkot Jail) and Malkeet Singh alias Laddu (currently in Sri Muktsar Sahib Jail), the DGP said, adding that Rana was the kingpin of this racket.A case under Sections 21, 23/61/85 of the NDPS Act has been registered at Kathunangal police station.On July 5, this year, had also busted a major drug supply chain with the arrest of four Afghan nationals and heroin seizure of 17kg from an industrial unit in South Delhi. To date, in 2021, the state police have recovered around 400kg heroin, 4kg smack, 6kg cocaine, besides recovering over 98,000 injections and 1.4 crore intoxicant pills/capsules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-man-held-with-17-kg-heroin-in-pathankot-101629988343124.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||South Mumbai's St Joseph Boarding School sealed after 22 test Covid positive||At least 22 students in a boarding school in South Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 leading to the sealing of the school by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Thursday.Authorities said that they have sealed St Joseph Boarding School in Agripada as at least 16 people who were below 18 years of age tested positive for Covid-19. Four among these sixteen are below 12 years of age. These four were shifted to the Nair Pediatric Ward and the rest of the 12 have been shifted to Richardson and Cruddas Covid-19 facility for treatment. Six adults also have tested positive for Covid-19. Authorities have tested 95 people after some showed Covid-19 related symptoms.Civic officials have confirmed that none of them were on oxygen support and are out of danger. The Mumbai civic body conducted RT-PCR tests at the school in Mumbai’s Agripada after students developed symptoms.This comes amid apprehension that the next wave of the pandemic will affect children more, which scientists have dismissed saying that this speculation has no scientific backing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/south-mumbai-s-st-joseph-boarding-school-sealed-after-22-test-covid-positive-101629987796544.html
26-08-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru civic body allows most shops to operate, mandates at least 1 Covid vaccine dose for workers by Aug 31||The Bengaluru civic body on Thursday announced that it would allow most of the commercial establishments in the city to operate citing the lowering number of Covid-19 infections in the city, conditional to compliance with Covid appropriate protocols.Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), said that the commercial establishments must ensure the 100% vaccination of their staff at their own cost. He also said that the first dose of the vaccine must be administered to all employees by August 31.To contain virus transmission, commercial establishments,
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Antilia explosives scare: NIA court rejects Naresh Gor’s bail plea||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Thursday rejected the bail plea of cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gaur, arrested in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran.The plea was rejected by the court on the ground that the federal agency was yet to complete the investigation and file a charge sheet in the case.Gaur was arrested on March 21 by Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which was investigating the Hiran murder case. Later his custody was handed over to the NIA, as the latter took over the case from ATS.In his bail plea, filed in April through the law firm Diamondwala & Co, Gaur had claimed that he has been made a scapegoat by the investigating agency at the instance of co-accused dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze. He claimed that he was never contacted by Vaze.The plea was opposed by NIA claiming that Gaur was part of the larger conspiracy hatched by dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, a prime accused in the case, to eliminate Hiran, along with other Mumbai police officers Sunil Mane and Riyazuddin Kazi - both of whom are also arrested by NIA and subsequently dismissed from service, and former policeman Vinayak Shinde. NIA claimed that the SIM cards used by Vaze were provided by Gaur and also the mobile phone used for calling Hiran was purchased by Vaze, in which the SIM inserted was also provided by Gaur. Further, the agency claimed that if released on bail, Gaur may jump the bail and tamper with evidence.On February 25, a green Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, on Carmichael Road in south Mumbai, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a note threatening to kill certain members of the Ambani family.On March 5, the body of the SUV owner, Thane based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, was found dumped in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra.NIA subsequently took over investigations in both the cases and claimed that it was all handy work of Vaze, out of purported desperation to “restore his lost glory.”NIA later also arrested encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma and four others who allegedly throttled Hiran and dumped the body in the creek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-explosives-scare-nia-court-rejects-naresh-gor-s-bail-plea-101629983662697.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Rashmi Shukla report: Maharashtra govt assures HC to hand over documents to CBI by Aug 31||The state government on Thursday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that it would hand over by August 31 the certified copies of the Rashmi Shukla report and related documents to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), for the agency’s probe in the April 21 first information report (FIR) registered by it against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Based on tapped telephonic conversations, the report highlights how certain persons were acting as conduits, helping many senior police officers to secure transfers and lucrative postings using their political connections.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was hearing the application by CBI seeking documents which included the letter submitted by Shukla to the director-general of police and a report on the transfer and postings. The CBI had also sought copies of the annexures to the report and digital devices and panchnama which showed how the documents had been transferred from one department to another. Senior advocate Rafiq Dada, who appeared for the state government, submitted that as per the assurance given to the bench on Monday, the state had agreed to hand over documents, annexures to the documents and digital devices sought by CBI by August 31.Dada, however, added that the state would not be able to provide certified copies of the panchnama and was not in a position to respond to the query of CBI as to the number of copies made of the annexures and the digital devices as the same was not known. It was also submitted that the panchnama was not required in the Deshmukh probe. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh appearing for CBI submitted the panchnama was sought only to ascertain the chain of events showing handing over of documents. After hearing and recording the submissions, the court observed that such issues should not come before the court. “In many occasions, the state and CBI share (document and information) especially on intra-state issues, crime spread over other states. Both CBI or you (state agencies) need to co-operate with each other,” said the bench. The court noted that after the state had challenged certain portions of the CBI FIR filed on April 21, the HC had dismissed the challenge through its July 22 order and the Apex court had also upheld the HC decision. In light of this, the court said that it was necessary for the officers to comply with court orders in letter and spirit and also told chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai to ensure that no unfavourable situation was created which could compel the court to take officers to the task.On the issue of the panchnama the court said that it would see the petitions of both the CBI and the state government and pass appropriate orders on September 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rashmi-shukla-report-maharashtra-govt-assures-hc-to-hand-over-documents-to-cbi-by-aug-31-101629981742666.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt decides to name two medical institutes after Kalyan Singh||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to name two medical institutes of the state after former chief minister Kalyan Singh who died after a long illness at Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) on Saturday (August 21). “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has decided to name Bulandshahr’s medical college and Lucknow super speciality cancer institute after Kalyan Singh. After the decision, the two institutes would now be known as Kalyan Singh Rajkiya Medical College, Bulandshahr and Kalyan Singh super speciality cancer institute, Chak Ganjaria, Lucknow,” officers at the chief minister’s office confirmed. The officers said the UP chief minister took the decision, keeping in view Kalyan Singh’s focus on works of public welfare.Only recently Kalyan Singh’s son Rajveer, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Etah, had praised Adityanath for being with his father’s mortal remains for three days, escorting them from Lucknow to Aligarh, Atrauli and Narora on the banks of the Ganga where the last rites of the late leader were performed. “He acted like my father’s eldest son,” Rajveer said in praise of Yogi Adityanath.The state’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya has already announced the naming of roads across the state after the late leader who was the torchbearer of the Ram temple movement that propelled the BJP’s rise to power. “We have decided to name roads at all those places that were associated with him (Kalyan Singh) after him. He was a hero of the temple movement and hence the road leading to the Ram temple would be named after him. He served as UP chief minister twice and lived in Lucknow. Hence, a road in Lucknow would be named after him. Etah, Bulandshahr, Atrauli and Prayagraj were places connected with him and hence roads there too would be named after him,” Maurya said. The UP BJP unit is holding meetings across the state in memory of Kalyan Singh.“He was a great leader, a visionary and hence he will live on in popular memory forever,” said UP BJP leader Tarun Kant Tripathi.Since Singh’s death, the BJP has targeted Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav for not arriving to pay his last respects to the departed leader and alleged that it was due to vote bank considerations. The SP has hit back at the BJP for trying to do politics even in the death of a leader. In AMU, some protesters put up posters against their vice chancellor professor Tariq Mansoor on Monday night (August 23) for condoling the demise of Kalyan Singh who, they alleged, was responsible for the demolition of the Babri mosque.UP ministers have condemned the act of the protestors and sought action against them.In September 2020, a special CBI court acquitted Kalyan Singh and all the 31 others, including BJP veterans LK Advani and MM Joshi, who were accused of conspiracy to demolish the mosque. The judge concluded that there was no evidence to show that the demolition was pre-planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-names-two-medical-institutes-in-lucknow-bulandshahr-after-kalyan-singh-101629981082534.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmiri social worker Qurat Ul Ain Masoodi follows her heart to offer hope, serve a cause||Sensitised to the plight of the downtrodden since childhood, Qurat Ul Ain Masoodi, 35, found her calling in social work, particularly for orphans and women. “I studied at Mallinson Girls School in Srinagar, where we were taught to help the less fortunate, so I used to visit orphanages and the leper’s colony,” says Qurat. Originally from south Kashmir’s Khrew, her family shifted to Srinagar over two decades ago. Her mother, Dilshada Banday, is a retired government teacher and father Dr Saqlain Masoodi a retired law professor. It was her parents, particularly her mother, who encouraged her to help people in distress. She was pursuing engineering at the local SSM College in early 2000 when she decided to course correct. “I had taken the eighth semester exam, but I wasn’t comfortable. My heart lay elsewhere,” she says, adding she did not return to college even to collect her degree. Instead, she went to look after children in orphanages in town. Initially, she would take along small gifts for the inmates but the pain in their eyes moved her to do something substantial. To the rescue of orphans During her visits, Qurat found that children of some orphanages were facing abuse and she started highlighting their plight. “I was threatened with dire consequences and warned that being a young woman, this could become dangerous. But I continued raising the concern till the government closed all orphanages where children were being exploited,” she says. The focus of her work in orphanages has been the mental health of the children. “I started a scholarship programme for orphaned students in January 2018. My organisation, Aash (Hope), offers free education, meals, books and uniforms to 50 needy students,” she says. Hosting mass marriages Gradually, Qurat found herself travelling to remote pockets of Kashmir, where people, particularly women, needed a helping hand out of poverty. Aash, which she set up a decade ago, has so far solemnised weddings of 300 couples at mass marriages. “I make all arrangements for the mass marriages after raising funds from friends and acquaintances,” she says, adding that the focus of her foundation was Khansahib in Budgam district as a majority of people there lived below the poverty line. “I’ve been working for improving the lot of women of underprivileged sections. In the first of its kind mass marriage in Kashmir Valley more than 50 women were married off in October 2018,” she says. The total number of marriages supported by Aash has crossed 250, she says, adding her aim is to help families that don’t have resources to organise weddings. “Some parents say they have no option but to sell their land or household items to arrange the wedding. And a majority have small portions of land, so Aash stepped in,” she says. Though mass marriages are suspended these days due to the Covid pandemic, she recalls arranging khewa and biryani instead of the traditional Wazwan, where a lavish lunch or dinner is served to guests. “Rather, we gift clothes and household items to the newlyweds,” she adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmiri-social-worker-qurat-ul-ain-masoodi-follows-her-heart-to-offer-hope-serve-a-cause-101629980302442.html
26-08-2021||Dehradun||AAP protests against BJP by making ‘jalebis of false promises’ in U’khand||To protest against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttarakhand, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers in Haldwani made “jalebis (spiral-shaped traditional Indian sweet) of false promises”. AAP workers gathered at Buddha Park here under the leadership of AAP city president Dimple Pandey, where they made jalebis and fed them to the public. Dimple Pandey said the BJP’s Central and state governments have been making false promises to the public for the past several years. “They promised to provide jobs to the youth. But the reality is that unemployment is at its peak. ‘Achhe din (good days)’ were promised, but in reality, due to price hike of domestic gas, petrol and diesel, inflation has made life difficult for the common people,” he said. “So, we thought of making jalebis of such promises and feed people. This is a symbolic way of registering our protest against the BJP for not fulfilling the promises it had made,” he said Pandey alleged that BJP’s Central and state governments have failed on every front. “Now the public is also fed up with the ‘jumlebaazi’ (tall claims and mere statements) and will teach a lesson to the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections,” he added. BJP district president Pradeep Bisht said the AAP doesn’t know the ground reality of Uttarakhand. “They are just doing drama. Everyone knows where they stand here. The are desperate to come into the spotlight. But people here will give them a befitting reply in the upcoming elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/aap-protests-against-bjp-by-making-jalebis-of-false-promises-in-ukhand-101629978982701.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Butterfly pea powder: Paint your plate blue||We eat with our eyes first and something that looks appealing to the eye ignites the appetite. Butterfly pea powder is among the top beverage trends of 2019 and has been ruling the internet since then with its distinctive blue hue. It comes from a deep blue flowering plant called Clitoria ternatea. This magical flower has anti-cancer, anti-tumor and anti-asthmatic properties. It is also beneficial for hair loss, depression and hypertension.Its usage began with tea drinks, cocktails, lemonade and gradually took over desserts, blue rice, smoothies, pasta, unicorn noodles and much more. Though the powder is not a common ingredient in the Indian kitchen, some chefs love to experiment with it. “We were taught in hospitality school that blue is not a food colour, but food takes us to school every day. My romance with butterfly has been a recent one, and I fell head over heels. My food philosophy is collaborative and butterfly pea flower is a perfect fit with my style of cooking. Primarily used as special tea rich with oxidants, butterfly pea flower is slowly entering the kitchen of professional chefs. Butterfly pea flower is used for its pretty blue color and for dyeing food items,” says chef Tarun Sibal. It’s always better to use natural colours on food items. Unlike any other product, Butterfly pea powder allows chefs to add a deep blue on a plate without compromising on taste and nutrition. “People love good looking dishes but they are also conscious of what they eat. Butterfly pea powder is a natural ingredient and gained major popularity in the last two years as it is naturally blue and retains colour once treated well,” says chef Nishant Choubey. Sharing his experience of using it, he adds, “It’s simply outstanding! From iced tea to ice pop to bread to spaghetti to fried rice, I have been able to curate an entire menu based on this amazing flower. Having its base in Vietnam, it’s highly versatile and extremely fun to use.”The ingredient has hidden magical properties. It can change its colour when used with specific products. “A drop of lime in blue tea can change its colour from blue to purple. Add any acidic elements like lime or vinegar and see the magic unfolds,” says Choubey.The powder gives a fancy, aesthetic and rich look to the food item and can totally be used in the Indian kitchen. “From making momos, I consider momos Indian, to having a pretty looking kebab or having a floral biryani, butterfly pea flower could be used across the board. I use it for making jam, jelly with coconut milk, steam rice, or just a simple tempura, having said that I have also started using this behind the bar for infusing cocktails,” says Sibal.Chef Juhi Pahwa, who is very conscious of the ingredients she uses in her kitchen, loves to bring it to her menu. She says, “I was smitten by it when I tried a cocktail made with butterfly pea at a bar in Phuket some years back. I had to try it out in my desserts. I usually use butterfly pea powder to color my cakes naturally as I don’t use coloring agents in my cakes. It can be used in a chiffon cake as it’s really light and will give out a beautiful azure color and works well for any berry cake as well.”Recipe of Blue pea rice with tofu kale curryIngredients Jasmine rice - 100 gm Blue pea flower powder - 2 tbsWater - 250 ml Boil water and add the blue pea powder Add jasmine rice in the blue tea water and steam till done. Tofu yellow curryChopped onions - 1 tbs Chopped garlic - 1 tsp Butter - 50 gmCurry powder - 1 tbspRed curry paste - 3 tbspLemon juice - 1 tspSalt - a pinch Sugar - 1 tbsp Coconut milk - 150 ml Tofu - 80 gm Add chopped onion and garlic to a pan, add butter and saute. Add curry powder, turmeric powder, and red curry paste .Add salt, and lemon juice, and sugar Add coconut milk and let everything simmer for 15 min Then add diced tofu to it and cook for another 2-3 min.Crispy chilli kale Fresh kale - a few leaves Chopped onion - 1tsp Chopped garlic - 1 tsp Chopped ginger - 1tsp Chilli oil - 1 tbsp Veg Oyster sauce - 1 tbsp In a hot pan, saute some onion garlic and ginger.Add chili oil and veg oyster sauce. Add kale leaves and give a good toss.By chef Tarun Sibal Author tweets @ruchikagarg271||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/butterfly-pea-powder-paint-your-plate-blue-101629978758817.html
26-08-2021||Dehradun||Railways to keep train speed low in Kumaon forests after death of 2 elephants||The railways will limit the speed of trains passing through forest areas in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon to 30 to 45 km per hour following a request from the Uttarakhand forest department for ensuring the protection of wild animals especially elephants crossing the railway tracks.“Trains will now run within the speed limit fixed after the incident in which an elephant and its calf were killed after being hit by a speeding train on August 18. The speed limit will surely help in the protection of wildlife...” said Dhurb Singh Martolia, sub-divisional officer, Terai central forest division, Rudrapur. “If trains run within the speed limit, elephants can cross the track safely or loco pilots can reduce the speed or apply the brakes for the crossing of elephant conveniently.”Also Read | Kids in Pithoragarh risk their lives, cross a swollen river to reach schoolTrain services were halted for around five hours after the elephant and her calf were killed on the Lalkuan-Kashipur route.“Order for the speed limit for the trains in Kumaon has already been issued. Now we are implementing it,” said Rajendra Singh, a railway public relations officer.At least seven elephants have been killed on railways tracks in the state since April 2017. In August 2018, the Uttarakhand high court directed the railway ministry to construct underpasses in the identified elephant corridors in the state. It added the speed of the trains should the lowest possible while they are passing through elephant corridors while expressing concern over the death of elephants on railway tracks.The state has recorded a 29.9% increase in the number of elephants since 2015. Uttarakhand has 2,026 elephants as per a census held last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/railways-to-keep-train-speed-low-in-kumaon-forests-after-death-of-2-elephants-101629978262296.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||Did UP IAS officer sell vegetables by roadside? Bureaucrat explains what happened||In the latest images going viral on social media, senior Uttar Pradesh IAS officer Akhilesh Mishra is seen “selling” vegetables by the roadside. The images show, Mishra, a special secretary in the state transport department, seated on what looks like a sack, with a variety of vegetables laid out in front of him. The photos seem to be from a busy roadside market as other vegetable sellers and customers can also be seen.Netizens are wondering if these are genuine or fake. Now, Mishra himself has come forward to clarify that while the images are indeed genuine, what people see is, of course, not what was actually happening. The IAS officer took to Facebook to explain what led to the now-viral photographs.“Yesterday, I visited Prayagraj for some official work. While on my way back, I stopped at a place to take a look at the vegetables. The vegetable seller, an old lady, requested me to look after her shop, saying she would be back in a moment. Possibly, she had gone to look for her child who had gone away from the shop,” a rough translation of the post, shared in Hindi, read.Mishra added, “I just sat down at her shop. Suddenly a customer and the seller came. A friend of mine took the photo and put it on my Facebook account from my phone. I saw these today itself. For your kind information….”Since being uploaded, these have been seen by several users on the social media platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/did-up-ias-officer-sell-vegetables-by-roadside-bureaucrat-explains-what-happened-101629977477522.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||Woman, her two children die as house collapses in Kanpur||A 35-year-old woman and her two children, aged seven and four years, were killed when the building they lived in collapsed in the congested Heermanpurwa locality of Kanpur on Thursday morning, the police said.Two people were injured. One of them is a member of the fire brigade department and the other is the husband of the deceased woman. Both of them are stable and undergoing treatment, the police said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the incident and instructed officials to make sure the injured persons received the best possible treatment.Also Read | IIT Kanpur develops ‘Sanjeevani’ oxygen concentratorAssistant commissioner of police (ACP), Anwargunj, Mohammad Akmal Khan said the three-storey building was about 70 years’ old and 11 families (41 persons) lived in it.Raju, the injured man, and his family lived on the first floor. When the roof collapsed Rukhsana, his wife, and their children were killed.Raju was trapped under the debris. When rescuing him, fire brigade member Deependra Kumar also sustained injuries.The police rescued all the other occupants, who were on different floors of the house.Mayor Pramila Pandey said the Kanpur municipal corporation would work on identifying houses in bad shape in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/woman-her-two-children-die-as-house-collapses-in-kanpur-101629976822524.html
26-08-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: Vegetarian messengers and the ‘no three Fs’ diet plan||I am sitting inside the semi-circular hall of the bright red, old building of the Connemara Public Library in Chennai one February morning, wishing that it was a bit cooler inside. The library staff has taken my reference receipts inside to get the books for me. In the meantime, I have been craning my neck to get an eyeful of the intricate designs on the roof of the main hall. That part of the old building is not accessible to visitors.I am there that day to read the issues of “The Dietetic Reformer and Vegetarian Messenger”. The magazine was started in 1861 by the Vegetarian Society which had its headquarters in Manchester. Established in 1847, the objects of the Society were to “induce habits of abstinence from the Flesh of Animals as Food, by the dissemination of information upon the subject, by means of tracts, essays, and lectures, proving the many advantages of a physical, intellectual, and moral character, resulting from Vegetarian habits of Diet”.The Society had a branch in Calcutta which was run by Baboo Keshub Chandra Sen, one of the most influential and prominent social reformers in 19th century Bengal. According to the September 1885 issue of “The Dietetic reformer”, a branch was opened in Bombay that year of which Mr Byramjee Panday was the chairman.The magazine makes an interesting read. Almost all the articles preach the virtues of a vegetarian diet and urge the readers to abstain from three Fs – Fish, Flesh, and Fowl. Most of the articles are argumentative, yet eloquent.While I am a little overwhelmed by the huge stack of magazines on my desk, in one of the issues I find some handwritten pamphlets and notes. All of them are signed as “JM Lane, Poona”. Some have dates on them, many don’t.The first pamphlet bears the date 23/8/1885. It says – “During the past twelve months four – entirely Vegetarian restaurants – have been opened in London, and at least three other dining – rooms have undertaken to provide Vegetarian meals. Manchester has seen the establishment of two new restaurants, and one has opened in Leeds. I urge the members to start a Vegetarian restaurant each in Bombay, Poona and Mahabaleshwar.”This pamphlet seems to be meant for private circulation of an organisation, because it is clearly addressed to “members”, perhaps of the “Vegetarian Society”.Another interesting pamphlet was probably written to convey a decision taken collectively in a meeting, or by Mr Lane himself - “A Vegetarian badge, for which many friends have been so anxiously waiting, has been decided upon in the form of a narrow silk ribbon, with a red center, narrow gold lines on either side and blue margins. This badge may be worn by all Vegetarians, its signification being simply that the wearer is an abstainer from fish, flesh, and fowl. By the general use of this badge, especially at festivals and meetings, Vegetarian friends will be able to recognise each other, while it will frequently afford an excellent opportunity for introducing the subject to the notice of others.” It is neither dated nor addressed to anyone in particular.The other pamphlets have appeals to come up with innovative vegetarian recipes, to preach vegetarianism during the Sunday mass, to meet medical practitioners and sell them on the idea of giving up meat, to visit hospitals and explain to the patients the benefits of a plant-based diet. Then there are a couple of notes which request the “presence of members at the residence of JM Lane in Civil Lines, Wanowrie” on certain Wednesday evenings from 1891 to 1893.“The Dietetic Reformer” mentions in August 1885 that Lane published “a useful pamphlet in Poona”. There are no other mentions of him or the city again in the magazine. This means that Lane was affiliated with the Vegetarian Society from Manchester. But, did he start a branch in Poona, or was he associated with the one in Bombay? In what capacity did he convene meetings at his residence in Poona?I dig a little in the hope that I find answers and come across a report published in “The Bombay Gazette” on September 10, 1891. On September 6, Sunday, a meeting was held in Church Gate Street, Bombay. One Mr Gostling took the chair. In his opening address, he mentioned that he had personal experience of the advantages of natural living, which had cured him of the chronic dyspepsia from which he had suffered for over twelve years. Dr Daji then moved the resolution referring to the formation of a “Vegetarian Society”. He said that the Vegetarian Society at Manchester had repeatedly requested their friends in Bombay to form a similar organisation in Bombay “that would find work to do in educating the native vegetarians in the land in the physiology of digestion and the chemistry of food”.The chairman then declared that the society would be called “The Natural Living Vegetarian Society”, so as to “guard against the misconception that vegetarians had to live upon vegetables alone”.The report ends with a quote from Gostling – “The admirers of British rule were not right in attributing the success of the British Army to their eating beef since the poor Irishmen and Scotch men who form the bulk of the army were brought up from childhood on potatoes and oatmeal respectively.”This report suggests that the branch of the Vegetarian Society opened in 1885 in Bombay was short-lived and that another was started in 1891.What interests me is the revelation that the last quote by Gostling is replicated verbatim in one of the notes written in Lane’s handwriting. This means that he was either present at the meeting in Bombay, or he copied it from the newspaper to use it later.Lane and his pamphlets have remained a mystery to me after I first saw them three years ago. How the pamphlets ended up in the Chennai library, is another question. He probably shifted there from Poona. Or the pamphlets were brought there by another member of the Vegetarian Society. I have found no mention of Lane in the newspapers or magazines published from London, Manchester, Bombay, Poona, and Madras. Yet his pamphlets tell us that he kept championing the cause of vegetarianism till 1893 at least.I hope to find out more about JM Lane someday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-vegetarian-messengers-and-the-no-three-fs-diet-plan-101629975082314.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Monkeys continue to meet with accidents on Mumbai-Goa highway||Despite the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) building a ladder type bridge for monkeys to cross the Mumbai-Goa highway at the Karnala bird sanctuary stretch, there is no end to monkeys meeting with accidents here. Forest officials say monkeys continue to gather at the highway, lured by food offered by some motorists. They also estimate that at least four monkey ladders and road rumblers were needed on the 2 km stretch passing through the park to contain the problem.A monkey from the Karnala bird sanctuary suffered severe injuries after it was hit by a vehicle on the highway on August 21. The animals in the sanctuary, located around 10 km from Panvel city, often go to the jungle on the other side by crossing the highway. Keeping this in mind, NHAI installed a ladder across the highway for the monkeys in July.“While writing to NHAI, we did not mention the number of ladders required in the area, assuming they will conduct surveys and decide the numbers on their own. However, they installed only one ladder near the entrance of the sanctuary and hence monkeys in other areas of the park are still crossing the highway like earlier,” a forest official said.The official said that speeding vehicles were another reason for the accidents on this stretch. “In an effort to ensure that vehicles do not go fast in this area, we have written three letters to NHAI requesting them to put rumblers on the stretch. However, they have not done anything in that regard so far,” he said.Prashant Fegade, project director of NHAI (Panvel division) said, “We developed the monkey ladder near the sanctuary after requests from the forest department. But, I don’t know anything about the requests made for rumblers. If we receive requests from them for rumblers or some more monkey ladders, we will think it over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/monkeys-continue-to-meet-with-accidents-on-mumbai-goa-highway-101629974242545.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Mastermind among the two arrested for Thane jeweller’s murder||Maharashtra Police have arrested the main accused in the murder of Thane based jeweller Bharat Jain. 25-year old Atul Mishra, arrested on Wednesday night, used to work as a watchman in Jain’s housing complex and used his knowledge of Jain’s daily routine to hatch a plot to murder and rob him with help from the other accused, police said.Jain, who stayed with his family near the Makhmali Talao in Thane, went missing on August 14 and his body was found floating in the Mumbra-Retibandar creek on August 19. Police last week arrested Subhash Surve (39) and Balwant Cholekar (36) in connection with the killing. Surve is an Ola Cab driver and was allegedly driving the vehicle used in Jain’s kidnapping, while Cholekar is alleged to have helped the other accused flee the city.Naupada police arrested Mishra and Nilesh Bhoir (35) on Wednesday night.They said Mishra, who used to work as watchman at Jain’s residential complex about two-and-a-half year ago, had plotted the murder with Bhoir.“The duo intercepted Jain as he was walking home from his jewellery store at 10.30 pm on August 14 and made him get into a cab being driven by Surve. They then strangled him inside the cab and disposed of the body in the Mumbra-Retibandar creek in the early hours of August 15. They then returned to the jewellery store and stole silver jewellery worth around Rs. 1.25 lakh,” deputy commissioner of police (Zone I) Avinash Ambure said.Mishra and Bhoir were picked up in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh and brought to Mumbai on Wednesday. Police have recovered a country made pistol, a country made revolver, and one live round from them. The silver jewellery stolen from Jain’s store was recovered from Cholekar’s possession last week, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mastermind-among-the-two-arrested-for-thane-jeweller-s-murder-101629972681995.html
26-08-2021||Kolkata||2 arrested with suspected radioactive material Californium near Kolkata airport||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) arrested two persons from near the NSCBI airport near Kolkata with around 250 grams of suspected Californium, a synthetic radioactive material that is often used in nuclear reactors.Acting on a tip-off, CID officers arrested Sailan Karmakar, 41, and Asit Ghosh, 49, both residents of Hooghly district in West Bengal on Wednesday.“Four ash-coloured stones weighing around 250 grams were seized from the accused. Preliminary enquiry revealed that it could be Californium. They were trying to sell it for a few lakh rupees,” said an officer.CID officials said the samples would be sent to a government laboratory to verify whether they were Californium, a gram of which may cost up to a few crore rupees.“The accused persons have said they got the material from Kerala and brought here to sell. We are verifying all statements,” said the officer.Officers said the seized stones sparkled and seemed to be loaded with minerals. Californium is not found in nature and was first produced in a laboratory at University of California, Berkeley, in 1950 by US scientists. The metal is silvery white and is soft.It has a variety of uses, including in the start-up of nuclear reactors, and is used to detect gold and silver in ores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/2-arrested-with-suspected-radioactive-material-californium-near-kolkata-airport-101629972442351.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Akali minister Sekhwan joins AAP in Kejriwal’s presence||Sewa Singh Sekhwan, 71, a former Akali minister and senior leader of Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), joined the Aam Aadmi Party in the presence of AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at his house in Gurdaspur district on Thursday. With this move, Sekhwan has changed three political parties in three years. “I was keeping unwell for the past several months, but no politician came to enquire after my health. It is Kejriwal ji who visited me in this hour. I am grateful to him,” Sekhwan said. Also read: Jaishankar says Afghan situation critical, evacuation priority at all-party meetInducting Sekhwan into the party, Kejriwal said, “He and his family have done a lot for Punjab and made great contribution in the politics of the state. Today, he has become a part of our family to serve the state.” “We want such a Punjab where all people can enjoy peace, harmony and equal rights,” he said. Reacting to the controversial remarks made by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s adviser Malwinder Singh Mali over social media, he said, “From Kashmir to Kanyakumari, India is one and nobody can disintegrate it. Punjab is a border state, any statement should be made with wisdom here.” Punjab AAP president Bhagwant Mann, state unit in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh and co-incharge Raghav Chaddha, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema besides party leaders Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, MLA Baljinder Kaur and Manjeet Singh Bilaspur were present at Thursday’s event.Sekhwan was keeping a low profileSekhwan, a former senior vice-president of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD-Sanyukt), had been keeping a low profile since former minister Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura joined their hands in June. Dhindsa and Brahmpura—the Akali leaders, who parted ways from the Shiromani Akali Dal over its chief Sukhbir Singh Badal’s style of working—had formed the SAD (Sanyukt) after dissolving their factions, the SAD (Democratic) and SAD (Taksali). The SAD (Taksali) was formed by Brahmpura, Sekhwan and former MP Ratan Singh Ajnala in December 2018 after the trio leaders had raised a banner of revolt against the SAD. Last year, Dhindsa floated the SAD (Democratic). From SAD (T), Sekhwan was the first to join hands with Dhindsa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exakali-minister-sekhwan-joins-aap-in-kejriwal-s-presence-101629972382181.html
26-08-2021||Jaipur||No cooked midday meal, mass prayers in Rajasthan schools after reopening||As schools in Rajasthan reopen for in-person learning for senior classes after five months of closure, the government has laid down rules to curb the spread of Covid-19 infection, including a ban on holding mass prayers, sporting activities, meetings and distribution of cooked mid-day meals among other restrictions.The standard operating procedures (SOP) released by the state health department also advise against the use of air conditioners and suggest room temperature is maintained between 24 to 30 degree Centigrade if ACs are used in schools.The guidelines underline that only dry ration will be provided to students in place of cooked mid day meals and wearing masks and observance of social distance will be mandatory on campus and in school busses. The guidelines also advise against sharing of books and other stationary among students to minimise contact to prevent the virus from spreading.Schools have been instructed to keep additional masks in stock for students and ensure regular sanitisation of the premises. Heads of institutions have also been told to depute a teacher to ensure compliance to Covid containment protocols at the time of entry and exit from schools. Teachers and students have been asked to eat lunch in their respective classes and not mingle with students from other classes.The guidelines also suggest that yoga activities are held in classes for a few minutes for maintaining good mental health, especially after the stress endured by children during the recent lockdowns.Schools with hostels have been directed to ensure complete health check up of students and not allow any student with symptoms to stay on the campus. They have been told to also coordinate with the department of health for routine check up of students and staff.Schools for class 9 to 12th will resume from September 1 with staggered timings for maintenance of social distance. For schools holding one shift, students of class 9 and 11 will enter at 7.30 am and leave by 12.30; while students of class 10 and 12 will enter at 8 am and exit at 1pm.For schools running in two shifts, students of class 9 and 11 will enter at 7.30 am and leave at 12.30pm; while students of class 10 and 12 will enter at 1 pm and leave at 6 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/no-cooked-midday-meal-mass-prayers-in-rajasthan-schools-after-reopening-101629970941900.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Man shot dead, woman injured after fight with restaurant owner over cold meal||An argument over food served cold at a party in a restaurant in Punjab’s Ferozepur district turned violent, leaving a guest dead and a woman critically injured on Wednesday night. Police said Rajesh Kumar, 45, was shot dead and Sunita Rani, 35, suffered a bullet injury in the chest when the owner of Badshah restaurant in Guru Har Sahai town, Happy Binder, and his business partner, Jatinder Kumar, attacked them after an argument. Also read: Punjab Police recover 16kg of heroin being smuggled from J&KPolice sources said the CCTV footage is being scrutinised to ascertain the sequence of events. Guru Har Sahai deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gobinder Singh said Kumar was hit in the head and died on the spot, while the woman was rushed to a private hospital in Ludhiana in a critical condition. Binder and Jatinder Kumar are yet to be arrested. “A group of people, including women, were partying at the restaurant when they had an argument with Jatinder, who called up his partner Binder. Binder had strained relations with Kumar and opened fire on the group in a fit of rage,” the DSP said. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), attempt to murder (307), Arms Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-shot-dead-woman-injured-after-fight-with-restaurant-owner-over-cold-meal-101629970042030.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||'Bengal is tiger of India': Sanjay Raut responds to Narayan Rane||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Thursday described West Bengal as the “tiger of the country” as he responded to Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Narayan Rane's remarks that the BJP won’t allow “Maharashtra to become like West Bengal.” Rane, a former Sena leader himself, made these remarks at a press conference on Wednesday, a day after he was arrested, and later given bail, for saying he would “slap” Maharashtra chief minister and Sena Supremo Uddhav Thackeray.Also Read | No coercive action against Narayan Rane: Maharashtra assures Bombay HC“What does the ‘won’t let Maharashtra become West Bengal’ statement by Narayan Rane mean? The BJP lost in West Bengal. If you keep on using same language, your presence in Maharashtra, too, will become insignificant. West Bengal is the tiger of the country,” Raut told reports.What does the 'won't let Maharashtra become West Bengal' statement (by Narayan Rane) mean? You (BJP) lost in West Bengal. If you keep on using same language, your presence in Maharashtra will also become insignificant.West Bengal is the tiger of the country: Sanjay Raut,Shiv Sena pic.twitter.com/RRwwTyJZqMRane had, on Monday, taken a jibe at Thackeray for allegedly forgetting how many years it has been since India’s independence, during the chief minister’s address on August 15 on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. "I would've slapped him if I was there," he had said.The minister's remarks set in motion a chain of events which led to his arrest and late-night bail on Tuesday. The day also witnessed violent protests by Sena workers across Maharashtra; party cadre protested outside Rane’s residence in Mumbai’s Juhu, resulting in a clash with their counterparts from the BJP.Also Read | Shiv Sena defends Narayan Rane’s arrestOn Wednesday, addressing the media on the events of August 24, Rane said, “The BJP will not allow West Bengal-like violence in Maharashtra. Sena has no power to beat up any BJP worker or leader. They only pelt stones from a distance.” The remarks were in reference to the alleged post-poll violence which took place in West Bengal earlier this year, after the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) won third straight assembly polls in the eastern state.The BJP, which finished second-best to the TMC but way behind the latter’s seat tally, has alleged its workers and supporters were targeted by supporters of the ruling dispensation, a charge which the Bengal government has denied.Last Thursday, the Calcutta high court directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to conduct separate probes into the allegations. The investigation will be monitored by the high court itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bengal-is-tiger-of-india-sanjay-raut-responds-to-narayan-rane-101629968664153.html
26-08-2021||Patna||Bihar: Three missing in boat mishap in Gandak river, 14 rescued||At least three persons went missing after a boat carrying 17 people capsized in the Gandak river in Bagaha subdivision in Bihar’s West Champaran district on Thursday morning, officials said. The mishap occurred at around 8.30 am as the boat carrying 17 people, which had set sail from Deendayal Ghat, sank in the river. Most of the passengers were daily commuters headed to an agricultural field in diara areas (fertile river islands that emerge after floods). 14 of the passengers on the boat were rescued by local fishermen and divers despite the river being in spate following the recent spell of rainfall and a constant discharge of water from Valmikinagar barrage.“We were heading towards the Diara area when the boat suddenly shook badly and the next moment we were in water,” Abhishek Anand, circle officer (CO), Bagaha recalled what one of the rescued persons had said. Shekhar Anand, sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Bagaha, said search for the missing three was on. Officials said the mishap was likely caused by overloading and high water current in the Gandak river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-three-missing-in-boat-mishap-in-gandak-river-14-rescued-101629968781772.html
26-08-2021||Other||65% active Covid cases||Around 65 % of the 441 current active cases are seeking treatment in the hospital while 35% are in home isolation. Among the 65% seeking treatment over 28% are still in Intensive Care Unit or on Oxygen beds while 2.9% are on ventilators. Another 33% are under observation in Dedicated Covid Health centres where serious or patients with complicated cases are admitted. Hardly, 0.9% is admitted to Covid Care Centres which are quarantine centres, as among the 441 active patients currently, 35% are under home quarantine. The number of Covid cases is decreasing with each passing day and the city is currently recording 98.16% recovery rate. However, most of the positive cases recorded continue to seek oxygen or ICU beds. A senior officer from TMC, said, “With other monsoon related illnesses at its peak, sometimes people take the symptoms lightly causing delay in getting medical attention. In such instances the positive patients have to get admitted and need oxygen support.” “Currently, we have 7% occupancy in ICU and 2.1% occupancy for Oxygen beds. The active patients are reducing and the overall growth rate of Covid cases in the last one week is 0.03%. We have observed during the onset of the second wave that fatalities were more when positive patients sought medical help more than a week after they noticed symptoms. It is essential to understand one’s symptoms and reach out to a medical practitioner for proper care even during home quarantine. We have TMC’s dedicated call centre that keeps a tab on all patients, through this if we notice any symptoms we reach out to the patients’ family and ask them to get admitted at the earliest,” said Vipin Sharma, Commissioner, TMC. TMC has a total of 9163 beds; from these 4166 are Dedicated Covid Hospitals or Dedicated Covid Healthcentres. Around 2723 beds are with oxygen support; 975 ICU beds, 895 Covid Care Centres and 404 Ventilators. While the occupancy of ventilators and Covid Care Centres is the least at 13 patients and 4 patients respectively; Dedicated Covid hospitals or healthcare centres have 147 patients. Currently, the city has an overall occupancy of only 4% beds. In mid-April when the cases were at its peak 80% beds were occupied; a shortage of beds and oxygen was also witnessed during the second wave. As per the state government guidelines, any municipal corporation needs to ensure that there is around 15% availability of beds from among the total positive cases; however it has been noticed that Thane city had a 30% demand for beds during both the first and second wave. Dr Sanjay Pingulkar, General Physician, said, “Unlike earlier when it was difficult to make provisions for so many beds and oxygen facility, currently there are facilities available and it becomes natural for positive patients to get admitted. However, if compared to earlier, the numbers continue to remain lower of those who are in ICU or under oxygen support, this is due to the evolved medical practices surrounding Covid 19. Alongwith home quarantine for those who have mild symptoms if we continue to maintain social distance, sanitise and wear masks at all times, we can avoid a panic situation in case of a probable third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/65-active-covid-cases-101629968661773.html
26-08-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: BJP MLA demands exclusive treatment ward for tribals at Deoghar AIIMS||Jharkhand BJP legislator Narayan Das has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya for setting up an exclusive ward for treatment of scheduled tribes at Deoghar’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). The out patients department (OPD) service at the newly-established institute was inaugurated by Mandaviya on Tuesday. In his letter to the PM and the health minister, Das has argued that Deoghar AIIMS was located in tribal-dominated Santhal Pargana division of Jharkhand and a special ward for the community would ensure better healthcare for them. “Including my assembly constituency of Deoghar, Santhal Pargana division is a tribal dominated area. There are six districts in the division and people from Bihar and West Bengal would also benefit after the establishment of AIIMS at Deoghar. Therefore, a Schedule Tribe (ST) special treatment ward should be established there so that tribals could benefit from it as they have remained undeveloped even 7-8 decades after independence,” reads Das’ letter to the PM and the health minister. When asked if he was demanding some sort of reservation for a particular community in health service, Das said it should not be seen with the prism of quota. “All political parties demand for welfare and development of vulnerable groups including the poor, Dalits and the tribals. My only intention is to seek better healthcare for the tribals in the region,” Das said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-bjp-mla-demands-exclusive-treatment-ward-for-tribals-at-deoghar-aiims-101629966561469.html
26-08-2021||Patna||Snag in billing and payment for power inconvenience 1.8m consumers in Bihar||Around 1.8 million power consumers in Bihar will have to pay the combined energy bills for July and August next month after a snag in one of the two billing servers on July 30 not only impeded generation of energy bills, but also disrupted online payments partially. A team of software engineers from New Delhi are camping in Patna for the last three weeks to fix the bug, which has hindered operations of the two discoms - the north and the south Bihar power distribution companies limited (NBPDCL & SBPDCL). The snag has affected around 700,000 power consumers under the NBPDCL and 1.1 million under the SBPDCL across 63 towns in 35 of the 38 districts of Bihar, excluding Muzaffarpur, Gaya and Bhagalpur.“We expect to rectify the snag this week and shall resume generation of energy bills from September 1,” said Sanjiwan Sinha, managing director of SBPDCL. “Online payments are now possible, allowing consumers to make advance payments, which they were unable to do earlier. The advance amount will be adjusted against their next energy bill, after the problem is resolved,” Sinha added. The engineers have been able to fix the problem only partially and online advance payments through mobile applications such as Suvidha and Bihar Bijli Bill Pay are still not possible. Not just that, payment through the portal of the two discoms is not fully functional and the data shows arrears even when June bills have been paid. “The SBPDCL portal showed an outstanding amount of 3,100 (approx.) for June despite the fact that I had paid the energy bill for the month of June on July 8, well before the payment due date of July 23,” said Sushant Kumar, a domestic subscriber residing at the New Patliputra Colony in Patna. Suresh Narayan Lall, a retired electrical engineer and domestic subscriber, residing at Patna’s Bahadurpur housing colony, said the SBPDCL portal showed an arrear of ₹1300 (approx.) from June, which he had already paid. Kumar and Lall were able to make advance payments through the SBPDCL portal on Wednesday. Dr Sandeep Sen of Sen Diagnostics, however, wasn’t lucky enough. “I have been trying repeatedly for the last one week but am unable to make an advance lump-sum payment for my energy bill of July. I get different messages on the portal. Initially, it said ‘error retrieving bill details, please try again’. Today, it said the consumer number is not registered with the SBPDCL,” said Dr Sen. The NBPDCL and the SBPDCL, however, claimed that advance payments were going on smoothly through their respective portals. “Total 194 (online) payments received today till now. Team is constantly monitoring the same,” read a text message from a senior officer in the NBPDCL. Payment collection data till 1pm on Wednesday, shared by another senior officer in the SBPDCL, claimed 2,053 online transactions led to realisation of ₹30.79 lakh in urban areas while 5,894 transactions led to remittance of ₹73.30 lakh in rural areas. Efforts to contact Chaturbhuj Mishra, SBPDCL chief data based administrator, the officer tasked to resolve the crisis, proved futile as he chose not to respond to repeated phone calls and text messages. SBPDCL managing director, however, allayed fears of delayed payment surcharge being levied on energy bills for the period of the snag. “The bill pay-by-date has been extended till August 31 for consumers whose payment due date was between July 30 and August 15. They will also be allowed rebate for timely payment, which will reflect in their next energy bill. All adjustments will be done in the next bill for consumers who have paid in excess,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/snag-in-billing-and-payment-for-power-inconvenience-1-8m-consumers-in-bihar-101629965121626.html
26-08-2021||Patna||Father and son accused of being police informers, killed by Maoists in Bihar||Left Wing Extremists (LWE) in Bihar’s Jamui district slit throats of a father-son duo before shooting them, accusing them of being police informers, late on Wednesday night. In the last two years, the ultras have killed at least 20 civilians in the state after declaring them to be spies working for security forces. The deceased have been identified as Chopay Hembram (60) and his son Arjun Hembram (32), residents of Baratand village. They were both assassinated on the foothills of Maoist-dominated Chakai-Bogi hill, at the border of Chakai and Charka Patthar police stations in the district, a police officer said.According to eyewitness accounts, an armed group of outlawed CPI (Maoist) outfit stormed into the village at around 12.30 am and abducted the duo from their houses. The outlaws dragged the men out even as their families pleaded their innocence. The Maoists fired three blank rounds to terrorise the villagers and raised ‘Lal Salaam’ slogans before vanishing into the hilly-forest area, where the captured duo was thrashed and their throat slit before being shot with bullets, police said.Jamui sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Dr Rakesh Kumar said the villagers later recovered their bodies lying at two separate places on Thursday morning. Police said it also appeared that the Maoists first slit the duo’s throat before shooting them. Police also found handwritten Maoist posters from the spot claiming that they killed the father and the son for acting as police informers. The note also warned other villagers of similar consequences if they opted to be police informers. Villagers and members of the deceased families alleged the police arrived very late despite being informed about the incident. The SDPO added that an FIR had been lodged in the case and a search operation had begun in Jamui and adjoining Giridih district of Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/father-and-son-accused-of-being-police-informers-killed-by-maoists-in-bihar-101629960801091.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||A decade on, trial in triple blasts in Mumbai to begin next month||Over a decade after 26 people were killed and about 130 injured in three coordinated bomb blasts in Mumbai, the trial in the case is set to start on September 6. Charges have now been framed against all 11 accused in the case and a trial court has asked the prosecution to assist it in concluding the trial expeditiously.The court on Tuesday framed charges against the last remaining accused, Asadullah Akhtar, who is lodged in New Delhi’s Tihar Jail. He was produced in the designated Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) on Tuesday through video conferencing. After the court read and explained the charges to him, Akhtar denied all the allegations. The court then directed the prosecution to submit the list of witnesses to be examined as well as that of documentary and other evidence. The court listed the beginning of the trial on September 6.Also Read | Over 100,000 kids were orphaned or lost a parent since April 2020: NCPCR to SCThree bombs went off at Zaveri Bazaar, Opera House, and Dadar between 6.52 pm and 7.05 pm on July 13, 2011.Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad, which investigated the cases, has arrested 11 persons in connection with the blasts, claiming that they belonged to homegrown outfit Indian Mujahideen.The 11 charged in the cases are Naqi Ahmed Wasi Ahmed Shaikh, Nadeem Akthar Ashfaq Sheikh, Kanwar Pathrija, Haroon Naik, Yasin Bhatkal, Riyaz Bhatkal, Waqas Sad, Danish, Tarbez, Muazzafar Kolah, Mohammed Qafeel Ansari, and Tehseen Akthar.In 2017, special public prosecutor Ujwal Nikam moved a plea for the issuance of a production warrant against the accused to ensure a speedy trial. Most of the accused are lodged in Mumbai’s Taloja jail. Some have been shifted to Tihar and Hyderabad jails in connection with other cases registered against them. The prosecution sought their custody and physical presence before the trial court in Mumbai.The accused could not be produced physically before the MCOCA court for framing of charges. Therefore, the process was delayed as many accused insisted on their physical presence in the court for framing of charges. Finally, the accused agreed to the framing of charges through video conferencing, and the process was completed on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-decade-on-trial-in-triple-blasts-in-mumbai-to-begin-next-month-101629960380891.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||SC approves Delhi Police decision, says no tainted candidates for force||The Supreme Court on Wednesday approved the decision of the Delhi Police to refuse appointment as constables to four persons acquitted in criminal cases as the judges held that persons recruited to police force should have the ability to inspire public confidence.Dealing with the appeal of the Delhi Police which lost before the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) and the Delhi high court, a bench of justices KM Joseph and S Ravindra Bhat said that in matters of public employment, courts should not second guess the suitability of a candidate as this function is best left to the executive power of the state.The top court set aside the decision of the Delhi high court of December 5, 2013 noting serious lapses on how it sought to condone the offences of kidnapping, house trespass, causing grievous hurt and rioting against the four candidates based on their young age and rural setting where such crimes are frequent.The top court said, “The impugned order indicates a broad view that such misdemeanour should not be taken seriously, given the age of the youth and the rural setting. Such generalisations, leading to condonation of the offender’s conduct, should not enter the judicial verdict and should be avoided.”Also Read | Over 100,000 kids were orphaned or lost a parent since April 2020: NCPCR to SC“Each case is to be scrutinised by the concerned public employer, through its designated officials- more so, in the case of recruitment for the police force who are under a duty to maintain order, and tackle lawlessness, since their ability to inspire public confidence is a bulwark to society’s security,” the bench stated in its judgment.The four candidates – Raj Kumar, Shiv Singh, Deepa Tomar and Prem Singh Chaudhary – had applied for constable posts in the Delhi Police following an advertisement issued in the year 2009. In their applications, they disclosed the criminal instituted against them.Raj Kumar was accused of house trespass (Section 451), rioting (Section 147), causing hurt (Section 323) and endangering life (Section 336) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) while Shiv Singh and Prem Singh Chaudhary faced offences of causing grievous hurt (Section 325), wrongful restraint (Section 341) under IPC. Deepa Tomar was charged with abduction (Section 364) of IPC of her own husband which she claimed to be a counterblast to her dowry harassment case filed against in-laws.In all cases, except that of Tomar, the trial court acquitted the accused either for want of evidence or on account of the accused having compromised with the complainant. Tomar was acquitted following trial.The screening committee of the Delhi Police found them unsuitable for appointment. The candidates got relief from CAT in separate orders which was brought up in appeal at the Delhi high court by Delhi Police. The top court said, “Courts exercising judicial review cannot second guess the suitability of a candidate for any public office or post. Absent evidence of malice or mindlessness (to the materials), or illegality by the public employer, an intense scrutiny on why a candidate is excluded as unsuitable renders the courts’ decision suspect to the charge of trespass into executive power of determining suitability of an individual for appointment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-approves-delhi-police-decision-says-no-tainted-candidates-for-force-101629960020987.html
26-08-2021||Ranchi||Rajesh Thakur is new Jharkhand Congress president||The Congress president, Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday appointed Rajesh Thakur president of the party’s faction-ridden Jharkhand unit, besides appointing four new working presidents. Thakur was one of the five working presidents of the party in Jharkhand and will now replace state unit chief Rameshwar Oraon, who is also the finance minister in the Hemant Soren-led UPA government in the state. “The party president has also appointed Member of Parliament (MP) Geeta Kora, legislator Bandhu Tirkey, Jaishankar Mahto and Shahzada Anwar as working presidents,” a statement from the office of general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal said.“The party appreciates the contributions of outgoing PCC President Dr. Rameshwar Oraon. The party also appreciates the contributions of outgoing Working Presidents Kamlesh Mahto, Irfan Ansari, Manas Sinha, and Sanjay Paswan,” the statement added further. Demand for a new state unit president had been raging with several Congress MLAs openly demanding the outgoing president’s resignation from the party post as per the principle of one man one post. Several legislators, in batches, had been camping in New Delhi in the past few months demanding a change of guard in the state. Oroan, a former union minister, was given the command of the state unit months ahead of the 2019 assembly polls, in which, the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance wrested power from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in December 2019 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/rajesh-thakur-is-new-jharkhand-congress-president-101629958040649.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police recover 16kg of heroin being smuggled from J&K||Punjab Police recovered 16kg of heroin being smuggled into the state from Jammu and Kashmir by an Amritsar resident at Madhopur border in Pathankot district on Thursday. Punjab Police chief director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta tweeted: “Amritsar (rural) police recovered 16kg of heroin from Madhopur today morning. The drugs consignment was being brought in by an Amritsar resident from J&K. Proud of the excellent work in the ongoing Drive against Drugs by @AmritsarRPolice. 57kg of heroin recovered within seven days.” Also read: Fare up five-fold: Farmers forced to mortgage land to buy air tickets to Canada for wardsActing on a tip-off, the police put up a naka (barrier) at Madhopur border and arrested Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, of Khazana Gate area in Amritsar, after a search of his vehicle yielded the heroin. “Rana’s Toyota Innova car (PB-01-A-6708) was stopped on suspicion. The 16 kg of heroin was recovered from it. Our team is still at Madhopur border, and the accused is being questioned,” a senior police official said. Rana was on his way from Jammu and Kashmir to Amritsar via Pathankot when he was intercepted by the Amritsar rural police. On August 21, the police recovered 40.8 kg of heroin that was being smuggled from across the border near Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-recover-16kg-of-heroin-being-smuggled-from-jk-101629955580271.html
26-08-2021||Bhopal||First raid on illegal money lenders in MP following amended law, 8 arrested||For the first time following an amendment in the money lenders act in September 2020, Madhya Pradesh police raided unregistered lenders leading to arrest of eight persons involved in the practice, and recovered ₹55 lakh in cash apart from several financial and identity documents of borrowers trapped in their vicious net, police said.The accused including Mohammad Afzal, Brijkishore Mishra, Yogendra Sharma, Oman Sahu, Lateef, Suresh Gautam, Ajay Singh and Manoj Gupta were arrested under Section 420 (fraud) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under relevant sections of the Madhya Pradesh Moneylenders (Amendment) Act, 2020, which amended an 86-year old law made in 1934.The amendments limit the interest chargeable by money lenders to the rate notified by the state government from time to time and makes any loan advanced by an unregistered moneylender unrecoverable in any court of law unless at the time of filing the suit, the moneylender held an effective registration and the court is satisfied that the loans advanced were in compliance with the act.The raids conducted by 10 teams, comprising 115 police personnel, made the arrests from the Koyalanchal area, freeing more than 500 employees of South Eastern Coal field Limited in Anuppur district from the clutches of illegal money lenders following decades of exploitation, said Akhil Patel, superintendent of police Anuppur.Patel added that the eight money lenders were arrested on charges of blackmailing, harassment and extortion, also leading to the recovery ₹55 lakh in cash, over 200 cheque books, 710 blank cheques, 225 passbooks, 73 ATM cards, 50 affidavits, more than 100 mark-sheets and Aadhaar cards, more than 500 blank papers with signatures and even property documents of over 1,000 borrowers, revealing the extent of their exploitative illegal practice.According to the police, the money lenders used to target hapless migrant labourers working at South Eastern Coal field Limited.“They used to loan money at 10-15% interest rate by taking signatures of labourers on blank papers. After some years, the money lenders used to take their ATMs, passbooks, Aadhar Cards, cheque books and legal papers of property. The money lenders even used to withdraw salaries from their bank accounts and also take bank loans using seized documents of debt-ridden borrowers,” said a police officer, who didn’t wish to be named.A police officer involved in investigations against these money lenders said they were hearing complaints about a network of illegal money lenders harassing employees of SECL for a long time but the victims shied away from registering complaints since the lenders possessed all their important documents.Patel said the area police were not told about identities of people to be raided since the money lenders were reported to have local support. “They [local police] were only told when we reached their homes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/first-raid-on-illegal-money-lenders-in-mp-following-amended-law-8-arrested-101629951859876.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s dry spell to continue today; rainfall to pick up later this week||Delhi is likely to continue with its dry spell on Thursday as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasts no rain for the day with partly cloudy skies. IMD has forecast that rainfall would pick up in the capital later this week till August 28 at least.“Even after August 28, only scattered or patchy rainfall is likely, as no intense pressure system is seen building up to trigger good rains in Delhi and the surrounding region. There may be light rain on August 31,” said a senior IMD official. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 27 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 36°C. The maximum temperature was 36.4°C on Wednesday – three degrees above normal and the minimum temperature at 27.4°C was one degree above normal.Also Read | Woman, minor daughter raped by landlord in Nangloi; suspect on run, say copsWeather officials also stressed that this was another example of erratic weather patterns Delhi has been recording over the last few years. IMD scientists and private weather forecasters said that over the last decade, instead of receiving uniform rains, Delhi has been receiving short and intense rainfall. The number of rainy days has also reduced from around 15-17 between the years 2000 and 2009, to around 10-12 over the last 10 years.This year, Delhi saw only five rainy days in August. But in these five days, the city received 214.5mm rainfall, a 3% surplus, the bulk of which was concentrated on August 21.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6am stood at 109. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 115, which is also in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the satisfactory category due to increased traffic emission from waterlogging in some areas and polluted air form north-west and will remain in the satisfactory category for the next two days. Moreover, higher ventilation does not allow dust to accumulate.”A recent analysis by Climate Trends, a Delhi-based communications initiative building a narrative around climate ambition and low carbon development pathways, highlighted how high pollution levels impacts monsoon patterns in a region. The analysis said with the levels of toxic pollution increasing, in the coming years, monsoon rain may reduce by at least 10%.“Air pollution is likely to decrease the southwest monsoon rainfall by 10%-15% for the entire country. Meanwhile, some places might even see rain drop up to 50%. It will also impact the dynamics of monsoon like cause a delay in onset,” said Dilip Ganguly, associate professor, Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT-Delhi, who is one of the contributors to the analysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-dry-spell-to-continue-today-rainfall-to-pick-up-later-this-week-101629947720749.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||President Kovind to begin four-day UP visit from today; details here||President of India Ram Nath Kovind is set to begin his four-day visit to Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, August 26, starting with state capital Lucknow on the first day of his visit. The President is expected to attend the ninth convocation ceremony of the Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University in Lucknow today, according to an official release issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan.President Kovind will participate in the diamond jubilee celebrations of Captain Manoj Kumar Pandey UP Sainik School in Lucknow tomorrow (August 27, Friday), where he will unveil a six-foot-tall bronze statue of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Dr Sampurnanand, also inaugurating an auditorium named after the latter. On the same day, the President will grace the 26th convocation of the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Lucknow, according to his Secretariat.Also Read | UP Sainik School gears up for Prez visit tomorrowPresident Kovind's four-day UP tour entails visits to Lucknow (on August 26 and August 27), followed by a visit to Gorakhpur on August 28. On the final day of his UP tour (August 29), the President will travel to the temple town of Ayodhya, according to the itinerary released by the President's Secretariat.President Kovind is scheduled to lay the foundation stone for the Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath AYUSH Vishwavidyalaya on August 28 (Saturday) and inaugurate the Mahayogi Gorakhnath Vishwavidyalaya in the city on the same day.Also Read | CM Yogi reviews preparations for Prez’s Gorakhpur visitOn August 29 (Sunday), the President will visit Ayodhya in a special train by the Indian Railways. According to the PTI news agency, this special train will have an office for the President and include facilities such as free WiFi, among others. The Indian Railways has taken extra measures in the security. A rule book is prescribed in the security protocol of the President.Once in Ayodhya, President Kovind is slated to launch various projects of the department of culture and tourism under the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government. The projects include the renovation and construction of the Tulsi Smarak Bhavan, the development of the Nagar Bus Stand, and Ayodhya Dham. Before concluding his visit to the temple town, the President is also expected to visit the construction site of the Ram Janmabhoomi temple and perform a pooja there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/president-kovind-to-begin-four-day-up-visit-from-today-details-here-101629934649526.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Woman, minor daughter raped by landlord in Nangloi; suspect on run, say cops||A 35-year-old woman and her 12-year-old daughter were allegedly raped by their 73-year-old landlord in outer Delhi’s Nangloi area on Tuesday. Police said investigations in the case are ongoing and an arrest is yet to be made.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh said the police control room received a call alerting them about the alleged crime on Wednesday, and a team was dispatched immediately. “A call was received at the Nangloi police station that a woman and her daughter were raped by their landlord in Nangloi area. The caller stated that both were admitted to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital,” said the DCP.Police said that initially, doctors refused to examine the mother and daughter and did so only after the police reached the hospital. Police, however, did not reveal the details of the examination findings.The two were then counselled and their statements were recorded. According to the woman’s statement, they shifted to the Nangloi house barely three months ago. Police said the woman did not have an Aadhaar card before she moved to Nangloi, and got one made at her present address only recently. The whereabouts of the woman’s husband are unknown, they added.According to the woman, on Tuesday evening, while she was in her first floor house, the landlord came there and raped her. She said she was in state of shock and left the flat to clear her head. During her absence, she said her daughter, who was alone at home, was also sexually assaulted by the landlord and his son. Singh said that based on the statement of the woman, they registered an FIR at the Nangloi police station under sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.“Further investigations in the case are ongoing,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-minor-daughter-raped-by-landlord-in-nangloi-suspect-on-run-say-cops-101629932121224.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||MDS admissions: Internship completion cut-off date extended||On the recommendations of the Dental Council of India (DCI), the directorate general of health services (DGHS) has extended the internship completion cut-off date by four months for eligible students for admissions to MDS and dental postgraduate diploma courses for the academic session 2021-22. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the DCI had requested to extend the internship completion cut-off date from March 31 to July 31 for those students who appeared in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-MDS 2021 and fulfil the eligibility criteria for admission to MDS and PG diploma courses. The DGHS in a notice said the competent authority has decided to extend the last date of internship as a one-time measure, not to be taken as a precedent. “Also, the registration and choice filling is being extended by one day to allow such candidates to register and exercise choices who have become eligible after the extension of internship completion date,” it reads. Earlier, candidates undergoing a one-year rotatory internship or practical training were required to complete their internship by March 31. Now, the candidates who completed internship on or before July 31 will be eligible for admissions to MDS. The medical counselling committee has started the first round of counselling for admissions to 1,326 MDS seats under the all India quota. As many as 26,000 candidates, including 2,150 from Punjab, had taken the NEET MDS in December. The result of the test was declared on December 31 but the counselling was postponed following second wave of covid-19 in the country. Punjab has 11 dental colleges, including two government-run at Amritsar and Patiala, which offer 139 seats in MDS courses. There are 11 all india quota MDS seats in two government dental colleges in the state. However, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) is yet to start counselling for the 85% state-quota MDS seats in government dental colleges and all the seats of private dental colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mds-admissions-internship-completion-cut-off-date-extended-101629922820255.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers gherao Ashwani Sharma, other BJP leaders in Jalandhar over agri laws||Farmers on Wednesday gheraoed Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ashwani Sharma and other leaders in Jalandhar where they held a meeting in view of the 2022 assembly elections. The farmers blocked both sides of the road leading to the meeting venue at Circuit House and scuffled with police personnel who had put up multiple barricades to stop the protesters. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU Rajewal) activists said they will oppose the BJP programmes across the state as the party had introduced black laws to ruin the state’s farmers. “People will not tolerate excessive force used by the police,” they added. Ashwani Sharma said the BJP and its workers were fully prepared for the elections and the people of the state were ready to bring the party as an alternative. “We will hold booth-level conferences in all 117 seats in the coming days. We thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the safe return of 400 Punjab-origin people from Afghanistan to India,” he added. He called upon the leaders of the farmer organisations to resolve the issue related to the three agriculture laws as they did in case of sugarcane prices with the Punjab government. “They should give up their demand for of repeal of the three laws and sit with the central government in the interests of the farmers,” the BJP leader said. “The farm reform laws have not been implemented so far. When the Centre is saying that they can build a consensus by forming a 5-member committee, then why are farmer union leaders not talking? We will give sugarcane farmers state agreed price (SAP) of ₹450 per quintal if our party forms in Punjab,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-gherao-ashwani-sharma-other-bjp-leaders-in-jalandhar-over-agri-laws-101629922818374.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to govt, industries minister as 2 Hoshiarpur residents allege threat to life||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought response from the Punjab government and state industries minister Sham Sundar Arora on a petition from two Hoshiarpur residents claiming threat to their life from an “aide” of Arora. The bench of GS Sandhawalia also sought a status report from the Hoshiarpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) within two weeks, failing which costs of ₹10,000 each will be payable to the petitioners. The SSP has also been directed to look into the representations made by the petitioners and take appropriate steps to ensure that their lives and liberty is not put under threat by the accused or their associate. The minister, the police and the state government have to respond to the allegations by September 13. The court acted on the plea of Vivek Kaushal and Kamal Bhargav who had claimed threat to their lives from one Vishwanath Ohri of Hoshiarpur who is purportedly an associate of minister Arora. They had also alleged that even as one of them was brutally assaulted, but on July 31 a case was registered at the Model Town police station, Hoshairpur under bailable sections. They had demanded that the case be handed over to an independent agency. The court was told that an FIR was lodged in January 2019 against Vishwanath Ohri and a special investigating team (SIT) had found that he was involved in the incident, wherein even the deputy director, Punjab Police Academy (PAP), and the other government officials were assaulted and their vehicles damaged. It was found that Ohri even fired a gunshot on the left thigh of his accomplice so that a cross-FIR could be lodged, the court was told, adding that even after this, due to collusion of state machinery with Ohri who is allegedly an aide of the minister, the petitioners had to move the court for an independent probe in that matter too and a status report has been called from the state as investigation was not being completed. The court was further told that Bhargav, along with his companions, were brutally assaulted in July and the incident was captured in CCTV cameras. But the FIR lodged on July 31 was under bailable offences to “favour” Ohri and his men, the court was informed. Even on an earlier occasion, the petitioners were pleading for protection of life and liberty on account of the alleged involvement of the minister but no action was taken, it was claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-notice-to-govt-industries-minister-as-2-hoshiarpur-residents-allege-threat-to-life-101629922819338.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Non-political forum Sanjha Sunehra Punjab Manch launched||The Sanjha Sunehra Punjab Manch, a non-political forum, was launched on Wednesday with a view to discussing problems faced by the state and its people and suggest a course correction. Former diplomat KC Singh, founder and convener of the forum, said, “Our aim is to solicit the feedback of Punjab residents, both in urban and rural areas, on various issue and initiate an interactive dialogue.” Forum secretary Col (retd) LJS Gill said there are 14 co-founders belonging to different fields. “Many of the co-founders, who worked with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ahead of the 2017 polls, are unhappy with the party’s functioning, particularly its handling of state issues,” he said. Sharing the forum’s vision, Singh said “This platform will work towards finding solutions to the pressing issues facing the people of Punjab. We will offer solutions, but more importantly go to the people and seek their advice.” The forum, he added, had no political ambitions. Maj Gen (retd) Satbir Singh said, “We recognise the services and sacrifices of armed forces. Ex-servicemen must be granted the dignity they deserve and they must be roped in for the betterment of the state.” Activist Prof Ronki Ram said, “We need to promote skill-based education in government schools for generation of dignified employment at the grassroots level.” Also present on the occasion were forum co-founders former Punjab DGP DR Bhatti, Air Marshal (retd) PS Gill, Arjuna Awardee Gurbir Singh Sandhu and Justice (retd) Kamaljit Singh Garewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nonpolitical-forum-sanjha-sunehra-punjab-manch-launched-101629922817070.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||SAD scores third win on trot in Delhi gurdwara body polls, Sarna defeats Sirsa||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday won the elections to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) for the third time in row, clinching 27 out of the total 46 seats. The outgoing president and SAD’s warhorse Manjinder Singh Sirsa, however, lost to former president Harvinder Singh Sarna by 469 votes in a fierce contest on the Punjabi Bagh seat. But Sirsa is set to become the gurdwara body’s president again as SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said he will be nominated from the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) quota. The SAD top brass sees the result as a practice match for the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab. Addressing the media in Delhi, Sukhbir said: “It is the beginning of a “storm which will sweep the Congress and the AAP aside” in the Punjab assembly polls next year.” Former DSGMC chief Manjit Singh GK-led Jago party won in three wards, while Akali Dali (Delhi) headed by Paramjit Singh Sarna got 14 seats, the directorate of gurdwara elections said. Sarna said: “We hoped to do much better, but we accept that the voters have the final say.” Independent candidate Tarvinder Singh Marwah won the Jangpura ward. The SAD got 40.27% of the total votes polled, while SAD (Delhi) and Jago party polled 27.79% and 15.72% votes, respectively, according to data issued by the directorate. The DSGMC which controls historic shrines in the city, including Rakabganj and Bangla Sahib gurdwaras, as well as various academic institutions and hospitals, goes to polls every four years. It has an annual budget of ₹110 crore.Under the 1971 DSGMC Act, a 51-member House runs the gurdwara body. Over and above 46 elected members, there is a provision to nominate one member from the SGPC quota, while two members come via co-option and two more come from the Singh Sabhas (local gurdwaras) in Delhi. A total of 312 candidates including 132 independents fought the elections conducted on Sunday. The voting had witnessed a low turnout of 37.27%, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-scores-third-win-on-trot-in-delhi-gurdwara-body-polls-sarna-defeats-sirsa-101629922756121.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||More players will take up weightlifting now: Mirabai Chanu||Tokyo Olympic silver medallist Mirabai Chanu on Wednesday her feat will surely change the mindset of parents who will now encourage their children to take up sports, especially weightlifting. “More girls will come forward and opt for weightlifting as a sport to fulfil their dream of winning a medal,” said Chanu who received a rousing welcome at the Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports (NSNIS) in Patiala.A trainee at NSNIS, Chanu remained star attraction as she kicked off her training for upcoming international events on Wednesday evening.“It is always great to be back at the institute where you got training for events like Olympics. It is more joyful when there is podium finish in such events,” she said.Nothing has changed much in her life after winning the silver medal, she said. “It is only a sense of achievement as I always dreamt of bringing laurels for the country in the Olympics. My focus will more now on preparing myself for future events, mainly the 2024 Paris Olympics to change the colour of my medal,” she added. Her coach and Dronacharya awardee Vijay Sharma said the Covid-19 phase remained challenging for both players and the trainers.“Even during the pandemic, we visited foreign countries for training sessions while taking all precautionary measures,” he said.NSNIS executive director Col RS Bishnoi (retd) said the institute is proud of Chanu’s achievement and will continue to provide all assistance and logistics to the weightlifter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-players-will-take-up-weightlifting-now-mirabai-chanu-101629922755005.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||High command draws a line: Rawat says Capt will lead Cong in Punjab assembly polls||A day after four cabinet ministers and two dozen party MLAs close to Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu sought the chief minister’s removal, the Congress central leadership on Wednesday backed chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, stating that he would lead the party in the state polls early next year. “We will contest the 2022 assembly elections under Capt Amarinder’s leadership,” All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat told reporters, putting to rest all speculations about leadership change, even before his meeting with a seven-member delegation of ministers and MLAs authorised by the disgruntled party leaders to convey their demand for the chief minister’s removal to the central leadership. Rawat also said there was no threat to the state government and party in the state. The seven ministers and MLAs raised the demand for replacement of Amarinder, but were conveyed that he would not be changed, said sources close to the state incharge. The state incharge’s clear-cut statement ruling out a leadership change has come as a blow to them. Cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Charanjit Singh Channi and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, who are at the forefront of the clamour in a section of the party for Capt’s removal, had travelled to Dehradun along with three MLAs Kulbir Singh Zira, Surjit Singh Dhiman and Barindermeet Singh Pahra to apprise him of the sentiments prevailing in the state unit. The ministers and MLAs, all known detractors of Amarinder – conveyed their grievances and concerns relating to unfulfilled poll promises and the present political scenario in the state to Rawat during a two-and-a-half hours long meeting at a hotel there. Capt’s detractors had met at rural development minister Tript Bajwa’s official residence on Tuesday and decided to seek the chief minister’s removal, expressing their “lack of faith” in him over the issue of unfulfilled poll promises. Besides escalating the factional fight in the state Congress with just five months to go for the state polls, their rebellion ended an uneasy truce between Sidhu and Amarinder brokered by the Congress central leadership after months of tense negotiations that concluded with the former’s appointment as the state chief with the chief minister grudgingly accept it. After the meeting, Channi and Bajwa said they told Rawat about their grievances and sentiments prevailing in the Punjab Congress regarding the unfulfilled poll promises. “We are firm on our demands. He (Rawat) heard us patiently on all issues. He appeared convinced and told us that he would talk to high command. We have sought time from the central leadership. If they call us, we will to go to Delhi to present our views,” the two ministers said, expressing satsification with the state in-charge’s response. Though the initial plan was to head to Delhi from Dehradun, they returned to Chandigarh after meeting Rawat. The disgruntled group has been questioned the CM’s ability and intent in honouring poll promises such as delay in justice in sacrilege and police firing cases, arrest of “big fish” involved in drug rackets and cancelation of power purchase agreements. Another grouse raised by them is the attempt by the Capt camp to target his detractors by sidelining their supporters to weaken them in their constituencies. A case in point being cited by them is the replacement of market committee chairperson in Bajwa’s area.Addressing the media after the meeting, Rawat said the four ministers and three MLAs conveyed their concerns regarding the the way things were being handled and wanted a clear roadmap for the party’s victory in the upcoming state polls. “They expressed serious concerns over the functioning of the state government and district administration. If a party MLA is feeling insecure that the district administration is working for his defeat because someone is upset with him, it is a matter of serious concern. I have had similar complaints earlier,” he said, refusing to share details of their discussions. The state incharge also said he would go to Delhi in a day or two to brief the party high command. On the controversy generated by the statements of the Punjab Congress president’s advisers on Kashmir and Pakistan, Rawat said he spoke to Sidhu and told him to rein them in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-command-draws-a-line-rawat-says-capt-will-lead-cong-in-punjab-assembly-polls-101629922334954.html
26-08-2021||Other||Crime branch produces chargesheet in ₹32 lakh fraud case in Jammu||The Crime Branch Jammu on Wednesday produced a chargesheet against a man, who had allegedly duped three women of ₹32 lakh on the pretext of selling them plots. The accused has been identified as Mohammad Iqbal Bhat, son of Ghulam Rasool Bhat of Kishtwar, presently putting up at Tawi Vihar in Sidhra, Jammu. He has been booked under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code for his involvement in misappropriating ₹32 lakh from the complainants by offering them sale of a piece of land measuring three kanals, near the railway station in Bajalta, at a cost of ₹10 lakh per kanal in 2013. The chargesheet was produced before the court of chief judicial magistrate, Jammu, for judicial determination. The case owes its origin to a written complaint lodged by Rubina Bhat, wife of Abdul Manan Bhat, Arsh Bhat, wife of Umar Khan of Sidhra Nagrota, and Arooj Aleem Beig, wife of Aleem Beigh of Ambphala in Jammu. The complainants had alleged that they were in search of a piece of land in Sidhra or Bajalta area and in the process, they met the accused who offered them land near the railway station Pargalta, Bajalta, and paid him ₹32 lakh. However, after receiving the entire payment, the accused started avoiding the complainants on one pretext or the other and didn’t give them the possession of the land nor did he return the money. It was further alleged that accused Mohammad Iqbal gave them cheques of different amounts from time to time in 2015 but all the cheques were dishonoured by the respective banks due to insufficient funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crime-branch-produces-chargesheet-in-rs-32-lakh-fraud-case-in-jammu-101629920774676.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Current duty charge experience to be considered for promotion: HC||The experience gained by an employee while working on current duty charge is to be treated as a part of experience for promotion, the Punjab and Haryana high court has held. The high court bench of justice Rajan Gupta observed that the executive instructions of December 2016 providing that the period of current duty charge will not be counted for the purposes of experience, seniority or any other benefit, is totally against the law. Current duty charge is given against a vacant post on the basis of seniority. The high court dismissed an appeal by Punjab government against a single judge bench. The matter was brought to court by Anil Sharma, working as conservator of soils with the Punjab government, who had sought quashing of an order of May 2020 in which extension of tenure was afforded on the post of chief conservator of soils, Punjab, to Dharminder Sharma, an Indian Forest Service officer and the then chief conservator of forests. He had also challenged 2016 instructions that period of current duty charge (CDC) will not be counted for the purpose of experience or seniority or any other benefit, seeking promotion to the post, claiming that he was qualified and fulfils the experience laid down for the said post. The government had contested the claims arguing that Dharminder Sharma’s deputation was in view of the fact that no employee from the department was eligible for consideration to the post of chief conservator of soils but single judge bench had ruled in favour of Anil Sharma, holding that he has gained experience while working as conservator of soils on current duty charge and the same is to be counted towards experience while considering his case for promotion to the post of chief conservator of soils. Subsequently, one Rajesh Vashisth replaced Dharminder Sharma. The court also found that the notification on promotions did not make any difference between the person working on a regular basis on substantive post and the person having additional charge of the said post. “So, the learned single judge rightly observed that respondent No.1 (Anil Sharma) has gained requisite experience while working on current duty charge and he clearly fulfils the requirement of the rules and therefore qualifies to be considered for promotion to the post of chief conservator of soils,” the bench said. Now the government has been asked to decide on the claim of Sharma within a period of two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/current-duty-charge-experience-to-be-considered-for-promotion-hc-101629920714702.html
26-08-2021||Other||Army, BSF hold synergy conference at Western Command||Amidst the rapidly evolving dynamics in Afghanistan where Taliban has seized power, the Indian Army and Border Security Force (BSF) held a synergy conference at Western Command headquarters on Wednesday. “Senior Indian Army officers of Western Command, senior officers of the Border Security Force from BSF Headquarters, Western Command, Punjab, and Jammu Frontier attended the conference,” said defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand. The conference was presided over by Maj Gen Devendra Sharma, Major General Staff (Operations), headquarters, Western Command. NS Jamwal, IG BSF Jammu Frontier and Sonali Mishra, IG, BSF, Punjab Frontier, were the senior officers representing BSF. “The agenda included discussions on operational issue of convergence to further enhance operational efficiency between the Indian Army and BSF. Common issues of training and equipment profile of BSF and challenges of border management were deliberated upon. The chairman highlighted the importance of developing a joint security force culture to thwart nefarious designs of inimical elements,” said Col Anand. During the wars of 1965, 1971 and Operation PARAKRAM, Indian Army and BSF operated together towards a common purpose of defending the national borders. The same spirit of cohesiveness and cooperation continues to this day, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-bsf-hold-synergy-conference-at-western-command-101629920594739.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||HC asks lower court to defer trial against man booked for wife’s rape||Chandigarh The high court has asked a court in Hoshiarpur to defer trial against a man who was booked for raping his wife, on latter’s complaint. The high court bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh acted on the plea of a Palampur (Himachal Pradesh) resident, who had got married to a woman in Hoshairpur in 2019. She got registered a case of rape and criminal conspiracy against him, his mother and sister, both widows, his lawyer Arnav Sood said. The court was told that challan was submitted by the local police on April 5, 2021, and is now pending for framing of charges against them. “No offence is made out as woman is legally wedded wife of the petitioner and both made physical relation after the marriage. The mother and sister resided in Palampur, they had nothing to do with the alleged allegations,” Sood had told the court, seeking quashing of the FIR and adding that no probe was conducted by the police. “.. even if the aforesaid allegations are taken to be true then also no offence under section 376 IPC (rape) is made out against the petitioners. The respondent number 2 (wife) could have initiated prosecution under the Domestic Violence Act. By no stretch of imagination Section 376 (IPC) is attracted in the present case,” Sood had argued. It was further submitted that as per exception 2 to Section 375 of the IPC, which defines rape — sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape. When the first offence cannot statutorily stand, the question of any offence punishable under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC also cannot stand, the plea adds. “In the meanwhile, till the next date of hearing only and specifically, the trial court is directed to adjourn the matter to a date beyond what is given by this court, till the next date of hearing,” ordered the bench of justice Singh while fixing the hearing for September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-asks-lower-court-to-defer-trial-against-man-booked-for-wife-s-rape-101629920534936.html
26-08-2021||Other||126 fresh Covid cases, no new deaths in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 126 fresh Covid-19 infections and no deaths in the last 24 hours, officials said on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, 100 were detected in the Kashmir valley while 26 were from the Jammu division.Besides, as many as 103 patients also recovered from the virus, leaving 1,078 active cases. Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 293 followed by Jammu district with 105. The recovery rate, as on Wednesday, was 98.31% in the UT. Since the outbreak last year, J&K has recorded 3,24,546 cases and 4,404 deaths. Officials said 52,447 tests were conducted in the UT in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/126-fresh-covid-cases-no-new-deaths-in-jk-101629920474661.html
26-08-2021||Other||Teachers protest for better pay grades at Punjabi varsity||Patiala Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO), the body of five Government Universities in Punjab and Chandigarh Region, Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU) and Government College Teachers Association (GCTA), organised a rally at Punjabi University, Patiala, for the implementation of 7th University Grants Commission (UGC) pay scales for university and college teachers. Nishan Singh Deol, president, Punjabi University Teachers Association, said, “The Punjab government’s indifferent attitude is putting the future of higher education in the state in jeopardy. A big chunk of students, thus, look for education abroad. There has been no recruitment of regular teachers in colleges and universities for a long time.”He added that due to the unnecessary delay in the implementation of the revised UGC grades there is a huge outcry among all the teachers. Mritunjiya, president, Panjab University Teachers Association, said, “The bureaucracy’s negative attitude in the implementation of new grades to the teachers is to be condemned. The decision of de-linking pay scales of the newly recruited college and university teachers from the UGC scales should be withdrawn with immediate effect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-protest-for-better-pay-grades-at-punjabi-varsity-101629920414630.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||All you need to know about ZyCoV-D vaccine||Ahmedabad based pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila received the Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) for its Covid-19 vaccine called ZyCoV-D last week. It is the first vaccine approved for children above 12 years. The vaccine has been approved for a three-dose regimen, but the company is likely to submit more data to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for a two-dose regimen. What’s needle-free technology? What is a DNA-based vaccine? And when will we know about the vaccine’s phase 3 trial data? (A company press release from last month, interim results of Phase 3 revealed a 66.6% primary efficacy.) Plasmid DNA technology used With ZyCoV-D, there are now six vaccines permitted for use in India although only three are currently in use. ZyCoV-D, developed in partnership with the Department of Biotechnology has been made on the Plasmid DNA platform. Plasmids are ring-like pieces of DNA that self-replicate. They are modified to encode the antigen or spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2, which are delivered inside the cell of the human body, prompting the production of more such proteins. This in turn triggers an immune response from the body forming antibodies against Covid-19. How it’s different from the other vaccinesOxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and Gamaleya Scientific Research Institute’s Sputnik V use a viral vector platform or an adenovirus (like the common cold virus) modified to encapsulate the genetic code of the Sars-CoV-2 spike protein, while Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is an inactivated Sars-Cov 2 virus, which once injected, triggers an immune response. Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose vaccine (which will be made by Hyderabad-based Biological E) is also a viral vector vaccine while Moderna – which Cipla was permitted in June to import – uses the messenger Ribonucleic Acid or mRNA platform, in which the genetic code of a single spike protein of the Sars Cov-2 virus is injected into the body, prompting the cells to make more of it thus triggering an immune response. Intra-dermal, needle-free vaccine The three vaccines currently available are all for the adult population and are intramuscular, meaning the vaccine is injected into the muscles. ZyCoV-D is an intradermal Covid-19 vaccine that is delivered into the dermis or the layer right under the upper layer of the skin (the epidermis). While other intradermal vaccines like the BCG vaccine use needles, ZyCoV-D is a needle-free vaccine administered with the help of a needle-free applicator. The applicator pushes a small quantity of the vaccine into the skin at very high pressure. “The applicator is calibrated for a 0.1 ml dose, and it is delivered within a fraction of a second,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Mumbai’s BYL Nair Hospital where a ZyCoV-D trial is ongoing. The hospital has a target to enroll 50 adolescents but has so far managed to get only 11 candidates. “None of them have complained of pain. The applicator makes a sound at the time of administering the vaccine. All the children said they were distracted with that sound, and didn’t realise that they received any injection,” said Bharmal. Some studies state that needle-free jet injections can improve the delivery of DNA vaccine compared to a standard needle injector. The needle-free technology also reduces needle injuries as well as waste.Trial data yet to be made public The interim results of ZyCoV-D from the Phase 3 clinical trials with over 28,000 volunteers have shown primary efficacy of 66.6%, a company press release stated last month. Around 1000 of these volunteers were in the age group of 12 to 17 years. These findings have been submitted to the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI), based on which EUA was granted to the vaccine. However, the data is yet to be published or made available publicly. The Hindustan Times reached out to Zydus Cadila to know the likely schedule of phase 3 data publication but did not receive a response. “It is ideal to have the data published before any kind of approvals are granted by the drug regulator,” said immunisation expert Dr Naveen Thacker. “But we are in a war-like situation in this pandemic and it is understood that the subject expert committee has done a fair scrutiny of the data before granting the approval.” Can it be used on children?Zy-CoV-D is the first vaccine to be approved for use in children above the age of 12 in India. According to a press release by Zydus Cadila dated July 1, the vaccine was tested on 1000 children between 12 and 18 years and was found to be “safe and very well tolerated”. “Since it’s a new technology, the vaccine should be first administered to a large number of the adult population to know the side effects that may have been missed during the trial phase,” said paediatrician and infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal, who practices at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-zycov-d-vaccine-101629920301835.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Four drug overdose deaths in two weeks baffle Bathinda authorities||Four deaths allegedly due to drug overdose in the last two weeks have sent the Bathinda district authorities in a tizzy. The deceased were in their 20s and the bodies were found by the activists of a social organisation from public places in the city. Police sources said syringes and needles found on or near the bodies pointed to drug abuse. They said it was for the first time in the last several years that so many drug-related deaths were reported from Bathinda city in such a short span. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ajay Maluja said the recent cases have come to his notice and police are looking into the matter. Health officials said the number could be much higher as most deaths due to substance abuse go unreported. Official data says, on an average, 22 patients get registered daily at the dedicated outpatient opioid-assisted treatment (OOAT) centres launched by the Punjab government in Bathinda in October 2018. Dr Arun Bansal, a psychiatrist and in-charge of OOAT programme in Bathinda, said 21,783 drug addicts have been enrolled at eight government centres from October 2018 till July this year. This year till July, the district has recorded 826 new cases whereas, in July 104 people enrolled for de-addiction, he added. “In more than 50% cases, the patients are hooked to heroin or ‘chitta’. Nearly 65% of the patients at OOAT are in the 17-25 age group. In most cases, the addicts come from the lower-income group and admit to engaging in thefts to fulfil their need for synthetic drugs. Such people need counselling and social support to join the mainstream,” said Bansal. Sources at Shaheed Bhai Mani Singh Civil Hospital said an average of 3-4 cases of drug overdose are reported daily. A 23-year-old, Amrit Kaur, widow of Manpreet Singh, was inconsolable on Wednesday at her house in Basti number-5 at Bir Talab, located in Bathinda’s vicinity. Body of Manpreet, a flower decoration worker, was found near Ring Road on August 15. He left behind his parents, a widow, and a month-old daughter. Amrit said she was unaware of Manpreet’s dependence on drugs. “Manpreet’s untimely death has shattered us. He was a hardworking person and we have no idea when he started taking drugs,” Manpreet’s elder brother Gurpreet Singh said. Another family whose member is struggling to get out of substance abuse said drugs were available easily in the city and peddlers even offer home delivery. “It is impossible that the police are unaware of the drug trade and availability in Bathinda. I have not seen the civil society activists acting as a pressure group on the elected representatives and administrations to curb the nuisance. Drug abuse is severely affecting the Punjabi youth but it becomes an issue only during the elections,” said the parent, requesting anonymity. Senior superintendent of police Maluja said he would soon chalk out a strategy to handle the growing problem of narcotics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-drug-overdose-deaths-in-two-weeks-baffle-bathinda-authorities-101629920297153.html
26-08-2021||Other||Himachal logs 198 fresh Covid infections, 1 death||As many as 198 fresh infections were recorded in the last 24 hours in Himachal even as one person succumbed to the contagion on Wednesday.Of the new cases, 52 were reported in Mandi, 35 in Kangra, 27 in Hamirpur, 23 in Shimla, 19 in Hamirpur, 16 in Bilaspur, 11 in Kullu, five in Sirmaur, four in Una and three each in Solan and Lahaul-Spiti. The active cases climbed to 2,058 while recoveries reached 2,06,816 after 193 people recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-198-fresh-covid-infections-1-death-101629920294602.html
26-08-2021||Other||Moga MC identifies 84 illegal colonies||Moga The municipal corporation has identified 84 illegal colonies in the city and the state government has filed an undertaking in the Punjab and Haryana high court in this regard. These had to be identified after the state government stopped the registration of plots and properties in illegal colonies. Revenue department officials, however, who had to take a call on the registration of properties, however, remained in a fix as they did not have any information about illegal colonies in Moga. Now, their complaint has been addressed and they a list of illegal colonies. Moga MC Commissioner Surinder Singh, said, “We have stopped work on under construction illegal colonies; action on already constructed colonies will be taken according to the government’s instructions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moga-mc-identifies-84-illegal-colonies-101629920174682.html
26-08-2021||Other||Process to set up permanent campuses for CUHP expedited: V-C||Authorities at the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) have ramped up the process to set up permanent campuses of the University at Dehra and Dharamshala, vice-chancellor (V-C) Prof Sat Praksash Bansal said on Wednesday. In a press statement issued here, Prof Bansal said two 12-member teams have been formed by the CUHP to coordinate with departments concerned to speed up the process. He said the land at Dehra has already been transferred in the name of CUHP. “We have asked the revenue department to demarcate the land at earliest so that construction work could begin,” he said. The V-C said the CUHP has got a 115-hectare land at Dehra, of which 81 hectares are classified as forest land while 34 are non-forested land. As far as the land identified at Jadrangal near Dharamshala is concerned, Prof Bansal said, the university authorities have held a meeting with the local administration and discussed the ongoing process regarding geological survey. “The local administration has sought the Director General of the Geological Survey of India, Kolkata, to conduct geological survey of the proposed forest land at Jadrangal,” he said. He said a high-powered committee of the Union environment ministry had inspected the land in February 2021 and recommended that the administration conduct the geological survey on 280 hectares of forest land identified for CUHP campus at Jadrangal. “We are awaiting the report of the Geological Survey and if it is favourable, the construction work will start soon,” he said. Sudhir Sharma slams Dharamshala BJP leaders Meanwhile, former Congress minister Sudhir Sharma, in a statement, accused the BJP-led central and state governments of betraying the people of Dharamshala on the issue of CUHP. Citing reports published in media, he said the state geological department has rejected the Jadrangal land for construction of CUHP campus. “People of Dharamshala are angry with the ruling BJP and its local leaders for continuously betraying them on the issue,” he said. “When a cricket stadium and multi-storey buildings can come up in Dharmashala, why not the CUHP campus,” said Sharma. He said the CUHP was originally proposed to come up at Dharmashala but the BJP leaders bifurcated it for political gains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/process-to-set-up-permanent-campuses-for-cuhp-expedited-vc-101629920114908.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu responsible for Punjab Cong turmoil: Preneet||Congress MP Preneet Kaur on Wednesday hit out at ministers and MLAs who are seeking the removal of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and held Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu responsible for the present situation in the state unit. Kaur, who is Amarinder’s wife, said the disgruntled leaders should refrain from raking up issues that were damaging the party ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. “They should give positive inputs to get the party back to power,” she told reporters. She also lavished praise on the chief minister for doing his best, leading the party to “many victories” and doing good work to take Punjab on the road to progress despite Covid and financial constraints. Asked about the party leaders who are speaking out against the Congress government, the Patiala MP said they should be first asked if they were happy during the past four-and-a-half years. “This is not the time to say such things…it is damaging the party. It is for the party high command to see what is happening on the ground and do what is best for the party,” she said. When asked if she holds the PPCC chief responsible for the current situation, the Congress leader replied, “Of course he is. He is the one who started. They are his advisers”. She said the CM showed “maturity and large-heartedness” after the party high command decided to make Sidhu the state unit president. On the demand for the CM’s replacement, Kaur said this was not up to them. “It is up to the high command,” she added. In response to a question on Sidhu’s advisers, Kaur said, “I do not know where these advisers came from”. The PPCC president should choose his people from within the party, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-responsible-for-punjab-cong-turmoil-preneet-101629920056500.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University likely to allow students to pay semester fee in instalments||Panjab University (PU) is likely to allow students to pay semester fees in instalments again this year considering the problems faced by them during the pandemic.Although the varsity is yet to make an announcement, a meeting of a committee was held on Tuesday in which the suggestion was made. A senior university official confirmed the development and said, “The students may be allowed to pay semester fees in three or four instalments.”The panel’s recommendation, however, is subject to approval of the vice-chancellor, Raj Kumar. The development comes after students submitted a representation to PU. Earlier this month, the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) wrote to the dean student welfare (DSW) after students were asked to pay fees by August 24, asking the varsity to implement the previous year’s system of allowing instalments. NSUI has also asked students not to pay the fees unless their demands are accepted.“We had given a call to students not to pay the fee and many students, especially from the self-financed courses, did not pay. It is obvious that students cannot pay a high fee in only one instalment. University should issue a notification extending the last date for fee submission and allowing students to pay in instalments,” said Nikhil Narmeta, NSUI president at PU.Students were allowed to pay their fee in four instalments last year after a series of protests. PU has already decided to suspend the annual hike in semester fee for varsity students and those studying in affiliated colleges for the second year in a row. It is also likely that the varsity may provide financial assistance to students adversely affected by the pandemic. However, such cases may be scrutinised before assistance is provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-likely-to-allow-students-to-pay-semester-fee-in-instalments-101629919936498.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Afghan students seek help in returning to Panjab University||The Afghan students enrolled at Panjab University (PU) and its affiliated colleges in Chandigarh have sought help from the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) in coming to Chandigarh to continue their studies.Most of the Afghan students who took admissions last year have not visited their colleges or departments since the classes were conducted online during the pandemic. The students have requested the ICCR to facilitate the issuance of visas so they could return to India.An Afghan student, Noor Hussain, also wrote a letter addressed to ICCR, which was submitted to PU’s dean international students on Wednesday. From security concerns to economic problems to poor internet connectivity, Afghan students listed out a number of issues being faced by them after the Taliban takeover.“Considering requirements of the varsity and the current unstable situation in Afghanistan, we need our visas immediately. Owing to the Taliban takeover, the embassy is closed. Therefore, it is kindly requested that the Indian embassy in Afghanistan (shifted to New Delhi now) issue us the visas (online) to us at the earliest,” reads the letter. The letter also asks for clarifications on the kind of visas they may be issued as students.A second-year student of MA (history), Narges Sadaqat, said, “Now as Covid cases have decreased, we want to be invited back to India. We are all jobless here and don’t have money to activate internet connection. All banks are shut and the panic situation does not permit us to concentrate on studies. Female students are even more in danger,” she said.“We have lost all hope, we want to come to Chandigarh and study in peace,” said Noor Hussain, a student at DAV College, Sector 10, who is presently in Kabul.Abdul Monir Kakar, president of Afghan Student Association in Chandigarh, said, “The Indian government should make efforts so that the students can return. The ICCR scholars who are stuck in Afghanistan should be provided with financial assistance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/afghan-students-seek-help-in-returning-to-panjab-university-101629919935534.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula DC orders scaling up of demolition drives in district||Deputy commissioner (DC) Vinay Pratap Singh has ordered the nodal officers of concerned departments to scale up demolition drives against illegal constructions in the district.In order to expedite the process, the DC also granted magisterial powers to departmental officers in the public works department (building and roads) and the municipal corporation (MC). Nodal officers of all concerned departments have already been delegated magisterial powers, The decision was taken during a meeting of the district task force committee regarding demolition of unauthorised constructions and illegal colonies in the district on Tuesday.‘Submit details of FIRs registered’The police department was directed to ensure timely deployment of force at the demolition site as per the schedule so that protests can be checked within the ambit of the law. While reviewing the police complaints lodged by the district town planner (DTP) regarding illegal construction, the DC directed the nodal officer of the police department to submit the details of FIRs registered in the district in the last two years at the earliest.DC Singh asked the DTP him to submit the schedule of drives to be carried out in the district in the month of September at the earliest, so that the departments concerned could be apprised of the same. He also directed the PWD (B&R) and the MC to carry out a massive campaign to remove illegal constructions in the areas falling under their jurisdictions.In July, demolition drives were carried out in Johluwal and Marranwala villages and Pinjore-Nalagarh on NH-21A, wherein three buildings were demolished, and four shops were sealed. During a similar drive, six shops and a boundary wall in Barwala village and eight shops in Raipur Rani and Tibbi Majra villages were demolished.In August, demolition drives were carried out in Bhogpur, Bakshiwala and Burj Kotian villages wherein 10 DPCs, three temporary structures and four other structures including two shops, one hotel and one club were sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-dc-orders-scaling-up-of-demolition-drives-in-district-101629919877133.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||BEST buses in Mumbai see dip in travellers; to start feeder services from Sept 1||With local train services resuming for the fully vaccinated general public from August 15, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has witnessed a decrease in the number of passengers travelling by its buses. Between August 9 and August 13, nearly 1.18 crore passengers commuted by BEST buses in the city. Between August 15 and August 23, nearly 1 crore passengers travelled by the BEST buses. On an average, nearly 2.4 million passengers travel by the BEST buses daily. With the decrease in the number of passengers, the BEST has decided to introduce additional buses on feeder routes from September 1. “We will operate buses on more feeder routes in the city. The buses will be operated mostly from suburban railway stations to carry passengers. There has been a decrease in the number of BEST commuters which is why buses will be introduced on feeder routes as opposed to longer routes in the city,” said a senior BEST official. The local trains were suspended for the general public on April 15 after the increase in Covid-19 cases in the city, but the BEST buses were operational. However, restrictions on movement of general public were imposed and the buses were used majorly for transportation of employees working in essential services. The BEST resumed its bus services for general public from June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/best-buses-in-mumbai-see-dip-in-travellers-to-start-feeder-services-from-sept-1-101629919876165.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal in Punjab today, ex-Akali minister Sekhwan likely to join AAP||Former Akali minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan is likely to join the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in presence of the party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal in Gurdaspur on Thursday. “Hon’ble chief minister of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal will be in Punjab tomorrow and shall visit former cabinet minister jathedar Sewa Singh Sekhwan at his native Sekhwan village in Gurdaspur district (sic.),” Delhi MLA and AAP’s Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha said in a tweet on Wednesday. 71-year-old Sekhwan, senior vice-president of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD-Sanyukt), has been keeping a low profile since Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura joined hands in June. Dhindsa and Brahmpura —Akali stalwarts who parted ways with Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal)— had formed SAD-Sanyukt party after dissolving SAD (Taksali) in April. SAD (Taksali) was formed by Brahmpura, Sekhwan, and former MP Rattan Singh Ajnala in December 2018 after raising a banner of revolt against SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal. Later, last year, Dhindsa formed SAD (Democratic). Sekhwan was the first to join Dhindsa from the SAD (Taksali) group. Sekhwan was unreachable while his son Jagroop Singh Sekhwan said, “My father has been keeping ill and Kejriwal is coming to enquire about his health.” Sekhwan’s political adviser Lakhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “Sekhwan has family relations with Kejriwal and the latter is coming to meet him.” A close associate of Sekhwan said it was “quite understandable” that he would join the party and that is “why a party head is coming to meet him”. Meanwhile, Dhindsa said, “Sekhwan had come to us on his own and now he is going on his own. I just want to say that it is not right for a leader to change parties frequently.” Brahmpura said, “We have information that he is joining AAP. Firstly, he left SAD (Taksali) and joined Dhindsa. Now, he is leaving Dhindsa and joining AAP. Such people have nothing to do with the people’s welfare and Sikh Panth. He is changing the party just for his political benefit. He can quit even AAP if he has something better on his way.” The AAP is trying to strengthen itself by embracing panthic faces ahead of 2022 assembly polls. Earlier in June, Kejriwal had inducted former inspector general (IG) of Punjab Police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh into the party. Kunwar Vijay opted for premature retirement from his service, soon after the Punjab and Haryana High Court, in April, quashed the probe report filed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) led by him into the Kotkapura firing case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-in-punjab-today-ex-akali-minister-sekhwan-likely-to-join-aap-101629919875101.html
26-08-2021||Other||46 Pakistanis sent back after negative Covid report||Amritsar A day after being denied permission to enter Pakistan due to not having negative Covid-19 test reports, 46 Pakistani nationals were sent back to their country via the Wagah border on Wednesday.The authorities of the neighbouring country had returned around 51 Pakistani nationals for not ‘carrying negative reports of the RT-PCR test’ after they crossed over to the zero line at the joint check post (JCP) Attari. These Pakistanis, who had come to meet their relatives, had been stranded in India due to the coronavirus pandemic. Punjab Police’s protocol officer at the Attari border, Arun Pal, said, “Of 51 persons who had been turned back for not carrying RT-PCR test reports, 46 were sent back to Pakistan on Wednesday, after conducting their Covid-19 tests.”Sources said five other persons were not allowed to enter Pakistan via the land border due to some issues related to their passport or and visas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/46-pakistanis-sent-back-after-negative-covid-report-101629919814723.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||NRI woman loses gold chain to snatchers in Kharar||Two youths on a motorcycle targeted an NRI woman and fled with her gold chain on Wednesday late evening.The victim, identified as Gurpreet Kaur, 40, told the police that she was taking a stroll outside her house in Sunny Enclave, Kharar, with her children when two bike riders came and snatched her gold chain.The duo fled from the spot and since it was dark, she was unable to note the registration number of the motorcycle, she said, adding that their faces were covered with masks.Police said that they had registered a case and were checking the CCTV footage from cameras installed nearby to identify the snatchers.Security guard held for snatchingA security guard accused of snatching in Mohali was arrested following a tip-off in Sector 48, Chandigarh, on Tuesday. Identified as Jagtar Singh, alias Preet, 28, of Kurari village in Mohali, he was moving around on a scooter with a fake number plate, which he had used in the crime as well. After the snatching incident, wherein he had fled with a mobile phone and wallet, Jagtar had even lodged a complaint of vehicle theft to create an alibi, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nri-woman-loses-gold-chain-to-snatchers-in-kharar-101629919759642.html
26-08-2021||Other||Releasing freshwater into Buddha Nullah: Amid criticism, cabinet minister Ashu claims satisfactory results||With the authorities and state government facing flak over the release of freshwater into Buddha Nullah, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Wednesday claimed that the project had started showing results with the nullah’s biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) levels reducing by nearly 70-80%.The minister was conducting a meeting to review the ongoing project of rejuvenating the nullah at the municipal corporation’s (MC) Zone D office on Wednesday.Ashu said after freshwater was released from the Neelon drain of Sirhind canal on August 22, the BOD and COD levels of the nullah dropped from 1,124 and 2,157 to 61 and 256, respectively, on Wednesday.The officials of the special task force constituted for cleaning the nullah, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), and the civic body were present in the meeting. The industrialists, who are a part of the monitoring committee formed under the rejuvenation project, also participated. The officials stated that while 200 cusecs of freshwater had to be released into the nullah in a phased manner, as of now 100 cusecs was being released daily. The officials stated that the BOD and COD levels will further improve after more water was released.Ashu said, “There are some apprehensions in the minds of residents and activists, but we want to ensure that everything is being done with transparency. Releasing freshwater into the nullah is one component of the ₹650-crore project to rejuvenate the nullah and efforts are also being made to deal with sewer and dairy waste.”Ashu stated that they had also invited some environmental activists including Col (retd) JS Gill, who is also a member of the STF for cleaning the nullah, and CM Lakhanpal, for discussions regarding apprehensions, but they were not available due to personal reasons.He said that work had also commenced on two new sewage treatment plants (STPs) for treating domestic waters of total 285 MLD (Jamalpur 225 MLD and Balloke 60 MLD) capacity; rehabilitation of existing STPs with a treatment capacity of 418 MLD; two common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) for treatment of 6 MLD wastewater from two dairy complexes in Tajpur and Haibowal; six intermediate pumping stations; laying of 10-km pipeline and 10 years of operation and maintenance of entire infrastructure, which will be completed by December 2022.Experts, environment activists raise concernExperts and environment activists had earlier raised questions over the release of freshwater into the highly polluted nullah without eliminating the major sources of pollution.Col (retd) JS Gill said, “We are not against the project as it was needed to be undertaken but the timing is not good. The MC should have first dealt with the pollution.”“As there are still pollutants in the drain, releasing freshwater has sped up the process of polluting the Sutlej river. Pollutants including heavy metals will enter the Sutlej at a faster rate. The river is a source of drinking water for various districts of Rajasthan and southern parts of Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/releasing-freshwater-into-buddha-nullah-amid-criticism-cabinet-minister-ashu-claims-satisfactory-results-101629919758734.html
26-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Construction of Eastend Club to begin in September||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday said that the construction of the Eastend Club project on main Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road will begin from next month.Presiding over a meeting of the club, the DC said that an amount of ₹40 crore was being spent on the development of this club. The state-of-the-art club will have ultra-modern recreational cafeteria, restaurant, games, park, and other facilities, he added. Sharma further said that preparations have been made to start the construction from September this year and it will be completed soon. He said that anyone can become a member of the club by paying a nominal fee of ₹1.5 lakh and 700 members would be inducted into the club on a first-come, first-serve basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianaconstruction-of-eastend-club-to-begin-in-september-101629919757721.html
26-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Final list of voters for cycle body’s upcoming elections released, nominations on August 30||The election committee of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) released the final list of 1,668 voters for the upcoming elections of the association scheduled for September 3.The list was displayed on the notice board of the association by presiding officer Parupkar Singh Ghumman in presence of other members of the election committee. The nominations will be filed on August 30.With the present executive committee of the association divided into two factions, both the rival groups are expected to announce the names of contestants for eight posts on Thursday.Ghumman said,” Wednesday was the last day to submit objections against the draft voter list. As no objections were received, the final voter list was released by the election committee.”“The committee has allowed voting rights for four members, who submitted the subscription fee with a delay of 10 minutes after the deadline, as no objection was received against that as well,” he added.He further said the nomination fee will be accepted in cash only, and no other mode of payment will be allowed. The amount collected as a nomination fee will be non-refundable and will be used to cover election expenses. The voting will be held on September 3 from 9am to 5 pm, and the results will be declared on the same day.The current executive has been divided into two groups. While current president DS Chawla and secretary Harsimerjit Singh Lucky comprise one group, the other group consists of the rest of the six executive members of the association including general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva; senior vice-president Gurcharan Singh Gemco; vice-president Satnam Singh Makkar; joint secretary Walaity Ram Durga; press secretary Rajinder Singh Sarhali and finance secretary Achhru Ram Gupta.Former presidents of the association including, Charanjit Vishwakarma, Inderjit Navyug, and senior members of the association, have also formed United Alliance in support of the Sachdeva group.Chawla had also got an FIR registered against 31 members of the other group for allegedly attacking him and tossing his turban during the annual general meeting of the association held on August 18.Complaint received against ChawlaPresiding officer Ghumman said that Ajaib Singh, a member of the association, submitted a complaint with the election committee against DS Chawla for using the official Whatsapp group of UCPMA for campaigning. Ghumman said a notice has been served to Chawla seeking a reply in this regard, following which a decision on the complaint will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-final-list-of-voters-for-cycle-body-s-upcoming-elections-released-nominations-on-august-30-101629919756787.html
26-08-2021||Other||National Deworming Day observed in Ludhiana||Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, civil surgeon, Ludhiana said that National Deworming Day was observed under the direction of health minister Balvir Singh Sidhu to rid children of stomach worms and make them healthy.Dr Ahluwalia, civil surgeon at GMSSS, Cemetery Road, inaugurated the event. All children between the ages of 1 to 19 years will be given albendazole tablets as a part of the campaign. She said that children between the ages of two to 19 years will be given full tablets, and children between the ages of 1 to 2 years will be given half a tablet of Albendazole.
26-08-2021||Other||No laxity in precautions against Covid-19: Yogi||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that all arrangements made for protection against Covid-19 should remain up to the mark and all precautions should be taken at every level, as any laxity in this regard may prove costly. He said the state government was committed to setting up a world class film city and work in this direction should be expedited. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation at a high level meeting here, he said 22 new cases of Covid-19 had been reported while 28 patients were discharged in the state in the past 24 hours. There were 345 active Covid-19 cases now. He said there was no case of Covid-19 in Aligarh, Auraiya, Badaun, Bijnor, Deoria, Etah, Farrukhabad, Fatehpur, Gonda, Hamirpur, Hardoi, Kanpur Dehat, Mahoba, Sant Kabir Nagar, Shahjahanpur and Unnao and added that 1,87,218 Covid-19 tests were done in the past 24 hours while the total number of tests done in the state was 7.10 crore. Yogi said the state government was making available free Covid-19 vaccine to people all age groups. Covid-19 vaccination was being carried out expeditiously and 6.52 crore vaccine doses had been administered in the state till now. He said the state government was strengthening the medical facilities and necessary medical equipment had been made available in all the hospitals. The CM said stock register should be mandatorily be maintained with details about the equipment and other material in the medical education department and all hospitals. An entry should be made in the register if any equipment was made available through union government, state government or CSR. Annual audit of the stock register should be made. Yogi lauded Asha and anganwadi workers for commendable work during the pandemic and said the state government had decided to increase their salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-laxity-in-precautions-against-covid-19-yogi-101629919700865.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mayor slams bitumen contractors for ‘maligning’ Congress’ image||A day after the group of 20 bitumen contractors announced to boycott the road construction works in the city citing ‘corruption’ in the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) while allotting contracts, mayor Balkar Sandhu on Wednesday slammed the contractors for trying to ‘blackmail’ the civic body, ‘loot’ the public exchequer and ‘malign’ the image of the Congress ahead of the assembly elections.Hitting out at a section of bitumen contractors, Sandhu at MC’s Zone-D office in Sarabha Nagar said the civic body has tightened noose around the contractors who have been “looting the public exchequer by forming a pool and quoting lesser bids to avail road construction projects”.“The MC has either floated or is in process to float tenders for development projects worth around ₹300 crore and the bitumen contractors want to avail the contracts at 1% lesser amount than the estimate, which I will not allow at any cost. Even in 2017, the contractors had given consent to take up the works at 5% lesser amount, but now they are trying to blackmail the officials to loot the hard-earned money of taxpayers. If the contractors remain adamant, then the MC will convert the tenders and ready mix concrete roads will be constructed in place of bitumen ones,” the mayor said. Accusing the president of Ludhiana Hotmix Plant Welfare Association (bitumen contractors), Vinod Jain, of indulging in corrupt practices, the mayor said that Jain had been working in connivance of a senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and they both were trying to malign the image of the Congress by trying to delay the development works ahead of the assembly elections. Speaking on the allegations of corruption levelled by the contractors, Sandhu said those were baseless without any evidence. “If they have any proof, then they should submit a formal complaint and I will take action regarding suspension and dismissal of officials concerned,” he added. Meanwhile, Jain — who had also accused Sandhu of being involved in the practice of charging commission for allotting contracts of development works to the contractors and releasing payments for completed works — said the mayor and the MC were now trying to “blackmail” the contractors after they blew the lid off their corrupt practices. “If I have been blacklisted, then why MC officials allotted road construction work to my firm a week ago. If I have done something wrong, then the mayor should mark an inquiry and take action against me. We will not be blackmailed. We have stopped the bitumen works in the city till the time these corrupt practices are not stopped by the MC. If required, we will also ask the other associations of contractors in the state to join our cause,” he added. Contractors stalled work fearing inspection: MC chiefLashing out at the contractors, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “To keep a check on the quality of work done by contractors, the state government has directed the chief vigilance officer of the local bodies department to conduct inspections in the city. Fearing that the samples of work done by them will fail the quality tests, the contractors have announced to stall the projects by levelling false allegations on the MC officials.” He added that no compromise will be tolerated with the quality of work.Blacklisted contractor bags contract; inquiry markedMayor Sandhu said that Vinod Jain was blacklisted by MC last year over poor quality work, but it has come to his knowledge that he was still securing contracts by submitting bids through the firms of some other contractors. An inquiry has been marked in the case, the mayor said. Sandhu has also marked an inquiry over conversion of the dispensary site into a commercial building in Talab Bazaar area by Jain. Also, a report has been sought for the construction of a hotel in the Old City area by Jain in violation of parking and building bylaws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mayor-slams-bitumen-contractors-for-maligning-congress-image-101629919699502.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||First suspected dengue death reported in Ludhiana||A 65-year-old resident of Balloke village died of suspected dengue in DMCH on Wednesday. His death could be the first dengue fatality if confirmed. As per a relative of Dinesh Khanna, he was sick for the last at least five days and admitted to the hospital with dengue symptoms on Tuesday. He died after his platelet count dropped drastically. Khanna is survived by wife, two daughters and a son.The district health department, however, claimed that they have not yet received any official confirmation regarding dengue death from any of the hospital.District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said, “The health department has not yet received any official information from DMCH regarding any dengue death. If any information regarding the same is received from the hospital, it will be considered as the first case of suspected dengue death in the district as of now. The review committees at district and state levels will decide whether it was a dengue death or not. Till now, no dengue death has been reported in the district.”Meanwhile, a health department team also visited the house of Dinesh Khanna to check the presence of mosquito larvae on Wednesday.Two fresh cases surfaceTwo fresh cases of dengue were reported in the district on Wednesday, taking the total number of confirmed infections in the district to 25. The number of suspected dengue cases in the district is 462. Of the total confirmed cases, as many as 23 were recorded in the urban areas, while one case each was reported from Sidhwan Bet and Jagraon.Majority of the cases were reported from Kailash Chowk, Bhamia Road, Chander Nagar, Janata Nagar, Model Town, Basti Jodhewal, Rani Jhansi Road, Ferozepur Road, Ashapuri and Civil Lines areas.Twenty-one residents from other districts have also tested positive for dengue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-suspected-dengue-death-reported-in-ludhiana-101629919698547.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Midnight mock drill tests response time of Ludhiana cops||Ludhiana police chief Naunihal Singh on Tuesday called gazetted officers, SHOs and police post in-charges along with patrolling teams for a late-night mock drill. According to the police commissioner, the motive behind the mock drill was to instil a sense of security among the residents. The drill continued till midnight, wherein senior officers recorded response time of the police teams. The police chief also checked weapons of all SHOs, police post in-charges and other personnel. He ordered the cops to keep their weapons well-maintained. At least 400 police personnel were asked to assemble at Dugri Phase-1 market around 10pm on Tuesday. The exercise concluded at the Ludhiana railway station. The police teams also conducted surprise checks along with the government railway police (GRP) and railway protection force (RPF) on all platforms. The drill involved screening of luggage of the passengers and trains. The police commissioner said that nine gazetted officers, including joint commissioner of police (City) Deepak Pareek and joint commissioner of police (Rural) Sachin Gupta, besides ADCPs Pragya Jain and Ashwini Gotyal, 24 SHOs, 14 unit in-charges, PCR and traffic police personnel participated in the mock drill. He said around 60 vehicles were used in the process. Naunihal Singh said they were committed to ensuring the safety and security of the Ludhiana residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/midnight-mock-drill-tests-response-time-of-ludhiana-cops-101629919697532.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Threatened with sexual harassment case, Ludhiana factory worker ends life||Threatened by a couple and their woman aide with a false case of sexual harassment, a 45-year-old factory worker ended his life by consuming poison in Ghumait village on Tuesday. Koom Kalan police on Wednesday registered an FIR against the trio under the charges of abetment to suicide.The accused are Bharat of Koom Kalan, his wife Aarti and another woman, who is yet to be identified. The FIR has been lodged by the 19-year-old son of the victim. The complainant said his father used to work at a local Tara Feeder store. “On Monday night, we had dinner and went to sleep. On Tuesday morning, we could not find my father and launched a search to find him. In the evening, a local informed us that the body of my father was spotted in the fields near Ghumait village,” he told the police. “We rushed to the spot and found out that my father had ended his life by consuming poison,” he added. ASI Baldev Singh, who is investigating the case, said the police found a suicide note from the pocket of the victim wherein he has mentioned about Bharat, Aarti and an unidentified woman, who forced him to take the extreme step. The victim stated that the trio had borrowed ₹34,000 from him, but refused to return the money. The cop said the accused threatened the victim with implication in a sexual harassment case when he sought his money back. The ASI said the FIR has been registered under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused. A hunt is on to nab the trio, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/threatened-with-sexual-harassment-case-ludhiana-factory-worker-ends-life-101629919696574.html
26-08-2021||Other||Zirakpur MC fined ₹10,000 for burning solid waste||For violating the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, by burning solid waste, the Zirakpur municipal council (MC) has been fined ₹10,000 by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).Sub-divisional engineer, PPCB, Rantej Sharma said, “We received a complaint about burning of garbage at the municipal dumpsite near the mandi in Dhakoli and of burning of dry leaves and trees at MC Park of Dhakoli. The MC has paid the fine.”Last year in December, a monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had imposed a penalty of ₹2 lakh on the municipal council of Zirakpur for failing to implement proper solid waste management measures. The committee had also directed the civic body to streamline solid waste management in Zirakpur by January 31, 2021, but seven months on, nothing has been done.Sharma said, “Our team visited the dumping site of Zirakpur MC and found that they have not complied with the orders of the NGT committee. We have prepared a report and sent it to the higher authorities, recommending strict action against MC.”When contacted, Rajinder Singh, chief sanitary inspector of MC, Zirakpur, said, “We are in the process of complying with the recommendations of the NGT committee. I hope it will be done soon.”On the other hand, president of the joint action committee, Zirakpur, Sukhdev Chaudhary said, “Though the city is gasping for fresh air due to severe air pollution, the practice of setting garbage on fire is still going unchecked in several parts of Zirakpur. This is because there is no proper mechanism for disposal of solid waste in the city, and MC sweepers usually collect it in one corner and burn it, which makes breathing difficult for residents of nearby areas.” As per the action plan prepared for adopting measures for cleaner air in Mohali district, there is a need to curb incidents of garbage burning. Officials have been advised to educate their staff not to burn solid waste in the open. They have also been advised to install CCTV cameras at secondary garbage collection points, so that such incidents could be checked, but everything is on papers only, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zirakpur-mc-fined-10-000-for-burning-solid-waste-101629919695558.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Alarm scares ATM robbers away in Ludhiana||The alarm installed at an ATM near Mini Rose Garden in Daba scared away three masked thieves who had struck at the kiosk with an intention to loot in the wee hours of Wednesday. They, however, had fled from the spot before police or locals could reach. The miscreants have been captured in the CCTVs installed in the kiosk. The Division Number 6 police have initiated an investigation and are further scrutinising the surveillance footage to identify the trio.ASI Sona Singh, who is investigating the case, said according to the probe, the thieves arrived at the Axis Bank ATM around 3.20am. “They broke open the shutter and barged into the kiosk. They then sprayed black paint on the security cameras installed inside,” the ASI added. The accused had managed to take out the front plate of the ATM. Meanwhile, the security alarm went off and an alert was sent to the company’s headquarters in Mumbai. The officials there informed the local authorities and police. “The accused, in the meantime, managed to escape at 3.28am, leaving behind their spray paint cans,” the cop said. The police have registered an FIR following the complaint of Harpreet Singh of Bholapur, local head of the company that maintains ATMs in the city.The ASI added that two out of three miscreants were wearing turban. The accused had walked up to the ATM and ran towards the main road after the foiled robbery bid. The case has been registered under sections 457, 380, 511 and 34 of the IPC against the unidentified accused. A hunt is on to arrest them, the cop said.It is pertinent to mention here that the local police chief has already ordered that at least one security guard must be deputed at all ATMs located within the jurisdiction of Ludhiana police from 8pm to 6am. In his order issued under Section 144 of the CrPC, the police commissioner had said that no ATM would be allowed to be open without security personnel. Previous attacks on ATMsOn April 10, a gang of miscreants had burnt currency worth ₹19.5 lakh loaded in a State Bank of India (SBI) ATM in Ikolaha village of Khanna in an attempt to cut it open amid night curfew imposed in the region due to the coronavirus pandemic.In a similar incident on December 15, 2020, a robbers’ gang had burnt ₹5.32 lakh loaded in an ATM while trying to break it open in the wee hours. The ATM is located on Ferozepur Road opposite Verka milk plant, but no patrolling party or security men noticed it. The police came to know about the incident in the morning when the bank officials informed them.About two weeks before, on December 2, 2020, three masked robbers had taken away ₹26.37 lakh after cutting open an HDFC ATM in Lall Kalan village of Samrala in the wee hours. The ATM was unmanned as the bank had not deputed a security guard. The case still remain unsolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alarm-scares-atm-robbers-away-in-ludhiana-101629919694513.html
26-08-2021||Other||Fare up five-fold: Farmers forced to mortgage land to buy air tickets to Canada for wards||With the cost of an air ticket to Canada increasing four-five times to around ₹3 lakh from ₹60,000 before the Covid-19 pandemic when booked well in advance, farmers in the state are mortgaging their land to ensure that their wards, enrolled in universities there, reach before semesters start in September first week. The situation has been caused by the Covid scenario, which remains fluid and limited international travel with restrictions galore. Magghar Singh, a small farmer from Moga, has mortgaged a chunk of his agricultural land for ₹4 lakh to buy an air ticket for his son for ₹3 lakh. His son is going there on a study visa. Canada has banned direct flights from India and also restricted the number of flights; some unscrupulous travel agents using this to make a fast buck by black-marketing tickets. Students are anxious to reach Canada as they fear flights could halt, if the third wave of Covid hits. Magghar Singh said, “My son applied for study visa a year ago and has been attending online classes. Now, flights are on, but ticket prices have jacked up. I had no option, but to mortgage land to arrange his travel.” As has been the common practice, Doaba-based travel agents book seats of flights to Canada, as a new semester in the universities there near and sell these at a fat profit to uneducated and gullible villagers. Kanwalpreet Singh, a Ludhiana-based travel agent, said, “Education abroad has become very expensive. Expenses on a study visa is between ₹17 lakh and ₹20 lakh for admission in business administration courses. With the high price of air tickets, parents have to shell out even more.”Narain Kaur of Lamme village of Jagraon has mortgaged her house to send her only son to Canada, who took admission in business administration. “If he reaches there and settles down, I will also go and live with him.” BOX PLEASERoute to Canada changed; negative Covid report mandatory With the coronavirus outbreak, flights to Canada are going via Mexico, Maldives, Doha and Albania. Passengers have to get tested for Covid here and only those with negative reports are allowed to continue to Canada. Jagjit Singh, a city based travel agent, said, “We instruct students not to handover their passports to anyone in Mexico, where gangs snatch students’ passports and return these only after money is paid to them. Even at hotel receptions, students have been instructed to submit only a copy of their passport and not handover the original document.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fare-up-five-fold-farmers-forced-to-mortgage-land-to-buy-air-tickets-to-canada-for-wards-101629919575009.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Class 11: 52% students opt for humanities in Chandigarh||Humanities has emerged as the stream of choice for Class-11 students at government schools in Chandigarh, as per the provisional merit list released by the UT education department on Wednesday. As many as 9,738 (52%) of 18,703 total students have opted for this stream. The list can be accessed on http://chdeducation.gov.in/. Also, 4,188 students have applied for science, both medical and non-medical; 2,601 for commerce and 2,176 for vocational courses. As per the complete common merit list, 491 students have scored between 96% to 100% and 1,108 between 91% to 95.99%.The competition is also highest in humanities, which has 6,600 seats, as per the prospectus released by the department. As many as 1.47 students have applied per seat in humanities, 1.35 in science and 1.22 for vocational courses. The number has dropped to 0.66 students per seat in commerce.Officials of the UT education department said that since two more schools have been converted from high schools to senior secondary schools this year, the number of seats in commerce has increased from 1,560 to 3,900. However, seats for science haven’t increased, as labs will also have to be built at these newly promoted schools before they are added. The number of seats for humanities increased from 6,420 to 6,600. This merit list is still not finalised and students have been given till August 26 to submit objections. The final list which will indicate allotment of schools and streams will be uploaded on August 31 at 12 noon. Students can then pay their fees online after this till September 2 and classes will commence from September 4 onwards.Government schools which are now open for physical classes also from Class 7 onwards are meanwhile reporting an increase in the percentage of students who are now coming to school for classes. On Wednesday total 35% of all enrolled students had come to class. Earlier this month on August 9 the number was 23%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/class-11-52-students-opt-for-humanities-in-chandigarh-101629919518187.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Door-to-door vaccination: Over 2,600 jabbed in a month, says Mumbai civic body||Almost a month after starting door-to-door vaccination in the city, over 2,600 bedridden citizens have been vaccinated, according to the data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Acting on the directives of the Bombay high court, from July 30, the BMC launched a door-to-door vaccination drive for bedridden citizens. The preparations were undertaken from the first week of July. An email ID was created – covidvacc2bedridden@gmail.com. The BMC received around 4,500 requests. The BMC said the vaccine beneficiary has to be bedridden for the past six months and will need a ‘fit to take vaccine’ certificate from his/her doctor. After the application, an appointment is scheduled at home and a doctor’s presence is mandated for the 30-minute observation, followed by signed consent of the beneficiary or family.According to the BMC data, as of Tuesday, 2,673 citizens have got their first dose and 76 their second dose. An official said, “There are times when citizens apply and do not pursue it further, there are times ineligible citizens also apply with the eligible citizen. They cite reasons like not being able to go out for vaccination considering they have to look after their bedridden relative. However, we do not give vaccines to relatives or family members of bedridden citizens.”Considering the BMC administers only Covaxin as per its policy, several beneficiaries who want Covishield or want a second dose of Covishield get ruled out of the programme.Along with the BMC’s team of doctors, nurses and ambulances, the vaccination is also being done with the help of NGO Project Mumbai, which has been assigned 12 of the total 24 administrative wards of the BMC. The NGO has so far vaccinated close to 1,000 beneficiaries of the total over 2,600 vaccinations done in homes. Shishir Joshi, CEO and founder of NGO Project Mumbai, said, “Of all the initiatives across the last 15 months, Project Mumbai has found immense satisfaction in this one – serving the bedridden. We also appeal to doctors who can volunteer 30 minutes of their time, to join the Project Mumbai team in this initiative. They can write to us on info@projectmumbai.org.”Meanwhile, on Wednesday, 54,634 citizens got the vaccine dose and till now 8,799,510 citizens have been vaccinated, of which 2,266,230 citizens are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doortodoor-vaccination-over-2-600-jabbed-in-a-month-says-mumbai-civic-body-101629919513956.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Admn, IAF set to sign MoU for vintage museum||The vintage aircraft museum is all set to take wings with the UT administration and the Indian Air Force likely to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) by the end of this month, it has been learnt.The proposed museum will come up at the government press building in Sector 18. The IAF plans to showcase its vintage aircrafts, armaments and memorabilia from different wars, including the 1971 Indo-Pak War and the Kargil War at the museum. There will also be a flight simulator at the museum.Vintage aircrafts like the Dakota and the Spitfire are planned to be exhibited at the museum. There will also be audio-video galleries and a space for showcasing documentaries on IAF history, said a UT official.The IAF will design the museum, for which it will hire a consultant. Depending upon the space and design, the number and type of vintage aircrafts will be selected, added the official.IAF officials are happy with the space available at the four-storeyed building with a glass facade, which is a heritage site. “The IAF officials expect the museum to bring greater awareness in the region, particularly among children, about the role and contribution of the air force in national security and defence,” said the official.The administration had shut down the government printing press in 2019. It had then decided to house a vintage car museum, a dream project of UT administrator VP Singh Badnore. Later, the administration had decided to set up a heritage furniture museum on one of the floors. Another section was planned for organising auctions of the spare heritage furniture items.After failing to get any response on tenders floated to invite firms to establish the museum, the administration decided to convert it into an IAF vintage museum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-iaf-set-to-sign-mou-for-vintage-museum-101629919394978.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Chrysanthemum show likely in December||The municipal corporation is planning to hold the Chrysanthemum show in December. The budget for the show is estimated at ₹10.65 lakh and an agenda for the same will be tabled before the finance and contract committee (F&CC) on Thursday. If approved by the committee, the final decision will be taken by the MC general house, which to scheduled to meet on August 31.The show is held every year on the terraced garden in Sector 33. Last year, it was not co-organised amid the Covid outbreak.Various government and semi-government institutions such as Chandigarh Housing Board, PGIMER, Punjab Warehousing Cooperation, IMTEC, HSVP, Haryana PWD and private growers take part in the show. Various competitions of flowers grown in pots are held.Notably, the MC general House in its June 29 meeting passed an agenda to organise the show. It was decided that as the Covid situation was not clear at the time, the show may be celebrated either by displaying the plants and flower pots or in a symbolic manner in the presence of some councillors and officers with small gatherings to maintain its continuity.Now, the MC has proposed to hold this show with various competition of flowers as usual, for which prizes will be given to the winners.The MC plans to spend ₹30,000 on the invitation cards, certificate for winners, brochure and folders. On the tentage items like shamianas, chairs, sofas and carpets, it plans to spend ₹1.40 lakh. Some other expenditures include decoration for ₹1.60 lakh, trophies for winners at ₹50,000, electrical systems at ₹60,000, cash prizes ₹70,000 and publicity ₹1.80 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-chrysanthemum-show-likely-in-december-101629919336329.html
26-08-2021||Other||UP Sainik School gears up for Prez visit tomorrow||Lucknow: The year-long diamond jubilee (60 years) celebrations of the country’s first UP Sainik School, Lucknow will conclude with the visit of President Ram Nath Kovind on August 27. During his visit, the President will inaugurate and unveil various infrastructural projects. Principal of the school Col Rajesh Raghav said, “President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to our school will open a new chapter. His visit will be a momentous occasion in many ways.” Lt Gen Raj Shukla, PVSM, YSM, SM, Army Commander, ARTRAC and Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, AVSM, VSM Commanding-in-Chief (FOC-in-C), Eastern Naval Command of the Indian Navy will meet each other on August, 27 at their alma mater when the school will be decked up for its first presidential visit for the closing ceremony of diamond jubilee. Lt Gen Raj Shukla, studied in this school from January 8, 1974 to March 19, 1979. He joined the prestigious National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Pune in January 1979 (61st course). He got commissioned into the Regiment of Artillery in December 1982. Currently, he is 3rd senior most officer in the Indian Army. Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, commissioned on July 1, 1983 is an alumnus of National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Pune. Prior to NDA, he joined UP Sainik School on July 1, 1974 and passed out in 1979. In the Indian Navy, he is among the five senior most officers. Headmaster Lt Col, Jyoti Singh said, “As a tribute to the alma mater, Lt Gen Raj Shukla has gifted two T-55 tanks and a cheque of ₹50,000. Vice Admiral A B Singh has gifted a missile and an anti-aircraft gun to this school. Preparation for the celebrations is in full swing.” UP Sanik school was established by Dr Sampurnand, the then chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, in 1960 to train selected students of the state for a career in officers’ cadre of the defence forces of India through the National Defence Academy. It was again his imaginative mind which so appropriately christened the school as Sainik School, a name which was borrowed by the ministry of defence for a chain of institutions set up by it later on the model of this school. The UP Sainik School, Lucknow thus has the distinction of being the first school of its kind in the country. The school is all decked up and the atmosphere is charged with preparations for various activities to make the President’s visit a big success. Along with the President, first lady Savita Kovind , governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanathi; deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and other dignitaries of the state will also grace the occasion . A cultural programme will be also presented by the cadets of the school for which staff and cadets are toiling day and night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-sainik-school-gears-up-for-prez-visit-tomorrow-101629919216860.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Got jabbed twice but certificates show 2 first doses, alleges Kalyan resident||A 67-year-old Kalyan resident has claimed that she was vaccinated twice but received certificates as having taken her first dose on both the occasions.Social worker, Deenamma Eapen, said that due to this glitch she could not travel anywhere. “I took the first dose on March 15 at Rukminibai Civic Hospital in Kalyan and the second on April 28 at Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation’s (BNMC) vaccination centre in Navi Vasti. However, the certificate that I got after the second dose shows first dose. So, I cannot get the railway local pass or the travel pass,” said Eapen.Eapen has been trying to correct the details online and had visited the vaccination centre to get it rectified, but in vain.A BNMC health officer said, “There might have been some glitch in the entry made during the second dose. We will check the records and do the needful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/got-jabbed-twice-but-certificates-show-2-first-doses-alleges-kalyan-resident-101629919215701.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Free online coaching for unemployed youth||The district administration will provide free online coaching for various competitive exams to unemployed youth under the Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said alteast one lakh youth will be trained. He said the first batch is expected to begin from the first week of September to prepare candidates for recruitment exams of police constables and clerical posts. Those who have completed their graduation can register for the clerical batch, while those who have cleared Class 12 can apply for the batch of police constable recruitment. Aspirants can apply on https://www.eduzphere.com/freegovtexams.The coaching will be provided by a subject specialist teacher who comfortable in English, Hindi and Punjabi as per the exam syllabus. The lectures can be accessed through desktops, laptops and smartphones and candidates will have access to live recorded lectures for one year and eight months after completing their coaching. Further, content, videos, notes and other study material will be provided and regular practice and mock tests will be provided. Dayalan said the duration of a batch will be a minimum of four months and two sessions of 1.5 hours each will be conducted six days a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-free-online-coaching-for-unemployed-youth-101629919214659.html
26-08-2021||Other||Hat-trick for SAD in DSGMC House; Sirsa loses, but to remain president||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will form the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) for the third time in a row, after securing 27 of 46 seats in elections held on August 22; the results were declared on Wednesday. In a shock outcome, however, the outgoing president of the gurdwara body, SAD’s war-horse Manjinder Singh Sirsa, lost to former president Harvinder Singh Sarna in a fierce contest on the Punjabi Bagh seat.With an annual budget of at least ₹110 crore, management of nine historical gurdwaras and schools, colleges and hospitals with it, control over the gurdwara body also brings influence over global matters of the Sikh community, and a say in the government that runs the country. It takes around a month to form the new House.The SAD top brass sees the result as a practice match for the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab scheduled in early 2022. SAD (Delhi) that the Sarnas lead won 14 seats; former DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK, who fielded candidates representing the newly formed Jago Party shrunk to three seats; on two seats Independents have won. GK won on his home seat of Greater Kailash. Addressing a press conference in New Delhi, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal felicitated Sikhs of the national capital for voting his party again to power and announced that Sirsa would continue to head the gurdwara body, in spite of his loss. “He (Sirsa) will be nominated from the quota of (Amritsar-headquartered) Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC),” Sukhbir told the media. The head of the DSGMC becomes a leader of 8 lakh Sikhs of New Delhi and of Sikhs outside Punjab and the country. Under Sirsa, the DSGMC had caught the attention of the residents of the national capital, particularly the Sikhs, during the second Covid-19 wave; the gurdwara body had reached out to the victims with medical support, oxygen cylinders and concentrators. The body also offered langar (community meal) during the lockdown, which earned it lots of goodwill, helping it rise over negative perception it had earned after series of sacrilege incidents under the BJP-SAD regime in Punjab in 2015. “I know that both governments (Centre and the Delhi) worked against our party, particularly Sirsa. Despite this opposition, we won,” said Sukhbir, adding, “This victory is a prelude to my party’s comeback in Punjab polls. Those who played politics over sacrilege will lose.”Under the DSGMC Act of 1971, a 51-member House runs the gurdwara body. Over and above 46 elected members, there is a provision to nominate one member (from the SGPC quota), two members come via co-option and two more come from the Singh Sabhas (local gurdwaras) in Delhi. For SAD (Delhi) president Paramit Singh Sarna, the results came as a shock. “We hoped to do much better, but we accept that the voters have the final say.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hattrick-for-sad-in-dsgmc-house-sirsa-loses-but-to-remain-president-101629919156184.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: NHM employees’ protest for pay hike enters Day 3||Employees of the National Health Mission (NHM) in Chandigarh continued their protest for the third consecutive day on Wednesday to press for their demand of equal pay for equal work. The protesters said that the government has set the monthly salary of a security guard at ₹19,000, but an ANM worker gets only ₹10,000, even when they have worked selflessly amid the pandemic. Over 300 NHM employees marched from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, to Matka Chowk in Sector 17. Meanwhile, due to non-availability of auxiliary nurse midwives, the non-Covid immunisation drive for children was affected at government health and wellness centres, especially in rural areas. Besides, general out-patient department services and Covid vaccination drive were also hit.NHM employees working under the UT health department as paramedical staff and managerial employees include nursing and pharmacy officers, ANMs, lab technicians, dental technicians and other Class-4 staffers.Amit Kumar, general secretary, NHM Union, said they met Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, Chandigarh, on Wednesday, and she had assured them her support. “She said that the Chandigarh Administration will write to the central government to revise the pay scale. However, we will not end the protest until our demands are met,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhnhm-employees-protest-for-pay-hike-enters-day-3-101629919154750.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Senate: Polling for graduate constituency in Sept, says PU||Amid ongoing protests over delay in polling for the registered graduate constituency of the Panjab University (PU) senate, the varsity on Wednesday said that it will be held on the third or fourth Sunday of September. Delhi and Uttarakhand are yet to respond to the varsity’s request to set up polling booths there. “PU has already sent another reminder to these states on August 23 and is following up on the matter continuously. The university is fully prepared to conduct the election for registered graduates on the said dates,” said PU in an official communiqué.The varsity has already received positive response from the five states- Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chandigarh. The polling for the registered graduate constituency, from which 15 members are elected to the PU senate, was earlier scheduled to be held on August 18. But, PU postponed it on August 13, citing non-availability of required polling booths in Punjab and Haryana. Various student bodies have started an indefinite protest over the delay outside vice-chancellor Raj Kumar’s office. The protest entered its 12th day on Wednesday.In the last few days, many prominent political leaders from Punjab, including Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira and AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema, have visited the protest site on PU campus expressing their support for the students’ demand. Meanwhile, the student bodies have called for a protest rally on campus on Thursday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senate-polling-for-graduate-constituency-in-sept-says-pu-101629919094490.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||MP Manish Tewari demands Ropar railway station upgrade||Former Union minister and Lok Sabha member from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari on Wednesday called upon railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and demanded an upgrade to railway infrastructure in his constituency.During a meeting in Delhi, Tewari sought a facelift for the Ropar railway station among other projects. He said Ropar is an important city, which also has an Indian Institute of Technology, where students from all over the country come to study. However, there is only one platform at the Ropar railway station, due to which passengers face problems, and even accidents have occurred due to the congestion, he said. The MP also demanded a stop for Jan Shatabdi and Howrah Mail at the Kurali railway station, besides rail connectivity to Balachaur through three rail links: Ropar-Rahan, Rahan-Samrala and Garhshankar-Anandpur Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mp-manish-tewari-demands-ropar-railway-station-upgrade-101629919035956.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 5,031 new Covid-19 cases, 216 deaths||After a gap of five days, Maharashtra once again breached the 5,000-cases mark. On Wednesday, the state recorded 5,031 new cases with 216 deaths.Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director, Masina Hospital, said citizens are becoming more casual and not adopting Covid-appropriate behaviour. “We are seeing people not maintaining social distancing and becoming very careless with regards to wearing masks and taking precautions. We are seeing increasing number of Delta Plus virus cases and if this continues, we might face a third wave,” warned Dr Mehra.Mumbai’s tally of new cases rose to 342 with 4 deaths, bringing its total death toll to 15,956.The total number of Covid-19 patients has now reached 6,437,680. A total of 207,995 tests done on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries clocked was 4,380. The number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 50,183, while the total number of deaths has reached 136,571.There are currently 50,183 active patients across the state, where in Pune tops with 12,673 patients, followed by Thane (7,041) and Satara (5,400).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-5-031-new-covid-19-cases-216-deaths-101629918915720.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||I am not afraid of anyone, stand by my words: Rane||A day after the controversial arrest of Union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises and BJP leader Narayan Rane over his ‘slap’ remark against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the BJP has upped the ante against Shiv Sena and the state. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had given similar statements in the past. He asked his party workers, on August 1, to give a tight slap to [BJP legislator] Prasad Lad who had threatened to attack Sena Bhavan. Thackeray used derogatory language against UP CM Yogi Aadityanath and had said that he should be beaten up with chappals. He also called Union home minister Amit Shah shameless. Why was action not taken against him and why only against me? Whatever I spoke was out of anger against Thackeray for forgetting the year of independence of our country,” said Rane in a press conference in Mumbai on Wednesday.BJP leaders said it would expose ministers of the ruling MVA — comprising Sena, NCP and Congress — over their roles in various cases and added it would move court against Sena leaders over its ‘”misuse of power”, especially transport minister Anil Parab.A video clip of Parab apparently asking Ratnagiri police to arrest 69-year-old Rane without waiting for an arrest warrant went viral. Taking an aggressive stance against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the BJP raised questions why action was not taken against him when he had used abusive language in the past against senior BJP leaders such as Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Aditynath and Union home minister Amit Shah.“I cannot tolerate anything against our nation, our society or BJP leaders [on his statement against Thackeray]. If my remarks are objectionable, the instigating and derogatory language by the CM does not amount to similar action?,” Rane said. He also said that the BJP would not allow West Bengal-like [poll] violence to take place in Maharashtra. Raising questions over the violent protests and law-and-order situation in the state, Rane said, “Sena has no power to beat up any BJP worker or leader. They pelt stones from distance. BJP would not allow the violence to take place here in Maharashtra like it happened in West Bengal (after assembly polls).”The Union minister was arrested on Tuesday afternoon for his remark made during the ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ of his party the previous day that he would have slapped Thackeray over the latter’s “ignorance” of the year of India’s independence, triggering a political row and protests across the state on Tuesday. After his arrest, Rane was taken to Mahad in Raigad district, 165km from Mumbai, where an FIR was registered against him over the remark. He was granted bail by a court at Mahad late on Tuesday night. Rane is the first sitting central minister to be arrested in two decades, since Murasoli Maran and TR Baalu were picked up in an infamous midnight raid in Chennai by the Tamil Nadu Police in 2001.After the high-voltage drama witnessed in Mumbai, Konkan and other parts of the state on Tuesday over Rane’s arrest, BJP alleged that ïnhumane treatment” was meted out to the Union minister during his detention out of vendetta.The party also threatened to move court against Sena leader and transport minister Anil Parab for his orders to the police to arrest Rane by using police force. Parab, a close aide of Thackeray, was caught on camera of a television channel, giving instructions to someone- — apparently a police officer -— to arrest Rane without waiting for an arrest warrant and use force if necessary.“He asked the police to arrest Rane without warrant. We are moving court to understand in which capacity he was giving orders to the police. We are also moving court against Sena leader and deputy chairman of legislative council Neelam Gorhe for her political statement. The government has been acting with political vegeance by misusing the police force. The action against Rane came out of the fear of losing Mumbai after the type of response the Jan Ashirwad Yatra received in Mumbai,” said Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil.BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar has demanded a CBI probe in the entire episode of the arrest order by Parab. “The leaked video clip was shot between 11 and 1pm on Tuesday when the hearing on bail application by Rane in high court and the session court had yet to begin. Despite which, he told the IPS officer on other side that the application was rejected. He also orders the officer to arrest Union minister by using force. The entire episode is shaky and needs to be investigated by a central agency like CBI,” he said. BJP’s district vice president from Nallasopara, Vishwas Sawant, has filed an FIR against Parab for ‘misuse of power’.There was no reaction from Shiv Sena on the Parab issue or Thackeray’s past remarks on BJP leaders.BJP meanwhile is still gauging the repercussion and the impact of the entire episode on their prospects in the forthcoming local body elections in the state. Senior party leaders have been very cautious while giving statements over the Rane remarks against Thackeray and said that they do not justify it. “Though the aggressive style of politics of Rane is liked by a section of leaders in the party, others fear it may backfire if Sena manages to portray it as an insult to the state. We have also apprehension that it may turn in favour of Sena. Sena workers are galvanized if their pride towards party and leadership was hurt. Though we are firm on standing by Rane during this episode, there would be an assessment within party over its long-term stand over it,” said a senior BJP leader requesting anonymity.BJP had strategically inducted Rane in the union cabinet last month to utilise him against Sena in Maharashtra. The party believes that the firebrand leader, who is staunch opponent of Sena for more than 15 years, could help the party in denting Sena on its home turf in Mumbai and Konkan.The high voltage drama began on Tuesday morning after Nashik Police issued an arrest order on Tuesday morning against Narayan Rane for his statement against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Rane was arrested from Sangameshwar in Ratnagirin in the evening and was granted bail at midnight at district court in Mahad. Rane got relief from further action till September 17 by the Bombay high court. Police have been restrained from any action or summons against him till next hearing.The political protest by Sena and BJP workers continued on Wednesday. BJP held protests at Nashik, Shirdi, Nanded to condemn the arrest of the union minister and demanding action against Sena workers for attack on their offices. The BJP workers also burnt the copies of Sena mouthpiece Saamana in parts of Konkan. Sena workers, too, held protests in Jalna, Yavatmal to condemn the statement by Rane. Cases against more than 130 people were registered in Nashik on the party workers from Sena and BJP for the clash between them on Tuesday.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena workers continued to threaten Rane over his remarks. Party’s Hingoli legislator Santosh Bangar while talking to the media dared Rane to remove his security and face him. “We have the strength to come and bash you at your house. You keep your police protection aside. I, Santosh Bangar, a Sena activist will come alone and if I don’t remove your guts then I will never take my name again,”Bangar was seen threatening on various Marathi TV channels.BJP legislator Ram Kadam said the party would like to see the action taken by the Sena-led government. “These are all empty threats, but since they are made by the legislator we would like to see what action will be taken against Bangar for threatening a union minister,” said Kadam. He said that BJP’s restraint should not be seen as a weakness by the Sena.Sena defended Bangar saying it was a reaction to the action. “Shiv Sainiks are emotional about their chief and Narayan Rane provoked them with such insulting remarks. It’s Rane’s fault that is facing such backlash,” said Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande.Nitesh, Rane’s younger son and BJP MLA tweeted a video indicating that the befitting reply will be given for the action against his father. He also criticized CM Thackeray for felicitating party workers involved in violent protests outside Rane’s Juhu house on Tuesday.During a press conference in Mahad on Monday, Rane passed a controversial remark against Thackeray. Referring to the mis-reference given by the CM about the number of years to the Independence day, Rane said that he would have given a tight slap had he been present there. Thackeray had confused between the Hirak and Amrut Mahotsav of independence during his speech at Mantralaya on August 15. He had to enquire about it with the chief secretary of state standing behind him.“It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire (with his aides) about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given him a slap,” Rane had said.Four FIRs were registered against him by Sena workers against Rane seeking his arrest.Claiming that the he was not arrested by police, but he accompanied them in his own car on their request, Rane said on Wednesday that the yatra would not stop. Rane also said that the party would not keep quite until the death case of Disha Salian was taken to the logical end of the involvement of a minister in the case. He said that the BJP would fight the legal battle in legitimate way to ensure that the minister get punished for his involvement in the case. The union minister also hit out at Shiv Sena and said that they should brace for the reaction of an attempt of attack his Juhu residence on Tuesday.Sindhudurg collector K Manjulaxmi has on Tuesday imposed prohibitory orders banning assembly of more than five people for next 15 days. The order, however, would not prohibit the Jan Ashirwad Yatra by Narayan Rane, officials from collectorate said.Shiv Sena leader and Guhagar MLA Bhaskar Jadhav said that Shiv Sena was not against the Jan Ashirwad Yatra by Rane. “Shiv Sena is not against Jan Ashirwad Yatra and if he wants to resume it in Sindhudurg he may apply for the official permissions from the administration. It’s up to the administration to concede it or not, but curfew in Sindhudurg has not been imposed to oppose the Yatra. It was imposed keeping the history of violence in the district during the political clashes in mind. After yesterday’s arrest, Rane would not dare to use any foul language against our leader. He has given such undertaking in the court. We wish that he holds his Yatra the way it is as expected by his leadership,” he said.Shiv Sena leader and spokesperson Sachin Ahir said, “The law is equal for all. We do not deny it, but Rane has been targetting our party and leadership continuously without any reason for last two years since our government is formed in the state. Whatever Uddhavji has been speaking against leaders from BJP has been political reaction over the issues pertaining to that particular time. We do not justify the violence and objectional language used by our workers, but it’s out of the reaction to the remarks by Rane. Action has been taken against them as well.”Sena’s Guhagar MLA and former miniser Bhaskar Jadhav said, “Rane too should think why aggressive reaction came over his reaction and why the Jan Ashirwad Yatra by other three union ministers concluded without any hindrance. The remarks by Rane were out of frustration and a deliberate attempt to provoke Sena leadership.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-narayan-rane-up-heat-on-shiv-sena-over-slap-row-101629918914505.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai univ 2nd merit list out: Popular colleges, courses witness 1-3% points drop in cut-offs||Blame it on the bloated marks awarded to Class 12 students this year or the fear among students of being left without a seat, several city colleges witnessed a slight drop of 1-3 percentage points in cut-offs.In some cases, college only had a handful of vacant seats left to offer in the second merit list, ensuring that the cut-off dipped not even by a single per cent point. While in other cases, colleges had no second list to announce for popular courses.“All the open category seats were allotted in the first merit list itself, and with no withdrawal of admissions, we had no seat left to allot in the second merit list on Wednesday,” said Rajendra Shinde, principal of St Xavier’s College. The FYBA course of the institute has been a popular destination for students for many years now. Last year too, the college could manage only a single general merit list for the same course. While the college said it was helpless, students were dejected with this news. “When I saw the first merit list for the FYBA course at St Xavier’s end at 99.17% for students from other boards, I had no hope for the cut-offs to drop much in the second list. Still, many of us were shocked to find out that all seats were taken in the first list itself, leaving us with no hope of getting into the college anymore,” said Anusha Pandya, who scored 96% in her Class 12 exams and was hoping to bag a seat in St Xavier’s. She, however, has been allotted a seat in another top college, which was second on her preference list. At RA Podar College in Matunga, the second list for the FYBCom course ended at 95.7% less than a per cent point lower than the first merit list. Even the BMS course, across streams, dropped by a per cent point in the second list. At Ramnarain Ruia College as well, the FYBA list dropped only by a per cent point. “It is a popular course among students these days and I feel the fear of the pandemic and fierce competition this year, students aren’t withdrawing admissions as easily as they did earlier, leaving maximum seats taken in the first round itself,” said Anushree Lokur, principal of the college. At Narsee Monjee College, the cutoffs for FYBCom, BCom in Financial Management (BFM) and BCom in Accounting and Finance (BFM) dropped by a percentage point or less, compared to the first merit list. Similarly, at Mithibai College, cutoffs for FYBA and FYBCom dropped less than one percentage point.In the first merit list announced last week, several colleges witnessed an 8-10% point increase compared to last year and most attributed the hike to high Class 12 marks across boards.Rising Covid-19 cases forced most school education boards to scrap Class 12 board exams this year and instead promote students based on their performance in Class 10, 11 and 12 following a 30:30:40 formula. This pushed the overall performance of students from all boards—while CBSE and ISC schools witnessed a hike in the number of students scoring 90% and 95% in their batches, the state board witnessed a 12-fold rise in the number of students scoring 90% and above this year, including 46 students who scored a perfect 100% in HSC this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-univ-2nd-merit-list-out-popular-colleges-courses-witness-1-3-points-drop-in-cutoffs-101629918674656.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: HC fines lawyer ₹1,000, says he can recover it from Bar body||The Punjab and Haryana high court has imposed a cost of ₹1,000 on an advocate who could not appear in a bail matter in August as lawyers had abstained from work. The high court bench of justice Arvind Sangwan, said that the lawyer, Prateek Pandit, will deposit the cost with the High Court Legal Services Authority within 15 days. After depositing the cost, it will be open for him to recover the amount from the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association, and in case the amount is not paid to him, he can claim/adjust it against his subscription/membership fee, the court said further. The call to abstain from work was given by the Bar body. The lawyer had moved an application for advancing the hearing in a bail case of a drug peddling accused. The case was listed for October 28. As court took up the application, the lawyer informed the judge that the case was earlier listed on August 11, but he could not appear as the whole fraternity had volunteered to abstain from work that day. “Despite the fact that the courts are working through virtual mode with great difficulties having lots of connectivity issues, the lawyers resorted to abstain from work on August 11. In view of the same, finding no ground for early hearing, the present application is dismissed with cost of ₹1,000,” the bench ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-hc-fines-lawyer-1-000-says-he-can-recover-it-from-bar-body-101629918554406.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Carpooling: Chandigarh admn junks draft policy, to adopt Centre’s guidelines||The Chandigarh administration has junked its draft carpooling policy and would implement the central guidelines on the issue. The ministry guidelines for carpooling by private vehicles through cab aggregators were issued in November 2020. The city has the highest density of vehicle in the country and battles traffic congestion. The draft policy, now junked, aimed to encourage and regulate carpooling. The policy envisaged that people share vehicles when going to a common destination. Dedicated mobile apps were to be developed to ensure security, registration of vehicles for the service, registration of users and real-time tracking of vehicles. The policy also included mandatory police verification of the driver’s antecedents. The Standing Committee on Transport of the administrator’s Advisory Council has been informed that the UT transport department had prepared a draft carpooling was prepared, but not notified. “The committee was told that the administration would go by the ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) guidelines on carpooling,” said a senior UT official privy to the development. The issue of carpooling was raised in the committee for ensuing better last-mile connectivity. The development of the mobile app, to be outsourced, was to be regulated by the state transport authority. It was to be designed on the lines of available mobile-enabled taxi services or aggregators. The administration had formulated the draft policy on directions of the Niti Aayog. What are the guidelinesIn November last year, the Union ministry had issued guidelines, ‘Motor Vehicle Aggregators Guidelines 2020’. The guidelines deal primarily with the regulatory framework for ride hailing apps like Uber, Ola and others. Under the guidelines, the ministry has allowed private car owners to offer pooling services. The guidelines state, “For reducing traffic congestion and pollution, non-transport vehicle pooling may be provided by aggregators.” The option for carpooling through private vehicles can be in-built in the aggregator’s hailing app. According to these guidelines, a maximum of four ride-sharing intra-city rides in a day and two inter-city trips per week are to be permitted for each vehicle with the driver, integrated with the aggregator. The integrated vehicle will have to obtain an insurance of at least ₹5 lakh for the ride-sharers, other than the owner or driver integrated with the aggregator, the guidelines added. Under the UT’s draft policy, however, carpooling was not to be a commercial enterprise. Commuters were to charged only the cost and no pick-up of commuters was to be allowed from bus stops, bus stand, or taxi stands. The aim was that people going from one location to another should share the vehicle rather than opt for individual cars. Hence, no soliciting of passengers was to be allowed on road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/carpooling-chandigarh-admn-junks-draft-policy-to-adopt-centre-s-guidelines-101629918196795.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Procedure for first-ever caste census in Maharashtra since independence finalised||The Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC) has finalised the empirical data collection format and norms for the massive Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) proposed in the state. The census, which is being launched almost a century after it was last undertaken in British India, is expected to cost around ₹435 crore and cover all households. An MSCBC member said that they finalised the questionnaire for the census in a meeting of the commission at Pune on Wednesday. “This will combine the questionnaire and data chart used by the Central government for its 2011 SECC exercise and the general census proposed in 2021. The proposal will be sent to the state government by Tuesday,” he added. The state government is yet to give a nod for caste census though Other Backward Class (OBC) ministers in the MVA government are demanding the same. This data will cover details of individual households, their caste location and political representation. It will seek information about the caste, sub-caste, religion, educational and employment status, migration details, type of house, source of drinking water, fuel used for cooking, vehicles owned and whether these families have access to toilets, mobile phones, computers and internet services, to assess their social backwardness.The SECC, which aims at collecting empirical data to restore political reservations for the other backward classes (OBCs), will also verify if any member of the family for the last three generations, had contested and won any elections to gauge their political backwardness.The member said they wanted the exercise to be undertaken by the state government to ensure authenticity. This data will be analysed by the commission. However, the time taken to complete the census will depend on the state government. The MSCBC members plan to meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other ministers in Mumbai to discuss this.At present, the Central government collects data only for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) in the decadal census and has refused to enumerate other populations in the 2021 census.The proposed SECC will be crucial for restoring political reservations for OBCs in local self-government bodies like municipal corporations, councils, zilla parishads and gram panchayats.In March, the Supreme Court (SC) struck down Maharashtra’s 27% political quota for OBCs due to the lack of empirical data about their backwardness. It said that the state can grant these reservations after setting up a backward class commission to conduct an empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of their backwardness.This may lead to blowback for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) regime with the OBCs being upset over losing 57,000 seats. The elections to 18 municipal corporations including Mumbai are scheduled next year, while the term of three corporations is already over.“This exercise will also generate rich data across castes and religions… similarly, it will help the commission take scientific decisions on inclusion and exclusion of sections in the backward classes,” he explained.While the SECC is expected to cost ₹435 crore, this also includes the allowance to be paid to enumerators. This can be changed or lowered by the government to reduce these costs.Caste-based censusThe references to a caste census are found in the Rigveda and Kautilya Arthashastra. Emperor Akbar’s minister Abul Fazal mentions a comprehensive caste-based census.Now, only data about SCs and STs is collected in the censusOBCs are expected to be around 53% of Maharashtra’s population (43.70% Hindus and 8.40% non-Hindus).The Maharashtra assembly has approved a resolution seeking a caste-based census. However, the Centre has refused to enumerate caste-wise populations other than Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) in the 2021 Census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/procedure-for-first-ever-caste-census-in-maharashtra-since-independence-finalised-101629918195735.html
26-08-2021||Other||To check land acquisition fraud, NHAI asks districts not to allow CLUs till it finishes surveys||Jalandhar The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has requested district administrations to not issue No-Objection Certificates (NOCs) for change in land use, sale deed, or registries till it completes its final surveys in areas where it is planning to acquire land for its road projects. After the survey, the NHAI issues a baseline notification that acts as the master document for land acquisition.The apprehension of the NHAI is that such land conversions, sale deed, registries etc are meant to take undue advantage of the fact that a road will pass through the areas concerned. As soon as news filters out that a new road is to be built, rates of land in and around the area increase and private owners get undue compensation, earning a windfall. The NHAI wants to curb any fraud is such major big-ticket projects. In the latest instance, the NHAI has written to the Hoshiarpur deputy commissioner to pass stay order on change in land use or sale or registries till it completes its survey on four-laning the Hoshiarpur-Phagwara road. Hoshiarpur deputy commissioner Apneet Riyait confirmed the development, adding that the needful would be done. In 2019, the NHAI had detected major irregularities in the land acquisition process for widening of the Bathinda-Sangat Kalan road as the nature of 177 khasras (plots) of land was changed from agriculture to commercial in an attempt to give undue compensation to private landowners. In its communication to the Hoshiarpur DC, the NHAI says, “Land acquisition proceedings have been initiated by NHAI and verification of survey number of patwaris falling in the alignment is under progress for four-laning of existing two-lane highway from Phagwara to Hoshiarpur including Phagwara and Hoshiarpur bypass.”It adds, “The alignment of the subject project stretch is now easily accessible and the possibility of leakage of sensitive information cannot be ruled out. There are high chances of conversion of land or sale/ purchase of land falling in the alignment.”Finally, the NHAI adds, “Such instances of conversion have been reported in Punjab previously too, resulting in dropping the proposal of development of highways or extra cost and arbitration cases or land disputes.”A senior NHAI official, seeking anonymity, said the district administrations were being told to vigilant against such profiteering. Hoshiarpur-based Right to Information (RTI) activist, Rajiv Vashisht, who is a whistle-blower in Hoshiarpur land acquisition scam, said, “The NHAI has taken a big step towards stopping land acquisition frauds that the land mafia perpetrates in a nexus with government officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-check-land-acquisition-fraud-nhai-asks-districts-not-to-allow-clus-till-it-finishes-surveys-101629918194472.html
26-08-2021||Other||Farmers mobilising in Haryana for Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat||Farm leaders of Haryana have been conducting village-level meetings and inviting farmers and labourers to take part in the September 5 mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar (Uttar Pradesh) on call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), to discuss farmers’ plight.The farm leaders will launch a mission against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab, where the assembly elections are due next year.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) youth state president Ravi Azad, said they have been holding village-level meetings and urging farmers and labourers to take part in the panchayat.“Our volunteers will arrange buses and other vehicles for the rally. The mahapanchayat is a ‘Dharmayudh’ (crusade) for farmers and labourers. Farmers from across country will take part in the mahapanchayat. Farmers and labourers are all set to teach a lesson to the BJP in the upcoming assembly polls in different states,” he added.Khaps back Sept 5 mahapanchayatThe SKM proposed mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar has received support from Haryana Khaps.Phogat Khap president Balwant Nambardar said they are conducting meetings in villages and toll plazas to mobilise people to attend the Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat from where farmers and labourers will pledge to defeat the BJP in the upcoming assembly polls.“We will welcome all those who will attend the rally. Those who skip it will get a bad name in history. Our khaps will continue this fight until Centre’s three farm laws are repealed. We will deploy volunteers to note names of those who will attend the rally besides issuing identity cards,” he added.Khera khap president Satbir Pahalwan said they are geared up for the mahapanchayat and farmers from Jind will attend it in large numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-mobilising-in-haryana-for-muzaffarnagar-mahapanchayat-101629918076848.html
26-08-2021||Other||HP restarts process to set up state disaster response force||Days after landslides wreaked havoc in the tribal Kinnaur district, Himachal Pradesh government has once again started the process to set up a State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), which has been caught in red tape for years.Principal secretary, revenue, Onkar Sharma and director general of police Sanjay Kundu held a meeting to chalk out the modalities for setting up a dedicated response force for the state. “It was decided that three companies of the SDRF will be set up in the state. The police department has already purchased necessary equipments for carrying out disaster rescue operations while the government has also approved 356 posts of police personnel, including technical staff, for the force,” said Onkar Sharma.The proposal to set up an SDRF was drawn up in 2011, following the National Disaster Management Authority’s directions to all states, but it has been hanging fire since then. In 2013, following the floods in Kinnaur, the then Congress government had asked all departments concerned to speed up the process to set up an SDRF. The state police had then come up with a plan to raise three companies of SDRF – one each in Pandoh of Mandi, Dharamshala and Shimla—but it never saw the light of the day.Why the state need a dedicated force urgentlyHimachal Pradesh falls in seismic zone five, making it prone to high-intensity earthquakes. Besides, calamities such as cloudburst, flashfloods, landslides, forest fires and avalanches are common in the hill state. This year alone, heavy rain, floods, cloudbursts, landslides and related incidents have claimed over 309 lives in the state. Besides, the state has also witnessed loss of property to the tune of ₹876.54 crore, owing to these disasters. But every time a disaster strikes, the state is forced to seek help from the National Disaster Response Force, paramilitary and army for relief and rescue operations. Across the country, as many as 23 states have already set up SDMA. Eleven people still missing As per a report, since June 13 when monsoon started in Himachal, 147 people have died in road accidents while landslides have killed 51 people. Ten people died in cloudburst and 28 due to drowning while the remaining casualties occurred in other incidents. The maximum 44 people died in Kinnaur, the tribal district battered by frequent landslides this year. In a major landslide on July 26, nine people were killed after shooting stones hit a tourist vehicle at Batseri in Sangla area of the district. Twenty-eight people were killed when a major landslide buried a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, an SUV and several other vehicles. As many as 43 people have died in Shimla, 31 each in Kangra and Chamba and 29 each Sirmaur. Heavy rains have damaged more than 800 houses and 550 cowsheds across, and 16 shops across the state. More than 580 cattle head have been lost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-restarts-process-to-set-up-state-disaster-response-force-101629918075764.html
26-08-2021||Other||History of ancient Saraswati river to be taught in Haryana schools||The BJP-led Haryana government has decided to include the history of ancient Saraswati river in the school curriculums so that youth are made aware of the history and presence of the river.As per information, syllabus on historical importance of the 5,000-year-old river will be prepared for students of Class 6 to 8.Eleven members of the Saraswati Syllabus Committee led by assistant director of Centre for Dr BR Ambedkar Studies at Kurukshetra University Dr Pritam Singh has been formed to prepare the syllabus.Dr Deepa Mehta, research officer at the geology department of the university has been appointed as member secretary of the committee. The committee will submit its report by September 15.Dhumman Singh Kirmach, vice-chairman of the Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board, said the decision to include history of Saraswati river in school curriculum has been taken jointly by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar (who is chairman of the Board) and state education minister Kanwar Pal.Since Saraswati river has an old history and was flowing through many districts of Haryana, the decision to include it in the school curriculum will help impart knowledge about it to the younger generations.Kirmach said Saraswati is one of the oldest rivers of India and has a different historical and mythological significance as Indian culture developed along the banks of the river.During the seven year stint in Haryana, the BJP-led government had taken steps to revive Saraswati river from Adi-Badri in Yamunanagar.While addressing a seminar on ‘Saraswati river: new perspectives and heritage development’ during the ongoing International Saraswati Festival 2021 in February, Khattar had announced a budget of ₹800 crore for construction of dam barrage and reservoir as part of the Saraswati river rejuvenation project.A study conducted by the Centre of Excellence for Research on the Saraswati River (CERSR) at Kurukshetra University had revealed that Saraswati river was flowing in Haryana until 1402 AD and all major archaeological sites in Haryana (Siswal, Rakhigarhi, Banawali, Bhirrana, Kunal, Balu, Thana) were located at a radial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/history-of-ancient-saraswati-river-to-be-taught-in-haryana-schools-101629917895677.html
26-08-2021||Other||Three-day Khelo Haryana Games to begin on Friday||At least 9,670 players of the under-18 age group from all over the state will take part in 20 sporting events of the Khelo Haryana Games starting this Friday.The three-day event will be held in six districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Karnal and Kurukshetra – and end on Sunday.Giriraj Singh, deputy director of the department of sports and youth affairs, said 2,420 players will showcase their talents in Gurugram where four-sport events – handball, kabaddi, archery and swimming – will be conducted, followed by 2,090 players in shooting, athletics and wrestling in Faridabad.Kurukshetra, a hub of hockey from where four players played in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, will host 2,058 players in four events – hockey, cycling, volleyball and basketball. Ambala will host 1,342 players of kho-kho, gymnastics, badminton and judo.And, 1,232 players will take part in football, table tennis and boxing events to be held in Karnal. Yamunanagar will entertain 528 players of weight-lifting and lawn tennis.In the run-up to Khelo India Games next year, these games are taking place for the first time in Haryana.As a preventive measure due to a possible third wave of coronavirus, the state government in July decided to postpone the Khelo India Games to February 2022 that was scheduled for November this year.The deputy director said opening and closing ceremonies will be organised district-wise and Covid- appropriate behaviour will be followed.Cash prize of ₹5,000, ₹3,000 and ₹2,000 will be given to players winning gold, silver and bronze medal, respectively.Outstanding performance by the hockey teams in Tokyo and Neeraj Chopra winning gold has given a fresh push to the sportspersons in state.Kavita, 17, a young hockey player from Karnal, is going to Faridabad for the games. Her mother is a domestic servant and she lost her father in 2014.“We were not able to do much practice due to Covid-19 and the lockdown but I’m excited to play again after almost two years. I’ve played the sport at district and state level events in the past as well,” she said.Meanwhile, Ambala deputy commissioner Vikram chaired a meeting regarding preparations for the games in his office on Tuesday. District sports officer K Satyan said all four games will be organised in the Cantonment sub-division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/threeday-khelo-haryana-games-to-begin-on-friday-101629917654368.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Learn from past experience with FYUP, say stakeholders||The last time the Delhi University introduced the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP) in 2013, widespread protests swept across the varsity, undergraduate admissions were delayed, and rival groups clashed on the campus in June 2014, leading to injuries to students and teachers. Almost after an year of uncertainty over admissions under the new regime and unprecedented opposition by both students and faculty, the FYUP was scrapped in 2014.As the central university is all set to introduce the system from the next academic session, the students of the 2013-14 batch said on Wednesday that it is crucial to draw on past experience ahead of the implementation of the new system.Former DU V-C Dinesh Singh, who was at the helm when FYUP was last introduced, and a strong votary of the system, appreciated the move on Wednesday. “A lot of hard work went into the implementation of the FYUP during my time. Such ideas are not born in a minute. They are based on many years of experience. I congratulate the academic council of the university for passing the proposal,” said Singh. He gave credit to Dr K Kasturirangan, who is the head of the drafting committee on National Education Policy (NEP), for incorporating the FYUP into the NEP.Singh said the FYUP paved the way for learning that was not confined to “notes”. “The number of startups, research papers, and patents that were brought out by the undergraduate students in that one year was amazing. Our global rankings also improved post the FYUP. We ran a lot of innovation programmes that gave students an actual experience of learning and putting it into practice,” he said.When asked about the dissent by at least 16 academic council members to the passing of FYUP on Tuesday, Singh said a difference in opinion did not necessarily mean that the programme or teachers opposing the programme were wrong. “It will always be difficult for everyone to arrive at a consensus,” he said.A section of teachers in DU, however, were guarded in their reaction to the new system. They said it is crucial to ensure that mistakes from the past are not repeated.Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) treasurer Abha Dev Habib said though the model has been passed, teachers will continue to strive to ensure that a movement is built against the “dilution of the course”. “Students rejected the idea of FYUP because of the dilution of the first two years of FYUP. We see that the new model once again packs the first two semesters with lukewarm courses. However, we will continue to strive and ensure that past mistakes are not repeated. We will do whatever we can to tweak it or oppose it within the system and beyond,” said Habib.Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhatta College, said unlike the last time, FYUP has been properly debated this time before being brought in. “This is a plan for the whole country. There is a huge difference between FYUP of 2013 and the one that has been floated now. At this moment, we can’t say if it will fail or pass based on past experience. Last time, we had to plan and decide many things. This time, planning has been done by experts at a much larger scale,” said Sinha.He said as far as its implementation is concerned, issues can be discussed further. “We don’t have too many choices and while there are apprehensions regarding the implementation, these issues can be discussed and debated,” said Sinha.Sunil Kumar, a member of the teachers’ group, the National Democratic Teachers’ Front (NDTF), said it was crucial to remember that the erstwhile FYUP and the current programme are different from each other. Supporting the new regime, he said, “DU academic council also understands that a false equivalence between the previous FYUP and the present 3/4 years UG /Hons programmes need not to be established. The two are fundamentally different.” The group said that the three years honours degree has been retained, and the FYUP will allow students to directly join PhD programmes.Mahamedha Nagar, who was enrolled in English (Hons) at Miranda House in the first batch of FYUP students, recalled that her first year of graduation was a messy affair. “Our classes will extend till 5-6 pm since we had a number of foundation courses. These foundation courses were often unrelated and disconnected from the core programmes that we had due to which many students didn’t see any merit in these courses. As an English (Hons) student, I was not interested in taking up Mathematics or science courses, but as part of the FYUP batch, I had to study for my main subjects in addition to foundation classes in Maths and computers in the evening hours,” said Nagar.She said the requirement of completion of foundation courses created hurdles for students who were not familiar with the English language. “Students pursuing Hindi (Hons) and Sanskirt (Hons) were made to study courses in English. It was difficult for them to adjust to the wide-array of courses that were often taught in English,” said Nagar.Like the 2013 foundation courses,the mandatory courses introduced in the first year this time include papers on environmental science, ethics and culture, social and emotional learning. Teachers said it was only repackaged and will not benefit students like 2013.“Two credit courses of the erstwhile FYUP mind-body-heart type have been reintroduced as Social and Emotional Learning and Entrepreneurship and Co-curricular Activities. DU had such a disastrous experience with such types of courses and clearly it has not learnt from past experiences,” said a note by 16 teachers who dissented in the academic council meeting that passed FYUP on Tuesday.Parul Oberoi, who pursued journalism from Delhi University, said FYUP was an “unnecessary intervention” that created hurdles for a number of students. Oberoi said while the idea of FYUP was to impart education at par with the global education structure, the implementation of the programme did not serve the purpose. “We were being taught courses that were of no relevance to us. They were not adding any value to our core concentration,” said Oberoi.Chhavi Mangleek, another student from the 2013 FYUP batch, recalled that the insistence on foundation courses was unnecessary. “No one wants to devote time to courses that will not benefit them. It was long, hectic, and unnecessary. We had classes till late evening and courses on business, entrepreneurship, mathematical activity among others, despite my course courses being journalism,” said Mangleek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/learn-from-past-experience-with-fyup-say-stakeholders-101629917423779.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CTU buses go secure, smart on tricity routes||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking’s ambitious intelligent transport system for its buses running on the tricity routes became operational for the 358-strong fleet on Wednesday.In comes a year after a trial run was conducted with 100 buses on 14 routes in August last year.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday launched the state-of-the-art command and control centre (CCC) and smart cards under the intelligent transport system (ITS) project. The CCC, which is housed at the Inter State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Sector 43, will monitor the city bus operations in real time.The ITS project also comprises automatic vehicle location system and passenger information system, automatic fare collection system and depot management system. A part of the ministry of housing and urban affairs’ project for efficient and sustainable city bus service, it is partially funded by the World Bank.How it will help commutersCommuters will be able to live track buses. The expected time of arrival/departure will be displayed on screens installed at the ISBTs in Sectors 17 and 43, railway station and 37 bus queue shelters besides being made available on a mobile app (trycityBus). Users will also be able to use a journey planner feature on the app. A grievance redressal management system is also inbuilt in the app. A slew of security features have been introduced in the buses. There will be four cameras inside each bus to monitor the behaviour of the crew and passengers. At a time, the central command and control centre can live monitor 24 buses through these cameras. For additional security of passengers, particularly women, a panic button is available. Even drivers can have a direct line of communication with the control room.Smart cards will be available for e-ticketing as well as concessional travel. Commuters can recharge their smart cards from customer service points at the two ISBTs and e-sampark centres or through the app or web portal (ctuportal.amnex.com). Initially, 10,000 smart cards will be issued for free, and only printing charges will be taken. Thereafter, ₹100 will be levied for a smart card. The minimum recharge will be of ₹100 with a cap at ₹5,000.How it will benefit CTUFor CTU, the system will help in tracking the number of buses scheduled out of the total buses at the depot, number of buses enroute and Idle, number of routes/trips in operation, bus and crew allocation, whether buses are sticking to the schedule and realtime cash collection. It will also help in reducing cash handling and revenue leakage with the use of smart cards.“In case a bus is late or not sticking to a designated route, or if it jumps a light or speeds, the ITS will alert the officials concerned so that immediate corrective measures can be taken. In the long run, it will allow the department to rationalise bus routes in line with passenger traffic,” said a CTU official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-ctu-buses-go-secure-smart-on-tricity-routes-101629917116926.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||2013 rerun: Unsure of FYUP in Delhi University, say teachers||Even as Delhi University’s Academic Council, on Tuesday, passed the agenda to start a four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP) from the next academic session amid dissent, stakeholders, including college principals and teachers have expressed concern over how the model will be implemented after a tumultuous year caused by a global pandemic.The AC passed the broad course structure along with a multiple entry-exit scheme (MEES) and academic bank of credits (ABC) on Tuesday amid dissent from 16 members, but the matter is now scheduled to be placed in the Executive Council on August 31. AC member Alok Pandey said that since EC only has two elected teacher representatives out of around 40 members, it is likely to be passed there too.“While FYUP emphasises on research, there is no model to teach students research methodology or how to do dissertation work. This may also lead to students opting for dishonest means to submit their theses. The Covid-19 pandemic has already been a challenge for the stakeholders; this will just add to the crisis. The National Education Policy (NEP) encourages blended learning, but if our students do not have devices or internet as was evident in the past year, how will they conduct research? On their phones?” Pandey said.Acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi said DU has only adopted a broad course structure for now and the university will finalise the modalities in the coming days.“Departments and faculties will be allowed to introduce alterations in the broad structure as we have only accepted this in principle for now. We have a year to see how the framework can be operationalised in the context of DU. We will change our system gradually to adapt to it and for now, we are moving in the direction of NEP,” he said.Currently, the recommendations adopted by AC provide little clarity on the system of examination and student intake across regular and non-collegiate courses. Teachers also said that the progression of papers will have to be changed as the entry-exit process has to be self-contained every year.AC member Naveen Gaur explained, “If students opt for MEES, they would want a self-contained unit every year so that they could learn everything and go for the interdisciplinary approach stated in NEP. But as per the current structure, if a student exits after the first year where there is no general elective paper, the student will not study another subject allowing multidisciplinary approach in the first year.”In the agenda document passed on Tuesday, the university had stated that it would decide upon the modalities for the ABC – MEES later based on further dialogue within statutory bodies. The two schemes allow students to gain credits as per their learning, store them in a digital vault, and use them to switch courses and resume their study at any point if they have to exit the course after the first, second, or third year. Officials said they were yet to decide on the list of universities it would allow for the ABC system or the entrance test that would be mandatory for students of other universities to switch to DU through MEES.While the teaching community raised concern over the reduction of workload that would arise due to the implementation of these provisions, university officials said they had deferred the agenda items as there had been no consensus. For instance, 57% of credits under FYUP with research can be earned from other universities or institutes including Swayam, an online repository of courses.“Since there were concerns over Swayam and MOOC, that agenda item was deferred and it hasn’t been adopted. Since UGC has allowed up to 40% online learning, we will hold more discussions with stakeholders to see what should be implemented in the university so that both teachers and students benefit from it,” Joshi said.EC member Seema Das said that colleges do not have the infrastructure to implement an additional academic year. “Higher educational institutes have been facing a fund crunch for a long time. Implementing the provisions laid down in NEP would require infrastructure expansion. It cannot be done without resources,” she said.In the dissent note submitted on Tuesday, 16 AC members collectively noted, “Most colleges do not have any space or scope for further expansion. Neither is there any promise of additional grants for creating infrastructure nor has any study been done of the current state in the institution.”Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhatta College and general secretary of DU principals’ association, said, “We will need increased human resources and infrastructure in a gradually phased manner in the next three-four years. Since NEP calls for developing research facilities, we require labs and lab attendants but the non-teaching positions are not being sanctioned by the authorities for the last few years. While older colleges have sanctioned posts and lab attendants, newer colleges like ours has zero attendants. In order to encourage research, more grants will have to be facilitated as well.”However, SP Aggarwal, principal of Ramanujan College who was part of the 42-member committee formed by Delhi University to formulate recommendations on NEP, said major changes will come into effect in the fourth year when one semester would increase per semester cycle. This means colleges have time to make the necessary upgrades.“Since FYUP was in place before as well, we have some experience in how the teaching schedules work. Colleges will have three years to develop the infrastructure and will require funding to boost infrastructure because if there is an additional academic year, we will need classrooms, labs, staff and information technology facilities. Some colleges require major investment in IT facilities as the university is also adopting ABC credits and many students may opt for online learning,” Aggarwal said.Addressing teacher concerns on the reduction of workload, Aggarwal said that the proposed NEP structure still has more credits than other four-year programmes in foreign universities. “Learners will be affected if they are burdened with more credits. Instead of focusing on increasing credits to counter the loss of workload, we should focus on bringing the teacher-student ratio to international standards,” he said.Several AC members and teachers also said that introducing another academic year meant an increase in additional costs. Registrar Vikas Gupta said, “The four-year option is not mandatory. Students can exit after three years with an honours degree. This means that students would not be burdened with additional living costs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2013-rerun-unsure-of-fyup-in-delhi-university-say-teachers-101629917115999.html
26-08-2021||Other||How govt would have function without assured Covid treatment to staff?: Delhi HC||New Delhi: Hearing a plea challenging the Delhi government’s decision to link four hotels with two hospital exclusively for the Delhi government officials and their families, the Delhi high court on Wednesday questioned as to how the government machinery would have functioned, if the employees were not assured treatment during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.“The wheels of administration in the NCT of Delhi would have come to a grinding halt without this much assurance to the officials that they will receive treatment otherwise they would not have been able to discharge their duties without fear. They would not have been able to give attention and focus with which they were expected to discharge their duties,” the bench said.“We are not living in ivory towers. We were seeing what was happening in the city during the second wave on a daily basis. Thousands of people were looking at the state for some relief…In our view such officers clearly constitute a different class on account of their duties which they were required to perform during the peak of the pandemic. They were required to come to duties by stepping out of the comfort of homes and they had no option to remain inside,” the court added.The bench said during the lockdown, while the common citizenry were in their homes, it was the government officers who were out on the streets to manage the situation and if such officers/ officials were to fall sick and were not to receive treatment of COVID-19, not only they but the entire citizenry of Delhi would have suffered.The court said the submission of the counsel that the resources of the state remained unutilised due to the exclusive reservation given to the officials has no factual basis.The remarks come on the plea of Kaushal Kant Mishra, a doctor, who had challenged an April 27 notification of the city government reserving 240 rooms in four hotels linked with two hospitals for COVID-19 treatment of officials of various public authorities and their families.According to the 70 rooms in Hotel Ginger at Vivek Vihar here, 50 rooms in Hotel Park Plaza in Shahdara, and 50 rooms in Hotel Leela Ambience at CBD Ground in Karkardooma, linked to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and all the rooms in Hotel Golden Tulip at Hari Nagar, which is linked to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital (DDU), are reserved for the treatment of officers/officials of Delhi government, autonomous bodies, corporations, local bodies and their families.Mishra’s counsel argued that creating such exclusive facilities for officers would violate fundamental rights including right to life and liberty of other citizens of Delhi who were seeking COVID-19 treatment but would be deprived of getting it as limited resources will be diverted for treating the officials.However, the Wednesday the court said that judges do not live in ivory towers and are aware of the condition of the city during the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic.It disagreed with an argument that resources of the state remained unutilised due to the exclusive reservation of facilities for COVID-19 treatment of government officials and their families.The court said that the submission of petitioner’s counsel does not take into account the ground reality of the second wave of the pandemic.“There was such a shortage of facilities including oxygen, medicines, hospital beds, oxygenated beds, ICUs, doctors and paramedical staff that there was no question of any facilities remaining unutilised,” the court said, adding that when there was a massive dearth of medical infrastructure during the second wave of the pandemic, government officials were risking their lives on the streets to manage the situation.It said the state is obliged to provide medical facilities to all the citizens including those grinding wheels of the administration and when the pandemic was at its height, there was a greater need of governance since the fire of the pandemic was raging at its peak.The court listed the matter for further arguments on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/how-govt-would-have-function-without-assured-covid-treatment-to-staff-delhi-hc-101629917114802.html
26-08-2021||Other||100% staff, 50% students in Srinagar colleges vaccinated||Almost 100% staff of city colleges and nearly 50% students enrolled in all government degree colleges of Srinagar have been vaccinated against Covid-19, which may soon pave way for opening of colleges for on-campus classes in the district, officials said.A meeting, chaired by deputy commissioner (DC) Mohammad Aijaz Asad, was held in the district on Tuesday to review the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination process. Principals of various city colleges and officials of the health department were present at the meetingAn official spokesperson said, “The DC was informed that almost 100% college staff and nearly 50% of students enrolled in Government Degree Colleges in the district have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine. A process is on to cover the remaining students.”On Sunday, chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta, after reviewing the Covid situation, had issued an order stating that the government shall consider phased reopening of educational institutions where 100% vaccination of staff and students has been achieved.Following this, the Srinagar DC had asked all principals to ensure that students enrolled in their respective colleges are vaccinated. “This will help protect the college staff as well as students from contracting the virus. Besides, it creates an atmosphere to start offline classes, and ultimately keep colleges open,” Asad said.The DC further called for holding seminars and counselling sessions regarding the importance of Covid-19 vaccination. “Students are being vaccinated as a priority group to facilitate the opening of higher education classes physically,” Asad said.Later, the DC held a separate meeting with senior officers of the district administration, CMO and zonal medical officers (ZMOs) and reviewed the pace of Covid-19 vaccination in the 18-44 age group, Covid containment measures and other aspects undertaken to effectively tackle the spread of the deadly virus.Asad asked all ZMOs to work towards covering the maximum population and also hold special drives during wee hours for the convenience of people who are not available during office hours.The ZMOs were further directed to increase the average rate of per day vaccinations in order to achieve the set targets.The DC asked all officials concerned to apply the learning from the past and prepare themselves to tackle the future challenge of a possible third wave. He also directed all officials concerned to keep a close check on social gatherings, including marriage functions, and take strict action against violators holding marriage parties without prior permission from the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100-staff-50-students-in-srinagar-colleges-vaccinated-101629917114360.html
26-08-2021||Other||No substance against allegations of wrong info in poll affidavit by MP Hans Raj Hans: Court||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Wednesday found no substance into the allegations made against BJP MP Hans Raj Hans of furnishing false information in his election affidavit during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, saying that “no prima facie case is made against him”.Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dharmender Singh granted the relief to the Member of Parliament from north-west Delhi and discharged him in a private complaint filed by Congress leader Rajesh Lilothia, who had contested against him during the general elections.“No prima facie case is made out against accused (Hans) and accordingly, proceedings against him are stopped and he is discharged,” the court said in its order.In his complaint, Lilothia had alleged that Hans gave ambiguous information in his affidavit filed along with his nomination form in the 2019 general elections. He claimed that at the time of filing of nomination form Hans furnished false information in affidavit and he did not disclose the material facts in it.He alleged that the accused did not give the correct information regarding his educational qualifications, financial status of his wife, income of his dependents and regarding holding of office in National Safai Karamchari Commission.The complaint had alleged that the BJP functionary had stated his educational qualification as “MATRIC”, however, he further pursued the studies and passed “PREP” (equivalent to Class XI) from DAV College, Jalandhar.The court noted that according to a report submitted, he did not pass “PREP” from the college and so it was clear that he had given the correct information regarding his educational qualifications in his form. It said no document had been filed on record to show that Hans’s wife was in employment or doing any business.The judge also said that accused had not mentioned his sons as dependents during filing his nomination form and there was no requirement to mention the assets or income of such a child who was not dependent upon a candidate.“Except allegations, no material has been brought on record on behalf of prosecution to prove that both sons of the accused are dependent upon him,” it said.It noted that according to the report filed by the investigating officer, Hans had resigned from the post of vice-chairman of National Safai Karamchari Commission in April 2019 and as per prosecution, he had filed the nomination after his resignation.The court said the candidate was not required to mention the office from which he had resigned, and the remuneration which had been received by him in the past.The offence was punishable with an imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-substance-against-allegations-of-wrong-info-in-poll-affidavit-by-mp-hans-raj-hans-court-101629916993731.html
26-08-2021||Other||Delhi police commissioner inaugurates programme for those trained under YUVA||New Delhi: Delhi police commissioner Rakesh Asthana on Wednesday inaugurated a three-day programme for men and women who were trained under the YUVA scheme of the city police. Police run the YUVA programme to train young men and women find jobs so that they can be weaned away from life of crime. Police identify young men and women who have been forced to commit crimes because of their circumstances such as poverty or problems in the family. Police said that under the programme they have trained 12,722 people, of which 4,669 men and 2,962 women have got jobs.Delhi police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal said the police chief inaugurated three-day workshop called – How to start a business. “The workshop is being organized by Delhi Police in association with Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) from 25th to 27th August 2021 to provide trainees a comprehensive knowledge of setting up a business and run it successfully, generating a novel and positive approach towards entrepreneurship. The workshop has a module on Interview Skills and CV writing. The training is conducted by professional trainers of M/s Maclead Certification Experts from fields like Banks, MSME Division, Chartered Accountancy, Legal Firms, Digital Marketing professionals and successful entrepreneurs will address the trainees to share their valuable inputs and life experiences for practical understanding and motivation of the participants,” Biswal said.Biswal said that YUVA is police’s flagship community policing initiative to provide job-oriented training and skill development to the underprivileged youths. Police said that this year, police have planned to train 10000 men and women in healthcare for which police have tied up with different companies and trained candidates in Emergency Medical Technician’ and ‘General Duty Attendant. Many were also trained as home care assistants, ambulance drivers. “Around 1400 candidates have so far been enrolled. 10 in-house placement drives have been held and 171 candidiates have been placed in various hospitals and labs,” said Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-commissioner-inaugurates-programme-for-those-trained-under-yuva-101629916934690.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Medical store owner held for drug peddling||A medical store owner in Chandigarh has been arrested for illegal sale of psychotropic drugs. Identified as Harjit Singh, 30, he resides in Mohali’s Parchh village and runs a medical store in Chandigarh’s Sarangpur village. Police seized a huge haul of psychotropic drugs from his store, Shakumbri Medical Agency at Talwar Complex, Sarangpur. The seized drugs included Codectuss, Codeine, Tramadol and Alprozolam, which are habit-forming in nature. He could not produce any documents for the purchase of these drugs, said police. Preliminary interrogation revealed that Harjit had procured the drugs from Dehradun and Gwalior and was selling them for 10 times the price to addicts in the tricity. He was produced in court on Wednesday and sent to three-day police remand. A case has been registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at the Sarangpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-medical-store-owner-held-for-drug-peddling-101629916934308.html
26-08-2021||Noida||Man sets wife, mother-in-law on fire before immolating self; dies||A 42-year-old man allegedly set his estranged wife and mother-in-law on fire before setting himself ablaze in Hajipur village under Sector 39 police jurisdiction on Wednesday morning. The man later succumbed to injuries during treatment, police said, adding that the condition of the two women is critical.The incident occurred around 7am, officials said.“We heard a commotion and when we came out we saw two women and a man on fire. We immediately called the police that took all three to a hospital,” said Raju, a resident of the area. Police identified the women were as Lakshmi (38) and her mother Kiran (65), while the man was Mohan Das, all natives of West Bengal residing in Noida. According to the police, the couple was going through a divorce and often had arguments.“The woman and her mother live in a rented accommodation in Hajipur. Das, who lived separately in the same village, today morning came to his wife’s place and the two had an intense argument. It seems that in a fit of rage he threw kerosene on her and lit her on fire. When the woman’s mother tried to save her, he set her also on fire. Then the man threw oil on himself too and set fire on himself,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police said that all three were taken to the district hospital from where they were referred to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi. “Mohandas suffered 90% burns and died during treatment in the evening. His wife and mother-in-law are also critical,” said the DCP.The couple has three children and police said they were reaching out to their next of kin. Police said they managed to record Das’s statement while he was being taken to the hospital and that necessary legal action will be taken.Lakshmi and Das were living together in Noida’s Morna village earlier, but six months ago, she had moved to Hajipur. The couple had filed for a divorce four months ago, police said, adding that Das had recently rented a room near his wife’s residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-sets-wife-mother-in-law-on-fire-before-immolating-self-dies-101629916816194.html
26-08-2021||Noida||Mercury on rise in Noida, rains in two days||Citizens may have to brace themselves for some discomfort as the maximum temperature is likely to increase in Noida and the adjoining areas in the next two to three days with dry weather conditions likely to prevail in the region. However, weather forecasters said that the discomfort may be temporary as the city may receive some showers from August 28 onwards. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Gautam Budh Nagar remained relatively dry on Wednesday. However, the rainfall recording of 7mm that the district received between Tuesday and Wednesday morning helped retain some moisture and kept the mercury from rising on Wednesday, even as the temperature notched by two degrees in neighbouring Delhi. According to the IMD, the mercury may soar over next two days with the city likely to receive light rainfall from August 28 onwards.“Most parts of Uttar Pradesh have received heavy rainfall over the past 24 hours; parts of GB Nagar must have also received some showers. However, the region including Delhi-NCR, Haryana, Punjab and Rajashtan, are now seeing dry westerly winds and will see slight rise in mercury. A low pressure monsoon trough line that has shifted north of Delhi towards the Himalayan foothills will return around August 28, leading to light to moderate rainfall,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change) of a private weather forecasting centre, Skymet.According to data available with the IMD, GB Nagar’s rainfall quota is 67% deficient of its average since June 1. So far, the district has received 135mm rain against the 404.2mm considered normal during monsoon. On Wednesday, Noida recorded a maximum temperature of 33.1 degrees Celsius while data for the minimum temperature was not available. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered to be representative of the National Capital Region (NCR), the maximum and minimum temperatures recorded were 36.4°C, three degrees above the season’s average and 27.4°C. The humidity oscillated between 89% to 51%. “On Thursday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 36°C and 27°C,” said an official from IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-on-rise-in-noida-rains-in-two-days-101629916814171.html
26-08-2021||Other||Man caught with 7.4kg charas in Kullu’s Banjar||The Special Investigation Unit (SIU) of Kullu police nabbed a man with 7.4kg charas on Tuesday night. The accused has been identified as 45-year-old Narayan Singh, a resident of Chachiot Tehsil in Mandi district.Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gurdev Sharma said a naka had been set up at Dibba Chehri in Banjar valley, where police stopped a man for checking. During the search, police recovered 7.4kg charas from his backpack. The accused has been arrested under relevant sections of the Narcotic Substances and Psychotropic Drugs (NDPS) Act, 1985.8.06kg poppy straw seized in Paonta SahibIn another operation, Paonta Sahib police in Sirmaur recovered 8.06kg poppy straw from a truck during patrolling. Police had got a tip-off that a truck was transporting contraband, after which a naka was set up at Sainwala-Mubarikpur.Paonta Sahib deputy superintendent of police Vir Bahadur said police have arrested the truck driver identified as Rashid Mohammad. He has been booked under the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-caught-with-7-4kg-charas-in-kullu-s-banjar-101629916697217.html
26-08-2021||Other||Monsoon enters third break, little rain in store for Delhi till August 28||After a spell of intense rain over the weekend, the monsoon on Wednesday entered a break phase, the third this season, a frequency that weather experts said is unusually high for the city, and the Met office said that temperatures are now likely to rise above normal on the back of the dry spell, likely to last till August 28.“Even after August 28, only scattered or patchy rainfall is likely, because no intense pressure system is seen building up to trigger good rains in Delhi and surrounding regions,” said a senior official of the India Meteorological Department.The official added that in the absence of rainfall, temperatures are likely to remain high.On Wednesday, the Safdarjung observatory, considered representative of Delhi’s weather, recorded a maximum temperature of 36.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees above the season’s normal. The minimum settled at 27.4°C, a notch above the season’s average.Experts said the monsoon in Delhi usually has just two break spells for about 4-5 days each.“This is an uncommonly high number of dry spells,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president of Skymet, a private forecaster.IMD scientists define weak monsoon conditions as those when the end of the monsoon trough shifts to the Himalayan foothills, even as eastern India receives ample rainfall.A complete or a typical break is when the entire Indo-Gangetic plains and central India experience dry spell at the same time.The monsoon first hit a dry spell between June 29 and July 12, even before it made its onset in the Capital. It eventually hit the city on July 13, over two weeks behind schedule, and the latest since 2002.However, just two intense spells covered the month’s rain deficit, with July ending with surplus rainfall.The monsoon then hit another dry spell, resulting in few showers for the first two weeks of August, with the month receiving less than half the rainfall it usually gets in that period. The monsoon revived on August 20, followed by the season’s heaviest spell of rain so far on August 21 (138.8mm), which was also the most rain in a single day of the month since 2007.Madhavan Nair Rajeevan, secretary of the Union ministry of earth sciences, also said such partial breaks occur every season, they have been more “prolonged” this year.“The warming of the Indian Ocean at a higher rate may be one of the factors. Another factor could be the Madden-Julian Oscillation, or MJO location is unfavourable and is inhibiting convective activity,” said Rajeevan.MJO location is the largest element in the intra-seasonal variability in the tropical atmosphere and strongly regulates features like low pressure systems over the north Indian Ocean. MJO is an eastward moving disturbance of clouds, rainfall, winds that affects weather activities (such as storm, rainfall) across the globe.Experts said the monsoon in northwest India has seen the weakening phase more frequently.“The break spell is not noticeable sometimes, as it lasts for just two or three days. One of the major reasons for the weak conditions is that both the frequency and intensity of the weather systems (low-pressure systems) formed in the Bay of Bengal this monsoon is low,” said Palawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-enters-third-break-little-rain-in-store-for-delhi-till-august-28-101629916696324.html
26-08-2021||Noida||‘City of Apparel’ signage put up near Jewar toll plaza||With a 150-acre Apparel Park expected to come up on Sector 29 along the Yamuna Expressway, the Noida Apparel and Export Cluster (NAEC) has put up a ‘City of Apparel’ signage near the Jewar toll plaza.The signage was inaugurated by the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) CEO Arun Vir Singh and Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh on Wednesday. NAEC president Lalit Thukral said that the district had been declared the ‘City of Apparel’ under the UP government’s ‘One District, One Product’ scheme to promote local products.“Prominent garment and apparel houses have been allotted plots at the Apparel Park that will further strengthen the district’s presence in the industry and generate 500,000 jobs and NAEC will ensure that a majority of it goes to people from nearby villages and towns, and 70% of the workforce will be women,” said Thukral who is also the Convenor of Ready Made Garments, UP Export Promotion Council.“The Apparel Park was conceived in 2018. There will be a total of 116 plots spread over the 221.5 hectares, of which 91 have been earmarked for NAEC. Sity-eight plots have already been allotted to the NAEC members, while the remaining will be allotted by end of August,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO, YEIDA.He added that the units which are engaged in manufacturing & making textiles, garments, apparels, as defined by Union ministry of textile are eligible for the plots.“Each application for the plot is interviewed and verified before getting allotted. Once the plots are allotted and possession is given, industries will start construction and the hub will be ready by 2023,” added Singh. The Apparel Park is expected to draw an investment of around ₹2,500 crore and earn ₹5,000 crore additional foreign exchange annually, say exporters.An Apparel Training and Design Center has been established in sector 24, Noida to provide skills to craftsmen engaged in garment factories. A similar Center will be set up at the Apparel Park by NAEC to train workforce and employ them in the garment industry, added Thukral.“Already around 3,000 apparel production units are in operation in GB Nagar and in these units approximately 10 lakh people are employed directly or indirectly. The district manufactures readymade garments worth Rs. 30,000 crores annually and of that, garments worth Rs.25,000 crores are exported and rest go to the domestic market,” informed Thukral.MLA Dhirendra Singh added, “As soon as people enter Jewar from the toll plaza, they will be welcomed with the signage that has been inaugurated today. The apparel hub will generate employment for the villagers of which 70% will be women”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/city-of-apparel-signage-put-up-near-jewar-toll-plaza-101629916695190.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Panchkula logs no new case, Mohali sees uptick with 7||With seven people testing positive in Mohali and two in Chandigarh, the tricity recorded nine new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, an uptick from five on Tuesday. While Panchkula reported no new case after three days, the tricity’s tally remained in single digit for fourth consecutive day. In Mohali, seven cases were last reported on August 20, and the daily tally had remained around three to four since.Meanwhile, no virus-related death was reported in the tricity, which has seen just one fatality each across the three areas this month. In Mohali district, four cases surfaced in Mohali city and one each in Boothgarh, Gharuan and Kharar. In Chandigarh, a case each was reported from Sector 56 and Ram Darbar. The tricity’s active caseload has further dropped to 89, with 41 patients in Mohali, 36 in Chandigarh and 12 in Panchkula. So far, 65,071 people in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus of whom 64,223 have successfully recovered while 812 have succumbed to the disease. Of the 68,579 positive patients in Mohali, 67,480 have been cured while 1,058 have died. Panchkula’s total case tally stands at 30,673, of which 30,284 have been cured and discharged and 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-panchkula-logs-no-new-case-mohali-sees-uptick-with-7-101629916694778.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMCH ramps up infra to tackle Covid surge||Taking no chances amid a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has started ramping up its health infrastructure.From just 55 ventilators available during the first and second wave, the number has gone up to 149. The daily capacity for conducting RT-PCR tests has also been bumped up from 450 to 1,200. “The hospital recently received ventilators from the central government and some have been donated by non-governmental organisations,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, GMCH. While 14 of the 149 ventilators have been kept at the paediatric intensive care unit (for children below 10), a dozen of them are reserved for the neonatal care facility, she said.“The other problem we faced during the infection surge was limited RT-PCR testing capacity in Chandigarh. It has been ramped up to 1,250 tests a day. If the situation arises, we will extend the capacity to 1,500 tests per day,” said Dr Kaur.The Chandigarh health department is also setting up a pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plant at GMCH with a capacity to generate 1,000 liters of medical oxygen per minute. Though health experts believe the third wave will not be as aggressive as the second wave amid the ongoing vaccination drive, other government hospitals in Chandigarh are also ramping up their facilities to tackle another surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gmch-ramps-up-infra-to-tackle-covid-surge-101629916574196.html
26-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Girl falls to death while trying to save puppy||: A 12-year-old girl died after she allegedly lost balance while trying to save her pet dog and fell from a ninth floor flat of a high-rise in Govindpuram on Wednesday afternoon. The girl, identified as Jyotsna Sharma, was a Class 7 student studying at a private school. Her father is a manager with an electronic appliances company in Noida, said police. Sub-inspector Narpal Singh, police post in-charge of Govindpuram, said, “The girl’s puppy got stuck in the net installed in the balcony and she was probably trying to prevent the dog from falling down. It seems she was so focussed on saving the dog that she lost balance and slipped. The puppy too slipped from the balcony and died.”  Soon after the incident, locals gathered at the spot rushed the girl to a private hospital in Kavi Nagar, where she was declared brought dead. Police said the girl’s mother was at home and rushed to check on her daughter when she heard some noise. The girl’s father was at work and rushed home on knowing about the incident. Singh said he approached the family on Wednesday afternoon. “The girl’s parents did not opt for a post-mortem, nor did they file any complaint. The girl was the only child of her parents and was very fond of the pet,” said the sub-inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-girl-falls-to-death-while-trying-to-save-puppy-101629916516106.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||Govt to withdraw cases against farmers booked for stubble burning: UP CM||lkoreportersdesk@htlive.com LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday made a slew of populist announcements for farmers ahead of the assembly elections in the state early next year. Interacting with some progressive farmers at his residence here, he announced that the government would withdraw cases against farmers and revoke fines imposed on them for burning crop residue in the fields. He also said that having cleared ₹1.42 lakh crore cane arrears pending since 2010, his government would now enhance the state support price of cane after consulting all the stakeholders in this regard. The crushing of cane in sugar mills would start from October 20 in the western region, from October 25 in the central region and in the first week of November in the eastern region, added the CM. The CM further said that famers’ power connections would not be snapped for dues and the government would also bring a one-time settlement scheme (OTS) to waive interest on the power dues. He said the government was committed to the welfare of farmers and bringing about qualitative change in their lives by enhancing their income with the help of various schemes launched by the central and state governments. The government purchased a record 56 lakh MT of wheat from farmers on the minimum support price despite the pandemic whereas wheat purchase was as low as six lakh MT in 2016-17, said Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/govt-to-withdraw-cases-against-farmers-booked-for-stubble-burning-up-cm-101629916515656.html
26-08-2021||Other||Admissions to 20 Delhi Schools of Specialised Excellence, part of IB tie-up, to begin on August 27||New Delhi: Entrance tests for admission to 20 Schools of Specialised Excellence (SoSE), which will be among the 30 government schools affiliated to the International Baccalaureate (IB) board, will be held from August 27 to 31, the state government said on Wednesday. The three-hour aptitude test for admission to SoSEs will take place across 64 schools, and 26,687 aspirants have registered for the exam. SoSEs offer specialised education to students of classes 9 to 12 in four domains — science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), humanities, performing and visual arts, and ‘high- end 21st-century skills’. The department has reserved 1,920 seats for STEM, 600 seats for humanities and skills each, and 240 for performing and visual arts in the 20 SoSEs.The entrance tests for humanities, high-end 21st century skills, and STEM subjects for students of classes 9 and 11 with the physics-chemistry-biology subject combinations will be conducted on August 27,28 and 29 respectively. The entrance for performance and visual arts and STEM subjects for Class 11 students with the physics-chemistry-mathematics combination will be held on August 31. Candidates can download the admit card for the exam from the department of education’s website, and through a private link sent to the student’s registered mobile number via SMS. The department added that students who applied for multiple specialisations and did not state a final preference have been allotted the campus chosen in their first registration. “Students who applied to courses in classes 9 and 11, at both points of entry, and did not clarify their point of entry by August 14 and have been issued admit cards (s) for examinations (s) to the more appropriate grade as per their age submitted in the registration form,” said Krapa Shankar Upadhyay, regional director of education. Since existing resource-rich government schools such as the School of Excellence and the Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya are being converted into 20 SoSEs in the first phase of the partnership between IB and Delhi Board of School Education, class 9 and 11 students registered under the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in RPVV and SOE will be studying in the SoSE under the CBSE board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/admissions-to-20-delhi-schools-of-specialised-excellence-part-of-ib-tie-up-to-begin-on-august-27-101629916513667.html
26-08-2021||Noida||Man arrested for killing friend over monetary dispute||Greater Noida: A 24-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly killing his friend over a ₹2 lakh loan in Surajpur on Saturday night. Police identified the suspect and victim by single names as Deepu, a native of Hapur who lived in Surajpur, and 32-year-old Pawan who ran a medical store in the neighbourhood, respectively. Deputy commissioner of police (Noida central) Harish Chander said Pawan’s body was found with bullet wounds in a flat on Saturday night. Pawan’s brother Vinod filed a complaint with the Surajpur police informing them that Pawan was partying with three persons -- Monu Bhati, Deepu, and Kuldeep -- in the flat on the night. “When Vinod could not reach his brother over phone, he visited the flat and found him dead,” said Chander.Based on the complaint, a case was registered against the three and another person under sections 302 (murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Sunday. Chander said on Wednesday the police received a tip about Deepu’s movement near Tilapta roundabout in Greater Noida. “A police team arrested him from there,” he said. Surajpur police station house officer Ajay Kumar said they questioned Deepu who told them about what happened that night. “Monu’s brother Rishi borrowed nearly ₹2 lakh from Pawan some time back but had not repaid it. Monu and Pawan quarrelled over it,” he said. Deepu and Kuldeep allegedly too got involved in the fight. “Monu took out a countrymade gun and shot him dead. The three suspects then fled the spot.” Monu and Kuldeep are absconding, he added. A countrymade gun allegedly used in the murder was recovered from the crime spot. Kumar said they are investigating the Rishi’s role in the case. Deepu was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-killing-friend-over-monetary-dispute-101629916514179.html
26-08-2021||Other||Young officers must come up with innovative ideas: Jai Ram||Young officers must come up with innovative ideas and think out-of-the-box to frame schemes and result-oriented policies for socio-economic upliftment and welfare of every section of the society, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Wednesday. He said this while addressing the Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) trainees at Himachal Pradesh Institute of Public Administration (HIPA). Earlier, he inaugurated the new building of HIPA named ‘Kalptaru’ and also launched e-Office and Wall-E of the institute. He said that government administrative services officers must work with dedication and commitment so that they can meet the expectations of the common man and contribute towards the development of the state. The CM further said masses have built a perception regarding politicians as well as government servants. “Thus, it is vital that the officers work with greater zeal to meet the expectations of the general public,” he said. He said the officers must ensure that the benefits of policies and programmes initiated by the state government reach the person living at the lowest ebb. Thakur said the training module for officers entering the services must focus on their efficiency and sensitivity through the basic knowledge, skills and positive changes required in behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/young-officers-must-come-up-with-innovative-ideas-jai-ram-101629916455350.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Stand-alone AIIMS trauma centre to reopen for trauma cases this weekend||The stand-alone trauma centre of the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) will reopen this weekend for trauma patients, 15 months after it was converted to a dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment facility. The 364-bed centre will take in both Covid-19 and trauma patients, with separate wards, operation theatres, and lifts for both. This comes after the resident doctors’ association of the hospital wrote to the administration stating that there was hardly any Covid-19 patient at the centre with a dip in cases in the city, while a significant number of trauma patients were unable to get beds. Only 25 to 35 Covid-19 patients were admitted at any given time at the centre over the past one month, according to resident doctors. The emergency trauma cases, however, will continue to be treated in the old out-patient department block that was converted to the trauma emergency in the main hospital during the pandemic. Only “relatively stable” patients will be admitted to the wards in the stand-alone centre. “Both Covid and non-Covid services will be run from trauma centre. The trauma emergency for the time being will be run from the main hospital and all emergency operations will be done in the main hospital. There will be no direct admissions at JNNATC (Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Centre),” said a communication from AIIMS trauma chief Dr Rajesh Malhotra. The decision was taken after a meeting with the AIIMS director on Tuesday. Three floors of the eight storey building, including the ground floor, and three of seven operation theatres will be utilised for treatment of trauma patients, the communication further said. The resident doctors, however, said these facilities may not be enough as there was a dip of less than 30% in trauma cases even during the pandemic and the lockdowns and restrictions since last year. “Initially, it was thought that the number of trauma cases will go down when people do not step out due to Covid-19, but over the last two waves, we have seen that it is just the pattern that changes. We start seeing more cases of children falling off roofs or traumas sustained at home due to rising frustrations,” said a representative of the resident doctors association, not wishing to be named. “The key for managing any trauma case is the emergency, operation theatre, and the ICU, all three of which continue to be in the main AIIMS. Only stable patients will be in the trauma centre; what this means is that if there is another surge they will be moved out. “The number of trauma cases did not really go down – there was only a 30% reduction through the year even though there was a sharp dip during the complete lockdown – but the number of beds and other facilities have been reduced significantly,” the doctor said. There were 264 beds, including 38 ICU beds, available to trauma patients at the stand-alone centre, whereas only 95 beds, including 18 ICU beds, were available at the main AIIMS for trauma cases. “We have had to transfer out patients, treat patients on stretchers. Yet the building continues to be utilised for Covid-19 service instead of the new burns treatment building, ophthalmic centre, and dental centre that do not see too many cases when Covid-19 increases,” the doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/standalone-aiims-trauma-centre-to-reopen-for-trauma-cases-this-weekend-101629916455870.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court awards ₹20 lakh to man rendered 100% disabled after falling from power pole||The Delhi high court on Wednesday granted ₹20 lakh as compensation to a 28-year-old man, who was rendered fully disabled after falling off an electricity pole while fixing a fault in Bijwasan area in 2014. The court said even though “he is living, he is barely alive” and directed BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) and the contractor, Bryn Construction Company, to pay the compensation within three weeks of Wednesday’s judgment.On April 25, 2014, Bharat, then 21 years, while working as an electrician with Bryn, was tasked with rectifying a fault in an electricity pole that was causing fluctuations in the supply to a farmhouse in Bijwasan. He fell while performing the task as the pole he was on snapped.Bharat’s father Kehar Singh approached the high court seeking proper equipment and medicines for his son, along with financial assistance, so that his family do not have to starve to provide Bharat with the emergency medicines he needs.Justice Anup J Bhambani directed BRPL and contractor Bryn to pay the compensation and said the accident would not have taken place but for their negligence in taking reasonable precautions. “Whether or not Bharat was provided any safety gear is in any case irrelevant, since that would not absolve Bryn and/or BRPL of their obligation to compensate Bharat,” it further said.“It is also noticed that though there are vague, passing averments that compensation has already been paid to Bharat and medical aid was also provided to him, the counter affidavits filed do not give any particulars of proof of payment, except an undated declaration/statement allegedly signed by Bharat accepting payment of a small sum of compensation in full-and-final settlement from Bryn and absolving them of any further liability,” Bhambani said in a 78-page judgment.Both BRPL and Bryn denied any responsibility for the accident and disclaimed any liability, contending that it is the responsibility of the other respondent to do so.The judge also said that the declaration of accepting small sum as compensation, even though signed by Bharat, did not deserve credence or value “since it smacks of being a document procured by Bryn precisely for the purpose of absolving itself of any further claim or liability”.The single judge also directed that a shop be opened in Bharat’s native village Daulat Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, from the compensation money which is to be given within four weeks from Wednesday. He said that the store be run by Bharat’s father or by any other responsible member of his immediate family with the stipulation that Bharat is engaged in running of the store to the extent his health and physical state permits.It clarified that all earnings from the store will be used and applied for Bharat’s medical and living expenses and for his welfare and well-being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-awards-20-lakh-to-man-rendered-100-disabled-after-falling-from-power-pole-101629916453614.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s film policy to get cabinet nod soon, says Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his government is in the advanced stages of drafting a film policy that is meant to give a fillip to the entertainment industry, which is reeling under the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.The policy, he said, will soon be approved by the Delhi cabinet.“The film policy is in the advanced stages and soon, it will get cabinet clearance. We have studied the film policy of several states and ours will be the most progressive (policy). It will give a boost to the entertainment sector,” said Kejriwal on the sidelines of an event on Wednesday. He further said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has adversely affected the livelihood of a large number of people associated with the entertainment industry.”Earlier this month, Kejriwal chaired a review meeting to study the progress in drafting the policy.A senior government official, on condition of anonymity, said the government is planning to set up a single-window clearance mechanism for issuing shooting permits, apart from developing locations and inventory of equipment and offering a host of incentives to filmmakers.In Delhi, the civic agencies have policies which have tariffs for the shooting of films in public spaces under its jurisdiction but there is no single specific policy with a larger vision and objectives. Neighbouring states such as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana drafted film policies of their own in 2015 and 2018, respectively. Earlier this month, the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir also notified its film policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-film-policy-to-get-cabinet-nod-soon-says-kejriwal-101629916454199.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Sisodia: Centre has said no to panel probing deaths related to oxygen shortage||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya has written to the Delhi government that it does not need to form a separate committee for probing oxygen related deaths during the Covid-19 pandemic, citing a separate committee which is already working on it.“The central government’s fraud on deaths due to lack of oxygen has come out in the open. Union health minister is presenting false arguments to avoid investigation. He has written to us saying Delhi government does not need to set up a committee to probe deaths caused by shortage of oxygen because a high-level committee, constituted under the Supreme Court’s direction, is already working on the matter across states,” said Sisodia in a video press briefing.Sisodia said, “By saying that there is no need for a committee to investigate deaths due to oxygen shortage as the task force and sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court is investigating it, the Union health minister is lying shamelessly. Neither the task force set up by the Supreme Court, nor the sub-group formed in the states for oxygen audit is mandated to investigate the deaths due to lack of oxygen, the task force and the sub-group are mandated with configuring allocation of oxygen supply and medicines.”The Union health ministry did not comment on the matter.Sisodia on August 20 said lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal has once again rejected the Delhi government’s request for approval to set up an expert committee to investigate instances of deaths caused by shortage of oxygen in Delhi during the last wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April even as he accused the central government of “mismanagement”.On May 4, the Delhi government told the Delhi High Court that an expert committee could not ascertain whether 21 deaths at Jaipur Golden Hospital had happened because of oxygen shortage. Later, health minister Satyendar Jain said that it was a “preliminary report”.In June, the Delhi government proposed another expert committee to ascertain number of deaths caused by oxygen shortage in the Capital during the last wave of the pandemic but Baijal did not approve it.On July 20, the central government told the Parliament that states recorded no deaths caused by oxygen shortage during the Covid-19 pandemic. With that, the AAP government in Delhi, revived its demand for setting up its own expert committee on the matter.On August 16, Sisodia sent a file to Baijal’s office for the second time seeking approval for setting up the expert panel and sought Union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention in the matter. But, LG rejected the demand again.At its peak, Delhi recorded around 28,300 cases in a day and a positivity rate exceeding 36% on April 20 and 22 respectively. Around that time, at least 31 people are believed to have died because of oxygen shortage in two separate incidents in two separate hospitals – Jaipur Golden and Batra hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-centre-has-said-no-to-panel-probing-deaths-related-to-oxygen-shortage-101629916395348.html
26-08-2021||Noida||GB Nagar regional pollution office issues notices to 51 hospitals||The Gautam Budh Nagar regional office of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has issued notices to 51 hospitals in the district for failing to take its approval to run biomedical waste disposal facilities.An authorisation certificate for such facilities is issued only after a team from the board inspects the facility site.“According to the Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016, handling such waste, irrespective of the quantity, will require an application to the state pollution control board for authorization. During our routine checks, we found that 51 hospitals in the district did not have authorisation but were running such facilities,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB.The notices wee issued on August 5. Kumar said that till August 25, 21 of the hospitals responded to it. “While 11 shut down their facilities, the others informed us that they had the authorisation and it could be that our database was not updated. The other 30 hospitals will be put on notice again, and if they fail to give a convincing response, action will be taken,” said Kumar.Two government hospitals are among those who are yet to respond. “We will ensure all medical facilities are following the norms,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer of GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gbnagar-regional-pollution-office-issues-notices-to-51-hospitals-101629916394735.html
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Nine get 7-year RI for 2014 jewellery heist||Seven years after they looted jewellery worth ₹1.53 crore from a shop in Panchkula, nine men have been awarded seven-year rigourous imprisonment by a local court.An accused who received the stolen jewellery from them was awarded five-year jail while two other men were acquitted of the charges. Another accomplice died during trial.It was on July 13, 2014, when the men had struck at Rajat Jewellers in Swastik Vihar, Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5, and orchestrated the robbery at gunpoint in broad daylight . The shop owner, Ashi Khanna, had told police that a youth wearing a helmet and gloves was the first to enter the shop and point a pistol at his forehead. As Khanna resisted, the youth hit him on his head. Thereafter, more youths with masked faces entered the shop wielding pistols and sharp-edged weapons. They hit the owner and workers, threw chilli powder in their eyes and tied their hands and face with clothes before fleeing with the jewellery, stated the FIR.They even took Khanna’s car keys from the counter. The car was later recovered from Zirakpur. A case was registered the same day.It was with the help of their counterparts in Punjab that the local police managed to get hold of the robbers. In March 2015, seven men arrested for a crime in Punjab confessed to their role in the Panchkula heist. They jewellery was also recovered thereafter. The convictsHolding 10 of the 13 accused guilty, additional sessions judge Hukam Singh pronounced the quantum of sentence on Tuesday.Surender Pal Singh, Ranpreet Singh, Parminder Singh, Manpreet Singh, Joginder Singh, Harvinder, Gurjant, Narender and Butta Gir have been convicted under Sections 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and awarded seven-year rigorous imprisonment. They have also been directed to pay a fine of ₹22,000 each.Harjeet Singh, who accepted the stolen jewellery, will have to serve a five-year jail term and pay ₹5,000 after being convicted under Section 412 (dishonestly receiving property stolen in the commission of a dacoity) of the IPC. While Sanjay Maratha and Balbir, who were also accused of receiving the jewellery, were acquitted as prosecution could not prove the allegations, another accused, Gulshan, died in February this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-nine-get-7-year-ri-for-2014-jewellery-heist-101629916394238.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s 7th sero survey from next week, will also account for vaccination status||The seventh round of sero-surveillance to estimate the population level exposure to the SARS-CoV- virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will begin in the capital next week state government officials familiar with the matter said.“The survey will begin in another week or even sooner; the files for approval have already been sent to the minister’s office. The survey was initially supposed to happen between August 1 and 10 but couldn’t be done,” said a senior official from the health department who asked not to be named.Sero-surveillance surveys are blood tests that check for antibodies to the virus. They are a good measure of the exposure of a population to the virus. They are also a proxy for the level of broad immunity that exists in the population, although the best immunity is that achieved through vaccination.The last round of the survey conducted in Delhi in April, the sixth such, had to be stopped midway due to rising cases but 13,000 of the planned 28,000 samples that had already been collected returned a reading of nearly 56%, which means 56 out of every 100 residents of the Union territory were exposed to the virus. The previous five surveys returned readings of 56.13%, 25.5%, 25.1%, 29.1%, and 22.6% respectively.A senior official from Shahadara district said, “Our teams are ready; the survey is likely to begin at a short notice.” An east district official confirmed, “There were a couple of meeting at the beginning of the month, but the survey did not start. However, our teams are already prepared and we can start collecting samples at a moment’s notice.”There are likely to be several new parameters included in the survey, according to researchers at the Maulana Azad Medical College who are leading the effort. With a significant proportion of the population having been vaccinated, details of vaccination will be included, which was to be done even during the April survey that was truncated because of the sudden increase in cases.Till Tuesday evening, 3.57 million people in Delhi were fully vaccinated and another 5.47 million partly vaccinated. The number of people eligible for vaccinations in Delhi is 15 million, which means at least 60% of them have thus far received at least one dose of the vaccine.Delhi’s high sero-surveillance reading in the last round is understandable; the city was ravaged in April and May by the second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic with cases rising to 28,395 on April 20 at the peak. The Union territory has seen over 1.43 million cases and 25,080 deaths so far according to the HT dashboard.The sample collection will be carried out as per the previous methodology to ensure that the surveys are comparable, according to the researchers at Maulana Azad college.“(ICMR) has advised states to conduct the sero-prevalence studies in their own States/UTs in consultation with ICMR, so that such studies follow a standardized protocol,” the Union government told states in July after releasing the findings of the fourth round of national sero-surveillance, in which Delhi was not represented.A WHO study done by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences found the population level sero-prevalence of 67%, with samples being collected between March and May. The prevalence is likely to be higher as the antibodies are detected 10 to 14 days after the infection and the peak infections happened in April-end and May-beginning in Delhi.Another study of around 1,000 people across CSIR campuses in Delhi found the sero-prevalence to be 87%, with samples being collected between May end and early-July.According to INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics), many of these people were infected with the delta variant of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-seventh-sero-survey-from-next-week-will-also-account-for-vaccination-status-101629916335821.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Protest is not conspiracy, Saifi’s lawyer tells court||Seeking bail in the larger conspiracy case related to the north-east Delhi riots, rights activist Khalid Saifi on Wednesday told a Delhi court that he has every right to protest and does not owe an explanation to anyone in the country for participating in the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment ) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC).Saifi, along with several others, has been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for allegedly conspiring to orchestrate the February 2020 riots, which left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.Senior advocate Rebecca John, appearing for Saifi, a member of “United Against Hate”, told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that “merely protesting” is not indicative that he was a part of a conspiracy.“If I and others like me feel that CAA and NRC are unjust, I have every right to protest. This is not indicative of any conspiracy,” John said.“Saifi protested against the CAA and NRC as did I and many others in this room. It does not make any one of us culpable. It is a vibrant democracy. Was there an incitement to violence?,” she contended.John said the prosecution needs to be reminded about the constitutional right to protest.The matter would be next heard on September 9.According to his counsel, Saifi was arraigned as an accused in three cases related to the riots, of which he has been granted bail in two.In November 2020, the district court, while granting Saifi bail in one of the riot cases, said charge-sheeting him over insignificant material was a total “non-application of mind” by the Delhi Police.Besides Saifi, former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, and JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia coordination committee members Safoora Zargar, former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked in the larger conspiracy case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/its-my-right-to-protest-do-not-owe-explanation-to-anyone-saifi-tells-court-during-bail-hearing-in-delhi-riots-case-101629916334202.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Mahasweta Devi, two Dalit authors axed from DU’s eng syllabus, teachers dissent||Several Delhi University teachers on Tuesday expressed concerns over the removal of texts by renowned author Mahasweta Devi and two Dalit authors from the undergraduate English syllabus without consulting the committee of courses and termed it “maximum vandalism” and overreach by the oversight committee.The oversight committee is tasked with looking at problems with reference to exams, course changes, and other department requirements. The committee is appointed by the executive council, the highest decision-making body of the university.In a dissent note submitted by 15 academic council (AC) members on Tuesday, teachers said the oversight committee which approved such changes did not have the powers to do so. The AC members said the same was the case with history, political science, and sociology departments as well.“In a core paper titled “Women’s Writing” in semester 5, the oversight committee has committed the maximum vandalism. It first decided to remove two Dalit scholars, namely Bama and Sukartharini, who were replaced by upper caste writer Ramabai,” the dissent note said.“The committee as an afterthought suddenly asked the English department to delete the celebrated short story of Mahasweta Devi, “Draupadi” – a story about a tribal woman – without supplying any academic logic. This is notwithstanding the fact that “Draupadi” has been taught by the University of Delhi since 1999 owing to its seminal academic value and also figures in the UGC model syllabus for 2019 for BA (H) English,” the note further said.“These changes were introduced recently and there is absolutely no academic rationale for them. Oversight committee members are from sciences background. Department heads are only called as special invitees, so they cannot vote against the changes being introduced by committee members. Even the department heads were not given an explanation on why these texts were removed,” said AC member Mithuraj Dhusiya, who teaches English at Hansraj College and is one of the signatories to the dissent note.Incidentally, the learning outcomes based curriculum framework (LOCF) syllabus for the four subjects of history, political science, sociology and English had run into a controversy in 2019 as well over certain omissions.Also Read | 2013 rerun: Unsure of FYUP in Delhi University, say teachersOn Tuesday, the dissenting AC members also said the committee refused to accept any short story by Devi despite her iconic literary stature. Devi, a Bengali author and tribal and women rights activist, had received several awards for her seminal work, including the Sahitya Akademi award, the Jnanpith Award, and was also conferred with a Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award in India. She died in Kolkata in 2016.Apart from introducing short stories such as “Sultana’s Dream” by Begum Rokeya without consultation with the course committee and against the recommendations of the department, the committee also removed “a feminist reading of Ramayana”, the AC members wrote, while referring to Chandrabati’s Ramayana.The committee also “arbitrarily deleted sections” from the paper titled “Interrogating Queerness”, the teachers said.“It is unfortunate that the oversight committee has always shown a prejudice against the representation of Dalits, tribals, women, and sexual minorities as evident in its concerted efforts to remove all such voices from the syllabus,” the academics wrote, adding that the committee “does not have any member from the Dalit or the tribal community who can possibly bring in some sensitivity to the issue”.Rudrashish Chakraborty, who teaches English at Kirori Mal College, said, "The Oversight Committee is guilty of not only undermining the laid down academic processes of the University, they have also abdicated their responsibility towards the students by delaying the notification of the syllabus in every semester. It is unbecoming of a University having stature like DU to notify the syllabus 5 weeks after the commencement of the semester."Oversight committee chairperson Maharaj K Pandit responded, “We, as senior academics of the university, should not get into these kind of conversations. We have not changed the syllabus of any subject. Only in English, one author has been taught for eons, and so some of the committee members were of a mind that “shouldn’t we look at other authors?” I do not even know whether the other authors are Dalit or not. The committee had conflicting opinions over the story [Draupadi] so we decided to drop it with the consent of head of the department, who selected an alternative story in its place from a suggested list.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mahasweta-devi-two-dalit-authors-axed-from-du-s-ug-english-syllabus-teachers-dissent-101629916333678.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Prime suspect in Jantar Mantar hate sloganeering case arrested, say Delhi Police||The Delhi police on Wednesday arrested Uttam Malik, an alleged prime suspect in the August 8 anti-Muslim sloganeering case at Jantar Mantar.Senior Delhi police officers, who asked not be named, said Malik, a resident of Ghaziabad claimed that he is a follower of Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati -- the head priest of a temple in Dasna, Ghaziabad. Saraswati was earlier named in an FIR for hate speech against Prophet Muhammad at the Press Club of India on April 1.When contacted, Saraswati, said, “ I won’t deny that he is my follower. We will fight his case legally. It is his constitutional right to defend himself. Delhi police are framing innocent persons in the case.”The police arrested seven persons in the case registered after videos of an August 8 rally at Jantar Mantar went viral on social media where participants allegedly raised anti-Muslim slogans. Those arrested include Ashwini Upadhyay, former spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Delhi unit. Upadhyay was released on bail on August 11, a day after his arrest. The rally was organised by ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’ against colonial-era laws.Several videos from Jantar Mantar purportedly show Malik, whose real name is Uttam Upadhyay, shouting hate slogans. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video.In the ongoing investigation in the case, police are still on the lookout for Pinky Chaudhary. chief of the Hindu Raksha Dal -- a right wing group which had claimed responsibility for the violence on JNU campus in January 2020. Chaudhary’s anticipatory bail plea was rejected by a Delhi court on August 21.“Our investigation has revealed that the August 8 rally at Jantar Mantar was planned months in advance. Messages were circulated among different groups on WhatsApp, and people from different groups participated in the rally. The people we have arrested so far are connected to each other. The organisers of the event sent invitations under the banner of Bharat Jodo Andolan. People were asked to join a group called Save India Foundation through a WhatsApp number that was mentioned on the invitation for the August 8 event. One of the arrested accused, Preet Singh is the convener of the Save India Foundation,” said a police officer.Police said five others arrested accused --- Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma, Deepak Yadav, Vinit Bajpai and Sushil Tiwari -- are all associated with different right-wing organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prime-suspect-in-jantar-mantar-hate-sloganeering-case-arrested-say-delhi-police-101629916274676.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Want to open schools, but can’t risk kids’ health: Delhi CM Kejriwal||A committee formed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to come up with a strategy to reopen schools, colleges and education institutions in the Capital filed its report on Wednesday, recommending the reopening of schools in a phased manner from September, starting with higher classes, two senior officials aware of the matter said.It was unclear if the recommendation will be accepted at this point in time. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday pointed to the “mixed experiences” other states have had with school openings and said that while his government is in favour of this in principle, it cannot afford to risk the health of children.“The experience seen in other states is mixed. We are closely monitoring the situation. We are in favour of re-opening of schools at the earliest, but we cannot take risks with the health of children,” Kejriwal said on the sidelines of an event in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar on Wednesday evening.Himachal Pradesh reopened schools for classes 10 to 12 on August 2, but the administration reversed the move less than 10 days later after a few dozen students were diagnosed as Covid-19 patients and total daily cases in the state saw a spike.Other than this, schools across Uttar Pradesh resumed classroom teaching for classes 6 to 8, and Karnataka for classes 9-12 this week. Punjab went ahead and opened schools for all classes on August 2.The Haryana government, which was the first to reopen schools for classes 9-12 on July 16, on Wednesday said it was expanding the move to allow students of classes 4 and 5 from September 1.When asked about the committee’s report, Kejriwal said: “Whenever we take a decision, we shall inform the public about it without delay.”One of the two DDMA officials cited in the first instance said that the chief minister and the Lieutenant Governor will now go through the report and will likely take a call on the matter only after the next DDMA meeting, the date for which is yet to be decided. DDMA is chaired by L-G Baijal. CM Kejriwal is its vice chairperson.“The committee has also said that willing parents should have the option of sending their child to school and others can opt for online classes,” a senior DDMA official said.“The panel suggested that schools for senior classes can begin from the first week of September,” the official said.Meanwhile, schools said they were waiting for detailed guidelines on the matter.Malini Narayanan, the chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference which has 122 Delhi schools under it, said, “We are awaiting detailed guidelines on the matter because there is still little clarity over what “staggered” means. We are not looking at every child coming to school every day. We will look for a three-day week teaching for a certain number of hours in school and continue classes in blended mode for now.”Higher educational institutes said they will be focussing on ensuring that students from Science courses requiring lab work return to the university in a staggered manner once the government gives the green signal to reopen.Delhi University registar Vikas Gupta said, “We would first like to open for science students due to the practicals and then leave to the wisdom of colleges on how they plan the theory and practical lessons. The number of students in science courses in most colleges is lesser than in arts and commerce, so social distancing can be followed. Our staff are present on college premises and even non-science students who need help can come to colleges if the college administration allows them to do so.”Currently, students of classes 10, 11 and 12 can visit schools for matters related to admissions and their preparation for the board exams.Physical classes at Delhi schools have been suspended since March last year in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. Higher classes reopened for a brief period between January and March this year were suspended again during the fourth wave of the pandemic in Delhi which coincided with the country’s bruising second wave.Some experts are of the view that children need to be vaccinated before schools can reopen. Others are of the opinion that if enough adults are vaccinated, chances of infections among children are low. But with only 17.8% of Delhi’s eligible population being fully vaccinated till Wednesday night, the Capital is still some distance away from reaching that position.The Union government approved a vaccine for children last week, although it wasn’t immediately clear whether it would be exclusively reserved for children, like some experts have suggested, or just become one more vaccine in the country’s current vaccine programme.India’s drug regulator on Friday approved Zydus Cadila’s three-dose Covid-19 DNA vaccine for emergency use in adults and children aged 12 years and above, making it the sixth vaccine authorised for use in the country, and the first for children. The company said it plans to manufacture 100 million to 120 million doses of ZyCoV-D annually and has started to stockpile the vaccine. There are two vaccine candidates that have been tested among children in India: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D. The first is yet to be approved for children.Senior Delhi government officials said the Capital will soon draft a plan to vaccinate children against Covid-19 and send it for the central government’s approval. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi has been demanding vaccination of children against Covid-19 at the earliest.The second DDMA official cited above said that the panel has also suggested a phased reopening of colleges, but did not share specific details.The committee, formed on August 6, has been entrusted with chalking out a detailed plan, comprising standard operating procedures (SOPs); assessment of the ability of schools to implement such SOPs; plan for vaccination of teachers and staff; and address concerns of parents of the students.Dr Jacob John, former head of the clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore, said: “It is important to note that children are yet to be vaccinated against Covid-19. So, the authorities have to plan each step meticulously. Reopening of schools and education institutes should be done in a phased manner. Delhi can consider opening senior classes in a few schools in each district and observe trends for a period – say two weeks. They should take further calls based on the observations in each phase. They also must ensure that the entire staff – teachers to administrative staff and bus drivers – are fully vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddmapanel-recommends-reopening-schools-in-delhi-in-phases-101629916274137.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||AAP says BJP owes MCD money for using hoardings||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of not paying the city’s municipal corporations for using their hoardings and billboards.“The BJP looted the MCDs [municipal corporations of Delho] by putting up advertisements worth crores on MCDs paid hoarding sites without paying a penny. The BJP is not paying the dues it should have for putting up all the advertisements. Contractors who put up advertisements are enduring heavy losses, the same has been stated MCD’s standing committee,” said AAP spokesperson and Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj.He added, “The BJP-ruled MCD has now come up with a proposal to waive off the license fees so they can compensate for the losses they have inflicted upon the contractors. The MCDs should have received crores of rupees as revenue through advertisements, but the BJP used that money to fill their own pockets.”While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Instead of misleading people on issues that do not affect their everyday lives, the AAP should answer why the Delhi government has not released the funds which they owe to the three MCDs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-says-bjp-owes-mcd-money-for-using-hoardings-101629916214174.html
26-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi minister directs speedy disbursal of Covid-19 financial aid||Delhi’s social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Wednesday issued directions to officials to ensure that claims for financial assistance with regard to Covid-19 deaths are cleared on priority and the process of disbursement expedited, the government informed in a media statement.“Financial aid should reach beneficiaries as soon as possible and the process should not put an additional burden on grieving families. We will conduct on-ground surveys and there should be minimal rejection rate. Help needs to reach all grieving families,” Gautam said in the statement, issued after a review meeting.It further said, “A total of 3,103 applications for monthly pension have been received so far by the department under the scheme of which 665 have been approved. A total of 4,881 applications for a one-time ex gratia have been received by the department, of which 686 have been approved. The minister ordered the department and the magistrates to speed up the process of disbursement of financial aid.”Delhi has so far recorded more than 25,000 deaths due to Covid-19 – more than half of which were recorded in the second wave of the pandemic in April-May.On June 23, the government notified a scheme of a one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000 to each family with a Covid-19 death and a monthly assistance of ₹2,500 for families that lost their sole breadwinner and children orphaned by Covid-19.In July, the government formed teams to visit residences of people who died of Covid-19 and help them with the application process which, senior officials said, helped immensely in terms of increasing the number of applications received so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-minister-directs-speedy-disbursal-of-covid-19-financial-aid-101629916213583.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh says credit deposit ratio up: Imbalance among districts, regions persists||Amid the Uttar Pradesh government’s claims of a significant jump in the credit deposit (CD) ratio, an indicator of growing economic activity, a huge imbalance persists among different districts and regions of Uttar Pradesh.A State Level Banker’s Committee (SLBC) review indicates the state’s CD ratio went up from 46% in March 2017 to about 52% in June 2021 with the deposits increasing to ₹ 12,80,745.00 crore and advances to ₹ 6,61,811.00 crore.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who presided over a meeting of the State Level Banker’s Committee (SLBC) here on August 11, 2021, said the CD ratio witnessed a 6% jump. He said 43,000 new banking outlets were set up in the past four years and mega credit camps were being organised online, adding that such steps resulted in the increase in the state’s CD ratio.An additional increase has been claimed on the basis of the SLBC’s revised data in view of the state government’s mega loan distribution drives in recent months, officials said.The SLBC, constituted in April 1977 as an apex inter-institutional forum to create adequate coordination machinery for development of states, meets regularly and comprises representatives of commercial banks, including small finance banks, wholly owned subsidiaries (WOS) of foreign banks, RRBs (regional rural banks) , payments banks, state cooperative banks, NABARD, heads of government departments and Reserve Bank of India (RBI).A district-wise breakup indicates that nine of the nearly 30 districts of eastern UP have a CD ratio of less than 40%. Four of them have a CD ratio of less than 30%.In Bundelkhand, five of the seven districts have a 50%- plus CD ratio while the remaining two districts are in the 40% plus range. No district in central and west UP, however, falls in the less than 40% CD ratio category and most of the districts there are in the range of 50%-plus CD ratio.“Yes, most of the districts in west UP have a better CD ratio. Although only nine districts in east UP have a CD ratio of less than 40%, the situation in all the west UP districts remains much better,” said a senior officer.“An increase in the CD ratio is a sign that Uttar Pradesh’s economy is progressing towards higher investment and growth. A rising CD ratio is also indicative of the fact that UP’s improved ranking in the ease of doing business (2nd rank) is translating into increased investment activities. An increased flow of credit to agriculture, industry and trade will also spur entrepreneurship and lead to creation of more jobs. Since Uttar Pradesh is a big state, there is a high disparity in the CD ratio among districts. The state government needs to closely monitor the credit flow in such districts,” said professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of department of economics, Lucknow University.“At the all India level, the CD ratio is 70% and above and, therefore, the state has a long way to go to reach close to the national average,” said Tyagi.About the impact of the government’s support schemes, Tyagi said, “Although the Covid-19 pandemic led to contraction in economic activities in the state, the Yogi government’s proactive approach in facilitating loans to the MSMEs, street vendors, farmers and labourers has helped in maintaining the CD ratio at a higher level.”“An increase in the CD ratio is a good development. The state government has ensured large amount of loans to MSMEs and small vendors amid Covid-19 pandemic. East UP has remained a neglected region and the state government should come out with special programmes to remove the disparities in neglected districts,” said AK Singh, former director of Giri Institute of Development Studies, Lucknow.UP’s former chief secretary Alok Ranjan said the CD ratio was in important indication towards where the state’s savings were being spent. “As chief secretary, we also made consistent efforts to increase the CD ratio. Some states like Tamil Nadu have more than 100% CD ratio. Our savings go to states like Maharashtra and there is a need to increase UP’s CD ratio further,” said Ranjan.Director general, institutional finance, Shiv Singh Yadav said, “We will ensure an improvement in the districts having a CD ratio of 40% or less. We have organised online mega credit camps and an amount of ₹ 9000 crore has been disbursed in the past few months. We are going to hold more mega credit camps in mission mode to ensure the flow of credit. Various credit camps will be organised at the district level next month and block levels thereafter. A target of 60% CD ratio has been set and we will achieve it soon. District consultative committees have been set up and we hope to bring about a further improvement in the situation by the end of 2021.”CD RATIO IN DISTRICTS EASTERN UTTAR PRADESHAzamgarh (22.53%), Ghazipur (29.49%), Jaunpur (29.78%), Mau (29.64%), Sultanpur (32.69%), Ballia (35.26%), Deoria (32.08%), Siddharth Nagar (34.46%), Sant Kabir Nagar (39.09%), Varanasi (40.10%), Kushinagar (40.77%), Ambedkar Nagar (40.68%), Sonbhadra (40.56%), Balrampur (41.22%), Basti (41.55%), Prayagraj (41.76%), Chandauli (41.78%), Gorakhpur (42.35%), Pratapgarh (42.08%), Bhadohi (44.94%), Mirzapur (45.17%), Amethi (47.82%), Maharajganj (46.71%), Gonda (48.08%), Ayodhya (48.23%), Kaushambi (48.32%), Rae Bareli (49.30%), Shravasti (56.47%), Bahraich (59.97%) and Lakhimpur Kheri (65.27%). BUNDELKHANDJalaun (43.85%), Jhansi (46.17%), Banda (52.16%), Hamirpur (50.83%), Mahoba (52.69%), Chitrakoot (52.16%), Lalitpur (72.16%))CENTRAL UTTAR PRADESHUnnao (41.53%), Lucknow (44.49%), Sitapur (56.26%), Kanpur Dehat (59.69%), Kanpur Nagar (60.30%)), Barabanki (66.05%), Fatehpur (40.05%) and Hardoi (55.48%).WESTERN UTTAR PRADESHEtawah (41.56%), Auraiya (42.60%), Ghaziabad (46.37%), Bulandshahr (50.49%), Firozabad (52.50%), Gautam Buddh Nagar (53.38%), Bareilly (53.84%), Aligarh (54.04%), Baghpat (54.14%), Meerut (56.54%), Farrukhabad (54.47%), Mainpuri (56.87%), Shamli (60.81%), Agra (62.63%), Hapur (61.37%), Saharanpur (61.45%), Hathras (62.07%), Bijnor (62.75%), Mathura (63.66%), Kannauj (69.47%), Muzaffarnagar (64.13%), Pilibhit (74.03%), Rampur (79.07%), Shahjahanpur (70.71%), Etah (74.62%), Kasganj (75.97%), Moradabad (71.73%), Badaun (79.80%), Amroha (84.65%) and Sambhal (88.89%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-says-credit-deposit-ratio-up-imbalance-among-districts-regions-persists-101629915734123.html
26-08-2021||Mumbai||Species of jumping spider spotted for first time in India||Researchers from the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON), Tamil Nadu, Christ College, Kerala, and the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, have recently documented the first-ever sighting of a spider species — identified as Irura mandarina — in India. The researchers made this discovery while on a routine arachnological excursion in the Western Ghats, in Sindhudurg district’s Kudal Taluka.“Previously this species was known only from two sites in Vietnam, and one site in southern China,” the researchers note in their paper, published this month in international peer-reviewed arachnology journal Peckhamia. The Irura mandarina belongs to a larger family of ‘jumping spiders’ called ‘salticidae’. As per existing literature, this family of spiders contains 600 different genera and over 6,000 described species, several of which can be found across the country.But within the genus Irura, this is possibly the second spider to be found in India. A specimen belonging to the same genus was recorded in 2020 in North Lakhimpur, Assam, but the species itself could not be described, explained Rishikesh Tripathi, an arachnologist affiliated with Christ College.“We were on a routine excursion near some caves in Sindhurdurg district in June this year. It was quite late in the day, and we were using our torches to get around. We saw this bright, golden coloured speck in the dark and assumed it to be some sort of light insect which was glowing at night, but on closer inspection, it was a spider. I was very surprised because I have never seen such a colourful spider,” said Tripathi, whose primary research involves studying desert spiders in Rajasthan.Researchers later obtained two more specimens (one male and two females) from the site and were able to taxonomically describe it after laboratory analysis. “We approached an American researcher named David Hill with our findings, and he confirmed it for us and suggested we publish this finding,” said Tripathi.“The Western Ghats and its rich biodiversity reveal themselves to those who have patience and tenacity. More and more new species are coming to light due to such research activities in the Western Ghats. This is another major reason why the Western Ghats need to be nurtured and protected,” the authors said in a statement issued this week, advocating for the continued protection of the area. The site of their discovery is a part of the Sahyadri hills and are recognised as a global biodiversity hotspot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/species-of-jumping-spider-spotted-for-first-time-in-india-101629915434550.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||Zero fresh Covid cases in Lucknow – second time in a week||LUCKNOW For the second time in a week, Lucknow reported zero fresh Covid cases on Wednesday. The state capital had also not seen any fresh case on Monday, according to the data from the state health department. During the day, one patient recovered from corona infection and the number of active cases under treatment was 26. Among UP districts, Lucknow stood fifth in terms of active cases under treatment. “Cases are going down, but we are conducting Covid tests regularly. People should also follow Covid protocol to ensure that infection does not spread,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow. Lucknow had first reported zero fresh cases on May 6, 2020 and since then the state capital kept reporting cases. The maximum 6,598 cases were reported on April 16. “Apart from screening of travellers from other states, people living in Uttar Pradesh too should ensure they follow Covid protocol and get vaccinated. This is the way to keep infection spread under control,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/zero-fresh-cases-in-lucknow-second-time-in-a-week-101629914414166.html
26-08-2021||Pune||Pune region Class 11 admissions: General merit list declared||The Director of Education (Secondary and Higher Secondary), Pune, on Wednesday, declared the general merit list for students registered for admission to Class 11 (FYJC), through the online centralised process. On Friday, August 27, the first allotment list for round 1 will be declared by the department. In this academic year, a total of 78,745 students registered for Class 11 admissions. Despite a high passing percentage for Class 10 this year, registration numbers were low given that 111,205 seats are available. It is feared that a high number of seats will remain vacant this year.The Bombay HC cancelled the Common Entrance Test (CET) which was going to be conducted on August 21 for Class 11 admissions. Last year, the number of registrations was 102,851.“In the provisional merit list declared two days before a total of 199 queries were registered by the students and all of them were addressed and resolved. Now on August 27, junior college allocation list will be displayed for the round 1 admmissions. And starting from August 27 students can proceed to the admission process to the respective colleges where they have got the admission. On August 30, the junior colleges will upload the status of admitted students on their website and further admission rounds will be continued,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune, who is in-charge of the admission process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-11-admissions-general-merit-list-declared-101629908232709.html
26-08-2021||Pune||Single-member wards for 18 civic bodies going to polls, including Pune: Maha poll commission||The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, on Wednesday, made what poll experts and analysts are calling a clear move aimed at influencing municipal elections in the state, slated in several key corporations in February 2022.The state election commission, on Wednesday, announced that wards in 18 municipal corporations in Maharashtra would now have only one council member per ward.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) currently is allowed four council members per ward, as was in the 2017 municipal elections.Last week, Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Ajit Pawar, also deputy chief minister, asked his party members to state their preference for a new structure at the ward level, ahead of the elections.The NCP is believed to be in favour of a two- member council at the ward level, but the state election commission’s notification, issued on Wednesday, suggests the state government has decided “single member” wards are the way forward.Mumbai has had a single-council member per ward system since 2017. Now corporations in Thane, Pune, Nashik, and Pimpri-Chinchwad will also have the same single-member system. Psephologists in the city, requesting anonymity, believe that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) favours multi-council-member wards. “If there are multi-member wards, instead of candidates, voters prefer to vote for the party. If the ward has only one council member, the candidate becomes more important than the party,” the poll expert said.“Even if any candidate has even a small pocket of influence, s/he can win the seat,” he added.The state election commission asked municipal commissioners to start the process of converting multi-seat councils to single seats from August 27.The means the preparations for the municipal elections in Pune have begun.Some political sources, also preferring to stay anonymous, said that the Maha Vikas Aghadi does have the right to allow two council members in some wards, depending on a variety of factors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/singlemember-wards-for-18-civic-bodies-going-to-polls-including-pune-state-poll-commission-101629907992672.html
26-08-2021||Lucknow||Police will be asked not to act arbitrarily in trade matters: UP official assures Allahabad HC||Uttar Pradesh’s additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi on Wednesday assured the Allahabad high court that the state government will issue proper guidelines, directing the police authorities not to act arbitrarily in matters related to trade and business.The senior bureaucrat gave this assurance after the court pointed out that it was regularly coming across cases in which the police were arbitrarily registering FIRs (First Information Reports) under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against traders and businessmen in commercial matters.Earlier, on Tuesday, the high court directed Awasthi, and Jalaun superintendent of police Ravi Kumar and sub-inspector Kedar Singh of Nadi Gaon police station in Jalaun to remain present before the high court to show cause why appropriate orders may not be passed and why exemplary cost may not be imposed on them for filing misleading affidavits in a case.The bench comprising Justice SP Kesarwani and Justice Piyush Agrawal was hearing a petition filed by one Vishal Gupta seeking the quashing of an FIR in a case of cheating and for disobeying an order by a public servant, registered on February 20, 2021.In the petition, it was stated that the petitioner was engaged in the supply of goods. As per allegations, the petitioner was carrying eight bundles of betel nuts and tobacco in his vehicle and, on being asked by the sub- inspector, the petitioner could not show valid papers relating to the transportation of betel-nuts and tobacco. For that reason, the impugned FIR was registered under Sections 420 and 188 of the IPC, the petition said.On Wednesday, the ACS (Home) and the Jalaun SP appeared before court and filed personal affidavits, stating that action had been taken against the erring police officers in the case and a final report had been filed after investigation.The court said that such arbitrary acts of the police registering FIRs in cases involving transportation of goods in the ordinary course of business was denting the policy of “ease of doing business” of the state.On Wednesday, by filing another affidavit, the ACS (Home) apprised the court that a final report had been filed in the case. At this, the court dismissed the petition as infructuous since the final report was filed and no grievance of the petitioner was left.Earlier, on August 13, the court had observed that the FIR “reflects ill intention of the informant (sub-inspector) and obstruction in free flow of trade and commerce” and directed the respondent authorities to file a counter-affidavit (reply) in the case.On August 18, a counter-affidavit was filed by the Jalaun SP in which neither pleas made by petitioners were replied nor queries of the court were answered.The court, on this, directed the additional chief secretary (Home) to file a personal affidavit in the case by August 24, which was filed on August 23.On Tuesday, the court, after perusing personal affidavits, filed by ACS (Home) and the Jalaun SP had asked the officers to remain present in court for having filed “misleading” affidavits.During the course of the hearing, the court gave an example of another case related to matrimonial dispute in which a wife had lodged an FIR under various sections of IPC and the district magistrate (DM) had passed an order against the husband under provisions of the Goonda Act.The court citing this case said that the government must ask DMs to apply their mind and not pass orders under the Goonda Act in a casual manner.“If an order, under the provisions of Goonda Act, is passed by the DM even in a matrimonial dispute in such a casual manner, one can imagine the impact of it on the common man,” the court said while asking the ACS (Home) to address the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upofficial-assures-allahabad-hc-police-will-be-asked-not-to-act-arbitrarily-in-trade-matters-101629907753778.html
26-08-2021||Pune||Pune’s parents, teachers & students exhausted due to online classes||With schools showing no signs of reopening and classes continuing in online mode for the second straight academic year, parents, teachers and students are experiencing exhaustion due to online teaching.Archana Panch, vice principal at the Raman Bagh English School, said, “Children understand that there is a pandemic, but they miss the school schedule. We have a lot of parents and grandparents visiting us and requesting us to reopen school. They share that children are now frustrated being at home. Children want to go out but due to the pandemic, they are not able to.”City parents expressed the view that many students want schools to reopen. Anita Salve, parent of a boy, 13, said that she is struggling to keep her son busy all day. “The physical activity is limited. Due to online platforms, the basics of the child are not very clear. Online education is not very engaging even though it is the need of the hour,” she said.Along with students, teachers too are facing a lot of issues due to online education. Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune District Principals’ Association, said, “Teachers are reaching a state of exhaustion due to online platforms. Many teachers have to follow up with students. Many students have left for their villages and teachers are trying very hard to reach them. Moreover, class attendance is just 40% and students don’t attend regular school which is a hurdle for teachers.”According to city psychologists, both teaching and learning methods need to be adaptive and relevant. Dr Shirisha Sathe, a city-based senior practising psychologist, said that teachers must realise that offline teaching methods will not work in the online mode. “Around 7% learning is verbal and 93% learning is non-verbal. Teachers have to adapt to a blended mode of teaching in future as learning will be online and offline. The whole methodology of teaching has to be reworked. And it has to adapt as per individual classes,” Dr Sathe said, adding that teachers must also interact with the national and international community to share information. “A lot of research reflects that there are many methods that teachers can utilise in teaching. An exchange of ideas will help teachers to derive their own method of teaching online and up-skill themselves,” she said.Dr Sathe advises parents to engage children in all kinds of activities at home. “Keep children engaged in other activities like music, painting and pottery, and origami where fine motor coordination and eye-and-hand coordination is present and can help them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-parents-teachers-students-exhausted-due-to-online-classes-101629905952488.html
