27-08-2021||Gurugram||Bus driver abducted, found dead in Delhi||A bus driver who was abducted from outside the warehouse of an e-commerce company in Bilaspur was found dead in his vehicle on Thursday near Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, said police.Police identified the victim as Raj Kumar from Aligarh who used to ferry employees of the warehouse.The bus was found by its Delhi-based owner Jaipal Solanki who tracked its GPS device that was online. A case of kidnapping and murder was registered against unknown persons at Bilaspur police station based on Solank’s complaint, said police. Kumar and the bus had gone missing on August 26, they added. “The CCTV footage and GPS coordinates are being checked. We are probing the case,” said Subash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bus-driver-abducted-found-dead-in-delhi-101630088973759.html
27-08-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram administers nearly 67k jabs on mega vaccination day||The Gurugram health department and private hospitals administered at least 66,877 doses, with nearly 67% of them being dose-2 of the two-shot vaccine regimen, in a mega vaccination drive held on Friday. The highest vaccination count on a single day continues to be 104,178, recorded on June 21. “We have exceeded the target of ensuring 60% of the vaccinations are second dose jabs. This was achieved with precise planning based on the estimate of people awaiting their second shot,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. The initial plan was to administer doses to about 64,160 people. Of these, 15,080 doses were to be those requiring their first dose. Across 288 vaccination centres on Friday, 22,128 took their first jab and 44, 749 got their second shot. Nearly 77% (51,937) of the vaccination took at government health centres and 14,940 at private hospitals. Vaccination in August has exceeded the count from July. At least 3,44,867 doses were administered in July, whereas 4,52,542 doses had been given in August till Friday. Data on Cowin platform shows that the vaccination drive picked up pace from June 23 backed by regular vaccine supply from the state health department. The vaccination drive had an uneven pace due to the shortage of vaccines from May 1 onwards, when vaccination opened for those between 18 and 45 years. Private hospitals and states were directed to procure the vaccine stock directly from the manufacturer. Later the policy was revised on June 21, with the central government procuring 75% of all vaccine doses and providing it directly to the states. The remaining 25% is procured by private hospitals, for which they have to submit details with the health department. This has led to an increase in vaccination in August. So far, at least 23,29,375 doses have been administered. Out of this 16,75,461 people have taken the first shot, while 6,56,848 people are inoculated with both doses. It shows that nearly 80% of the population of the district (almost 21 lakh eligible for vaccination) has taken their first shot. The focus is currently on increasing second dose inoculation by reserving 60% doses for the second shot and 40% for the first shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-administers-nearly-67k-jabs-on-mega-vaccination-day-101630088972853.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||SC seeks govt response over report claiming poor condition of demolished Khori village residents||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the responses of the Haryana government and the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) to a report by a group of lawyers and activists who, during a spot visit earloer this month, claimed to have found that the residents of the demolished Khori village were living in abject conditions with little food and limited temporary shelter provisions.The report said that following the order of the Supreme Court to demolish the settlement that came up on Aravalli land, over 100,000 residents were “pushed and thrown into harrowing times”. With accommodation for just 150 persons at the adjoining Radha Soami Bhawan, the other residents are using the demolition debris and tarpaulin sheets to set up temporary shelters, it said.This was contrary to the claims by the corporation that it will provide alternative accommodation till the state came up with a rehabilitation policy for them.The team of nine lawyers and activists, mostly from Delhi, that visited the Radha Soami Bhawan on August 6, said it found that food was only occasionally provided, and that too not by the corporation, but by the Bhawan officials and other NGOs. Residents told them that the police had stopped an NGO from supplying food, and that due to the torrential rain and absence of toilets, they often fell ill, the team claimed.Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves appearing for some of the affected residents presented the report to the court saying, “It is a shocking state of affairs.” He said that all MCF and state government’s claims to the court of a rehabilitation policy were false.“Most residents have refused to vacate the site as they have no other place to go. Despite heavy and incessant rains, most were forced to live at the demolished site itself, as the temporary shelter promised by the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad was far from adequate,” the report filed through advocate Satya Mitra said.The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari asked the state and MCF to respond to the report by September 3. The next hearing in the case will be on September 6.The MCF had filed a compliance affidavit in the top court on August 23 highlighting the steps taken by them after the demolition. It said, “The corporation took humanitarian approach while removing the persons residing in the unauthorised structures and following all the mandatory COVID protocols. The corporation temporarily arranged for food, shelter, medicines, toilets, at Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan, adjacent to the 150 acres land (where Khori Village stood), which was made encroachment free.”It further stated that cooked food is being served on regular basis from July 16 at the Radha Soami Bhawan.Senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj who appeared for the MCF informed the Court that the “Housing Plan for the Rehabilitation of Khori (Lakkarpur revenue estate) Jhuggi Dwellers” has been finalised and will be placed before the Court.Meanwhile, the Court also received another application from a woman resident of the demolished Khori settlement who said, “The facilities in the temporary shelter provided at the Radha Swami Satsang are woefully inadequate. The temporary shelter facility is a shed which is completely exposed to the elements, with a mud floor, and no partition for privacy of women and lactating mothers.” The Court directed the state to respond to this application too by the next date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-seeks-govt-response-over-report-claiming-poor-condition-of-demolished-khori-village-residents-101630088972177.html
27-08-2021||Gurugram||With help of special cameras, cops to issue e-challan to violators for jumping red light at 25 points in Gurugram||There are 25 points in the city now where jumping a red light will lead to a challan being issued against the offending vehicle, even if a traffic police marshall is nowhere in sight.The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the Gurugram traffic police have installed red light violation detection cameras (RLVD) that monitor these crossings 24/7, and a system now automatically generates the challan and alerts the vehicle owner via text message.Although the first such e-challan was issued by Gurugram traffic police in March, the system’s coverage was extended only last week.As per traffic police officers, RLVD cameras are placed at different corners of a junction or crossing. As soon a traffic signal turns red, the RLVD camera at that end goes online and captures the image or footage of an offending vehicle.Gurugram traffic police deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Ravinder Singh Tomar said that the cameras are equipped with number plate readers that transmits the information to the system that generates the e-challan and sends the text alert to the owner.Feeds from all cameras are monitored at the traffic police tower in Sushant Lok 1 and the GMDA’s integrated command and control centre (ICCC) in Sector 44, he added.“The RLVD cameras are a big help to the Gurugram traffic police in monitoring traffic signal violations. It will also help reduce accidents on these stretches as drivers will be wary of jumping a signal,” said Tomar.According to the Gurugram traffic police, jumping a traffic signal will attract a penalty of ₹5,000 at the first instance, and ₹10,000 for a subsequent offence.Some of the prominent locations where RLVD cameras have been installed include Bakhtawar Chowk, Rezangla Chowk, MG Road, Galleria Market, IFFCO Chowk metro station, HUDA City Centre, Rajiv Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Bristol Chowk, Vatika Chowk, Signature Towers, Hero Honda Chowk, and IMT Chowk.At a few of these locations, existing cameras were upgraded with the RLVD feature, said GMDA officials, as part of the Smart City initiative of installing 2,000 cameras across the city for surveillance.“So far, we have installed 230 RLVD cameras across 25 locations, and work on installing the cameras at the remaining five locations is ongoing. In total, there will be around 315 such cameras,” said Kapil Bardeja, chief executive officer (CEO) and co-founder of Vehant Technologies, GMDA’s subcontractor for the RLVD project.GMDA officials said similar cameras are expected to be installed at Khushboo Chowk, Pataudi Chowk, Basai flyover Ambedkar Chowk and Sitaram Singla Chowk by the end of next month.Urban transport systems design expert Sewa Ram said that apart from relying on technology, Gurugram could do with some simple solutions too. “Besides enforcement, the GMDA and traffic police need to ensure that proper markings are made at the 25 points. Lanes, stop lines, and zebra crossings should be properly marked and painted so that a violation can be easily spotted, on the basis of which e-challan can be generated,” said Ram who is also a faculty at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/with-help-of-special-cameras-cops-to-issue-e-challan-to-violators-for-jumping-red-light-at-25-points-in-gurugram-101630088970600.html
27-08-2021||Gurugram||Forest department survey finds 225 acres of Aravallis in Gurugram encroached||Farmhouses and residential colonies came up illegally over 225 acres of the Aravallis in Gurugram, according to a recent survey by the district forest department, said officials aware of the matter. The encroachments were detected in Sohna, Gwal Pahari, Raisina areas of the district, they added. Gurugram divisional forest officer Rajeev Tejyan said that the department conducted a ground survey over the last one month. “In it, we identified encroachments over 225 acres of the Aravallis. We are still waiting for reports of a drone survey conducted by a private agency after which we will be able to know more about minor pockets of encroached forest land. That might push the total encroached area to 250 acres,” said Tejyan, adding that that report will likely be submitted to the department by Monday. The structures were constructed over decades, said the official. According to the records of the forest department, 16,803 acres in Gurugram district fall under the Aravallis, which is protected under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA). According to directives from the Supreme Court, PLPA land will have the protection as stated under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, which states that “no state government or other authority shall make, except with the prior approval of the central government, any order directing that any forest land or any portion thereof may be used for any non-forest purpose.” The forest department said it sent notices to owners of over 500 illegal structures in the last one and half months, of which around 50 that covered 36 acres were demolished since last week. “In the past few days, demolition drives were conducted in Ghata, Gwal Pahari, Kadipur and Basai. This follows orders of the Supreme Court that demanded little toleration of such encroachment. The demolition drive will continue for a few more days,” said Tejyan. In July, the Supreme Court, while hearing a case about the demolition of Khori village in Faridabad, observed that “the direction to remove all unauthorised structures standing on the forest land applies to all such structures without any exception.” After this, the forest department began razin illegal structures, including farmhouses, banquet halls and institutes on Aravalli land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/forest-department-survey-finds-225-acres-of-aravallis-in-gurugram-encroached-101630088971312.html
27-08-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad administers 66k jabs, Noida 32k in 3rd mega jab drive||The third-mega Covid-19 vaccination drive held across Uttar Pradesh on Friday saw Ghaziabad district surpassing the official target of administering 57,600 doses but fell way short of meeting its own target of inoculating 90,000 people. Officials said that low availability of vaccines and people not turning up to take the shot were reasons why they couldn’t meet the target of administering 90,000 doses. According to the Cowin dashboard, Ghaziabad district administered 66,389 doses till 8:30pm on Friday and stood seventh in the state in terms of inoculating beneficiaries. Total 147 vaccination centres were in operation on Friday. “We were aiming to administer at least 75,000 doses and prepared a micro-plan for administering 90,000 doses during the mega vaccination drive on Friday. However, low availability of vaccines hampered the process. We had only 67,000 doses with us, including 12,000 Covaxin doses, that is having low acceptability here,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for the vaccination drive. During the first mega drive launched by the state government, Ghaziabad administered 79,822 doses in a single day and topped among the 75 districts in UP. Officials said that their micro plan was further hampered with beneficiaries not turning up to take the shot. “Many beneficiaries booked their slots on Friday but did not turn up. Our staff kept waiting for them till evening but they did not come. All these factors affected the vaccination drive,” Mathuria added. So far, the district has administered 19,43,348 doses, including 398,665 second doses. Meanwhile, Gautam Budh Nagar district administered over 32,000 doses from its 142 inoculation centres on Friday. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said almost all the centres achieved their vaccination targets for the day on Friday. “The district health department planned the vaccination centres in a way so that even people residing in the remote areas could easily come to the booths to take the jabs. Altogether, 32,561 vaccine doses were administered on Friday, of which 25,573 received their first shot,” said Suhas adding that this week, they have crossed last week’s vaccination figures. The DM further said nearly 96% of the total eligible population of 1,589,815 have already taken the first shot. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, said currently, the health department is left with around 25,000 vaccine doses . “With this stock, we can easily run the vaccination drive for three more days with an average daily vaccination of 8,000 doses. We have sent our requisition for more vaccines to the state health department,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-administers-66k-jabs-noida-32k-in-3rd-mega-jab-drive-101630088969893.html
27-08-2021||Bhopal||3 MP recruitment papers were leaked day before test, cancelled: Minister||BHOPAL: Questions papers of three recruitment examinations conducted by Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board were leaked by a private company, state home minister Narottam Mishra said on Friday evening after the government cancelled the three examinations.The government’s decision followed an investigation by the Madhya Pradesh state electronic development corporation (MPSEDC) which looked at the examinations conducted to recruit senior agriculture development officers, rural agriculture development officers and nursing staff.The investigation has been handed over to cyber cell for further investigation and the process of blacklisting NSEIT, a private company contracted to conduct the recruitment exam, has been initiated, the minister said. The private company did not comment on the decision but it has rejected the accusation in the past.HT first reported about the irregularities in the examinations held this year after candidates alleged that the ten who topped the test were from same region, had an unimpressive academic record and ended up making similar mistakes in their examination.The candidates had then also alleged that the company which conducted the exam had run into trouble in other states due to irregularities.After media reports and objections raised by candidates, the state’s professional examination board officials carried out checks but didn’t find any irregularities in the system. “The matter was forwarded to MPSEDC for technical investigation to check the digital footprints and logs of all the 10 recruitment exams conducted by MPPEB in the past one year,” home minister Narottam Mishra said.“In their investigation, MPSEDC officers found irregularities in three exams while the cleanchit was given to seven other exams. The investigators found that a question paper of agriculture development officer recruitment exam was downloaded according to one of the logs on February 10, a day before the examination. The paper was not downloaded at the office (of) MPPEB but at personal computer of an unidentified person. That confirmed the suspicion that the paper was leaked by someone,” said the letter released by the home department. “Similarly, investigators found that the question papers of recruitment exam for nursing and paramedical staff had been downloaded illegally on January 7. In the investigation the involvement of the company and outsiders are found as the downloading was done outside,” said the letter. “As of now the investigators haven’t found any involvement of MPPEB officers. More will be come out in probe of cyber cell. Now onwards, every recruitment exam will be scruitinised technically before the announcement of result, said Mishra.Among those who had complained was Ranjeet Raghunath who appeared for the agriculture officers recruitment exam. “We are happy that we got justice. It was Vyapam like scam and we fought hard against it.”The Congress attacked the state government for failing to prevent the Vyapam-like scam.“It is a very big issue that after seven years of Vyapam scam, the state government failed to set up a fool-proof system to stop irregularities. The matter should be investigated independently by CBI because such irregularities can’t be happen without involvement of MPPEB officers, said Ajay Singh Yadav, spokesperson, MP Congress Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/3-mp-recruitment-papers-were-leaked-day-before-test-cancelled-minister-101630088851221.html
27-08-2021||Other||Delhi: Man kills wife in Surajkund, walks into Kalindi Kunj police station to confess crime||New Delhi: A 25-year-old man walked into the Kalindi Kunj police station on Friday morning and told the personnel on duty that he has killed his wife in a wooded area at Surajkund, across the border in Haryana’s Faridabad, on Thursday. The man was arrested after Surajkund police station officers confirmed to their Delhi counterparts that they recovered the body of a woman and were probing the case, senior police officers said on Friday.The arrested man was identified as Mohammad Nizamuddin, a resident of Jaitpur Extension. He was produced before a court for handing over his custody to the Haryana police. Nizamuddin told the police that he killed his wife because he suspected her of being in a relationship with another man, the officers said.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said, “Nizamuddin walked into the Kalindi Kunj police station on Friday morning and confessed to inflicting fatal injuries on his wife, Rabia, at Surajkund in Faridabad on August 26. His statement was recorded at the police station.”According to his statement, Nizamuddin has been working with civil defence as House Fire Party (HFP). In January 2020, he met Rabia, a resident of Sangam Vihar, when she had come to the office of the district magistrate in Lajpat Nagar. She was also selected for the civil defence. Nizamuddin helped her in getting her identity card. They became friends, exchanged their mobile numbers, and started talking and chatting with each other.“Nizamuddin told us that on June 11 this year, the two got married at Saket Court. Some days later, Nizamuddin learnt that she had alleged affairs with other persons. He tried many to talk to her to resolve the issue but she declined,” the DCP said, quoting Nizamuddin’s statement.On August 26, DCP Meena said, Nizamuddin called Rabia at Lajpat Nagar and they rode towards Surajkund, towards Palli Road on his bike. Nizamuddin stopped the bike and they entered into an argument over the same issue.“In a fit of rage, Nizamuddin repeatedly attacked Rabia with a knife and killed her. Thereafter, he dragged her body towards bushes, left it there and returned to Delhi. On Friday morning, out of guilt he came to the Kalindi Kunj police station and confessed to his crime. He was arrested after the facts were verified from the Surajkund police station,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhiman-kills-wife-in-surajkund-walks-into-kalindi-kunj-police-station-to-confess-crime-101630088609893.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||North Delhi Civic body exempts houses of less than 50sqm area from property tax net||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday exempted housing units measuring up to 50 square metres from paying property tax, a move that officials said will benefit over three lakh housing units under its jurisdiction.The proposal was presented and approved in the corporation’s House meeting on Friday.Leader of the House (LOH) Chhail Bihari Goswami, who proposed the scheme in the House, said, “All residential properties up to 50 square metres including those living in approved colonies, rural areas and even unauthorised colonies, will be exempt from paying house tax to the corporation. Though we are trying to implement the scheme from this year itself, the notification will take time. That said, it will certainly come into effect from the next financial year. In this case, these house owners will have to pay the tax for just the current financial year,”said Goswami.He added that the scheme has been proposed in order to provide relief to the economically weaker sections who have been hit the hardest because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The move comes even as the Delhi high court on Thursday warned the North Delhi Municipal Corporation that it will order attaching and selling of the civic body’s assets if the civic body failed to disburse the salaries of its employees in six hospitals.When asked about the fund shortage, Goswami said that several measures have been taken over the years to boost the corporation’s revenue. “Even in the past year, we managed to generate extra revenue of ₹250 crore by introducing different methods such as extending the coverage of property taxpayers, auctioning of parking lots etc. We will manage to earn as much revenue. At this point, providing economic relief to people is of utmost importance,” he said. Among the other decisions taken during the House meeting include waiving off pending property tax for all commercial properties in unauthorised colonies for past few years. “These property owners are required to pay the tax just for the current and the previous financial years while the rest will be waived off. A notification to this regard will be issued soon,” said Goswami.Besides, all residential properties in unauthorised colonies and houses in rural areas (those falling under Lal Dora and Lal Dora Extension) have also been extended relief. “They will just have to pay the property tax for the current financial year,” he added.The corporation has also rolled back the property tax rates hiked for commercial properties last year based on the recommendations of the Municipal Evaluation Committee-III. “This is applicable to all commercial properties under the civic body. They will have to pay the tax as per previously existing rates,” the LOH said.He added that the schemes will help business hit by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-delhi-civic-body-exempts-houses-of-less-than-50sqm-area-from-property-tax-net-101630088370493.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 18-year-old man, underage friend held for choking man and robbing him||Police on Friday said they have arrested an 18-year-old man and apprehended his underage friend for allegedly robbing a 77-year-old man of ₹1,050 after choking him in north-west Delhi’s Jahangirpuri early Thursday. The robbery was captured by a CCTV camera installed near the crime scene. The video footage helped the police identify and nab the suspects. Of the total stolen money, ₹1,000 was recovered from the duo, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani said the elderly man, Shyam Lal, in his complaint told the police that on the night of August 25, he was feeling unwell and went to nearby Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital for a checkup. While returning home around 4am on August 26, the duo choked him and robbed him of his money. The CCTV footage of the incident was later widely circulated on social media. The video shows Lal, who works as a technician in a factory in Ghaziabad, walking alone with a black bag on his shoulder. Soon two people overpower him from behind. One of them chokes him while the other searches his pockets. After robbing the elderly man of his money, the two can be seen fleeing the scene, the police said.“The elderly man went home and told his family about the crime. They brought him to the Jahangirpuri police station, where a case was registered and teams were formed to nab the robbers,” said DCP Rangnani.The investigating team scanned the CCTV cameras installed near the crime scene and found footage of the robbery. The suspects were identified and caught following searches. One of them was identified as Ajay,18, a resident of EE Block in Jahangirpuri. The second suspect is a minor boy aged around 17, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-18-year-old-man-underage-friend-held-for-choking-man-and-robbing-him-101630088310654.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas to reopen with 50% attendance from Aug 31||The Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti on Friday decided to reopen the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) for classes 9 to 12, with up to 50% attendance, from August 31 (Tuesday). All classes will be held while adhering to the Covid-19 protocols in the respective states and union territories where schools have been allowed to reopen, the samiti said. In a statement issued on Friday, the samiti said, “Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti has decided to reopen the JNVs up to 50% capacity, in a phased manner for classes IX to XII (9 to 12), as per the notification of States/UTs which have permitted reopening of schools by following approved SOP for opening schools. Students will be permitted to attend classes and stay in the hostel only with parent consent. The provision of online education will also continue,”“Arrangement is also in place for providing support to ensure mental and physical health and well-being of students through proper counselling,” it added. There are over 660 JNVs across the country run by the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti, an autonomous body under the Union ministry of education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jawahar-navodaya-vidyalayas-to-reopen-with-50-attendance-from-aug-31-101630088070549.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to conduct 2nd fever camp at Agripada school||A day after 22 children including staff members were tested positive for Covid-19 at St Joseph’s School at Agripada, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to set up a fever camp at the school premises next week for the second time to conduct mass testing of the children and staffers.On Monday, four staff members were tested positive, after which 22 members were detected positive on Thursday. The BMC’s E ward has decided to conduct screening in nearby night shelters where people reside in small groups.On Thursday, the BMC in a statement had said that it has sealed St Joseph boarding school and orphanage in Agripada at Mumbai Central. The BMC had on Tuesday conducted a fever camp and tested 95 people for Covid-19. Around 16 children and six staffers were tested positive for Covid prompting the BMC to seal the school. However, schools are shut in the city from March 2020, however, in this school, the orphanage is functional.Manish Valanju, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s E ward, under which this school falls, said, “We will again conduct a fever camp next week, on Monday or Tuesday. We will conduct mass testing at this camp anticipating the onset of symptoms might take that much time.” Valanju added, “We are also going to check night shelters or those places where a small group of people reside. We will do screening and if required, even tests will be conducted at such places.”Meanwhile, according to BMC’s standard operating procedure (SOP), it organises fever camps in areas where they suspect high-risk contacts of patients are likely to be infected, or in localities where a series of cases have been found in clusters in a short period of time. Earlier this month, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal directed the civic administration across all wards to increase contact tracing by 1:20 from 1:15 (trace up to 20 high-risk contacts of one positive case), and also increase the number of tests conducted in the city daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-conduct-2nd-fever-camp-at-agripada-school-101630087952699.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||71% of Mumbai’s greenhouse gas emissions due to electricity usage: Study||A staggering 71% of the city’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions can be attributed to the energy sector, according to a recent analysis by the World Resources Institute (WRI) India. Electricity generated by thermal power plants in peri-urban areas, in turn, consumed within the boundaries of the Mumbai city and suburban districts, emitted a total of 24,235,804 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2Eq) GHGs in 2019. The majority contribution of the energy sector is not surprising, given the high domestic demand for power, along with the fact that 95% of all electricity consumed in Mumbai is entirely coal-based. Of the emissions within this 71% bracket, residential electricity usage makes up 55%, while 45% comes from commercial and institutional sources, and 4% from industries.This is followed by the transport sector, which emitted 82,21,902 tCO2Eq of carbon in 2019, making up 24% of Mumbai’s total GHG emissions. Within this bracket, aviation contributes 45% of all GHG emissions, vehicles 44%, railways 9% and waterways 2%. In keeping with established trends globally, private vehicles, which make up only around 10% of the modal share of transport in Mumbai contributed a disproportionate amount of GHG emissions as compared to mass transit systems like railways (which make up over 40% of the modal split).These details are part of a ‘GHG inventory’ for Mumbai, created using an Excel-based tool developed by the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group, called the City Inventory Reporting and Information System (CIRIS). The GHG inventory is one of the preliminary steps undertaken before drafting a dedicated Climate Action Plan (CAP) for the city, which is now expected to be ready by November. HT was the first to report the development on June 25 this year. WRI has been engaged as a consultant for the same by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai.The remaining 5% of tCO2Eq emissions are contributed by the waste sector, which in 2019 emitted 18,53,741 tCO2Eq carbon. In all, Mumbai’s annual GHG emissions for the year 2019 stood at a total of 34.3 million tonnes of carbon. This does not include other townships and municipalities in the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Per capita, Mumbai emitted 2.67 tonnes of carbon in 2019, which is higher than the national average of around 1.91 million tCO2E2 per person per year.The GHG inventory is essentially a baseline assessment that will help to plan emissions reductions for the near term (2030), medium-term (2040) and long-term (2050). With Mumbai expected to join four other Maharashtra cities in the ‘Race to Zero’ campaign, which was founded last December under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, these targets are ambitious.“By our commitment to Race to Zero, Mumbai will aim to cut carbon dioxide equivalent emissions in half by 2030 and aim to achieve net-zero emissions by the year 2040,” said Saurabh Punamiya, policy and engagements secretary (private) to Aaditya Thackeray, cabinet environment minister.The role of greenhouse gases in global warming is well documented, and there is an increasing amount of meteorological evidence to demonstrate the effects of global warming in Mumbai. According to data from the India Meteorological Department’s automatic weather station in Santacruz, for example, the city has recorded annual mean temperature higher than normal for 14 consecutive years, since the year 2007. The ambient temperature trend analysed by WRI using IMD data over the past 47 years shows a steady increase in nighttime temperatures throughout the year. Seasonally, the winter months of November to February are warming up at a fast pace. This coincides with worrying trends in rainfall patterns. The past 10 years have seen a marked increase in extreme-rainfall-events (EREs), resulting in frequent conditions of waterlogging and flooding. The MCGM’s automatic weather stations (AWS) data suggests that Mumbai sees, on average, six heavy (64.5 – 115.5 mm), five very heavy (115.6 – 204.4 mm), and four extremely heavy (> 204.5 mm) rain events per year, with a marked increase in the number of extremely heavy rain events between 2017 and 2020. Spatial mapping of these weather stations carried out by WRI shows that localised clusters in the western and central areas of the city — Worli-Dadar, Kurla and Andheri — are most vulnerable. Coastal risks due to storm surge, coastal inundation, and sea intrusion are also exacerbated during monsoon months.Independent experts were reluctant to comment on the specifics of WRI’s findings, but said that the data prima facie is not unexpected. Dr. Anjal Prakash, research director at the Indian School of Business (ISB) and a lead author of the ongoing 6th Assessment report of IPCC (where he is involved in the chapter on cities, settlements and key infrastructure), said, “I cannot comment on the data as I have not seen it, but there is no doubt that Mumbai is an extremely vulnerable city. It has so far lacked a coherent strategy and vision to develop climate resilience. It is worrying given the signs we are seeing, including increasing cyclones and more heavier, irregular precipitation. There is a deep uncertainty developing around rainfall and severe weather events. Climate action plans needs to posit solutions to this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/71-of-mumbai-s-greenhouse-gas-emissions-due-to-electricity-usage-study-101630087951470.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Don’t act against private schools over fee issue, Bombay HC directs Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday temporarily restrained the state from taking any coercive steps against private schools, if they refuse to reduce fees for the current academic year by 15% in terms of the August 12 government resolution of the state government.HC also directed the state government to respond to the petition filed by the Association of Private Schools which has challenged the August 12 government resolution which has asked schools to reduce fees for the academic year 2021-22 by 15%. The challenge in the petition has been based on the ground that the government did not amend the Fee Act or pass any ordinance before issuing the GR.The petition is now posted for further hearing on September 20. The division bench of justice R D Dhanuka and justice R I Chagla while hearing a petition by the Association of Indian Schools (ICSE and CBSE-affiliated schools) on August 25 was informed by senior advocate Pravin Samdhani that the petition challenged the validity of the GR on various grounds. He submitted that the state government had exercised its executive powers under Article 162 of the constitution arbitrarily while issuing the GR. As per the GR, the school that had recovered full fees from students had to either refund 15 per cent of the fees or adjust the additional amount recovered in the fees for the next month, quarter or academic year. The GR states that in the event of any dispute, complaints should be raised with the divisional fee regulatory or the divisional grievance redressal committees whose decision will be final. “These orders will apply to schools of all boards and all mediums with immediate effect,” the GR read. The GR has also restrained schools from disallowing students who have not paid their fees either in the physical or online mode nor should they be prevented from attending exams or withholding their results. The GR is, however, not a mandatory directive to the schools. The justification for the reduction in the fees has been justified by the school education department by citing the Supreme Court’s directive to the Rajasthan government in May, this year. The directive stated that as facilities were not used by students, the fees should be reduced by 15 per cent. While issuing the GR the department stated that it had done so as the apex court had asked the Maharashtra government to consider the Rajasthan order as well. Samdhani submitted that payment of fees to be collected by the Education Institutions in Maharashtra were covered under the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011, hence the state government could not issue such a GR contrary to 2011 without making amendments to the Act or coming out with an ordinance. In light of these submissions, Samdhani informed the bench that the petitioners sought to quash and set aside the GR. Additional government pleader N C Walimbe for the school education department sought two weeks to respond to the petition. The court while allowing the request asked the petitioner association to file a rejoinder in a week thereafter. The bench in its order noted, “Till next date, the respondents shall not take any coercive steps against the petitioners for not implementing the impugned GR dated August 12, 2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dont-act-against-private-schools-over-fee-issue-bombay-hc-directs-maharashtra-govt-101630087710436.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC appeals citizens to get tested amid fear of 3rd Covid wave||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday appealed to citizens that they should get tested immediately, in case they turn symptomatic or come in contact with any Covid positive patient. The civic body wants to be cautious as the threat of the third wave of the pandemic looms large, said civic officials.The BMC has appealed to citizens that they should get themselves tested at 250 civic-run centres where free testing camps are being conducted.In a statement issued on Friday, the BMC said, “Citizens should get tested for Covid-19 immediately if they come in contact with Covid infected patients or find any symptoms in themselves. Free Covid test facility on behalf of BMC is available at more than 250 centres in the city.”As per predictions of experts and authorities, the third wave of Covid-19 cases is likely to be recorded anytime between September and November, during the festival season, civic officials pointed out.Further, to handle the third wave of Covid in a better way, the BMC plans to increase testing figures from the daily 30-35 thousand tests to around 40-50 thousand tests. For example, on Thursday, the BMC conducted 35,870 tests in which 362 cases were detected positive which means a positivity rate of 1.00%.Until now, 9,096,263 tests have been conducted in the city and the overall positivity rate is 8.16%. Mumbai was the first city in the country to liberalise testing for all citizens irrespective of being symptomatic or not on July 7, 2021.Meanwhile, on Friday, 362 cases were reported followed by five deaths taking the tally to 742,763 cases and 15,968 deaths. The city’s recovery rate is 97.11% and the mortality rate is 2.14%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-appeals-citizens-to-get-tested-amid-fear-of-3rd-covid-wave-101630087350638.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 4,654 new cases, 170 deaths||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 4,654 fresh infections pushing the tally to 6,447,442. The tally of active cases slightly increased to 51,574 as 3,301 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, the Central government has suggested the state to impose restrictions in the districts where test positivity is higher during upcoming festivals such as Dahi Handi and Ganesh Chaturthi.The state records 170 deaths on Thursday, taking the toll to 136,900. Pune reported the highest toll with 57 deaths. Of them, 15 were found in the district and the rest 42 were in the city. It was followed by Satara with 29 fatalities.Despite relaxations granted by the state government, no significant change is observed in the state yet. There are predictions that the third wave may hit the state by November or December and the state is preparing for it accordingly. There are 10 districts — Solapur, Satara, Sangli, Ahmednagar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur, Beed, Osmanabad and Pune — where growth rate is still higher than the average growth rate of the state, according to the data compiled by the state health department.The average growth rate of the state is 0.07%.“Even though the trajectory of daily new cases has shown a decline over the last month, there are some districts in Maharashtra which are showing early signs of an upsurge in Covid-19 cases and test positivity… Given mass events and public gathering expected during celebrations of upcoming festivals (including Dahi Handi and Ganesh Utsav) in Maharashtra, it is advised that the state may consider imposing and enforcing local restrictions in public observation of these festivals and mass gatherings,” stated a letter written Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health and family welfare on August 27.Maharashtra is the state with the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Now, it also has maximum Delta plus variant cases.“Once the second wave is gone, it takes another 100 days for the virus to get smarter which subsequently turns into another wave unless there is no new variant of concern that comes up. It is unlikely that there will be any other wave that will hit the state before November or December unless there is an outbreak of a novel variant of concern or interest,” said a senior health official, wishing not to be named.On Thursday, the state health minister Rajesh Tope said they are making all the preparations considering the predictions about the third wave. “We will be appointing 1,200 doctors by September 5. The per-day oxygen supply is being increased from 1,200 metric tonnes to 2,000 metric tonnes. We have purchased 1,000 ambulances and have taken a ₹5,000 crore loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for the construction of rural hospitals,” said Tope. “We had 0.65 million active patients during the second wave and going by the prediction the number of active patients will go up to 1.3 million active patients and are ramping up the infrastructure accordingly,” he added.On Sunday, Mumbai clocked 362 cases and reported a total of 742,763 cases to date. It also recorded five fatalities taking the toll of 15,968.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 207,954 samples and had a positivity rate of 2.23%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 12.11%, according to the data issued by the state health department.The state also vaccinated 978,722 doses on Friday and has administered a total of 56,324,037 doses to date, according to the data available on the Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-4-654-new-cases-170-deaths-101630086990464.html
27-08-2021||Other||Paras Hospital to start key lung care facility||PATNAPatna’s Paras HMRI Hospital, which observed its eighth anniversary on Thursday, is going to start Bihar’s first Extra Corporial Memberane Oxygenation (ECMO) service from third week of September.“This will be of great help to people going out for lungs treatment.,”said Parantap Das Gupta, unit head of Paras HMRI hospital.The hospital is also starting a three-year nursing course soon.At present, Paras is the lone private hospital in the state capital to have its own oxygen storage tank. During the Covid-19 pandemic, more than 50% of its beds were converted into Covid-19 critical beds overnight, hospital officials said.“When there was shortage of oxygen all around during the second wave of Covid-19, our hospital assured the proper supply of oxygen to all patients undergoing treatment. This would not have been possible without the joint efforts of the government and district administration,” said a member of hospital management, adding that the hospital has vaccinated more than 15,000 people so far against Covid-19The hospital started functioning in Bihar in 2013. Paras Healthcare has a total of eight hospitals in north and east India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paras-hospital-to-start-key-lung-care-facility-101630084830299.html
27-08-2021||Other||Four killed as bus rams into truck in UP’s Etawah||Four people, including a one-year-old boy, were killed and 30 others injured when the UPSRTC bus they were travelling in rammed into a stationary truck near Etawah on Friday, said the police. Seven of the injured were in critical condition and have been referred to Saifai Medical University hospital, chief medical superintendent of Etawah district hospital CS Arya said and added that five teams of doctors and para medic staff were treating other injured passengers. SP rural Omveer Singh said the bus carrying about 50 passengers was heading to Agra from Kanpur. “While it was passing through Bakewar area it rammed into a stationary truck. The front portion of the bus was damaged completely because of the impact,” he said. The locals rushed to the site and rescued the passengers trapped inside, he said. The deceased have been identified as one-year-old Aaditya whose parents were from Aligarh, Nirpat of Hamirpur, Amar Madhukar of Dhaulpur. One woman deceased has not been identified yet, the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-killed-as-bus-rams-into-truck-in-up-s-etawah-101630084770420.html
27-08-2021||Patna||Missing youth’s body recovered from pond, six friends held||The police on Friday recovered the bullet-riddled body of a missing youth from a pond in the district, officials said, adding that six of his friends were held in this connection.Aman Kumar alias Bittu (22) went missing on August 21, and a missing complaint was lodged on August 23. The cause of the murder was established supremacy among friends, police said. Preliminary investigation also found that Bittu was an alleged drug addict. According to station house officer (SHO) of Bypass police station, Sanjit Kumar, Bittu left his house around 8pm on August 21 for a friend’s birthday party, but he did not return. “His father lodged a missing case. However, it converted into a kidnapping case on August 24 when his father made named accused in the FIR,” he said.Police later took five of his friends into custody for interrogation, during which they revealed that they celebrated a birthday party and consumed drugs. They killed Biitu after pumping five bullets into his body, the SHO said. “They then packed the body into a gunny bag and threw it into a pond in front of Hanuman temple under Bypass police station,” he said.The body was sent to the NMCH for autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/missing-youth-s-body-recovered-from-pond-six-friends-held-101630084650208.html
27-08-2021||Other||4 die in septic tank||BETTIAHFour people died inside a newly constructed septic tank at a village in Bihar’s East Champaran district on Thursday evening, an official said.According to police, the incident occurred at village Kumahar Toli under Ahirauliya panchayat of Kotwa block around 6.30 pm when Amit Kumar, 6, fell into it accidentally. “Four people who rushed to rescue the child entered the tank and fell unconscious,” said Nitin Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Kotwa police station. They were pulled out of the septic tank and taken to a local hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. “Two others died in the course of the treatment,” said Sanjay Sah, whose wife is the village head of Ahirauliya panchayat. The deceased have been identified as Raju Pandit (35), Bigu Sah (40), Rahul Kumar (25) and Mukesh Kumar (24), all residents of Kumahar Toli.The condition of Amit Kumar (6) stated to be serious. He is presently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Motihari. Bodies have been sent for autopsy, said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-die-in-septic-tank-101630084589629.html
27-08-2021||Other||Bihar plans PG teaching in every district||PATNAAfter announcing its plan to open higher secondary schools in every panchayat and a degree college in every subdivision, the Bihar government now plans start post-graduate teaching in at least one college in each district, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said on Friday. The move comes in view of growing demand and the need to boost the gross enrolment ratio (GER), which continues to be very low in the state at 14.4, nearly half the national average.Choudhary said the government would welcome proposals from interested colleges if they are routed through the universities concerned with their recommendation and give them nod on a priority basis.“There have been a lot of demands in this regard to chief minister Nitish Kumar as well as to the education department,” he said.The minister said his department recently got proposals from two districts for starting PG education — one at BSS College (Supaul) and another at KKM College (Jamui). “We have decided to give approval. There are 10 districts where PG teaching is not available in any college. If the proposals come from the remaining eight districts through a proper channel, we will certainly like to approve them. With incentives, girls’ enrolment has increased manifold at the secondary, higher secondary and graduation level and they need institutions nearby to go further,“ he said.However, the task is not easy, considering the low number of colleges per lakh population in the state, huge vacancies, poor grading by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) due to lack of proper infrastructure. The shortage of teachers is particularly acute in places away from main towns and the efforts to rope in guest teachers has not been very successful. Besides, the academic sessions continue to be late in most universities. Even in the universities where PG teaching is on, the semester system is not fully in place while at the undergraduate level, it is totally missing in state universities. As per the 2019 report of the All India Survey for higher education (AISHE), Bihar still has just seven colleges per lakh population with an average enrolment of 1,703, while the number of colleges per lakh population in Andhra Pradesh is 51, Karnataka (59), Kerala (48), Rajasthan (37), Maharashtra (34), 31 in Gujarat and UP and 30 in West Bengal with much lower average enrolment.The minister said those colleges where Honours level education was on and the teacher-pupil ratio was 1:30 could start PG teaching. “For further creation of posts at the PG level, the government will go by the recommendation of the competent authority,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-plans-pg-teaching-in-every-district-101630084530261.html
27-08-2021||Other||Floods, Covid turn Bihar’s milk surplus into deficit||PATNAThe floods and the coronavirus pandemic have dealt a double blow to farmers, affecting not only their crops but also milk production, turning back Bihar from a milk surplus to a milk deficit state, officials have said. The average daily milk procurement of the Bihar State Milk Co-operative Federation Ltd (COMFED), the largest milk federation in eastern India, is down 18% since the pre-Covid period of 2019-20 and 23% as compared to 2018-19. In numbers, COMFED’s average daily fresh milk procurement is now down to 14 lakh litres from 17 lakh litres in 2019-20 and 18.20 lakh litres in 2018-19, when Bihar was a milk surplus state, said officials requesting anonymity.In fact, Bihar had to source milk from Karnataka and Odisha last year to bridge its demand supply gap.Dwindling collectionIn terms of month-wise comparison, the early floods in June have led to 12.5% shortfall in COMFED’s overall milk procurement as compared to the same month last year. However, the shortfall is 22% during July this year as compared to April 2020, the first month after the March 25 lockdown, when supplies peaked to 18 lakh litres per day. The closure of sweet shops during lockdown had left farmers with no option but to sell their surplus milk to cooperatives, said industry sources. Gradually, as migrants began to return home during the pandemic, the farmers were unable to spare as much milk as they used to earlier and the supply to cooperatives began to plummet. The early floods in 15 of 38 districts of Bihar this year have contributed to a sharp decline in milk procurement in the flood-hit districts. Muzaffarpur suffered the highest 56% dip. The negative growth varies between 20% and 54% in Munger, Lakhisarai, Madhubani, Samastipur, East Champaran (Motihari), Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Darbhanga, Khagaria, Kishanganj and Katihar districts, said officials familiar with the matter. Similarly, milk production had dropped by 20% in Patna, Magadh and Saran divisions. Areas of concernThe floods this year have not allowed the cattle to graze. Besides, most fodder and cattle feed, available with the farmers, have also gone waste in floods, which have led to the death of 43 people and affected a population of 30.62 lakh in 2,104 villages. With cattle already under stress, standing in floodwaters, their yield has gone down. Cows, which used to give 12 litres of milk, are now giving an average six litres a day. What has not helped the farmers is the inward migration during the pandemic, lack of cattle vaccination and de-worming for the last two years, leading to death of many cattle, and inadequate provision of fodder by the government. For farmers, the cost of milk production has gone up with increase in dry fodder price from ₹2 per kg in 2010 to ₹6 in 2020. In flood-hit districts, it had shot up to ₹15-16 a kg. Similarly, price of green fodder had doubled to ₹2 per kg and that of cattlefeed from ₹12 to ₹24 per kg during the same period. The price of diesel has also more than doubled from ₹36 a litre in 2010. Farmers’ demandThe farmers have been pressing for government-managed outlet selling dry fodder at ₹5 per kg, as prevailing in dry fodder surplus districts. They are also demanding increase in the price of milk and reduction in cattlefeed prices. The COMFED last revised milk prices by an average ₹2 per litre in February this year, with its 1 litre pouch of Sudha cow milk costing ₹43, as against some other reputed brands selling at ₹45. Despite adverse conditions, government intervention has been minimal, especially in terms of providing cattlefeed and milk subsidy to farmers between 2020 and 2021. It has also failed to arrange adequate dry fodder and cattlefeed at equitable rate. Vinod Singh Gunjiyal, director, animal and fisheries resources, did not respond to phone calls and text messages. While the annualised average procurement has gone down, the sale of milk has increased by 13% — up from 15 lakh litres a day in 2019-20 to the current daily average of 17 lakh litres. To meet the demand and supply gap of fresh milk, the COMFED uses nearly 20% to 30% reconstituted milk or milk powder, a standard practice in the industry. “The shortfall in our milk procurement is primarily due to floods and the return of the migrants during the pandemic, as a result of which consumption of milk in rural areas has increased. We are meeting the shortfall in procurement of fresh milk from the milk powder produced and stored during the period of milk glut. This is the standard industry norm,” said Shikha Srivastava, managing director, COMFED. “The cycle of hitting the trough from a peak comes every 3-5 years and is not unique to Bihar. Many other states are also facing a decline in the procurement of fresh milk. We are still trying our best to facilitate milk procurement even from flood-hit areas by arranging boats to ferry supplies. We hope to get over the recession soon,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/floods-covid-turn-bihar-s-milk-surplus-into-deficit-101630084410622.html
27-08-2021||Other||Soren pitches J’khand’s electric vehicle policy before industry leaders||RANCHIJharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren Friday met top leaders of big corporate houses in New Delhi and urged them to invest in the state, officials said. Soren is in the national capital to attend the two-day investors’ meet organised by the industry department of the Jharkhand government. Officials said the CM met representatives of TATA group, Hyundai Motors, Honda, Maruti Suzuki and others. “The meeting was focused on the draft Jharkhand Electric Vehicle Policy 2021. It was organised to seek feedback from prospective investors on the policy and showcase the opportunities available in the sector at the already operational Adityapur auto cluster and Adityapur electronic manufacturing cluster,” an official said. During the meeting, industry secretary Pooja Singhal briefed prospective investors on the scope of electric vehicle sector in Jharkhand, the state’s vision for this sector and the government’s proposed plan to establish a dedicated cluster.The proposed electric vehicle policy aims to provide 100% exemption in stamp duty and registration fee to the companies. Also, companies which promise to invest in the electric vehicle sector within the first two years since the launch of EV policy will be provided land at 50% subsidy, besides 100% GST exemption for MSMEs for seven years and large and mega-scale industries for nine and 13 years. “Additionally, we are proposing 100% exemption from vehicle registration fees and road tax,” Singhal said. CM Soren said the state government would add more incentives if members of SC/ST community are given preference in.employment. “We have a big workforce waiting for the opportunity. We have abundant amenities in our state. In Jharkhand, a substantial part of the population is from SC/ST communities. If they are employed, we will add more incentives to the policy. They are very hardworking people and will get a chance to move with you. With your support, our state can touch heights. The proposed policy has been presented in front of you. Electric vehicles are the future,” he said at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/soren-pitches-j-khand-s-electric-vehicle-policy-before-industry-leaders-101630084350108.html
27-08-2021||Other||Dhanbad judge death: No clue yet if accident or a plot, CBI tells HC||RANCHIThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the death of Dhanbad additional judge who died after being hit by an auto rickshaw on July 28 this year, informed the Jharkhand high court on Friday they are still probing if it was an accident or a conspiracy, officials familiar with the matter said. The probe agency on Friday submitted its weekly report before the division bench of chief justice Dr. Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad of Jharkhand HC. The CBI also informed the court that they are conducting a narco test on the two accused, Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma, who had been arrested earlier. The court then directed the central agency to ensure proper security of the two accused, and if required, use air travel for their transport, sources said. Both the Supreme Court and the Jharkhand High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident, which was captured in a CCTV camera footage showing a vehicle seemingly swerving deliberately to hit the judge, who was out on his morning walk, and speeding away. The apex court directed the central agency to file a status report every week with the high court.Additional district judge Uttam Anand was brought dead to the hospital, about an hour after he was hit by a vehicle near Randhir Verma square in Dhanbad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhanbad-judge-death-no-clue-yet-if-accident-or-a-plot-cbi-tells-hc-101630084169651.html
27-08-2021||Other||Mutilated body of CPI-ML activist found in field||ARAMutilated body of a CPI-ML activist, who has been missing since Wednesday, was found in a field at his village in Bhojpur district on Friday, the police said. The victim was identified as 60-year-old Nemu Lal Manjhi of Chilhar village situated under Azimabad police station limits.According to locals, his face was disfigured and the body bore blisters indicating some hot water or acid may have been be thrown on his body. Local CPI-ML activists alleged fingers were also chopped off.As the news spread, a large number of CPI-ML activists, led by Agiaon MLA and CPI-ML leader Manoj Manzil, blocked the Sakkadi-Nasriganj road near Kirkiri Bazar for hours. The MLA said the blockade was lifted after the police assurance of a speedy probe and arrest, besides action against station house officer of Azimabad police station Anshu Kumari, who, they said, was informed when the victim went missing. The SHO declined to comment. An FIR (first information report) has been lodged against three people on a statement of the victim’s wife, police said. Bhojpur’s superintendent of police Vinay Tiwari said the had been sent for autopsy at Ara sadar hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mutilated-body-of-cpi-ml-activist-found-in-field-101630083870373.html
27-08-2021||Other||FYJC admissions: College cut-offs released, first merit list out||PUNE The first merit list for the First Year Junior College (FYJC) online centralised admissions was declared on Friday by the director of education (secondary and higher secondary), Pune, along with the college cut-off percentages. While the junior college allotment list for admissions on display including the cut-off list of colleges was declared online, students who have been allotted colleges are been instructed to complete the admission procedure. In this first regular CAP round, a total of 86,482 seats are available, for which 38,858 students of 56,767 applicants were allotted a college. The remaining 17,909 students who had applied for admission in this round did not meet the cut-offs of their chosen colleges. Of the 38,858 allotted students, 22,665 students were given the college of their first preference, 6,147 students were given the college of their second preference and 3,401 students were given the college of their third preference. For this academic year a total of 78,745 students registered for the class 11 admissions. Despite high a passing percentage for class 10 this year, students registrations were low for the available 111,205 seats. The Bombay HC earlier this month cancelled the Common Entrance Test (CET) which was going to be conducted on August 21 for Class 11 admissions.“Students who have got the college of their first preference must take admission, if they don’t they will remain out of the admission process till the three regular rounds happen. And when the special rounds will start they need to fill up the consent form and then get back into admission process. Now students need to complete the admission process by confirming the admissions,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune, who is in-charge of the admission process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fyjc-admissions-college-cut-offs-released-first-merit-list-out-101630081949370.html
27-08-2021||Bhopal||'Classes 9-12 to function on all working days': Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday announced a revised work schedule for students in classes 9-12, who, he said will now go to school on all working days, instead of the earlier arrangement of two days a week. The decision was taken at a meeting between Chouhan, state education minister Inder Singh Parmar, and senior officials to review functioning of schools after the resumption of physical classes in late July and first week of August.“Earlier, classes 9-12 were working only twice a week. These will now function on all working days. We will consider the current situation (of the coronavirus pandemic) while deciding on resuming offline lectures for classes 1-5, next week,” a rough translation of Chouhan’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.प्रदेश में आगामी एक सितंबर से कक्षा 6 से 12 के सभी शासकीय और अशासकीय विद्यालय 50% विद्यार्थी क्षमता के साथ प्रतिदिन प्रारंभ हो सकेंगे। इस व्यवस्था में अभिभावकों की सहमति अनिवार्य होगी। स्कूल प्रबंधन और अभिभावक इस दौरान #COVID19 प्रोटोकॉल का पालन अनिवार्य रूप से करें।In fact, from September 1, classes 6-12 in all government and non-government schools will function every day, Chouhan further shared. “These will take place at 50 per cent student strength. For this, permission from parents is mandatory. School management and parents are requested to strictly follow all Covid-19 protocols,” he said.Also Read | MP govt contemplating to reopen schools for Classes 6 to 8 from next monthSchools in Madhya Pradesh reopened for classes 11 and 12 on July 26, while on-campus lectures for students in standards 9 and 10 resumed from August 5.Also Read | Covid-19: Schools in Madhya Pradesh to reopen for classes 11 and 12 on July 26With the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic declining, schools have reopened in most states, or will reopen in the coming days. On Friday, the Delhi government, too, announced a phased reopening of schools in the Capital starting September 1.Also Read | Delhi schools to reopen for higher classes from September 1Madhya Pradesh’s cumulative Covid-19 infection tally has risen to 792,136 with 16 fresh cases on the day, while the total toll is unchanged at 10,516, according to a health department bulletin. Overall recoveries, meanwhile, are at 781,538 with active cases at just 82.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/schools-for-classes-9-12-will-now-open-on-all-working-days-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-chouhan-101630080545211.html
27-08-2021||Other||Security beefed up in Karnal amid protest call by farmers ahead of BJP meeting||Security has been beefed up near the venue of BJP state-level meeting in Karnal slated to be held on Saturday as members of farmer unions have threatened to hold protest.As per information, all key leaders of the ruling BJP, including chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, cabinet ministers, MPs, MLAs and district presidents are likely to attend the meeting at a private hotel located on railway road in Karnal.As per party leaders, the meeting was called for preparations of the upcoming panchayat elections in state. The meeting will start at 10am and will last till 3pm.BJP Karnal district president Yogender Rana said the meeting was called for preparation of Panchyati Raj and municipal elections.He said the chief minister will inaugurate some developmental projects for Karnal.On threat of protest by farmers, he said this is the party’s internal meeting and nobody should object it.Soon after getting information about the meeting, members of different farm unions also held a meeting in Karnal and decided to protest the visit of BJP leaders.Farm leaders have given a call to all farmers to reach Dera Kar Sewa at around 9am from where they will make strategy for the protest.“The CM and other BJP leaders will be in Karnal on Saturday. I request all farmers to reach here as we will show them black flags on call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha,” said BKU (Charuni) Karnal leader Jagdip Singh Aulakh.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia reviewed the security arrangements in city and the venue of the meeting. The DC said the administration will hold a meeting with farm leaders to avoid any law and order situation.The SP said everybody has a right to protest peacefully but nobody will be allowed to disrupt law and order.Heavy police deployment and barricading will be done on the railway road to stop farmers at a specific distance from the venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-beefed-up-in-karnal-amid-protest-call-by-farmers-ahead-of-bjp-meeting-101630081109729.html
27-08-2021||Other||Aug 11-26: 66% of Covid deaths in state from 3 districts||PUNE Three districts in Maharashtra account for 66 per cent of the deaths related to Covid-19 in the state, as per the state health department. This figure comes from data that covers the period from August 11 to August 26. The total Covid death toll in the state for the time period is 2,315, of which the three districts, Pune, Satara and Kolhapur, have together reported 1,536 fatalities, which accounts of 66.34% of the overall death toll. However, district officials state that this due to a reconciliation of the death toll based on late reporting of numbers by private hospitals.Dr Subhash Chavan, a civil surgeon in Satara district, said, “The numbers may seem higher than they actually are and this is because of the reconciliation of the number of deaths due to Covid-19. Some private hospitals delay updating the numbers. Some have delayed entering data since January. Any strict action, like cancelling the licence would be too harsh, especially since we need the support of private hospitals in case there is a third wave. However, we have told them to enter the pending numbers as soon as possible.”Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer said, “The state has been reconciling the data for the past few months now. Pune continues to remain a district of concern because the rural areas are driving up the numbers. For the past three months the state health department has been reconciling the deaths pending to be updated, because of the burden on the staff or due to other practical reasons.” In the other districts, Ahmednagar’s CFR is at 2.1%, Solapur’s at 2.6%, Sangli’s at 2.7% and Ratnagiri at 3%. The cumulative CFR for the state as of Friday is 2.1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aug-11-26-66-of-covid-deaths-in-state-from-3-districts-101630080869220.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||C-sections, trauma care hit at manpower starved rural hospitals in Maharashtra: Survey||Routine healthcare services like cesarean sections, trauma care and other surgeries took a severe hit in rural Maharashtra during the pandemic, according to a survey by non-profit Jan Arogya Abhiyan (JAA). The result released on Friday showed at least 11 hospitals that were surveyed did not treat accident cases due to Covid, 22 rural and sub-district hospitals had stopped performing C-section procedures and 12 had stopped performing other surgical procedures. Cataract operations, minor surgeries and sterilisation procedures were postponed indefinitely as hospitals immersed into Covid care. Also, since the hospitals were already under-resourced, they could not reserve the capacity and continue routine procedures. The unavailability of services in public health facilities forced patients to go to private hospitals. This led to huge expenses and debts for many families, the report observed. Many hospitals in the state- public and private- had halted non-Covid and non-emergency services due to the fear of infection among patients. Patients too preferred delaying their treatments or opting for non-Covid facilities due to the same fear. The survey was conducted in July through a network of JAA activists and volunteers who interviewed hospital staff including doctors, nurses and administrators. The survey covered 122 Primary Health Centres (PHCs), 24 rural hospitals and 14 sub-district hospitals in Maharashtra’s 17 districts- Akola, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Osmanabad, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Thane, Nandurbar, Parbhani, Palghar, Pune, Beed, Yavatmal, Solapur and Hingoli.According to the report, there was only one permanent medical officer in 51% of the surveyed PHCs, which meant that one doctor catered to a population of nearly 30,000 people. Posts of specialist doctors were vacant in 46% of rural hospitals and 30% of sub-district hospitals. For instance, 81% posts for psychiatrists, 63% posts for surgeons, 47% posts for anaesthetists, 26% posts for gynaecologists, 23% posts for paediatricians and 47% posts for dentists were lying vacant in rural hospitals. “Non-covid patients have suffered tremendously during the pandemic,” said health activist Girish Bhave of JAA. “The severe lack of manpower and the overall under-resourced healthcare facilities made the situation worse, and the infrastructure fell severely short,” said Bhave. He cited the example of Kerala which had 1.1 beds per 1,000 population while Maharashtra had only 0.4 beds per 1,000. JAA member Dr Madhavi Agashe said that children’s programmes also took a severe hit as manpower was diverted into Covid care. Based on their findings, the JAA activists have recommended regularising contractual posts in health care, increasing the number of sub-centres, PHCs and rural hospitals, increasing the bed strength to two beds per 1,000 population and doubling the public health budget and spending. The activists also said that the Maharashtra government should resist any move to privatise public health facilities. A senior doctor attached to the Indian Medical Council said that doctors avoid serving in rural areas due to lack of infrastructure in the government facilities. “If there is no equipment, no operation theatre or other important things in the hospital, what can a doctor do? Specialists require a certain set up to practice and that is absent in rural facilities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/csections-trauma-care-hit-at-manpower-starved-rural-hospitals-in-maharashtra-survey-101630080390028.html
27-08-2021||Other||Deadline for objections to PMRDA’s draft DP extended till Sept 15||PUNE The Maharashtra government has extended the time limit for filing of suggestions and objections on the draft development plan published by the Pune Metropolitain Region Development Authority (PMRDA), by 15 days. Earlier, the deadline was till September 1. The state will now accept suggestions and objections till September 15.PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase confirmed that the state government on Friday allowed an extension of the deadline.PMRDA published the draft development plan for the PMRDA region and the 23 villages recently merged into the PMC limits.Citizens demanded more time to study and understand the draft plan, apart from facing issues with being able to download it from the PMRDA website.BJP leaders Ujwal Keskar and Suhas Joshi made a written request to the state government and the PMRDA asking for an extension of the deadline.Keskar said, “Considering all these issues, we demanded an extension.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deadline-for-objections-to-pmrda-s-draft-dp-extended-till-sept-15-101630080269778.html
27-08-2021||Other||DIAT’s the way forward: def min Rajnath Singh in Pune||PUNE Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) in Pune must get its recognition as an institute of ‘ “national importance” for its noteworthy research and academic contribution to the nation. Singh was addressing students and researchers at the DIAT in Pune on Friday. He further said that DIAT was working to provide a pool of technologists for indigenisation of defence manufacturing in the country.“DIAT is playing a key role in identifying technologies for the future and training manpower. It is a matter of great pride that DIAT has been contributing towards nation building by conducting advanced courses in science and technology related to defence and national security,” he said.DIAT is a deemed university of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Singh was on a day-long visit to the institute. He later visited the headquarters of the Southern Command and the Army Sports Institute (ASI).Singh said, “The vision of our PM Narendra Modi is to make our nation self-reliant – ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Towards this, we have initiated several steps for indigenisation of defence technologies and manufacturing in the country. These initiatives require a large pool of technologists armed with skills of future warfare.”He expressed happiness that DIAT has taken a proactive role in this direction by opening new schools in the areas of Quantum Technology, Robotics and Automation and Defence Technology. “Such augmentation with eminent professors of Indian origin and collaboration with recognised foreign institutes will transform the institute into a frontier technology centre,” he said.The defence minister also witnessed some demonstrations of these technologies.He expressed satisfaction that DIAT has been conducting online certificate courses for the benefit of young engineering professionals in Artificial Intelligence and Cybersecurity. “It is heartening to note that 1,500 young professionals have already been trained by DIAT,” he added. The defence minister also addressed DIAT faculty, students and staff. Singh said, “DIAT has conducted several international workshops. Armed Forces and DRDO Scientists are continuously updated through such workshops and getting regular doctoral and post-graduate degrees from this University. DIAT faculty members are pioneers in their domain and I am also informed that three professors of DIAT are ranked in the top two per cent in the world in their fields. I congratulate them and wish many more achieve this distinction.”Singh also inaugurated a newly constructed married accommodation for PhD scholars and international students, including visiting faculty, at the campus.Singh praised DIAT and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for helping the country during the pandemic. DIAT acquired nine patents related to Covid-19. Secretary, Department of Defence Research and Development and Chairman, DRDO, G Satheesh Reddy, DIAT vice-chancellor Dr C P Ramanarayanan, senior faculty members, senior civil and military officials and scholars were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/diats-the-way-forward-def-min-rajnath-singh-in-pune-101630080269175.html
27-08-2021||Other||Teaching, non-teaching staff in district to be given priority for full vaccination: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Considering the possibility of reopening schools, the district administration has decided to prioritise vaccination for teaching and non-teaching staff. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar made the announcement after the weekly Covid review meeting in Pune on Friday. Pawar also expressed optimism that the number of administered vaccine doses would increase in the coming months. “Decision regarding reopening of the schools will be taken by CM after consulting with the task force. But today, we decided that teaching and non-teaching staff in Pune district, would be given priority for full vaccination. Because when the state government decides to reopen schools, the staff should be fully vaccinated,” said Ajit Pawar. ast week, the district administration had decided that due to a shortage of vaccines, priority would be given to the beneficiaries of the second dose. Pawar mentioned that the Serum Institute has increased production of the vaccine and the supply is expected to increase in upcoming months“Adar Poonawalla has informed us that the production of vaccines has been increased. So the demand for vaccine doses could be fulfilled. We were hoping that the number of vaccine doses would be more in August than July. It will go higher in September. Our aim is that before the third wave, the maximum population should be vaccinated,” said Ajit Pawar. Pawar also warned of the threat of the increase in Covid cases in the light of upcoming festivities. “In the relaxation order issued it has been mentioned clearly that when the daily requirement of medical oxygen surpasses 700 MT, restrictions would be imposed. Currently, 200 MT medical oxygen is used daily in the state. As Pune has big hospitals, the requirement of oxygen is higher. It is around 100 MT now,” informed Ajit Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teaching-non-teaching-staff-in-district-to-be-given-priority-for-full-vaccination-ajit-pawar-101630079909144.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Third wave: Mandatory testing of all close contacts of Covid patients in Mumbai||With the gradual rise in the daily count of Covid-19 cases, the doubling rate has plunged by 232 days in the past 10 days — from 2,057 on August 18 to 1,825 on August 27 — indicating the start of a third wave. Against this backdrop, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has changed its contact tracing policy. Ward officers have been instructed to mandatorily test all close contacts of Covid positive patients immediately to avoid transmission of the infection amid relaxations in Covid-19 restrictions.As HT reported on August 11, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal along with Kakani, in a review meeting of the health department, decided to increase their contact tracing from 10 to 20 per infected patient. However, this week, the target of contact tracing was increased to 25 per infected patient.The city has been witnessing a steady rise in cases for the past few days. On August 17, Mumbai had reported 198 cases and 283 infections were registered on August 18 and 19. The next day, 322 cases were recorded. On August 21, 259 new patients were identified. The following day, 294 cases were recorded, which plunged to 226 the next day. On August 24, the daily count rose to 270, which surged to 343 cases on August 25. On Thursday, Mumbai reported 397 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily count since July 28, when the daily count was 404.As per BMC data, the number of daily tests dropped from over 50,000 to around 30,000 a few days last week. With the reopening of establishments like shops, hotels and malls, BMC has instructed the ward officers to test all the close contacts of the infected patients immediately, even if they don’t show symptoms.“So far, we used to test close contacts after 4-5 days if they develop any symptoms. Till then, they were being instructed to get home quarantined. But now, we have instructed ward officers to test them immediately, without any delay,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. “The movement of the people has increased with the relaxation. So, we don’t want any asymptomatic patient to infect others in the crowd,” he addedDuring the outbreak of the second wave, the civic body was blamed for inadequate contact tracing. Though the Union Health Ministry advised tracking 30 close contacts per patient, between January and February, the civic body traced only 4-5 close contacts for every patient.“With the rise of Delta Plus variants, along with vaccination, BMC needs to focus on contact tracing. Or else, it can lead to an influx of another pandemic wave,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, founder of the NGO — Doctors for You.But civic officials often hit a roadblock in contact tracing due to improper information shared by the patients.“Many times, infected patients don’t reveal the names of their close contacts. In fact, some families don’t even inform their buildings or societies about their infection. These problems are most common in non-slum areas,” said Dr Bhagyashree Kapse, ward officer, R-Central that covers Borivli.Also, instruction has been given to keep an eye on families and societies where more than one Covid-19 patient is recorded. “If any family or society is recording high transmission rate, we are sending their samples for genome sequencing to find out any possible infection from Delta or Delta plus variants,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/third-wave-mandatory-testing-of-all-close-contacts-of-covid-patients-in-mumbai-101630079669711.html
27-08-2021||Other||Ex-MLA Zakir Hussain is Haryana Waqf board administrator||Former three-time MLA Zakir Hussain on Friday took over as the administrator of the Haryana Waqf board at its office in Ambala Cantonment till the constitution of the new board.As per a statement issued, Hussain, who is also the national vice-president of BJP minority cell, thanked chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and said he will leave no stone unturned to uplift their living standards and in service of the people of Haryana, especially those from Mewat.“His father and former parliamentarian Tayyab Hussain remained the chairman of Punjab Waqf board (which comprised Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh) for 13 years (1965-1978),” the statement added.The leader was earlier associated with BSP and INLD and had switched over to the BJP before the 2019 state elections. He was the party’s face in Nuh constituency but lost to Congress’ Ahtab Ahmed.On Thursday, an order was issued by additional chief secretary (administration of justice department) Rajeev Arora, about his appointment. The decision was taken by the state government while implementing an August 12 order by the Punjab and Haryana high court.“…the court quashed the notification dated March 6, 2020, whereby the Haryana Waqf board was constituted. The Board is unable to perform the duties imposed upon it,” the order reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmla-zakir-hussain-is-haryana-waqf-board-administrator-101630079550156.html
27-08-2021||Other||Congress retains Ramesh Bagwe as Pune city chief||PUNE The Congress party retained Ramesh Bagwe as its city chief for one more term. Seven members from the Congress’ city unit are appointed to the state committee.With the municipal elections on the horizon and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) both announcing new city chiefs recently.The Congress party late on Thursday announced Bagwe as its city unit president. Bagwe is a former minister of state for home and ex MLA from the Cantonment assembly constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-retains-ramesh-bagwe-as-pune-city-chief-101630079369141.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||NITI Aayog cautions Haryana govt about unpredictable nature of Covid||The NITI Aayog on Friday advised the Haryana government to ensure that people restrict celebrations during the upcoming festive season to their homes in order to prevent the possibility of the third wave of Covid-19.Dr Vinod K Paul, member of NITI Aayog, reviewed the preparations being made to deal with the possibilities of the third wave. He said it can be prevented if people adhere to Covid-safety protocol.Dr Paul said people of Haryana should not become complacent, especially during the festive season in view of the unpredictable behaviour of the virus.Haryana additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora apprised the NITI Aayog of the preparations being made. Arora said with the upcoming festive season, there is a possibility of a sudden spike in Covid cases and preparations are being made to augment the healthcare facilities at micro level.An official spokesperson said Dr Paul appreciated the pace of vaccination drives and Covid management in state during the first and second wave of the virus.The NITI Aayog member suggested civil surgeons to prepare an estimate, considering the maximum Covid cases during the peak of the second wave and to ensure that the required number of beds are available even in far-flung villages and rural belts of Haryana.During the meeting, state health minister Anil Vij, who is admitted at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, spoke to Dr Paul thorough video call and discussed the preparations for the anticipated the third wave.Later, chief secretary Vijai Vardhan also joined the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/niti-aayog-cautions-haryana-govt-about-unpredictable-nature-of-covid-101630078649807.html
27-08-2021||Other||Three of family shot dead, one injured in Rohtak||Four members of a family were allegedly shot by unknown assailants inside their house in Rohtak’s Vijay Nagar on Friday.Three members – a man, his wife and his mother-in-law – succumbed to the bullet injuries, while his daughter has sustained serious injuries and is undergoing treatment at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.The deceased have been identified as Pradeep Malik alias Bablu, 45, his wife Babli Devi, 40, and his mother-in-law Roshni Devi, 60. Pradeep’s 17-year-old daughter is still unconscious and her condition is stated to be critical.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma said they received a PCR call that three bodies are lying inside a house in Vijay Nagar area.“It seems the attackers barged into property dealer Bablu’s house and fired shots at his family in which three were killed and one sustained injuries. Prima facie it appears the miscreants planned this gruesome incident over financial or property dispute,” he said.“Bablu’s brother’s family also stays in the same colony and were the ones to discover the bodies after breaking open the door of the house,” the SP added.The SP said he has constituted teams to identify and nab the assailants.“We are checking footages of the CCTV cameras installed near the victims’ house and registered a case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 25 of the Arms Act, 1959. We have launched an investigation and a forensics team visited the crime scene,” the SP added.The victims’ bodies were sent to PGIMS for postmortem. A senior police official, requesting anonymity, said they have clues that the murders were plotted by some person known to Bablu and his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-of-family-shot-dead-one-injured-in-rohtak-101630077809617.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||'Rules are same for all': Ajit Pawar on FIRs against BJP leaders for Jan Ashirwad Yatra||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday defended registration of FIRs against members of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over its ongoing Jan Ashirwad Yatra in the state, saying "rules are same for everyone" and should be followed without “bringing politics into it.”“Rules are the same for all. Cases are registered whenever gatherings happen. CM appealed to all to avoid events where the gatherings took place. Everyone should follow the rules laid down by the government without bringing politics into it,” Pawar said during an interaction with media persons, according to news agency ANI.Rules are same for all. Cases are registered wherever gatherings happen. CM appealed to all to avoid events where gatherings take place. Everybody should follow rules laid down by the govt without bringing politics into it: Maharashtra Dy CM Ajit Pawar on BJP's Jan Ashirwad Yatra pic.twitter.com/73Jx84lLeuAs of August 21, there were 36 FIRs in Mumbai alone against leaders of the BJP for alleged violation of Covid-19 protocols during a rally in the city. Opposition leaders in the state had opposed the party’s decision to hold the rallies at a time when the coronavirus pandemic is still going on, with Maharashtra having the highest cumulative tally of Covid-19 infections in the country.Also Read | 36 FIRs filed so far against BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in MumbaiThe Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Maharashtra began on August 16, and was launched here by three Union ministers from the state who joined prime minister Narendra Modi's cabinet on July 7. Former chief minister Narayan Rane, another new inductee into the Union cabinet, began his yatra on August 19.Also Read | Jan Ashirwad Yatra: 4 Maharashtra mins join BJP’s nationwide rallyMeanwhile, during his interaction, Pawar also spoke on the famous Dahi Handi celebrations and the Ganesh Chaturthi festival. “We have told police officials to talk with the local groups, seeking their cooperation for whatever decision the government takes,” he said. We have instructed our Police officials to talk with the local groups, seeking their cooperation for whatever decision the government takes: Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Dahi Handi and Ganesh Chaturthi pic.twitter.com/hex0vfPdiZCM Thackeray had, on August 23, urged organisers of Dahi Handi festivals to "prioritise health" and "set aside festivities for a while."Also Read | No Dahi Handi, Maha CM Thackeray urges mandals to focus on health initiativesOn Friday, 4654 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra while 170 lives were lost due to the viral disease, according to a health department bulletin. Its overall caseload is at 6,447,442, of which 742,763 infections are from Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rules-are-same-for-all-ajit-pawar-on-firs-against-bjp-leaders-for-jan-ashirwad-yatra-101630075464175.html
27-08-2021||Other||13 dists now have AstroTurf hockey pitch: Haryana sports minister Sandeep Singh||Haryana sports minister Sandeep Singh said the government has so far developed AstroTurf grounds for hockey in 13 of total 22 districts in state.He was at Gandhi Memorial National College in Cantonment as chief guest for a state-level opening ceremony of the first Khelo Haryana Games.“The AstroTurf grounds were developed to provide better facilities to hockey players and more such projects are in the pipeline. Not just for hockey, we are trying to improve other sports facilities as well,” the minister said on Friday.Singh, who is also the former captain of the Indian national hockey team, was responding to media queries in Ambala on lack of resources for budding players in Haryana.Accompanied by IPS Pankaj Nain, director of the department of sports and youth affairs and other dignitaries, Sandeep said many sportsmen from the state have performed tremendously well at the Tokyo Olympics and the three-day event is the first tournament at such a large scale in state during the ongoing global pandemic.“During the first wave of the pandemic, online training was provided by coaches to the players. This continued in the second wave as well. Now, these games are being organised on the lines of Khelo India so that their practice remains continued,” he said during his public address.In Yamunanagar, state education minister Kanwar Pal kicked off the games at Tejli Stadium.At least 9,670 players of the under-18 age group from across state are taking part in 20 sporting events in six districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/13-dists-now-have-astroturf-hockey-pitch-haryana-sports-minister-sandeep-singh-101630076429668.html
27-08-2021||Other||‘500 Phd students will be working on defence- related subjects across the country’||PUNE Dr G Satheesh Reddy, secretary, Department of Defense R&D and chairman Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Ministry of Defence, Government of India, spoke to Dheeraj Bengrut about various initiatives taken by the DRDO in the field of academics to encourage youngsters to look at the field of defence as a career. What can you tell about the new MTech course in Defence technology starting from this academic year?“We are starting the MTech programme with AICTE who have worked out this programme. We have experimented first at the Gujarat university wherein IDST has prepared a complete syllabus. AICTE readily agreed to start the course in Defence technology and more than 40 institutes have already applied to take the course. Defence technology was not taught anywhere till now. Even BTech courses now have electives. As this subject is taught and students come out with the knowledge and technology, whether he/she works in R &D, design or works in industry the student gets a necessary background. So skill set development is done and we are creating an ecosystem for the defence sector.”Do you see any change in the mindset of parents who want to send their children to pursue a course in defence technology?Absolutely, our prime minister is pushing skill sets and ‘Make in India’, so what is happening is there are defence technologies and industries to develop. And so naturally parents also come forward to send their child to study and pursue a career in this field. Within a short time we can see more than 40 institutions in the country have come forward for this MTech course in Defence technology. For the first time DRDO is working along with ministry of higher education for research and development in defence. Can you elaborate?There are 500 PhD students approved by the ministry of higher education, and already 37 students have joined various institutions. They specially work on defence-related subjects and in future it will certainly benefit our country in defence security. The joining process is going on and it will continue from now till the 500 approved PhD students join their respective universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/500-phd-students-will-be-working-on-defence-related-subjects-across-the-country-101630075408746.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Decision to procure less Bajra a death blow to farmers: Surjewala||Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala on Friday termed the Haryana government’s decision to procure 80% less Bajra than the previous year a death blow to farmers.Referring to the state government’s reply in the Vidhan Sabha in response to a question by Congress MLA Neeraj Sharma, Surjewala said the state government has informed that it had procured about 7.76 lakh MT millet in Haryana last year.“But for this year, the target has been reduced to just 1.5 lakh MT. If this happens, what will be the fate of farmers producing 6.27 lakh MT millet and who will buy their crops?” the former minister asked.Surjewala said millet is a major crop grown in Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Hisar, Jhajjar, Mewat, Mahendragarh, Palwal, Rewari, Rohtak, Sirsa districts of Haryana. Farmers will be forced to sell their millet crop at throwaway prices and will suffer huge financial losses, he added.He said Bhavantar Yojana in Haryana has proved to be just a hollow and paper scheme due to which farmers are not getting any relief so the government cannot escape its responsibility of procuring millet production in the guise of Bhavantar Yojana.“The extent of the government’s insensitivity has reached such a point that this time they have curtailed the government procurement of millet to just 20%,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/decision-to-procure-less-bajra-a-death-blow-to-farmers-surjewala-101630073549269.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Sounds of Silence||For a man whose name was synonymous with big media, monumental marketing and mega brand building, it is ironic that what I will most remember about late Pradeep Guha, who I had the privilege to work with for almost a decade, are his silences. The profound pause before he would weigh in on some or the other crucial decision, that would impact lakhs worth of business or the next day’s headlines, or both. The two-second lull before he would effortlessly, as if from thin air, come up with a brilliant solution to a problem that had vexed an entire department of a dozen or more high-paid management whizzes. The ever watchful, reticence with which he’d sit in a room full of big talkers and hard blowers, assessing the exact truth of what was being spoken and why. The intense stillness with which he would collect his thoughts and carefully choose his words before broaching a difficult but much-needed conversation. The unexpected half-beat gap between sentences in which he would recognise the black humour in a dire situation, making his eyes twinkle and his frown change into a delighted smile. Indeed, PG’s silences were as famous as his gruff taciturn demeanour and his diminutive power-packed presence. In them you could almost hear his prodigious, supercomputer of a brain, computing, assessing, analysing, determining... *************************************************************** I’d hardly known much about him when I’d cold-called him for an appointment in the mid-nineties, after returning to Mumbai, having spent 10 years away in Kolkata and Delhi. TOI, where I had worked briefly in the late Seventies, had been a high-minded, venerable institution with exalted editors spinning in their individual orbits, supported by phalanxes of devoted editorial and clerical staff. Since then, I was told much had changed, and one of the men responsible for most of it was Samir Jain’s all-powerful right-hand man — Pradeep Guha, known by his acronym PG. In need of regular work, my idea had been to call on PG and try to interest him in giving me some freelance assignment in the form of a regular column, in one or the other of his new initiatives. What had greeted me when I alighted on the second floor to proceed to his office had made my jaw drop. Acres of polished marble, granite and teak interspersed with expensive artwork and fabrics heralded the pathway to his cabin. The sight of young smartly-dressed executives buzzing around in in a manner that evoked a beehive — a very well-oiled beehive — emphasised how very different things had become since I’d last been there. I did not have to wait long before I was ushered into his private corner room cabin, crammed with books, trophies, plaques, Ganesha statues and other glittering memorabilia and bric-a-brac. Amid it all was the man himself — soft-spoken, taciturn, politely attentive, as he heard me out. After I was done, I was afforded the first of the famous silences that I would get so used to later. “Of course, you could write for us, but why don’t you come on board as editor of the Bombay Times?” he’d said, so softly, that at first, I thought I’d misheard him. But I hadn’t.. “There is a vacancy at the moment,” he’d continued, “And I think you’d be ideal for the job.” To say I was stunned would be an understatement. Yes, by then, I’d been a journalist for two decades, but editing a newspaper, even one which at that time was a twice a week, four-pager, seemed like another ball game altogether — one which I felt I had neither the capability nor the confidence for. And I told him so. Again, another pause, another silence. “Think about it for a few days,” he’d said, “I have a feeling you can do it.” “If I do accept, I’ll require a lot of hand-holding,” I recall saying, before I’d exited, my pulse racing, my head spinning... ************************************************************** To say that working with PG was like receiving a master class in media studies would be an understatement. The Nineties were a period of staggering growth for the group — Femina’s Miss Indias were erupting into international beauty title holders with alarming frequency; Filmfare had grown from being a stodgy film journal to a formidable brand which hosted much-vaunted awards nights, celebrated for their razzle dazzle performances and world class production values; Bombay Times grew rapidly from a twice-a-week supplement to a full-fledged seven-days-a-week paper, with ever-increasing pages that sometimes ran into hundreds. There were incursions in trendy new areas such as radio, retail, modelling, event management, and the approach to PG’s office often resembled Virar station on a Monday morning, except that those who waited were not ordinary commuters but A-list actors, celebrated captains of industries, advertising legends and impossibly long-legged models and international beauty queens. And at the centre of it all, as if he were the silent eye of the cyclone, was PG — a storehouse of wisdom and confidence, a fount of brilliant ideas, our supreme leader who commanded unfailing loyalty and respect. And yet, even for those among us who worked with him daily, he would remain an enigma wrapped in a puzzle inside a paradox. A man whose youth had been spent as an ardent leftist, who now headed one of the country’s most commercially successful ventures; the host of some of the biggest, most glamorous, most celebrated parties who remained a pillar of rectitude, and probity till the very end, until every last guest had made their staggering way home. The creator and confidante of some of the country’s most desirable women who not once — not ever — was known for even the slightest hint of inappropriate remark or disrespect in his dealings with them, who even as he groomed them kept his distance, and what’s more, demanded the same high standards from his entire department towards them. The inceptor of ever-glamorous mega events who, in his heart and home, remained a middle-class boy with simple, abiding family values. A warm and gracious host along with his loving wife Papia, at whose fabulous Diwali parties the country’s top film stars, media magnates and society queens rubbed shoulders with his oldest, humblest, most ordinary colleagues and friends. A tough, often exacting boss, one whose presence evoked awe and trepidation, yet someone who you knew would always have your back, if the chips were down. A man who revelled in gossip but never, not once, was known to have betrayed a confidence. ***************************************************************** Saying goodbye to someone who has had such an impact on one’s life is always tough, but with PG it is almost impossible. On the morning of his funeral, we stood in the lobby of his building — family, friends, colleagues, old and new, overwhelmed, dazed, unsure of what to do, what to say, how to proceed… The man who had created the magic that we all had experienced at one time or the other lay silent nearby — this time for ever. I began this column by saying how it was PG’s silences that spoke the most, even louder than his word or his deeds… And now, all we are left with is the silence…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-sounds-of-silence-101630070695063.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Flying high on her dream, fighter pilot Mawya Sudan an inspiration||Flying officer Mawya Sudan, 24, is a trailblazer. The first woman fighter pilot from Jammu and Kashmir has fired up the imagination of girls of the border belt looking to make a career in the defence services, particularly the Indian Air Force. From drawing sketches of flying machines on the walls of her room during her childhood to becoming the 12th woman fighter pilot of the IAF, she is flying high on her dream. Her achievement is all the more special as she belongs to the remote Lamberi village on the Line of Control in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district. Located south of the Pir Panjal, where India launched the surgical strike in 2016 to avenge the attack on the Uri army camp, villages such as Lamberi see shelling by Pakistan during border skirmishes that can trigger mass migration during flare-ups. On the flight path “It was innate to her. She was always fascinated by flying machines. As a child, she would watch helicopters flying over. She would bring chalk pieces from school and draw planes on the walls. Those crude sketches gave way to posters of jets as she grew up. She dreamt of taming a big flying machine one day and she is living her dream now,” says her proud father, Vinod Sudan, an engineer with the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. While Mawya is undergoing training at present, her father recalls her flight path. She studied at Carmel Convent School before opting for the non-medical stream at JK Public School, Kunjwani. She scored 80% and qualified for the Prime Minister’s Special Scholarship Scheme to study for a degree course in an institution outside the state of residence. She opted for MCM DAV College for Women in Chandigarh and graduated with honours in political science before joining the defence and national security studies department at Panjab University. “During her stay in Chandigarh, she underwent coaching for taking the services selection board (SSB) test. Five months into the post-graduation course and Mawya got a call to join the IAF academy at Hyderabad,” he says. Wind beneath her wingsMawya’s mother Sushma Sudan is a homemaker, while her elder sister Tanya is an alumna of Indian Institute of Management at Kozhikode and works as a consultant with a multinational company. “We have stood solidly behind our daughters, supporting them in their pursuits. Of course, Mawya faced challenges but her indomitable spirit won,” he says. Mawya is focused and self-made. “She never had a Plan B. She believes your goal has to be your passion and it should be followed objectively with single-minded devotion. She is now a soldier and to her, the country comes first,” says Sudan. Duties come before rights She focuses on performing her duties rather than cherishing the thought of rights and demanding them. “Now girls are joining Sainik Schools and will be at the National Defence Academy (NDA) as well. These are the big decisions to empower women. The government is trying to bring women to the fore in every field. Hopefully, society will welcome and adapt to these changes,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flying-high-on-her-dream-fighter-pilot-mawya-sudan-an-inspiration-101630070129079.html
27-08-2021||Other||Man beheads wife, hangs head from window in Darjeeling||A 49-year-old man allegedly beheaded his wife and hung her head from the window of their house in West Bengal’s Darjeeling district on Thursday night, police said.Police cited statements of their neighbours and said the couple would often quarrel. Nabendu Sarkar, a local police officer, said the man has been arrested and that the body of his wife, a mother of three, was sent for post-mortem.Also Read | Darjeeling ‘toy trains’ back on track after more than a yearThe neighbours told the police that late on Thursday night, they found the man roaming aimlessly. The man spoke incoherently when they asked him about his wife. Feeling suspicious, the villagers called his wife, but she did not respond. A group of villagers then went to their house and found the head hanging from the window. The body was found in a room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-beheads-wife-hangs-head-from-window-in-darjeeling-101630067549275.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress row: Won’t spare anyone if not allowed to decide, warns Sidhu||After Harish Rawat, the AICC in-charge of Punjab affairs, said that the party would contest the 2022 assembly elections under the leadership of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said that if he was not allowed to take decisions, he would not spare anyone. Addressing a gathering of traders and businessmen, Sidhu, who is the Amritsar East MLA, said on Thursday night: “Aj v mai high command nu iko gal keh k ayan, k je mai es Punjab Model de utte, ehna lokan dian asan te khra utrun, mai agle 20 saal Congress nu rajniti chon jan ni daun. Lekin je tusi mainu nirnai ni lain devonge, ta fer mai itt naal vi itt kharkaun, ta fer mai itt vi naal itt kharkaun. (I’ve conveyed to the high command that if I meet public expectations through the Punjab model, I’ll not let the Congress lose ground in politics for 20 years. But if you don’t allow me to take decisions, my actions can be destructive as well).” Also read: AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat seeks to be relievedHe said, “Nirnai lain to bina, darshani ghora banan da koi fayda nahi (Without having the right to decide, being a mere showpiece is useless).” His statement came after Rawat asked him to remove his two advisers, Malwinder Singh Mali and Dr Pyare Lal Garg, over their recent remarks that invited criticism from the rival parties and Congress leaders. Capt Amarinder’s camp has been cornering Sidhu over these remarks. On Thursday, the chief minister put up a show of strength by hosting a dinner meeting of 58 MLAs and eight MPs. Sidhu went on to launch an indirect attack on Capt Amarinder and said, “I neither take an oath nor do I promise, but I commit.” He has been critical of the chief minister for not delivering on the promises made in the run-up to the 2017 assembly elections by taking an oath on the ‘gutka (handy book of gurbani)’ to bring the culprits of the 2015 Bargari sacrilege and police firing incidents to justice and eradicating drugs from Punjab. “I have requested the CM to cancel PPAs (power purchase agreements) and these can be done. I know the problem and I know the solution. If PPAs are cancelled, I guarantee the Congress will come back to power,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-row-won-t-spare-anyone-if-not-allowed-to-decide-warns-sidhu-101630065928845.html
27-08-2021||Other||Sena lawmaker facing ED probe says he has been made a scapegoat||Shiv Sena lawmaker Pratap Sarnaik, who is facing an Enforcement Directorate (ED) probe in an alleged money laundering case, on Friday claimed he has been made a scapegoat because of the tussle between Maharashtra and the Central governments.He said he and his family have cooperated with the ED. “Moreover, none of the ED officials has harassed me in any way till now. However, the entire inquiry took a toll on my family which has also caused me a lot of pain, as they are innocent. The inquiry was merely set up on someone’s directives making me a scapegoat... I have gone to courts regarding the complaints filed against me, so the matter is now sub judice and I would not like to make any further comments,” he told journalists.Also Read | Navi Mumbai bound lane of Mumbra bypass might soon be closed for trafficSarnaik was in the news in June when he wrote to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and requested him to patch up with the Bharatiya Janata Party to save ruling Sena leaders from being harassed by central agencies.He said the issue he raised in the letter is now over. “When I wrote the letter... the situation was different... The situation today is different, and the issue has ended.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sena-lawmaker-facing-ed-probe-says-he-has-been-made-a-scapegoat-101630065868953.html
27-08-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Bengaluru's ISKCON temple to remain closed on Janmashtami||Bengaluru’s famous ISKCON temple reiterated on Friday that it will remain closed for two days on the occasion of Janmashtami due to the current situation of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Karnataka. The temple premises, it said in a release, will be out of bounds for the public on August 29 and August 30.Also Read | Bengaluru civic body allows most shops to operate, mandates at least 1 Covid vaccine dose for workers by Aug 31Janmashtami, which celebrates the birth of Lord Krishna, will fall on August 30 this year. ISKCON will celebrate the festival for two days.“In the interest of public safety, as well as prevailing government regulations, the temple management has decided to keep the ISKCON Bangalore campus closed for public on both the days. We regret the inconvenience caused due to this decision,” ISKCON Bengaluru said in a press release. However, it also said that all services will be offered to Lord Krishna as per the festival schedule.Also Read | K’taka relaxes testing rules for fliers from Europe, West Asia“Devotees can participate in the festivities online by visiting our YouTube channel, website, and other official social media accounts,” the statement further noted.In a public notice on August 25, ISKCON had announced the closure of the temple on Janmashtami. It had also shared the schedule for online festivities.pic.twitter.com/V1hSP3L6ifOn August 13, the Karnataka government had issued an advisory for Muharram and Ganesh Chaturthi, prohibiting religious processions for both festivals.Also Read | Allow WFH till Dec 2022 to help Bengaluru Metro work: K’taka govt to IT firmsThursday saw1213 people test positive for Covid-19 in Karnataka, while 25 lives were lost due to the infection, according to a health department bulletin. There were 1206 discharges as well on the day. The state’s infection tally thus stands at 2,943,463 including 2,886,906 recoveries, 37,231 fatalities and 19,300 active cases.Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has set a target of at least five lakh Covid-19 vaccinations from September 1.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-bengaluru-s-iskcon-temple-to-remain-closed-on-janmashtami-101630064549647.html
27-08-2021||Jaipur||Village elders booked for ordering social boycott in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer||Police in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer have booked 57 village elders for allegedly ordering the social boycott of 45 families related to an accused in a murder that took place in the region in October 2020. Jaisalmer police superintendent Ajay Singh said the case against the 57 has been registered and an investigation has started.Also Read | Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot undergoes angioplasty at SMS hospitalThe elders allegedly ordered the boycott in November last year of friends and relatives of a man, who is accused of killing the husband of a woman he was in a relationship with. The man, woman, and her mother were arrested for the murder. The families say they are not allowed to move around or to attend functions despite having nothing to do with the murder.Hanumana Ram, a local police officer, said the investigation has been started and the elders have been called to verify the facts and for questioning.“Since November 2020, these families tried settling the issue with the community elders but after many failed attempts, they now have approached the police for justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/village-elders-booked-for-ordering-social-boycott-in-rajasthan-s-jaisalmer-101630065509117.html
27-08-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Secret Option Number 6, our answer to climate change||So, what can we do about climate change? The answer is Secret Option Number 6.Let me explain.A few weeks ago our youngest, Rex (7-years-old) designed his first Powerpoint presentation by himself. He had been assigned as the Space Reporter for his Grade’s assembly and given that space exploration is one of his interests, he researched his stuff, made points, create a 3-minute script and then decided to make a presentation - like a real news report on a YouTube channel. He was super pleased with himself. Till he found out that he had to print the pictures on paper and show them while he spoke online.He took it in his stride, but one afternoon a few days later, he looked at me and said: “Paper is made from trees. And we cut lots of trees to make a few pages of paper. A computer presentation is better because it will save trees and that’s something we can do to help the environment. Should I ask her if I can just present instead of printing paper?”This wasn’t the first time he had brought up using computer software instead of paper. Throughout the last couple of years he and his brothers have been vocal about typing instead of writing their homework, digital instead of printed.Initially, I thought it was because they did not want to write by hand, since their handwriting is all over. Over a period of time, I realised they do write when they have to, but it’s not their preference because most of their work is digital.That’s not why Rex brought up the paper versus digital thing. It’s because he remembered what he’s been learning in school, what teachers are saying in class about energy, renewable sources, how we as individuals can help, switching off electricity, saving energy and so on. And he remembered his mother telling him how paper was made from trees and how using less paper would help the environment. Children follow adult behaviour. They don’t follow adult sermons (what we say), but our actions (what we do). Educators and parents and adults in general should realise this, understand this, know this, and remember this. Children also think much more and in a much wider random pattern than adults. They make many more connections than we do. Educators and parents should remember this as well. As I am learning to remember. I realised he was expecting an answer and that my answer would go into his repository of decision-making info.“Why don’t you talk to the teacher and explain your viewpoint?”He thought about it and said, “I will write an email to her.” That was last week. He’s still in dialogue with his teacher and we will see how it goes.Meanwhile, he keeps track of what I am watching and reading and asks questions whenever it’s something to do with his interest. The past few weeks it’s been mostly weather and climate and the recent report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). I am pretty much seasonal, having no convictions of my own on matters I don’t understand, but I read and read, and think and think. The report is voluminous and interesting and I guess also alarming, since governments and media and writers are in focus. Am hoping the focus won’t fade in a few months, because I don’t need an IPCC report to tell me the weather is changing.The past three years, Pune has mainly been grey and intermittently wet from June to January, unlike the previous 20-odd years. When I looked at the IPCC’s charts on possible future scenarios, it made immediate sense that India has a much wetter future in store in all of the scenarios. Obviously, there’s a lot that urban individuals and societies can do as their bit. Change lifestyle, change consumption patterns, reduce emissions, ask for accountable actions from government bodies, ask for responsible green products from industry and so on. But my observation is that urban educated city-societies are opting for Secret Option Number 6: educate our children to change their ways so that they can reverse the damage that we and our previous generations have done to the climate with our insatiable greed and actions on account of that greed. Which is why every school and its teachers, and climate activists and government bodies, are now droning on about climate and climate change and asking little clueless Grade 1, 2, 3, students to learn about consequences of their actions.It would help if all such evangelists also state what they are doing individually to change their habits. I am not a Bill Gates fan, but it’s more compelling to move to action on his evangelism since he clearly states how much he is adding to carbon emissions (individual and family), and how he’s changing and contributing to a healthier environment (his companies’ contribution is different).Meanwhile society (adult) is innovating and buying and selling and producing and cutting forests and dumping waste and setting up new industries and tagging everything “green” without the due diligence to know if it is actually green and sustainable. And pledging millions and billions of dollars to zero carbon, carbon neutral, go green till they are blue in the face. And then, printing paper and asking children to hand-write on reams of notebooks and print their homework on paper…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-secret-option-number-6-our-answer-to-climate-change-101630064549430.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Speeding vehicle mows down delivery person in Delhi’s Karol Bagh||A 41-year-old delivery person of a restaurant aggregator was killed after an allegedly speeding car driven by a purportedly drunk 20-year-old student hit his motorcycle near Karol Bagh in central Delhi late on Thursday night. The colleagues and relatives of Vinod Kumar, the delivery person, accused the police of conniving with the accused and trying to weaken the case. They held a protest over it at the Karol Bagh police station. Around 4am on Friday, Ashish Kapoor, a lawyer, was allegedly assaulted and his bag containing ₹5 lakh was snatched for supposedly trying to bribe the police.A police officer, who did not want to be named, said the protesters thought the lawyer had come to settle the accident case by bribing the police. “We have come across a video clip in which some men are seen snatching a bag from a person, taking out cash from it, and alleging the money was brought to bribe the police for favouring the accident case accused. Kapoor claims he was a passer-by and had no linkages with the accused.”No case has been registered so far in connection with Kapoor’s allegations. Police were verifying allegations and counter-allegations. The investigating officer of the case was shifted to district lines to ensure a fair probe.The officer said they were trying to find out if Kapoor is connected with the family of the accused. “If not, why was he carrying ₹5 lakh, and where was he going at the time of the alleged snatching. It has been learnt that one of the protesters has Kapoor’s money. We are looking for him,” the officer said.Deputy police commissioner (central) Jasmeet Singh said the car driver, identified as Rachit Singhal, was arrested and booked for rash driving and culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Indian Penal Code Sections 279 and 304. He added Singhal’s medical examination report confirmed that he was drunk while driving the car and hit the motorcycle of Kumar, who succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital two hours after the accident. “Singhal was booked for rash and negligent driving causing death. But when his medical report confirmed he was driving under the influence of alcohol, we converted the case into culpable homicide not amounting to murder,” said Singh.Police said Kumar was returning after delivering a food order when the car hit the bike from behind. The impact was such that both the vehicles were damaged. Singh said the car is registered in the name of Singhal’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/speeding-vehicle-mows-down-delivery-person-in-delhi-s-karol-bagh-101630064249021.html
27-08-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: August 27 –September 2||‘Live’ music at High Spirits Aneesh Gera Having progressed from a chart-smashing DJ to a superstar producer based out of UK & Goa, electronic dance music extraordinaire Anish Gera takes the High stage When: Friday, August 27, 7pm onwards  Da High Cookout featuring Major C & Bobkat The first Indian hip-hop act that’s a fire starter on stage takes centrestage at Da High Stage. Major C & Bobkat are back at the cookout! When: Sunday, August 29, 1pm onwards Where: High Spirits, Koregaon Park Street food pop-up Food stalls, ‘live’ music, and entertainment. Dig into a variety of savoury delicacies. Unwind the rest of the evening jamming away with Raj and Devika to old and new Bollywood tunes. Entry is free. When: August 28, 2021; 5pm to 9pm Where: Mauji Spaces, 11, Sahajeevan Society ICS Colony, Bhoslenagar, Ashok nagar, Pune BMCC ex-students’ reunion The BMCC college’s ex-students have organised are reunion. The Pride of BMCC award will be awarded to singer Rahul Deshpande and businessman Vijay Pusalkar. Besides these awards, actor Girish Pardeshi will be awarded the Suhas Kulkarni award while Profession Prakash Bhonde will be awarded the Teacher’s award. When: August 28, 5 pm Where: Tata Hall, BMCC Charcoal sketching Charcoal is an ideal medium to learn how to work with tonal values. Learn more about charcoal with a portrait sketch where you are going to trace a character. Materials will be provided Fees: Rs1,500/- When: Saturday, August 28; 10:30am to 1pm Where: Urja Art Studio, Wakad Online workshop: autopilot systems for drones Learn all about drones and the autopilot systems, including hardware and software modules. To register call 9663367198 or go to www.tearn.academy When: Saturday, Aug 28 at 11am and Sunday, Aug 29 at 2pm Where: Online Japanese storytelling In her show, Karin, the story-teller wears traditional Japanese attire and uses a traditional Japanese folding fan, which she calls a convenient “all-in one prop”. She plays multiple roles spontaneously in her show, and has adapted many Japanese folktales. To register call 089714 92903 When: Saturday, Aug 28; 7:30 pm to 9pm Where: Online DIY terrarium workshop A terrarium is a unique type of indoor gardening in which plants are grown in a glass container. Join this workshop and create your own green ecosystem. To register call 020 2729 3532 When: August 29, Sunday; 11am to 12pm Where: Online Theatre mentorship The IAPAR theatre mentorship programme is back to offer a glimpse of theatre and life in theatre with discussions, fun and a chance to learn. For more details about the programme, call on +917775052719 or email us on iapar.office@gmail.com When: September to November, 2021 Where: Kalachhaya Cultural Centre, Pune. Learn to belly dance Tired of sitting at home? How about learning to groove to this beautiful dance form? People confuse it with vulgarity and forget it’s just an art, where we learn to move though our core (tummy) chest and hips - part of all dance forms. This beginners’ workshop is open for non-dancers as well. To register call Banjara & Gypsy on +91 9632940054 When: Sunday, Aug 29; 12:00pm to 1:15pm Where: online Mic Drop - A curated show by LDS Likhon Dil Se (LDS) is organising a curated show in which a storyteller, a poet, a singer and a standup comedian will entertain you for an hour with their varied art forms. The purpose is to promote talented artistes and different art forms while maintaining the authenticity of art. To register call 8750698343 When: Sunday, Aug 29 9pm to 10pm Where: Online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-august-27-september-2-101630061428924.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||After good response, Navi Mumbai to add 100 more rental cycle stands||The ‘Cycle on Rent’ initiative started by Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has received a good response with over 6,000 residents using these cycles (both e-bikes and traditional bicycles) on weekly basis, officials said.The NMMC has installed 100 stands across the city with a total of 700 cycles, used by over 1.5 lakh people in the last three years. The NMMC will make these cycles available at 200 spots across the city from Diwali this year. With the hike in fuel prices in recent times, more and more people, especially delivery executives, are using these bicycles for intra-city travelling, a senior officer said. Many residents even use them for exercising or for running small errands. Nandita Kulkarni, 37, a homemaker from SBI colony in Nerul, said, “I have been using a rental bicycle service near Wonders Park in the afternoons, four to five days a week. It has been fun as a few other women from my building also join me. I started cycling at the start of this year and have lost a few kilos in the past few months. I feel much energetic now. I spend around ₹400-500 on these cycles every month.” The NMMC started the ‘Cycle on Rent’ project in association with a startup Yulu in November, 2018. Travelling on a rental bicycle is relatively cheaper than the other modes of transportation in Navi Mumbai. A user can rent a bicycle for 30 minutes by paying ₹10. After that, he has to pay ₹5 every 30 minutes. Likewise, the base rent for an e-bike is ₹5 and then goes up to ₹1.50 for every minute. The NMMC has different packages for the food delivery startups that use these bikes and cycles on a daily basis. Rajesh Kanade, deputy municipal commissioner of the NMMC (estate) said, “Presently, we are offering this service at 100 places in partnership with just one startup (Yulu) and all the bicycles and e-bikes are one-seater. We are now in a process of introducing the services at another 100 places in partnership with two other startups. In the second initiative, we will have only e-bikes and they will be two-seaters. The new e-bikes should hit the city roads before Diwali”. “By introducing such bicycles and e-bikes, we are trying to decrease the pollution level and implement the central government’s ‘last mile connectivity’ scheme in the city. For example, hundreds of people travel from Turbhe railway station to the APMC market at Vashi every day. If we start one stand (of bicycles and e-bikes) near the station and one stand near the market, those people will be able to use them for travelling. Also, we don’t have to spend much on them as their maintenance is taken care of by the respective startups,” he said. A representative from Yulu said that presently they are providing services in Navi Mumbai, Thane, BKC, and Kharghar. Of all these places, they are receiving the maximum response in Navi Mumbai. “One bicycle or e-bike is rented up to four times a day in Navi Mumbai. They are fitted with GPS and hence we can easily track their locations in case the users do not return them on time,” he said. Bhupal Singh, 36, a resident of Vashi said, “I have been using these rental bicycles for the past two years and finding it convenient. You can easily go from one place to another on these cycles by paying ₹20 to 25. For travelling the same distance in an autorickshaw, you may have to shell out over ₹100. The NMMC should make this facility available at every nook and corner of Navi Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-good-response-navi-mumbai-to-add-100-more-rental-cycle-stands-101630060350383.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools to reopen for higher classes from September 1||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday announced that schools, colleges and education institutes in the city will open in a phased manner from September 1.“The kind of education that can be imparted through physical classes can never be substituted by online classes. So, we have decided to allow schools to open. From September 1, all government schools will open for classes 9 to 12, all private schools can also resume classes for 9 to 12 standards and coaching centres can also start classes for students of 9 to 12 standards. All colleges and university classes can also resume in Delhi from September 1,” said Sisodia,also the education minister, in a press conference at the Delhi secretariat.Earlier today, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) held a meeting in which the decision was taken, following which a senior DDMA official said that the authority has also given a green signal to the government to allow classes 6 to 8 to re-open from September 8.Sisodia said that the government will closely observe the situation for at least one week after allowing classes 9 to 12 to resume from September 1 before deciding on reopening for other classes.Stressing on consent of parents as a mandatory requirement for students to attend physical classes, Sisodia said, “Online classes will continue too. Students can also attend from home. Parents’ consent is a must. No student can be forced to attend physical classes. Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) will be issued in the next few days. Schools have to ensure social distancing in class rooms.”Also Watch | Eye on Punjab polls, Kejriwal picks Sonu Sood as face for Delhi initiative“In five states so far, schools have resumed for all classes. In around a dozen states, schools have resumed for classes 6 to 12. We too conducted a survey in which 70% respondents were in favour of reopening of schools,” he said.He added that 98% of staff – both teaching and non-teaching – in Delhi’s schools have taken at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. “In the last month, we organised special drives to vaccinate teachers and school staff. Around 98% teacher and other staff in government schools have taken at least one dose of vaccine. Private schools also told the government that the majority of staff is vaccinated,” said Sisodia.The government did not share figures of teachers who are fully vaccinated.Physical classes at Delhi schools have been suspended since March last year in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. Higher classes reopened for a brief period between January and March this year but were suspended again during the fourth wave of the pandemic in Delhi which coincided with the country’s second wave.Dr Jacob John, former head of the clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore, said: “The SOPs have to be chalked out meticulously, especially because vaccination of children is yet to begin in the country. The government could actually have started with a few schools and then taken a call on all schools. Ensuring social distancing and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is a must. Also, the government must ensure that not just school staff but all family members of the students attending physical classes are vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-to-reopen-for-higher-classes-from-september-1-101630060228727.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination drive for teachers to be held by Thane district administration||Thane district administration will organise a special vaccination drive for teachers and non-teaching staff from government and private schools within the district on Friday and Saturday, officials said.The district health department and education department within Thane district are preparing a list of teachers who have been vaccinated. Based on the number of staff yet to be vaccinated, the health department will make provisions for vaccination at the centre nearest to their school.On Friday and Saturday, all staff that have not got vaccinated can show their official identity card and get vaccinated at government vaccination centres. Provisions for the same will also be made by the health department with a focus on rural areas as well.“We are reaching out to each school to get a list of staff yet to be vaccinated. We will ensure that teachers get vaccinated and are provided with the second shot as well, based on schedule so that they get fully vaccinated at the earliest,” said Sheshrao Bade, education officer, Zilla Parishad.Meanwhile, Ajay Jadhav, district information officer, said, “As schools across the district may open soon, collector Rajesh Narvekar has given orders to ensure teachers and non-teaching staff are vaccinated at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-drive-for-teachers-to-be-held-by-thane-district-administration-101630059389992.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai bound lane of Mumbra bypass might soon be closed for traffic||Barely two weeks after restrictions on the Thane-bound lane of the Mumbra Bypass Road were lifted following repairs, potholes have now started appearing on the opposite lane of the busy road. The authorities are currently in discussion to impose similar restrictions on this lane shortly, officials said.According to the Thane traffic police, the Public Works Department (PWD) had communicated to them earlier this month that repair work will need to be started as soon as possible on the Retibunder Bridge stretch of the road.“The PWD has informed us that several potholes have formed on the Navi Mumbai bound lane of the bridge, and need to be repaired before they get any bigger. However, the problem is that pothole repair work is already underway in Kharegaon currently which is causing major traffic jams daily. If, on top of this, we impose restrictions on the Mumbra Bypass road, the traffic problems will multiply,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Balasaheb Patil, Thane Police said.Patil added that the situation at Kharegaon is worse than the current condition of the Mumbra Bypass Road as new potholes are practically appearing as fast as the older ones are being repaired. Combined with the ongoing monsoons, this has become a nightmare for the traffic police.“The PWD is still in the process of appointing a contractor for the repair work at the Mumbra Bypass Road and the work in Kharegaon is also being conducted as fast as possible. Both these processes are expected to get completed in around 10 to 12 days, after which we will take a call on imposing restrictions on the Mumbra Bypass Road,” Patil said.When contacted, S Totawar, executive engineer, PWD, confirmed the development and said, “We are in talks with the Thane traffic police regarding the imposition of restrictions on the Navi Mumbai bound lane of the Retibandar bridge so that potholes can be repaired quickly. The specifics of this process are still under discussion.”On July 29 this year, a five-foot deep crater had formed on the Thane bound lane of the crucial road, with the road under the bridge being visible through the crater. The PWD had started repair work on the crater the same day and movement of heavy vehicles was banned on the lane for the duration of the work. These restrictions stayed in place for several days after the repair work was complete, to allow the newly poured concrete to be set properly. The movement of heavy vehicles was only restarted on the lane on August 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-bound-lane-of-mumbra-bypass-might-soon-be-closed-for-traffic-101630057890287.html
27-08-2021||Dehradun||Germplasm of over 27k plants collected from Uttarakhand so far||The National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR) Regional centre Bhowali in Kumaon has collected germplasm of over 27,000 plants in the form of seeds and saplings under its initiative to document and preserve the agro-biodiversity of the Himalayan state, officials said. The germplasm of plant varieties that have been collected so far include cereals, pseudo-cereals, millets, minor millets, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables, spices, condiments, medicinal plants, aromatic plants, wild relatives of crops and fruits and ornamental crops Mamta Arya, in charge of NBPGR regional centre Bhowali in Nainital district, said, during various explorations in the state so far, they have collected germplasm of over 27000 plants, including 200 varieties of rice and over 800 varieties of wheat found in the state. “The main aim of collecting the germplasm is to protect and preserve the agro-biodiversity found in the Himalayan state. Suppose, if some variety goes extinct, we can again bring it back from the germplasm we have collected so far,” she said. Arya said that germplasm is collected in two forms. “In case of plants whose seeds can be stored for a long time, we collect seeds, like in case of stony fruits like plums, almonds and so on. However, in the case of plants, where seeds cannot be collected, we collect live plants in our field gene banks. One sample we store here and another is sent to the national gene bank located at New Delhi,” she said, adding, that so far, germplasm of over 4.5 lakh plants has been collected from across the country. Arya emphasised that the germplasm collection will help in protecting the traditional and wild species crops and fruits found in the state. “Based on our collection and knowing the characteristics of these plants, we can also make suggestions to the farmers on various aspects and also encourage them to grow exotic plants like aromatic plants. Lakhs of seedlings and cuttings of promising aromatic crops like Rose Geranium (Pelargonium graveolens), Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis), Lavender (Lavendula angustifolia), Sweet Marjoram (Marjorana hortensis), Caraway (Carum carvii), China Pati (Artemisia annua), Lemon grass (Cymbopogon flexuosus) have been provided to growers and farmers so far,” she said. She said they have also created an inventory and established agro-techniques for growing ten rare, threatened, endemic, endangered and commercially important plant species. “These ten species include Acorus calamus (Bach), Coleus forskohlii (Patharchoor), Curcuma zedoaria (Karchoor), Hedychium spicatum (Spiked ginger lilly), Lavendula angustifolia (Lavender), Pelargonium graveolens (Rose geranium), Piper retrofractum (Chabya), Pistacia integerrima (Kakarsingi), Valeriana jatamansi (Indian Valerian), Zanthoxylum armatum (Timoor),” she said. According to the website, the NBPGR has its headquarters in New Delhi. The bureau draws guidelines from the Crop Science Division of the Indian Council of Agriculture Research, Institute Management Committee, Research Advisory Committee, Institute Research Council and Germplasm Advisory Committees. The bureau has 10 regional stations located in different phytogeographical zones of the country, including Bhowali in Nainital district. The Bhowali centre was established in 1985 and is responsible for the exploration, characterization, evaluation and multiplication of agri-horticultural crops of the state’s sub-tropical and sub-temperate regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/germplasm-of-over-27k-plants-collected-from-uttarakhand-so-far-101630056209178.html
27-08-2021||Dehradun||Mahakumbh Covid testing scam: 2 Uttarakhand officials suspended||Uttarakhand government has suspended two officers in the Mahakumbh fake Covid testing scam for “indiscipline, carelessness and colluding with the private firms” concerned, thus incurring financial loss to the state exchequer. The suspended officers are Dr Arjun Singh Sengar, then mela health officer (state health department), and Dr NK Tyagi, then in-charge officer (state health department), Kumbh Mela, said the government statement on Thursday evening. The action comes in the wake of the report from the district level probe committee on August 14. The Mahakumbh fake Covid testing scam came to light in June when a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe in nearly 100,000 Covid tests conducted during the Kumbh. On June 17, Haridwar police booked Max Corporate Services, and two private labs -- Nalva Lab of Hissar and Lalchandani Lab of Delhi -- in connection with the scam.Also Read | AAP protests against BJP by making ‘jalebis of false promises’ in U’khandOn June 18, Haridwar police formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to assist the investigation in the cases registered in connection with the scam. The four-month Mela was curtailed this year to one month (April 1-30) but devotees thronged Haridwar for months despite experts saying rampant violation of Covid protocol could spark a surge in infections. Roughly 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27, including at least six million people in April, coinciding with the worst surge in the second wave of the pandemic. The Mahakumbh coincided with a major spike in Covid cases in Uttarakhand. Between April 1 and April 30, the active cases rose from 2,236 to 55,743, while the total cases during the same period soared from 100, 911 to 180,521. The Mahakumbh is held every 12 years between Makar Sankranti, which usually falls on the second weekend of January, and Chaitra Poornima, which is celebrated in the last week of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/mahakumbh-covid-testing-scam-2-uttarakhand-officials-suspended-101630055848801.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat seeks to be relieved||Citing next year’s assembly elections in Uttarakhand where he is the Congress campaign committee chairman, Harish Rawat has sought to be relieved as the in-charge of party affairs in Punjab. He said that to concentrate on the upcoming elections in Uttarakhand, it had been on his mind to seek to be relieved of the responsibility of the party’s Punjab affairs in-charge. Also read: Latest from Kabul airport: Death toll from attack rises, evacuations continue“Yes, this is the reason,” the former Uttarakhand chief minister told reporters in Dehradun on Thursday when asked if he has sought to be relieved of the charge as Punjab affairs in-charge so that he could concentrate on the polls in his state. He added that he would abide by whatever direction is given to him by the party. “If my party asks me to continue (as Punjab affairs in-charge), I will continue,” said Rawat. Punjab and Uttarakhand go to the polls next year. Says elections to be fought under Capt While the Congress is seeking to retain power in Punjab, it aims to return to power by defeating the ruling BJP in the hill state. Punjab is witnessing infighting between the camps of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Rawat, who is in Delhi to meet the party’s senior leadership, has reiterated that the 2022 Punjab elections will be fought under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh, delivering a snub to the leaders wanting his removal. Rawat also said that there was no threat to the Amarinder Singh-led government. Reiterates Sidhu free to decide within norms Reacting to Sidhu’s statement urging the party high command to allow him the freedom to take decisions, Rawat said party chiefs are free to take decisions within the party’s norms and constitution. “I will see the context in which Navjot Singh Sidhu has made these remarks. Mr Sidhu is the respected chief of the Punjab unit. Who will have the power to take decisions if not the state presidents?” he told reporters in Delhi on Friday. Rawat added state presidents are free to take decisions within the party’s constitution and position. Sidhu had said earlier that the party high command should give him the freedom to take decisions and he will ensure that the Congress remains in power for the next 20 years. He said he has prepared a roadmap in this regard. “The party high command should allow me the freedom to take decisions, else I will give a befitting reply,” he said at a meeting in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aicc-punjab-affairs-in-charge-harish-rawat-seeks-to-be-relieved-101630055068207.html
27-08-2021||Kolkata||Bengal professors' body questions rationale behind 'drinking poison' by teachers||An association college and university professors of West Bengal on Thursday claimed that the alleged suicide bid by five contractual primary school teachers was part of a conspiracy to foment trouble.Five female contractual teachers allegedly consumed poison on Tuesday while demonstrating before the state education department headquarters in Kolkata, demanding regularisation of services and revocation of transfer orders.West Bengal College and University Professors Association (WBCUPA) President Krishnakali Basu told a press meet that it is unbecoming on the part of a true teacher, "that too involved in children's education", to carry a bottle of poison during a demonstration and "it was part of a conspiracy to foment trouble".Asked whether anyone could take life risk just to foment trouble, Basu said, "The entire episode is unfortunate. Bringing out poison-filled bottles during a democratic movement and drinking it cannot be termed as peaceful by no logic. They could have given prior notice to the education minister for talks, but they did not do it."Also Read | In Bengal, teachers consume poison in bid to prevent transfers to far-flung areasWishing speedy recovery of the five teachers, associated with state-run Sishu Siksha Kendra (SSK), the WBCUPA chief said, without elaborating, there was reason to believe that the five were instigated."So far I know the government has done a lot for regularisation of contractual primary school teachers and raised their wages and provided other financial benefits... They should not have raked up personal issues like transfer during the protest. The chief minister herself recently announced there will be complete transparency in transfers," Basu said.Also Read | Row intensifies after 5 teachers consume poison during protest in BengalThe agitating teachers were members of a platform for contractual school teachers, 'Sikshak Oikyo Manch'.The five are now out of danger and currently undergoing treatment at two state-run hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-professors-body-questions-rationale-behind-drinking-poison-by-teachers-101630053620580.html
27-08-2021||Dehradun||Rani Pokhri bridge on Dehradun-Rishikesh highway collapses in Uttarakhand||Heavy rains have wreaked havoc in Uttarakhand with the Rani Pokhri bridge on Dehradun-Rishikesh highway collapsing on Friday, trapping many vehicles. People in these vehicles got off and ran to safety. Senior officials rushed to the site and the traffic between Dehradun and Rishikesh has now been diverted through Nepali Farm. No casualties have been reported yet.Dehradun has been witnessing heavy rains for the past few days due to which there has been a rise in the water level of rivers and some parts have got waterlogged and flooded. Uttarakhand Police, tweeting about the accident, said, “Part of Rani Pokhri bridge on Dehradun-Rishikesh highway has collapsed due to heavy rains and flow of current. People are advised not to use this route.”Dinesh Sindhwal, assistant engineer, Rishikesh Public Works Department said bridge was built in 1964. “Over 20 metre stretch of the bridge collapsed due to fast and heavy flow of water in the river due to incessant rain in Dehradun district over the last few days,” he said. A stretch of Sahastradwar- Maal Devta road also caved in due to heavy rains. Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami inspected the area and instructed the officials to repair the damaged road stretch at the earliest. Meanwhile, a team of state disaster response force (SDRF) rescued four people, including a woman, who were trapped on an island in the Song River near Nepali Farm area in Dehradun after the water level rose suddenly in the river. Another SDRF team also shifted some families from Dehradun’s Khadda Colony to safety as water entered many houses in the area. Also Read | AAP protests against BJP by making ‘jalebis of false promises’ in U’khandIn another incident, a 23-year-old woman was buried under the debris of a landslide in Pithoragarh district on Friday. Thirteen houses were damaged by the landslide in Josha village of Dharchula area. “The landslide occurred with a loud sound, and debris came tumbling down the hillside,” said village sarpanch Chanchal Singh. The woman has been identified as Pashupati Devi. Dharchula sub-divisional magistrate AK Shukla said an SDRF team has been sent to the site for search and rescue operation. In Tehri district, National Highway 58 has been closed from Tapovan to Maletha due to heavy rainfall in the area, till further orders. Meanwhile in Champawat, the work on removing debris from landslide site at Swala is on and the road is likely to be cleared for traffic by evening. “Work is getting delayed due to continuous boulder fall in the area. If more landslides do not occur, the highway could be cleared by evening,” said Vineet Tomar, Champawat district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/rani-pokhri-bridge-on-dehradun-rishikesh-highway-collapses-in-uttarakhand-101630053748246.html
27-08-2021||Patna||Bihar STF arrests 9 people linked to illegal firearms manufacturing||The illegal firearms industry has moved from the badlands of Munger in Bihar to Uttar Pradesh. The matter came to light when the Bihar special task force, with the help of UP police, raided two locations in Mau and unearthed illegal firearms manufacturing unit, officials said. The police also arrested nine people, including three women, said to be residents of Munger district. Police said that Munger region has long been known for the manufacture of illegal firearms over the last few decades. The illegal activities, however, have slowly shifted to UP and West Bengal due to the crackdown. Those arrested were identified as Mohammad Tanvir Alam, Mohammad Rizwan, Mohammad Rizaul Haque, Mohammad Khalid Ansari, Mohammad Liyakat Ali, Mohammad Parvez Alam, Sabana Khatoon, Rubina Ansari and Shabnam Bano (wife of Tanvir). An FIR has been registered at the Kotwali police station in Mau district against the accused on the charges o allegedly running an illegal firearms manufacturing unit. All of them have been sent to judicial custody. A cache of finished and unfinished arms, a large stock of machinery and raw material needed for the manufacturing arms and ammunition, besides machinery used in manufacturing the weapons, were seized. Additional director general (operation) Sushil M Khopde said that acting on a tip-off, Bihar police contacted its counterparts and raided two locations in Mau and arrested them. The police also recovered .32 bore pistol, .315 bore pistol, unfinished 31 pistols of 7.65 mm, 24 pistols bodies, 354 barrels, eight dye machines, 99 raw materials, three electronic welding machines, 95 slider, five drill machines, two laptops and 235 iron frames. During the investigation, the police found that Taverz and his brother Tanvir got married in Mau. Both of them settled there and were involved in arms smuggling and manufacturing. Tanvir was already facing an arms act case in Mau since 2011. Police said the preliminary investigation brought to the fore that the weapons were manufactured at the Mau’s unit and were being sent to Munger for final finishing. Khopde admitted that following the recovery of illegal weapon consignments in any part of the country, the needle of suspicion always invariably points to Munger, but many a time it is not established. “We are trying to identify their contacts and customers,” he added. In another operation, with the arrest of one Mohammad Khurshid Alam of Munger, the STF unearthed a minigun and illegal liquor factory at Morkahi police station area of Khagaria district. Police seized five pistol sets, five live cartridges, four drill machines, one leth machine, magazine farma, 12 barrels, gas cylinder, country-made liquor and utensils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-stf-carries-out-raids-in-mau-arrests-9-people-linked-to-illegal-firearms-manufacturing-101630053269635.html
27-08-2021||Patna||Bihar plans post-graduate teaching in every district||After going ahead with its plan to open higher secondary schools in every panchayat and degree college in every sub-division, the Bihar government now plans to go ahead with its move to start post-graduate teaching in at least one college in each district.The move comes in view of growing demand and the need to boost the gross enrolment ratio (GER), which continues to be very low in the state at 14.4, nearly half of the national average.Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said that the government would welcome such proposals from interested colleges if they are routed through the concerned universities with their recommendation and give them go ahead on a priority basis.Choudhary said that chief minister Nitish Kumar’s focus was on increasing the GER in higher education and therefore, the government worked in a planned manner to phase-wise scale up educational institutions, starting with the opening of higher secondary schools in every panchayat and degree colleges in every sub-division. “The results are now coming and at least one post-graduate college in every district will be in tune with the progress. There have been a lot of demands in this regard to the CM as well as the education department,” he added.The minister said that the department got proposals from two districts for starting PG education - one at BSS College (Supaul) and another at KKM College (Jamui). “We have decided to give approval. There are 10 districts where PG teaching is not available in any college. If the proposals come from the remaining eight districts through a proper channel, we will certainly like to approve them. With incentives, girls’ enrolment has increased manifold at the secondary, higher secondary and graduation level and they need institutions nearby to go further,“ he added.However, it will not be easy considering the fewer number of colleges per lakh population in the state, huge vacancies, poor NAAC grading due to lack of proper infrastructure, teaching and research, and high enrolment of students, which results in a lack of academic atmosphere on campuses. The shortage of teachers is particularly acute in places away from main towns and the efforts to rope in guest teachers in accordance with the UGC guidelines has not been very successful. Besides, the academic sessions continue to be late in most universities. Even in the universities where PG teaching is on, the semester system is not fully in place despite UGC guidelines, while at the undergraduate level, it is totally missing in state universities. As per the 2019 report of the All India Survey for higher education (AISHE), Bihar still has just seven colleges per lakh population with an average enrolment of 1703, while the number of colleges per lakh population in Andhra Pradesh is 51, 59 in Karnataka, 48 in Kerala, 37 in Rajasthan, 34 in Maharashtra, 31 in Gujarat and UP and 30 in West Bengal with much lower average enrolment.The minister said that those colleges where Honours level education was on and the teacher-pupil ratio was 1:30 could start PG teaching. “For further creation of posts at the PG level, the government will go by the recommendation of the competent authority,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-plans-post-graduate-teaching-in-every-district-101630052549126.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi Airport has seen gradual growth in passenger traffic, says report||Delhi Airport has seen a gradual growth in passenger numbers in line with the recovery in air travel demand, as around 90,000 passengers travelled per day through the facility during the first 10 days of this month, according to a White Paper by GMR.This is five times more than the mid-May passenger volumes when Delhi Airport handled around 18,000 travellers per day. The number by the end of June 2021 increased to about 62,000 passengers per day, the White Paper released on Friday said.According to GMR, with the improvement in the Covid-19 situation and the high level of vaccinations being achieved, domestic traffic is expected to reach the pre-Covid level by the end of FY23. However, given the situation, international traffic could attain pre-Covid levels only by FY24.In July, the airport handled around 2.29 million passengers, which is 60 per cent less than the 5.80 million passengers handled in the same month in 2019. Similarly, air traffic movements in July were also 45 per cent less at 20,800 compared to 37,700 services operated in July 2019, as per the White Paper.Once the severe impact of the second COVID wave eased, people felt the need to travel to their respective homes/base locations, thereby Visiting Family and Relatives (VFR) travel has pushed up the passenger numbers, according to the White Paper, which also observed a slight pickup in business travel demand (with the gradual opening of offices)."But it is still very much subdued. The leisure travel (tourists) has also picked up, with the opening of tourist destinations across the country," it said.The government allowing airline companies to operate up to 72.5 per cent of their total domestic capacity also resulted in a gradual increase in passenger traffic. From June, the government started relaxing capacity from 50 per cent to current levels of 72.5 per cent, GMR said in the White Paper.This came following the lowering down of impact of the Covid-19 second wave and to safeguard aviation industries’ viability battling with weak finances. The increased capacity, complemented with the opening of new routes, allowed airlines to manage increased passenger numbers, it said.With the arrival of the festive season, Delhi Airport witnessed positive traction in domestic travel. There is a propensity to travel with the increase in total vaccinations across the country, but it is, of course, contingent on the emergence of the third wave of Covid-19, GMR said."We may see the adoption of a common travel pass based on vaccination and testing status for International travel in coming months. However, it is too early to comment on the resumption of scheduled International travel in the next three months," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-has-seen-gradual-growth-in-passenger-traffic-says-report-101630052060386.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks LG, Centre to respond to Kejriwal govt plea challenging move to allow police's choice of lawyers||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought the reply of Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on a plea by the Arvind Kejriwal-led government challenging the decision to allow police chosen lawyers as special public prosecutors for cases related to the violence on Republic Day this year and last year's riots in the northeast region of the Capital.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice and asked the LG to file a response to the petition as well as an application seeking a stay on the decision.The court listed the matter for further hearing on October 21.The Delhi government, represented by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Rahul Mehra, has challenged the LG's decision allowing Delhi Police chosen lawyers as special public prosecutors to appear and conduct prosecution in cases relating to violence on January 26, 2021, during the farmers' agitation and northeast Delhi riots cases of February 2020.The AAP-led government has said these special public prosecutors have been chosen by the Delhi Police and thus have a serious conflict of interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/respond-to-govt-plea-challenging-move-over-lawyers-choice-delhi-hc-to-lg-101630050046485.html
27-08-2021||Noida||Noida raises alarm over ‘viral fever’ cases reported in western Uttar Pradesh||The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration has issued an alert regarding cases of viral fever and instructed health workers to take note of people who were having a temperature, news agency PTI reported.The alert on Thursday came as multiple people died due to the fever reported in parts of Western Uttar Pradesh. The health department appealed to people to be wary against vector-borne diseases such as malaria and also asked them to visit a doctor in case they are having a fever rather than opting for self-treatmentAccording to PTI, reports stated that some districts in western Uttar Pradesh such as Mainpuri, Firozabad and Mathura have been seeing a spike in “viral fever” cases for the past few days, and around a dozen people have died.Dr Sunil Sharma, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Noida, told PTI on Thursday an alert has been issued in GB Nagar in view of vector-borne diseases and deaths in Mathura due to the viral fever, adding that people with visible symptoms of Malaria will have to undergo tests at government hospitals and those who are detected positive will be treated. The tests and treatment at all government hospitals will be free of cost, Sharma said“All ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwife) and ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers have been asked to go around in their areas on a regular basis and report cases of fever to health department officials concerned at community health centres, primary health centres and government hospitals so that such people could be tested for treatment,” he said.Sharma added that in the event of any reports of fever, the teams of the health department will visit such areas to monitor the situation so that tests and treatment are done on a timely basis.The Noida CMO also urged people to maintain water-related hygiene at home and said that no water should get collected in houses and nearby places and tanks of air coolers must be cleaned once every week and should be dried completely before use.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-raises-alarm-over-viral-fever-cases-reported-in-western-uttar-pradesh-101630045971704.html
27-08-2021||Other||Hostellers clash on BHU campus; 5 students, 1 police personnel injured||Four students and a police personnel were injured following clashes between residents of two hostels of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) late on Thursday, police said.The students sustained minor injuries, while the cop suffered bruises on hands and feet, added police. A police officer said a group of Rajaram hostel residents were discussing offline classes for final year students starting from September 1 when another group from Birla Hostel allegedly passed comments on them, leading to an altercation. The argument took an ugly turn soon and the students clashed. They pelted stones; two or three petrol bombs were also lobbed and some students also reportedly fired in the air. Also Read | UP undertakes facelift of major pilgrim towns ahead of 2022 pollsBHU chief proctor Prof Anand Chaudhary reached the spot along with a police team, and the proctorial board, but failed to pacify the students. Stones lobbed by students also hit BHU outpost in-charge sub inspector Rajkumar Pandey. A heavy police force had to be deployed to bring the situation under control.Chief proctor Prof Chaudhary said the situation was normal. Deputy commissioner of police, Kashi zone, Amit Kumar said they received complaints from both the groups. A case will be registered and action will be taken. Injured students went to the hospital where doctors treated them and they went back to their respective hostels. Sub-inspector Pandey was also treated at the hospital and discharged, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hostellers-clash-on-bhu-campus-5-students-1-police-personnel-injured-101630049128143.html
27-08-2021||Patna||Four die of asphyxiation in septic tank in Bihar||Four people died of asphyxiation (suffocation due to lack of oxygen) inside a newly-constructed septic tank at a village in Bihar’s East Champaran district on Thursday evening, an official said.According to police, the incident occurred at village Kumahar Toli under Ahirauliya panchayat of Kotwa block at around 6.30 pm when a child, Amit Kumar, 6, fell into it accidentally. “Four people who rushed to rescue the child entered the tank and fell unconscious,” said Nitin Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Kotwa police station.They were pulled out of the septic tank and taken to a local hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. “Two others died in the course of the treatment,” said Sanjay Sah, husband of village head of Ahirauliya panchayat.The deceased have been identified as Raju Pandit (35), Bigu Sah (40), Rahul Kumar (25) and Mukesh Kumar (24) - all residents of Kumahar Toli.The condition of the six-year-old child is stated to be serious. He is presently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Motihari.Police have sent the bodies for postmortem. “The cause of death could only be known after the autopsy,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/four-die-of-asphyxiation-in-septic-tank-in-bihar-101630046788678.html
27-08-2021||Patna||Patna-New Delhi Rajdhani Express to operate with Tejas rakes from September 1||The Indian Railways on Thursday announced that the Patna-New Delhi Rajdhani Express will be operated with the Tejas rakes with several facilities from September 1."Rajdhani Express running between Patna to New Delhi will now be known as Tejas Rajdhani, from September 1, and will run daily from Patna," said East Central Railway, chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar.CPRO further said "This train has been given a lot of features from the point of view of safety, Tejas coaches are fitted with the facility of fire detection and suppression system. It is also equipped with an automatic plug door system, CCTV cameras, Bio-vacuum toilets and infant-care seats in lavatories have been provided in the Tejas coaches".This train has been equipped with an advanced braking system, if there is ever a fire incident, the train will stop by itself and a separate seat has been arranged in the side berth so that the side berth passenger does not face any problem," added CPRO.He also said that the Train is fit to run at a maximum speed of 160km/hr, however, will run this train at 130km/hr and there are no changes in ticket prices of the train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnanew-delhi-rajdhani-express-to-operate-with-tejas-rakes-from-september-1-101630046512771.html
27-08-2021||Patna||Bihar launches web portal dedicated to unsung freedom fighters of state||Bihar’s culture department has launched a web portal dedicated to the war heroes, freedom fighters and martyrs of the state. The portal, amritmahotsav.bih.nic.in will carry the details about the series of activities and programmes which have been planned by the department to pay tributes to the bravehearts on the occasion of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav which began on August 15, the Independence Day, this year. Besides pictures and details of the programmes on freedom fighters and unsung war heroes of Bihar, the portal will also have short films and documentaries based on the places associated with the freedom struggle and freedom fighters. Many places and buildings located in different districts of the state, including state capital Patna, Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Ara, Chapra, Gaya, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Saharsa, Supaul, Sitamarhi and Bhagalpur, were the seats of freedom struggle activities but there has been little information about them among people. Besides, many freedom fighters and martyrs of the state also remain unknown. “To give them their due, the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav is being observed in the entire country including in the state. We have planned to let people know through our programmes about our war heroes who fought for the country’s freedom and many among them even sacrificed their lives. All this information will be uploaded on the web portal,” Dr Alok Ranjan, culture minister, said. Besides, there has also been the need to create awareness about the places related to the freedom movement, he added. “Videos and audios about these places too will be made available on the portal,” he said. Dr Ranjan said nationwide celebrations of the 75th anniversary of the country’s Independence have been going on these days and events are being held in every state to mark the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. It’s a year-long celebration that will conclude on August 15, 2022. “In our state, the culture department is the nodal agency of celebrations and has planned a variety of programmes in different districts and blocks. Committees and sub-committees have also been formed to organise the programmes,” he said. Besides, some other departments, including education, department of forests, environment and climate change, tourism department, information and public relation department and Panchayati Raj, will also be participating in Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav and will share these details and pictures on the web portal, the minister added. Deepak Anand, additional secretary of the culture department, said, these activities would focus on the freedom fighters, martyrs and the places related to them. “The purpose is to highlight their contributions to the country’s Independence,” he said. The culture department has planned a series of programmes for the Mahotsav which will continue till August 2022. “For many of these programmes, the participants will be asked to send their entries on this web portal,” he said. Others present at the web portal launch event included Bandana Preyashi, secretary, culture, art and youth affairs department; M Tariq Iqbal, joint secretary; and Dr Karuna Kumari, director, culture department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-launches-web-portal-dedicated-to-unsung-freedom-fighters-of-state-101630046128287.html
27-08-2021||Bangalore||After Congress 'raping me' comment, Karnataka minister says 'no intention to hurt anybody'||Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra on Friday withdrew his comments on the Mysuru gang rape case after facing a barrage of criticism for his remarks on the Congress party and the victim of the crime, saying he had "no intention to hurt anybody". "I had withdrawn the statement made earlier on the Congress party leaders. We are committed to ensuring the safety of all sections in the society," Jnanendra said while addressing a press conference, according to news agency ANI.Jnanendra also said that security measures will be tightened to ensure the protection of all, especially women, in the state. Police are investigating the case and culprits will be nabbed, he said while referring to the Mysuru gang rape case.As the Karnataka home minister's comments on the alleged Mysuru gang rape gave rise to a war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, he said that the opposition party was politicising the issue. "The rape has happened there in Mysuru, but the Congress is trying to rape me. They are trying to gain political mileage in that incident," he said on Thursday.Also watch | Mysuru gangrape: ‘Cong trying to rape me' says minister; DK Shivakumar hits back"It was an inhuman incident. It happened somewhere, instead of telling us to detect the case, they are trying to gain political mileage, people are watching it. I have already given instructions to crack the case, we are working on it. We are working on it to send a message that such incidents should not happen," he added.He also pointed that several incidents of rape took place during the Congress regime as well. The home minister also questioned the timing of the survivor’s visit to a deserted spot on the outskirts of Mysuru where she was allegedly gangraped by five men.Also read | Mysuru gangrape: 'They should not have gone there,' says Karnataka home ministerChief minister Basavaraj S Bommai said he had sought clarification in this regard. “I just don’t agree with the comments made by my home minister regarding the gang-rape incident. I have advised him to give clarification,” he told reporters.The 22-year-old woman was allegedly raped by five men near Chamundi Hill in Mysuru on Tuesday. The college student and her male friend, who was assaulted by the gang, are undergoing treatment in a private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/mysuru-gang-rape-case-karnataka-minister-says-no-intention-to-hurt-anybody-101630043265479.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Sonu Sood is ambassador for Delhi’s ‘Desh ke Mentor’ initiative for school kids||Actor Sonu Sood will be the ambassador for Delhi government’s ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ initiative for school children, likely to be launched next month, the actor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a joint press conference on Friday.Under the initiative, experienced people from various domains will be encouraged to guide and mentor groups of Class 9-12 students enrolled in government schools on studies, career and profession through periodic interactions, said Kejriwal.He said his government has worked very hard to transform Delhi’s government schools and wants to make education a people’s revolution. Urging more people to join the initiative, Kejriwal said, “No one can stop India from becoming a global leader if people join the education revolution.”Sood said, “We have seen the model of governance in Delhi and how the whole school system has witnessed immense growth under that model. It is an honour for me to be the ambassador for such an initiative. There are thousands of school children who are talented but not privileged enough to have guidance, especially at a time when people have started looking beyond medical and engineering studies as the only two major choices. The recent lockdown and the hardships faced by people during the lockdowns highlighted the importance of education of children and the need to help them shape up their careers.”Also Read | Swine flu, dengue cases rise in Delhi; doctors say no need to panicOn being asked, Sood said he doesn’t have any plans to join any political party though he will actively continue with his social work even as he praised Kejriwal and the Delhi model of governance.Kejriwal said, “We had a chat for nearly two hours today and such interactions are beyond politics. We have all seen how Mr Sood has worked during the lockdown in terms of helping people, especially migrant workers. He did things which even governments failed to do. There wasn’t any better choice than him as the ambassador of the initiative. We have done pilot runs of the initiative over the past year and it turned out well. It is ready for a proper launch now.”Sood said he will also be mentoring a group of school children under the initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sonu-sood-is-ambassador-for-delhi-s-desh-ke-mentor-initiative-for-school-kids-101630041987853.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Sonu Sood to be brand ambassador for Delhi's mentorship initiative, says Kejriwal||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood will become the brand ambassador for the Delhi government's ambitious 'Desh Ke Mentor' initiative, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday. Sonu Sood met Kejriwal at the national capital, a day after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief announced that his government would soon come up with "the most progressive" film policy in India that would provide a massive boost to the entertainment industry..@SonuSood has been appointed as the brand ambassador of @ArvindKejriwal govt's #DeshKeMentor program!"Today, I have been given an opportunity to mentor lakhs of students. There is no greater service than guiding students. I am sure together we can & we will" - Sonu Sood pic.twitter.com/uLR5wOVkgMIn the joint press conference following their meeting, Kejriwal praised the various philanthropic acts that Sood undertook during the migrant displacement crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Announcing the 'Desh ke Mentor' initiative, a mentorship programme in the wake of the crisis, Kejriwal said that it is India's largest mentoring programme yet, that will see around 3 lakh young professionals guiding and mentoring 10 lakh Delhi government school students for a bright future. Sonu Sood has agreed to become the brand ambassador for this programme, he said.Addressing an important Press Conference | LIVE https://t.co/GzfB9Su9iqUnder the 'Desh ke Mentor' initiative, people experienced in their professions will be encouraged to mentor group of children enrolled in Delhi government schools, said CM Arvind Kejriwal, in the press conference, adding that the initiative will be launched in mid-September.Also Read | Delhi has most CCTV cameras, surpasses New York, LondonSonu Sood also praised Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for his welfare initiatives and said that the national capital has an ideal model for education. Noting that progress in social indicators will only come with education, the actor and philanthropist said that there is much need for 'mentors' who can guide children towards a bright future. This is an issue that Sood came across while working on the migrant crisis, he said, adding that around 20,000 migrant children are currently being taught under charity organisations but there is a need to formalise it under the Delhi government initiative for school children.However, both the actor and the politician, while addressing the joint press conference, said that "nothing political" was discussed in their meeting. Responding to reporters' queries in the context of Punjab elections scheduled to be held next year, Sonu Sood said that there have been no discussions on political issues so far.In photos shared by the AAP on its official Twitter handle this morning, Manish Sisodia, the deputy chief minister of Delhi, was seen at Friday's meeting between Sonu Sood and Kejriwal. AAP legislator Raghav Chadha and Plaksha University founder Karan Gilhotra, a fellow philanthropist and a friend of Sood, were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sonu-sood-to-be-brand-ambassador-for-delhi-s-mentorship-initiative-says-kejriwal-101630037752397.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Clear sky in Delhi today; air quality in moderate category||Delhi is likely to witness a clear sky on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be at 26 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 36°C.The minimum temperature on Sunday was 26°C, and the maximum temperature was 36°C.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 8am stood at 138. Also Read | Swine flu, dengue cases rise in Delhi; doctors say no need to panicAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in moderate category and the lead pollutant is PM10 as forecasted. The contribution of coarser particles in PM10 increased to around 65% (as compared to long time normal of ~50%) due to local dust lifting under dry conditions and forecasted to further increase due to enough ventilation but continuous accumulation of external dust and SAFAR model forecast that bigger particle share may further increase to 70-75% in the next three days. However, these two opposite impacts will keep AQI to moderate category with PM10 as prominent /lead pollutant instead of usual PM2.5.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clear-sky-in-delhi-today-air-quality-in-moderate-category-101630036287495.html
27-08-2021||Other||Odisha police asked to reinvestigate after minister’s name allegedly dropped from chargesheet||More than 8 months after a 75-year-old BJP leader and his 81-year-old associate were hacked to death by people allegedly close to the ruling Biju Janata Dal, a judicial magistrate in Odisha’s Cuttack district ordered the police to do a fresh probe after law minister Pratap Jena’s name was dropped from the chargesheet, officials said.The judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) of Salipur in Cuttack district in his order said the investigating officer of the case in Mahanga police station has to do a thorough investigation following a protest petition of the son of the deceased that alleged that the minister’s name was dropped from the chargesheet.“Once conscience of the court is satisfied from the materials on record that the police have not investigated properly or apparently are remiss in the investigation, the court has a bounden constitutional obligation to ensure that the investigation is conducted in accordance with the law,” the magistrate said in his order citing a Supreme Court judgement which said if the police do not perform its statutory duty in accordance with law or are remiss in the performance of its duty, the court cannot abdicate its duties on the plea that investigation is an exclusive prerogative of police.On January 2 evening, Kulamani Baral, 75, and in-charge of Salepur mandal of BJP and former chairman of Mahanga panchayat Samiti was hacked to death along with his 80-year-old associate Dibyasingh Baral near Jankoti village while they were coming home on a motorcycle. The duo received grievous injuries on their face and chest. While Kulamani succumbed to the death on the spot, Dibyasingh died while undergoing treatment at the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack the next morning. Baral was allegedly raising his voice against the alleged involvement of BJD leaders in the appropriation of PMAY houses meant for poor peopleFollowing FIR by Baral’s son, police had booked law minister Pratap Jena and 12 others in the case. The body of Prafulla Biswal, the prime accused in the case, was found on a road in Tangi area more than a month later under mysterious circumstances.After the police dropped the law minister’s name from the chargesheet, Biswal’s son had lodged a complaint case against the law minister before the JMFC alleging that the investigation done was perfunctory as police completely overlooked the allegation against Jena.Baral’s son Ramakanta, who filed the case, alleged that even when the law minister’s name was in the FIR and his statement under section 161 Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.P.C) the investigating officer did not examine material witnesses and wrongly recorded the statement of witnesses to shield him.The police investigating officer in his charge-sheet had said that the Call Detail Records of all the accused persons were verified regarding receipt of any calls from Pratap Jena but there were no such calls.However, citing the SC judgement on Vinubhai Haribhai Malaviya vs The State of Gujarat (Criminal Appeal Nos. 478-479 of 2017), in which the apex court said, “the ultimate aim of all investigation and inquiry, whether by the police or by the magistrate is to ensure that those who have actually committed a crime are correctly booked,” the JMFC said it is the magistrate who has to decide whether on the basis of the record and documents produced, an offence is made out or not.“It is the judicial conscience of the magistrate which has to be satisfied with reference to the record and the documents placed before him by the investigating agency, in coming to the appropriate conclusion in consonance with the principles of law. It will be a travesty of justice, if the court cannot be permitted to direct “further investigation” to clear its doubt and to order the investigating agency to further substantiate its charge-sheet,” the JMFC order said.While BJP leader and senior advocate Pitambar Acharya demanded that Jena should resign in light of the court’s observation, the law minister refused to comment on the court order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-police-asked-to-reinvestigate-after-minister-s-name-allegedly-dropped-from-chargesheet-101630035208727.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Swine flu, dengue cases rise in Delhi; doctors say no need to panic||With the change in weather in the national capital, hospitals in Delhi have been witnessing a sudden spike in seasonal flu, swine flu and dengue cases in the last few days. An official survey shows that as many as 41 per cent of households in the national capital were surveyed wherein one or more members of the family were suffering from flu-like symptoms. Till July 31, only two cases of swine flu were reported in Delhi. The number has increased to 60 within just four weeks till August 25."Most of the cases are normal flu cases. The symptoms are typically in upper and lower respiratory tract related symptoms. Many a time, when we have done the flow panel for the patients or when we have done swine flu test, we have found that at least 2 per cent to 3 per cent of patients coming up positive with swine flu reports," Dr Ashish Khattar, a senior consultant of internal medicine at Venkateshwar Hospital, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Dr Khattar said that this time the crowd has increased in several areas and hence such cases have gone up. "It happens every year. But, this time, the frequency and the number of cases are much more. One reason is that there is a sudden surge of an outbreak of crowds outside. There has been a lot of footfall at the marketplaces, the hospital OPDs are full, people are probably not following the Covid-19 behaviour norms and there is barely any social distancing norm being practised, as per my observation," he added.Experts say that flu doesn't have very serious consequences but those who have comorbid conditions need to be careful. "It doesn't lead to very serious consequences. In most of the cases, unless you have underlying comorbid conditions, most of the times the patient would have just cough cold, fever, body aches, headache, runny nose, sneezing as complex symptoms," Dr MS Kanwar of Apollo Hospitals' department of pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine told ANI.Dr Rommel Tickoo, the director of internal medicine at Max Healthcare, said that many patients are coming to the hospital with flu-like symptoms, high fever, body ache, cough and cold and most of them are recovering in five to seven days with symptomatic treatments.Dr Tickoo added that people should not panic and should take all the required precautionary measures to protect themselves. "Swine flu symptoms are similar to those of Covid-19. However, there is no need to panic. But, yes you have to get tested for Covid-19. Almost everyone is recovering without any hospitalisation nowadays. We still have to take precautions. Follow Covid-19 protocols by wearing the masks, stay away from crowded places etc," he said.Dengue cases have also started going up in the Capital and so far Delhi has reported 82 patients this year. Out of these, 32 cases have come in the last one month. According to the data of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, 30 cases of dengue have been reported in the national capital in the last 23 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/swine-flu-dengue-cases-rise-in-delhi-doctors-say-no-need-to-panic-101630030976478.html
27-08-2021||Patna||Days after Hajipur incident, Pashupati Kumar Paras requests Z-plus security||Union minister of food processing industries and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Pashupati Kumar Paras has written to Union home minister Amit Shah, urging him to provide ‘Z Plus’ security, which is the highest level of security cover provided to a person by the government. Paras alleged a threat to his life due to a political conspiracy.Paras’ letter to Amit Shah on Thursday comes days after he faced protests on Monday during a visit to his parliamentary constituency of Hajipur for the first time after he became a Union minister. Unidentified people stopped his cavalcade, showed him black flags, raised slogans and threw auto lubricant at the cavalcade.“In my letter, I have urged them to investigate the matter. I am a Union minister, MP from Bihar and LJP’s part president. It is the duty of the administration to provide proper security to me,” Paras was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Thursday. He also wrote to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar regarding his security concerns.Also Read| Auto lubricant thrown on LJP’s Pashupati Kumar Paras during Hajipur visitThe Union minister added that he and LJP leader Keshav Singh were being threatened over messages and phone calls, adding that some other leaders of the party were also receiving threats. “I and my party leaders also received filthy abuses and threats on our mobile phones,” Paras told ANI.Without naming anyone, Paras said his political rivals were ‘jolted’ by the massive public response he got during his visit to Hajipur on Monday and accused them of resorting to “murderous politics” as a part of a conspiracy. He also alleged that the Bihar Police did not follow proper security protocols during the visit.Pashupati Kumar Paras, who is the younger brother of late Union minister and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, has been at loggerheads with Paswan’s son Chirag over the leadership of the party. In June, Paras was unanimously elected as leader of the LJP in the Lok Sabha, after five of the six MPs of the party joined hands against Chirag Paswan and elected Paras in his place.Meanwhile, Chirag has also been on a tour across Bihar to rally support around his leadership.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/days-after-hajipur-incident-pashupati-kumar-paras-requests-z-plus-security-101630029355006.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC tells civic body to pay its doctors||The Delhi high court on Thursday warned the North Delhi Municipal Corporation that it will order attaching and selling of the civic body’s assets if the civic bodies failed to disburse the salaries of its employees in six hospitals.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the corporation is not showing any sense of urgency that the issue demands, and added that from now, it will not tolerate any delay in payment of salaries and pensions to the employees and retired staff.The court noted that the issue of whether the hospitals of North MCD have to be handed over for management to the Centre or the Delhi government, as it is facing financial issues, has still not been considered by the civic body.“From henceforth, whenever you will say you don’t have funds, we know what we have to do. From next time, we are going to attach your properties and will start with attaching your commissioner’s office,” the bench said.North MCD counsel Divya Prakash Pande said the the proposal to hand over its hospitals to either the Centre or the Delhi government has been rejected by the councillors.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing Delhi government, said the second installment of grant-in-aid (GIA) and basic tax assignment (BTA) has been released to the three corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-tells-civic-body-to-pay-its-doctors-101630021170129.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees 101 fresh cases||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 101 fresh novel coronavirus infections on Thursday, while no fresh death was reported related to the disease for the second consecutive day. There were 84 cases in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 17 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 119 with active positive cases reaching 1,060.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 301 followed by Jammu district with 97 active cases.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,19,183, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.31%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,24,647 and the death-toll stands at 4,404.The officials said that 55,841 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT . Officials said with 35 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 16 in Budgam. As many as 16 other districts had no or single-digit cases.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,142 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 834 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-sees-101-fresh-cases-101630009883477.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Right of accused to speedy trial can’t be denied by filing challans one after another: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that in a case where trial has substantially progressed after filing of chargesheet, a supplementary challan against other accused cannot be attached with the main case and de novo (fresh) joint trial cannot be ordered where serious “prejudice” will be caused to those already charge-sheeted. “The accused has the fundamental right to speedy trial. To hold otherwise will not only put the progress of the trial entirely in the hands of the police and the prosecution by enabling them to delay trial by filing police report/challan against the accused one after the other or the accused by enabling them to adopt the dilatory tactics of surrender by one or more of the accused but also denude the trial court of the requisite control on the progress of the trial and will also involve denial of fundamental right of one or more of accused to speedy trial,” the bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi said while allowing an appeal in a criminal case. The high court was hearing an appeal filed in March in an attempt to murder and kidnapping case registered by Sangrur police in May 2018. One of the accused, Gurmail Singh, had approached the high court seeking directions to the trial court to conclude the trial in a time-bound manner. The accused was behind the bars since June 2018. The police filed a challan in September 2018 and supplementary challan was presented against two more accused in November 2018. Prosecution evidence was concluded. But in January 2019, two more accused joined investigation and the police filed another chargesheet in March 2020. The trial court passed an order of attachment of supplementary chargseheet of March 2020 with the main case even as examination of witness by the defence was already over. Feeling aggrieved, he had urged the HC to issue direction for speedy and separate trial. The high court observed that Section 223 of the CrPC permits that a joint trial may be held but leaves it to court’s discretion to order joint or separate trial. In exercise of the discretion, the court has to take into consideration the stage at which the already pending trial has reached and also whether any inconvenience or prejudice will be caused to the accused already charge-sheeted in case a joint trial is ordered, the bench observed. “It has now become a general practice that the police, instead of conducting investigation into the offences committed at one time and taking steps for ascertaining complete facts and circumstances, make piecemeal investigation and keep on arresting the accused and filing police report/challan against them one after the other for years together,” the HC observed, adding that the trial courts follow the course by attaching supplementary challans filed against accused without any application of mind. The bench allowed the plea and quashed the trial court’s February 25 order whereby attachment of chargesheet orders with main case were passed. The court also ordered that the copy of the judgment be sent to all district and sessions judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh for information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/right-of-accused-to-speedy-trial-can-t-be-denied-by-filing-challans-one-after-another-hc-101630009704064.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer unions disturbing ‘atmosphere’, should resume talks on 3 laws: Punjab BJP chief||Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma on Thursday asked the farmer unions to resume talks with the Centre over the 3 agriculture laws like they did with the state government over the sugarcane price, claiming that they were disturbing the atmosphere of the state. Members of the Bhartiya Kisan union (Ekta-Ugrahan) on Thursday staged a protest against Sharma as he visited Ludhiana to attend a meeting with party leaders at Circuit House. The protesting farmers marching towards the Circuit House were stopped by police near Verka plant on Ferozepur road. This came a day after the protesting farmers gheraoed Sharma during a meeting in Jalandhar. “The BJP leaders have every right to hold meetings in the state. The farmers should begin talks with the union government without the condition of repealing the laws,” Sharma said. Protest against Akshay Kumar’s movie Slamming actor Akshay Kumar for his alleged anti-farmer stand, a group of youths protested against screening of Kumar-starrer film ‘Bell Bottom’ outside Pavilion Mall on Thursday. The protesters also submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner’s office seeking a ban on the movie across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-unions-disturbing-atmosphere-should-resume-talks-on-3-laws-punjab-bjp-chief-101630009586495.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||269 fresh Covid cases in HP||Himachal Pradesh recorded 269 fresh coronavirus infections on Thursday taking the state’s tally to 2,12,727, while the death toll mounted to 3,566 after three more patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 69 were reported in Mandi, 43 in Kangra, 38 in Shimla, 36 in Hamirpur, 28 in Chamba, 14 in Bilaspur, nine each in Kinnaur and Solan, eight each in Kullu and Sirmaur, four in Lahaul-Spiti and three in Una.The active climbed to 2,077, while recoveries reached 2,07,063 after 247 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 47,481 followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,603and 26,492 cases, respectively.Solan’s case tally reached 22,536 cases, Sirmaur 15,432, Hamirpur 15,176, Una 13,529, Chamba 13,401, Bilaspur 13,356, Kullu 9,455, Kinnaur 3,389 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,877||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/269-fresh-covid-cases-in-hp-101630009344080.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||J&K transforming into tourism capital from terrorism capital: Tarun Chugh||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Thursday said that J&K, which was known as the ‘terrorism capital’ is rapidly transforming into the ‘tourism capital’. Chugh, who is in-charge of the J&K BJP unit and BJP’s J&K chief Ravinder Raina welcomed retired IGP, CRPF, Sudhir Singh Dogra, Col (retd) Gurbaksh Singh and Amrit Kour to the BJP. Chugh said the BJP government at the Centre was committed to the development and safety of J&K,” he said, adding that the PM has also promised early polls in J&K. Condemning former CM Mehbooba for “anti-national utterances”, Chugh said, “It was J&K’s misfortune that these dynasties ruined development in the region and whenever the public solicited a response, they started speaking the language of China and Pakistan.” Cong should come clean on remarks made by Sidhu’s advisers He also said the statements made by Sidhu’s advisers were similar to what Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan and Pakistan Army chief General Q J Bajwa have been telling India.“The Congress should clarify its stand on the statement of its Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s advisors on social media platforms that India has occupied Kashmir. This is a seven-decade-long narrative of Pakistan,” Chugh. Ravinder Raina said, “Parties like the National Conference, Congress and PDP enjoyed the privileges of the power corridors, but did nothing to empower democracy at grass roots level. Terrorism, separatism Cong’s gifts: Bali Bhagat Senior BJP leader and former minister Bali Bhagat on Thursday lashed out both at Congress and PDP and said that both the parties are behind the prevailing unrest in J&K. The former minister said that Pt Jawaharlal Nehru gave terrorism and separatism to the country by mishandling Kashmir situation and the PDP, “which is an offspring of Hurriyat, is prorogating anti-India sentiments .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-transforming-into-tourism-capital-from-terrorism-capital-tarun-chugh-101630008923270.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Feud has hurt us, need local panel to sort it out: Partap Bajwa||The party high command had lots of expectations from Navjot Singh Sidhu. They had this feeling that his being made the party president will strengthen the party in Punjab. But, unfortunately, things have moved in a different direction. Navjot’s mandate was to work with chief minister (Capt Amarinder Singh) to fulfil pending promises. Punjabis are agitated over the 2015 Bargari sacrilege, and related firing incidents in Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan. The Congress and the CM had promised to take action. People want that those who were ruling at that time should be held responsible. Also, whosoever is responsible for drugs should face action. On the directions of the high court, two investigations were done. I will appeal to the chief justice of Punjab and Haryana high court to take cognisance of inquiry reports lying in sealed envelopes with the court and open these so that people know who the culprits are.It is the high court that had ordered these probes. The government should have taken cognisance, but the responsibility for opening the sealed reports lies at the doorstep of the honourable high court. What was the idea of getting investigations done if these were not to be made public. Then, there are lots of other issues, such as power purchase agreements (PPAs). The government must bring white paper and do something on it. We must give him some more time. He is like a younger brother to me. A number of people wanted to be the PCC chief. In his elevation, the rights of even those who have been in the party for more than 40 years were overlooked. In spite of that he has got this opportunity and important responsibility. He needs to work with the government. When he recently met the CM who decided to make one minister sit at the Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh for a couple of hours daily to hear the workers and a 10-member group was set up, it was a good beginning. We must work on those lines. Just 3-4 months ago, the Congress was in a much better position. People wanted to give the Congress a second chance. It is now up to the leaders to sit together as issues can be sorted out. For instance, the cane farmers were on the verge of creating another Singhu border in Jalandhar. I was called by the CM. We sat together and called different organisations and, in one go, gave the farmers ₹50 per quintal more for sugarcane. Today, we have the highest state-assisted price. There are other issues related to SC scholarships, regularisation of contractual employees and pay hike. The state in-charge (Rawat) should come immediately and make everyone, including the CM and ministers, sit together. He should also rope in a couple of senior party leaders from Punjab. In fact, we should have a panel of two-three leaders from Punjab to mediate honestly and remove irritants so that things can be sorted out issue by issue. This group should play the role of United Nations. We really need neutral interlocutors who have the confidence of both (Sidhu and Amarinder). We should not let things go completely out of hand. We should go to the polls as one and not seen as different camps. If that happens, we would be responsible for the fate that awaits the Congress. Damage has been done but it is still not beyond repair. Leadership issues can be decided after the elections. Similar things had happened between Harcharan Singh Brar and Mrs (Rajinder Kaur) Bhattal in 1996 and repercussions are known to all.Differences crop up even in families…among brothers. You need others in the family to mediate sometimes. There is nothing wrong with that.I would not like to say anything on this as this is the prerogative of the high command which has already issued a statement that the party will fight elections under Capt Amarinder Singh. Then, they (disgruntled ministers and MLAs) should not make such demands publicly. They should have spoken to Mr Rawat in confidence. There were lots of reservations about having Navjot (Sidhu) as the PCC chief, but once Mrs (Sonia) Gandhi announced, everybody accepted it. I am myself completely surprised what has gone wrong as for four-and-a-half years they were at the helm of affairs. They themselves say they still have the best portfolios. Their writ is running not just in Majha but in the whole of Punjab. And, nothing has happened till date which is contrary to their expectations.I will not like to say anything that adds fuel to this fire. I will rather want this fire to be extinguished. I have been told Mr Rawat will be here in a day’s time. If he is here, we have to work together to make things better. I will also try to somehow play a role, the way I did for the sugarcane farmers. We have to find ways to sort out the emotive issues such as drugs, Bargari sacrilege and police firing, and take action against those responsible.The major thing is what was the role of Badals and (then DGP Sumedh Singh) Saini.There is a new SIT now. We just need it to come up with the final report. These are certain issues that are agitating the minds of most Punjabis who want clear answers.As the party president, Sidhu can take anyone’s advice. Once you give formal orders that advice or view is taken as the viewpoint of the party. I will appeal to Sidhu that he is occupying a very responsible position and we are in a border state, so he needs to take control of his office. Their (advisers’) views cannot be contrary to the Congress’ stated position and the national view. Otherwise, this (controversial statements) will have serious repercussions, not only in Punjab but also in other states going to polls. Already, BJP’s national president (JP Nadda) has raked up these things. We have to be very careful.I am not in his camp. My support to him is issue-based. I am burying the hatchet with him as a Congressman. If I don’t set an example, then things are over. You know what is waiting for us in 2022. Then, it is writing on the wall. I am not in any camp. I am with the party high command. We should focus on how we can win the upcoming polls. As a Congressman, I have a future ahead. The Congressmen are riding in the same bus. If it meets with a mishap, we all will suffer. Our main concern should be to reach our destination. Who will be the driver and conductor can be decided by the bus owner (high command) thereafter.Yes, one hundred and ten per cent. I am also alarmed at how this situation is being created. I could have easily added fuel to fire. If we also do that, the whole house would be on fire. The basic strength of SAD was the BJP, which is no more with them. And, the role that Akalis played in farm bills initially, they are still to overcome that. Farmers are still very much angry with them. The AAP has wagons with them but no engine without which no train can reach its destination. To date, the Congress has the engine, wagons, fuel and can reach its destination. All we need is an alignment of the engine and wagons in place.Whoever is the CM is the engine at this moment. To change and replace someone is the high command’s prerogative. Yesterday, Harish Rawat has stated that we will go to polls under Capt Amarinder. As senior persons, responsibility lies on our shoulders to facilitate things to bring everyone together. My role will be that of fire extinguisher.I am going to contest the assembly election, preferably from Gurdaspur district. I have already spoken to the Congress president, Rahul Gandhi and the state leadership.I want to tell him that we are all in a hurry. We are senior to him. Every person has to wait for his turn. We are very much in the race for everything. Staying in the race by making a positive contribution is one thing and setting everything on fire is something else.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/feud-has-hurt-us-need-local-panel-to-sort-it-out-partap-bajwa-101630008750569.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||‘No-means-no’ campaign against hydel projects resounds across Kinnaur||A fortnight after a massive landslide killed 28 people near Nigulsari village in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur, the ‘no-means-no’ slogan rang loud and clear across the rugged terrains of the tribal district as thousands of people rallied against hydel power projects on Thursday. The ‘no-means-no’ campaign, which is steadily gaining popularity in the mountain valley, was launched by the youth of the region after recent landslides in Batseri and Nigulseri areas. A major demonstration was held at the district headquarters, Reckong Peo, under the joint aegis of local organisations such as Himlok Jagriti Manch, District Forest Adhikar Sangharsh Samiti, Jangi Thopan Powari Prabhavitt Sangharsh Samiti and Hangrang Sangharsh Samiti. Agitating locals demanded that all proposed hydroelectric projects in the Sutlej River valley be cancelled. Roshan Lal Negi of Jangi Sangharsh Samiti said, “We have held numerous discussions with the administration, government and scientists on the effects of the proposed 804 MW Jangi Thopan power project, to no avail. Scientists have termed the disasters as ‘natural calamities’ as opposed to ‘man-made disasters’ on the behest of the government to give the hydel projects a clean chit.” “The area where the Jangi Thopan project will be setup falls in active land-sliding zone and tampering with the local landscape will prove fatal for the people of the area,” he said. Another activist, Shanta Kumar Negi of Hangrang Sangharsh Samiti, said the authorities were using labels such as ‘anti-national’ to intimidate environmentalists and locals opposing the hydel projects. “However, we live in a remote area and our constitution gives special rights to tribal areas,” he said. “The capitalist model has not only flagged off a blind race for profiteering, but also widened economic inequality in the country,” Manshi Asher of the Himdhara Collective, adding that under this model private companies have dominance and political parties act as their agents. “Our resources are being privatised on a large scale, which is benefitting a handful of companies, while the public is losing out,” she added. Guman Singh and Jia Lal Negi of Himalaya Policy Campaign and District Forest Rights Committee, respectively, highlighted the faulty implementation of the Forest Rights Act in the tribal areas of Himachal. Both, the Panchayat Extension to Scheduled Areas Act and FRA give people of tribal areas legal rights over water, and forest land. Zila Parishad member Priya said the Kinnaur movement is a fight for the rights of tribal people. As many as 44 people were killed in landslides in Kinnaur this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nomeansno-campaign-against-hydel-projects-resounds-across-kinnaur-101630008684813.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Safeguards for mega monetisation plan’s success||The ambitious ₹6-lakh crore “National Monetisation Pipeline” programme unveiled by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has triggered the lively debate in the political as well as academic circles. She has been at pains to underscore that the ownership of the underlying underutilised assets would continue to vest with the central government or its entities. What would be transferred to the private sector, after transparent and competitive bidding, would only be the limited right to manage or operate these assets, for a predetermined finite period. The BJP as a political party has never been shy of using the word ‘privatisation’, although the term ‘disinvestment’ has been frequently preferred. In fact, this chimes very well with the citizen-friendly slogan of “minimum government, maximum governance”, often stated by the Prime Minister himself. The political rhetoric by the opposition parties has essentially been confined to the allegation of “selling the family silver” — built up arduously by the successive governments out of taxpayers’ hard-earned money — to crony capitalists. The economists and academicians opposing this scheme conceptually have pointed out that the government may get only a fraction of the replacement value of capital cost, its upfront receipts being confined to the NPV (Net Present Value) of the expected income stream, after duly adjusting for the risk premium and inflation. The Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, has, on the other hand, defended the initiative stating that these receipts, expected to be received over the next four years, would be utilised for additional capital expenditure by the central government, thereby triggering a benefic multiplier effect in the economy. A part of this amount may also be applied to retire the burgeoning debt burden of the central exchequer. Of course, there are then the usual arguments about the efficiency gains through better managerial practices of the private sector as compared to the outdated bureaucratic mode of handling things by the “babus” in the public sector. Given the type of contracts which the government is often wont to sign and given the quality of its legal teams, it is not too difficult to visualise a scenario where the winner of the bid might default in the payment and yet continue to operate the asset and earn income from it. The astronomical AGR dues that the telecom giants have piled up is merely an illustration of this apprehension. We thus delineate the following points to ensure that this ambitious programme not only succeeds but also achieves its predetermined objectives, which like in many other policies of the government, are often not clearly predefined. 1. The field should be thrown open to global players and 100% FDI should be allowed. If only the domestic players are made eligible, they will merely dip into the gross investable pool created by the Indian economy and would necessarily be at the cost of other projects that they or the smaller players might have undertaken. 2. Since most of the assets proposed to be monetised are virtually natural monopolies, we need to have truly independent statutory “regulators” in place to ensure not only the quality of the service to be provided but also provide a safeguard that the customer/citizen is not made to pay exorbitant user-charges through his nose. 3. Since the government ministries/departments tend to work in silos and most of these assets would lie within the domain of the respective ministries, different practices might emerge in handling the monetisation process. Thus, a separate department or ministry, working in tandem with the administrative departments, needs to be created to ensure not only uniformity in the process but also cross-pollinating the ideas emerging from the monetisation process in different sectors. 4. Close monitoring of the physical and financial parameters committed by the private operator must be ensured so that we don’t land up with a situation where the problem becomes intractable, before the government really wakes up to the gravity of the situation. Maybe a separate mission, manned by professionals, needs to be created. 5. Since the private player should bear a bulk of the payment risk, the banks in general and the public sector ones in particular should not be forced to lend to the entities who do end up coming out as successful bidders. 6. Lastly, in any case of wilful default, severe penal and criminal action should be expeditiously initiated and carried to its logical conclusion. If these precautions are interwoven into the entire scheme at the initial stage itself, we may well see this ambitious programme succeeding, with the concomitant benefits to the economy in general and the central government finances in particular. Bereft of these, the entire scheme may just potentially be a recipe for a mega-scam or non-performing assets in the hands of the already stressed public sector banks. kbs.sidhu@gmail.com(The writer recently superannuated as 1984-batch IAS officer of Punjab cadre. Views expressed are his personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/safeguards-for-mega-monetisation-plan-s-success-101630008328045.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Apple prices have fallen due to lack of government intervention: Ex-Cong MLA Rohit Thakur||Former Congress chief parliamentary secretary Rohit Thakur on Thursday said that lack of government intervention had resulted in a steep fall in the prices of apples from ₹700 to ₹1,000 in the last three weeks. Thakur said the prices had fallen last year as well after private players fixed the prices of the apple in the market, despite 2020 being an off year.“The government has failed to control private companies and apple markets despite the bitter experience of last year,” he alleged, adding that a major private company had procured apples from the growers at the rate of ₹ 88 per kg, while this time they had dropped the prices to of ₹ 72 per kg.The company reduced the prices of apples by 20% through market manipulation, he alleged adding that such practices were prevalent despite the Centre claiming that it will double the farmers’ income by 2020.Thakur sought the intervention of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and asked the government to negotiate with the private company.The former Jubbal-Kotkhai MLA Thakur said that the government has also failed to control the prices of apple packing material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apple-prices-have-fallen-due-to-lack-of-government-intervention-ex-cong-mla-rohit-thakur-101630008323283.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Restoration of 2 Mughal Gardens kicks off in Valley||A month after the government signed a memorandum of understanding with the JSW Foundation for conservation of Jammu and Kashmir’s heritage sites, restoration work has started at two Mughal Gardens — Nishat Bagh and Shalimar Bagh. On Wednesday, conservation architect Abha Narain Lambah, who is working with the JSW Foundation, briefed lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha about the work being undertaken by the team for preservation and restoration of the gardens.Shalimar Bagh is the largest Mughal garden in Kashmir. It was built by Emperor Jahangir for his wife Noor Jahan in 1619, on the bank of Dal Lake. It is in close proximity of the terraced Nishat Bagh, which was built in 1633 by Asif Khan. In March 2020, the Jammu and Kashmir government appointed Lambah, who runs an architectural conservation firm, to prepare a dossier to enlist prominent tourist spots of Kashmir as UNESCO world heritage sites. Lambah’s firm has won nine UNESCO Asia Pacific Awards for conservation projects.On July 28, the J&K government had inked an MoU with the JSW Foundation, which is the social arm of multinational conglomerate JSW Group, for restoration and conservation of the gardens. The foundation is providing both financial and technical support for preserving the two heritage gardens under corporate social responsibility. The work will be completed in two phases and will approximately cost around ₹7 crore per garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/restoration-of-2-mughal-gardens-kicks-off-in-valley-101630008143955.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Corridor of the imaginary cubicles||7 am. Tables are being put out, chairs are being unfolded. Along the corridor where the pedestrians walk. And also along the roadside.It is like a pavement cafe opening up for the day in Paris. But this is Asaf Ali Marg in central Delhi. Soon enough the brief stretch will teem with notary clerks preparing legal documents for their clients, who might have to submit those to the nearby ‘Office of the Sub-Registrar.’This open-air shrine to paperwork is extraordinarily quaint because every single notary here works on an old-fashioned typewriter. Each one’s booth comprises of a table and a chair. A passerby might easily imagine these busy typists as a bunch of writers in a class of creative writing course.Such notaries are seen in many parts of the city, but the early morning assembling of their (metaphoric) cubicles here in Asaf Ali Marg, is intensely evocative. At this hour, the corridor is empty. The middle-aged Vasudev Bhagat (see photo) is bringing out the chairs and the tables, one by one, from a warehouse nearby, where he keeps them for the night. “This has been my job for 15 years,” he says, informing that about 25 notaries sit in the corridor daily. Mr Bhagat’s young assistant, Vijay, emerges out of the warehouse carrying a notary clerk’s old battered briefcase, with sheaves of paper sticking out of it. The boy keeps the briefcase on a table stained with marks of blue ink. Looking around with weary eyes, Mr Bhagat slowly walks back to the warehouse and reappears with a knotted cloth-bundle on his shoulder. It’s looking like a gathri in which one packs the household laundry that has to be ironed. But this gathri is packed with a typewriter, Mr Bhagat says. All the typewriters are in similar bundles.The clerks will show up by 9. Within an hour, the corridor will start to resound with the clack-clack of their typewriters. For the moment, a thin barefoot man is sleeping on the dusty ground, by a row of tables; a pair of bricks is serving as his pillow.The work wounds up by 5 in the evening when Mr Bhagat and Vijay lug back the tables and typewriters. After which the corridor is claimed by the homeless||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-corridor-of-the-imaginary-cubicles-101630007971810.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Rawat tells Sidhu to axe two advisers, Capt camp shows strength at dinner||Delivering his first tough message to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, party’s Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat on Thursday asked Sidhu to axe his two advisers whose controversial statements on Kashmir and Pakistan had left the party red-faced. Rawat’s directive to Sidhu came a day after four disgruntled Punjab ministers and several party MLAs met him in Dehradun seeking chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s removal. “I have verbally communicated to the PPCC chief to remove them (two advisers), making it clear that if he fails to do so, I will have to issue a written direction,” Rawat told Hindustan Times. Rawat’s ultimatum, ostensibly at the behest of the party high command, on Sidhu’s hand-picked aides Malwinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg is a setback for PCC chief who has so far kept a studied silence on their remarks, particularly Mali’s relentless swipes at Capt Amarinder Singh. Asked about Mali’s clarification that these were his “personal views”, Rawat said that his remarks were totally unacceptable, and no clarification was sufficient. “The Congress has nothing to do with him. He is not our appointee. He is not even a primary member of the Congress. On sensitive issues like Kashmir having national and international repercussions, the party will not accept any statement that is at variance with its view,” he added. 55 MLAs show up at dinner with CaptBuoyed by Rawat’s assertion on Wednesday that Amarinder will lead the party in the next assembly elections, the Captain camp hosted a dinner for MLAs and MPs on Thursday as a show of strength to counter the detractors’ claim of a brewing revolt against chief minister. Earlier in the day, three of the four dissenting ministers skipped the virtual meeting of the cabinet chaired by the chief minister. The absentees were rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, jails and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and water resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria. Over 55 party ministers and MLAs, besides eight MPs, attended the dinner where chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was also present, according to sources. The dinner was hosted by sports and youth affairs minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, a close confidant of Amarinder, at his official residence here. “We had invited like-minded MLAs and MPs. All those who were invited turned up and reaffirmed their faith in the chief minister’s leadership. We will win the 2022 assembly elections under him,” Sodhi told Hindustan Times. Sidhu and ministers and MLAs close to him were not seen there. Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who was to sit at Punjab Congress Bhawan to redress the grievances of party workers and public as per the roster, also did not show up at the headquarters. Randhawa said he had a family engagement and could not participate in the meeting. Bajwa and Sarkaria did not respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rawat-tells-sidhu-to-axe-two-advisers-capt-camp-shows-strength-at-dinner-101630007967319.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||16 years on, J&K’s CIC operators’ services still not regularised||Despite a government-empowered committee clearing the regularisation of 172 community information centre (CIC) operators in 2017, the operators continue to work on a contractual basis 16 years on. The revocation of special status under Article 370 of J&K by the Centre in 2019 and the reorganisation of the state into two union territories has further impeded the regularisation of these operators as the J&K Civil Services (Special Provisions) Act 2010, under which they were to be regularised, stands repealed under home ministry’s order in 2020.The operators, working in the UT’s rural development department (RDD) and handling all the online work like e-gram-swaraj, swachh bharat mission (SBM), pradhan mantri awas yojana (PMAY-G), peoples plan campaign (sabki yojna sabkavikaas), gram panchayat development plans (GPDP), mission antyodaya , public financial management system (PFMS) and other e-governance related activities, have been drawing a monthly remuneration of mere ₹10,000. They say that they have also been performing all other office assignments related to elections, establishment, accounts, and works at block, district and directorate level.Operators, with degrees like MCA, M Tech, MSc, IT, BE and BTech, say that most of them have become over-aged for government jobs and have been running from pillar to post for their regularisation.The CIC operators were recruited on contractual basis in 2004 on merit basis through open competition conducted through district-level appointment committees constituted by the government in every district. In 2016, Jammu and Kashmir government through its cabinet decision created posts of data-entry operators for regularisation of their services and a year later in 2017 the empowered committee of J&K government headed by principal secretary, finance department, J&K, cleared their cases for regularisation under the J&K Civil Services Special Provision Act, 2010. The operators said that the department of law, justice and parliamentary affairs has given their opinion in favour of them as has the advocate general of J&K. “All the codal formalities for our regularisation have been completed by the J&K government but unfortunately the regularisation orders are not issued,” said Siddiqui.He said that after much delay and back and forth on formalities, the rural development department was advised by the general administration department (GAD) in June, 2021 to put the cases of the CIC operators before the establishment and selection committee of Jammu & Kashmir again.“The process will take years altogether and almost all the incumbents have crossed the age of 45 years and above,” he said.Mir Mushtaq, a CIC operator from south Kashmir who has masters in computer application, said that the fresh directions by the government meant that things have to start afresh. “The start of the process of regularisation once again nullifies all the work of past years. This is sheer injustice, nothing else,” Mushtaq said.“We are all suffering ,as are our families. I have three school going children. I am not able to pay their fees,” he said.This month, the government has asked the directors of the rural development department (RDD) in both the divisions to furnish the details of the cases under focus.“A case with regard to regularisation under above said repealed act ( J&K Civil Services Special Provisions Act) was referred to law department for opinion which advised that for considering any accrued right under repealed legislation shall be decided by the competent authority for which the matter shall be placed before the establishment cum selection committee,” said Javaid Ahmad Reshi, deputy secretary in rural development department quoting a communication from general administration department. “Accordingly all the administrative departments have been requested to furnish details of pending regularization cases under the repealed act,” it asked the directors of Jammu and Kashmir divisions.Repeated calls to secretary department of rural development Rifat Arif and director of Kashmir division Tariq Ahmad Zargar elicited no response. Additional secretary GAD, Shabir Hussain’s mobile was switched off.“We sympathise with them. They have been working with this department for a long. But what can be done in the changed circumstances. The list has already been provided to the GAD,” an official at the directorate of rural department said, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16-years-on-j-k-s-cic-operators-services-still-not-regularised-101630007725132.html
27-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Another ASI assaulted by revellers during night patrol||Two days after a PCR patrolling team was attacked, another cop was assaulted by revellers in Dhandhari Kalan on late Wednesday night.The Sahnewal police have lodged an FIR against Shaipuna Nand of Dhandhari Khurd, Surjit Kumar and their three accomplices, who are yet to be identified.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Hardeep Singh said he, along with head constable Harvinder Singh and homeguard Surjit Singh, was on patrolling duty on Wednesday night. When they reached near Dhandari Kalan, they found a group of men thrashing two men. When the cops intervened, the accused opened attack on them and also tore the ASI’s uniform.A case under Sections 186 (voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 353 (assaults or uses criminal force to any person being a public servant), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Sahnewal police station. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.On August 22, two men, who were reportedly in an inebriated condition and creating ruckus on the road, assaulted two police personnel and tore their uniforms. When police personnel called for more force, one of the accused slit his wrist with a knife to pressure the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-another-asi-assaulted-by-revellers-during-night-patrol-101630007724009.html
27-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Another resident succumbs to Covid, takes monthly toll to 4||One person succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday, making it the fourth death of the month of August. Besides, two persons also tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours.Since the outbreak last year, Ludhiana has recorded 87,460 infections and 2,097 deaths.Currently, the district has 33 active cases.Though the infection count is declining, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma reiterated that residents should not let their guard down and should remain doubly cautious during the upcoming festival season, in view of the anticipated third wave.He said the festive season is set to start with Janmaashtami on August 30, Ganesh Chatruthi on September 10 and later Navratri which is celebrated with a lot of zeal. “So it is crucial that people take appropriate steps to ensure physical distancing of a minimum of six feet and masking at all the times,” he asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-resident-succumbs-to-covid-takes-monthly-toll-to-4-101630007363881.html
27-08-2021||Other||Farmer ends life, police find ‘suicide note’ with 2 handwritings||A farmer of Panjeta village of Koomkalan allegedly ended his life by consuming a poisonous substance on Thursday morning. Police have found a suicide note, in which the victim, purportedly stated, that he was taking the extreme step as he was duped of ₹65 lakh by his brother-in-law. Police, however, are suspicious about the veracity of the letter as they found two different handwritings on it. The letter has been sent for forensic examination.As per the victim’s mother, about two years ago, he had allegedly sold a piece of land for ₹65 lakh. Right after he received the payment, his brother-in-law borrowed the money, with a promise that he would return it within six months. However, even after two years, the brother-in-law failed to return the money, the victim’s mother told the police. A few days ago, the farmer again spoke to his brother-in-law and told him that he urgently needs the money back as he wants to send his daughter abroad. But the brother-in-law flatly refused, the victim’s mother stated. She added that her son had been depressed for the last 10 days.On Thursday morning, he reportedly threw an empty bottle in front on him and told family members that he had done what he wanted to do, and then collapsed. The family rushed him to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. They are waiting for the forensic report of the alleged suicide note to register an FIR. Koomkalan station house officer, inspector Harshpal Singh said, “There are two different handwritings on the note, which is suspicious. He added that appropriate action will be taken after probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmer-ends-life-police-find-suicide-note-with-2-handwritings-101630007183996.html
27-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Man facing burglary charges held for furnishing fake bail bonds||A man accused of stealing cash and jewellery from a house in South Model Gram has been arrested for availing bail with the help of forged documents. A hunt is on for his brother and son, who had furnished the fake bail documents.The accused has been identified as Ganga Ram of Jawaddi while his aides are Bhupinder Singh, Gurwinder Singh of Phagla village and Jatinder Kumar of Basant Avenue.The FIR has been lodged following the orders of additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) Harsimranjit Singh.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhpal Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 381 (theft) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused at Division Number 5 police station on June 14, after he, along with his brother and son, had allegedly committed burglary at the house of his son’s employer. Ganga Ram was then arrested and sent to jail.The ASI said that the accused had availed bail on July 14. While scanning the documents, the court found that the bail bonds were fake and ordered the police to lodge an FIR.The ASI said a case under Sections 177 (furnishing fake documents), 181 (false statement on oath or affirmation to public servant or person authorised to administer an oath or affirmation), 200 (Using as true such declaration knowing it to be false), 419 ( cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record), 474 (possession of a document, knowing it to be forged, with intent to use it as genuine) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for the rest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-facing-burglary-charges-held-for-furnishing-fake-bail-bonds-101630006824015.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Traffic challans go paperless in Chandigarh||After being in use for about two years, e-challan machines will now become the norm for issuing fines for traffic violations in Chandigarh.In an order issued to all deputy superintendents of police and station house officers on Thursday, deputy inspector general of police Omvir Singh Bishnoi has directed them to stop issuing manual traffic violation challans and hand over all challan books at the traffic lines.Chandigarh Police are using 215 e-challan machines at present. While 120 machines are with the traffic cops, 40 are with the police control room unit and 27 with police station personnel, who too have the authority to issue traffic challans. Another 19 are part of the buffer stock and nine have gone for repairs.According to senior superintendent of police (traffic) Manisha Choudhary, traffic cops had already discontinued manual challans after adopting the machines in July 2020. “The formal order will bring uniformity across the various verticals,” she said.The e-challan machines were first introduced on trial basis in July 2019. They bring transparency and help curb underhand dealings between violators and traffic cops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-challans-go-paperless-in-chandigarh-101630006583855.html
27-08-2021||Other||Gangster Puneet Bains’ aide held with 512gm heroin in Ludhiana||The Special Task Force (STF) of Ludhiana arrested a 25-year-old man with 512gm heroin on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Sahil Kanda, 25, of New Chandar Nagar. As per the police, he is already facing trial in several criminal cases, including rape, robbery and gambling. He is also a member of the gang led by Puneet Bains alias Mani Bains.Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge of STF Ludhiana, said police arrested the accused following a tip-off on Wednesday night when he was near Kitchlu Nagar. The accused was crossing the area on his scooter.The STF stopped him for checking and found 512gm heroin hidden in his scooter. The accused told the police that he is unemployed and earns money by selling drugs. He used to procure heroin from Delhi and sell it among addicts. He has been into drug peddling for the past two years, he further told the cops.A case under Sections 21, 25, 61 and 85 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the accused at STF, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar (Mohali). More information is expected from him during questioning.The STF produced the accused before the court on Thursday from where he was sent to five-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gangster-puneet-bains-aide-held-with-512gm-heroin-in-ludhiana-101630006525061.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Check on speed can reduce accidents by half in Punjab: DGP||Punjab’s Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said keeping a check on vehicle speed can reduce accidents by half in Punjab. He was speaking at a roundtable conference on road safety and socio-economic assessment of national highways in Punjab organised by Institute for Development and Communication in Sector 38 on Thursday. Gupta said, “Traffic cops are the face of the police who interact with the public on a daily basis. There are only eight traffic cops in Punjab per 1 lakh people, which is still higher than the national average.”The DGP also spoke about how the same people who follow all traffic rules in Chandigarh adopt a casual approach when they enter Punjab. He said the Punjab Police are now using equipment such as traffic enforcement cameras to monitor vehicles’ speed in cities. Punjab’s Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) (traffic) SS Chauhan discussed how techniques such as predictive analysis can be employed to manage traffic in a better way. Talking about road safety assessment of national highways in Punjab, state’s traffic adviser Navdeep Asija said, “Accidental death rate on the patch of NH 152 that passes through Mohali is 2.15 deaths per kilometre, five times higher than the state and national average. Most of the pedestrians were killed when they were walking along the road rather than trying to cross it. Maximum accidents were caused by cars and the highest number of mishaps were recorded on Saturdays, when people tend to venture out in their cars and the volume of transport vehicles is lower.” He also mentioned how most of the fatalities were caused between 6pm and midnight. Asija added that 45% of 175-km stretch of NH 44 has been declared as black spot and the highest rate of fatalities is in Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib due to the industrial nature of these districts.The socio-economic impact of NH 44 was also discussed by Shuchi Kapuria, who showed how schools close to the highway have higher enrolment rates, especially in higher classes, and also how more crimes are also witnessed close to the highways.Deputy director of Institute for Development and Communication, Chandan Awasthi, speaking on the sideline of the event, said this research was prepared by the traffic psychology unit recently formed by their institute and will be used to spread awareness among those living close to the national highways in Punjab as well as the first responders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/check-on-speed-can-reduce-accidents-by-half-in-punjab-dgp-101630006523805.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Development works worth ₹6.5 crore inaugurated in Panchkula||Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta inaugurated the construction of a community centre in Sector 31 and laying of water supply and sewerage pipelines in Nada village on Thursday by performing “Bhoomi Poojan”. The projects are being carried out by Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) at an estimated cost of ₹6.50 crore. Gupta said that the community centre is being built over an area of two acres at a cost of ₹4.70 crore. It will be equipped with facilities like library, badminton hall, squash court, multipurpose hall and gym . He added that laying of the pipelines in Nada will help resolve the long standing problem of drinking water and sewerage in the village. Around ₹1.75 crore will be incurred on laying these pipelines of five-kilometres each and the work is likely to be completed within six months, he added. He said that to ensure proper sewerage facility in the village, the existing line will be connected to the sewerage of Sector 31. While reiterating his commitment to ensuring the uniform development of the district, Gupta said that a road is being constructed in Chowki village at a cost of ₹7.5 crore for the convenience of 70-80 families. The speaker said that at present, various pharmaceutical companies have established their manufacturing units at Baddi and Parwanoo in Himachal Pradesh. He said that as the owners of most of these companies live in Panchkula, they have expressed their willingness to shift their units here. Gupta said that efforts will be made to ensure that these companies are provided facilities at par with Himachal Pradesh. He added that pharmaceutical industries are also well suited to the development plan of Panchkula, as they do not pose any pollution risk. Software technology park to come upGupta added that 10 acres of land has been provided to the central government to set up a software technology park in the district. The MLA said that the construction of the NIFT building in Sector 23 is in its final stage and it will be inaugurated soon. He added that this will provide people of adjoining areas with ample employment opportunities, as students from different parts of Haryana and the country will come here for their education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/development-works-worth-6-5-crore-inaugurated-in-panchkula-101630006463836.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Trader on bike loses ₹1.25 lakh to snatchers||A Panchkula man allegedly lost ₹1.25 lakh to two bike-borne men near the Fun Republic light point in Chandigarh on Thursday night. Victim Kapil Kumar Manchanda, 42, who has a shop in Manimajra NAC, was returning home on a bike when the alleged incident took place. Manchanda, who resides in Sector 17, Panchkula, told police that he was carrying the day’s earnings in a bag. All of a sudden, he lost balance as the miscreants allegedly stuck a stick or a rope in his bike tyre. He hit a tree on the roadside and fell on the ground, he said.Before he could realise what had happened, the duo allegedly drove away with his cash bag and mobile phone. He said both men wearing masks and helmets. Police were verifying the complaint. No case had been registered till the filing of this report around midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhtrader-on-bike-loses-1-25-lakh-to-snatchers-101630006345107.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Army won’t let external turmoil affect India: Lok Sabha speaker on Afghan crisis||The armed forces would not let political turmoil in any other country affect India, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla said on Thursday in a reference to the crisis in Afghanistan In an apparent reference to China, Birla, who is on a three-day visit to Ladakh, said the “expansionist approach” of a few countries results in border disputes and asserted that India always propagates peace and works for strengthening democratic setup in other nations.The Lok Sabha speaker is on a week-long trip to Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as part of the ‘parliamentary outreach programme for empowerment of panchayati raj institutions.’Birla said he is visiting the two Union Territories to strengthen the panchayati raj system and democratic institutions.Asked about recent political crisis in Afghanistan, Birla said India favours democratic system flourishing in all countries.“India has always propagated peace and worked for strengthening democracies across the world… We have full faith in our armed forces that they wouldn’t let political turmoil in any other country (Afghanistan) affect India,” Birla said.On the recent tensions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Birla said, Ladakh region is the land of Buddha who preached peace and harmony and that is what India also propagates.“Here from Leh, the land of Buddha, we only want to send the message of peace and harmony. India has always opposed cross-border terrorism and expansionism. But it is the expansionist approach of few countries which led to disputes at borders,” Birla said.He further said India is capable of safeguarding its borders and people.Birla said in the current times, he hopes that all countries will come together and make an action plan to end terrorism by strengthening the democratic system.Talking about Ladakh, Birla said the region should be developed according to the expectations of the people and its geographical location.The region has the potential to emerge as one of the most sought-after international tourist destination, Birla said, adding Ladakh’s infrastructure is being developed at a very fast pace.Birla is scheduled to visit far-flung areas of Ladakh, including Pangaong Lake and Nubra Valley. He will also visit Pahalgaon and Srinagar and interact with panchayat leaders from all these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-won-t-let-external-turmoil-affect-india-lok-sabha-speaker-on-afghan-crisis-101630006343890.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two from Chandigarh lose ₹1.5 lakh in fraudulent withdrawls||Two persons became the latest victims of fraudulent withdrawals, city police said on Thursday. Om Prakash Sharma, 47, a home guard volunteer posted in Chandigarh, lost ₹21,000 as soon as he shared his details with a person claiming to be calling from a bank. Sharma said he had applied for a credit card in February 2020. “A few days later, I got a call from a woman identifying herself as an employee of Axis Bank. She said the call was for verification purpose. She sought the details of a message sent on my mobile phone for the issuance of the card. As I shared the details, ₹21,000 was deducted from my account in three instalments,” he told the police. He said he received another call later, asking him to switch off his mobile phone and get his cards blocked as he was “targeted by online fraudsters”. A case under sections 420 and 120B of the IPC has been registered at the Sarangpur police station in this matter. In the second incident, Jagat Singh Mehra of Kishangarh was duped of ₹1.25 lakh through a fraudulent withdrawal. He said that he had made a payment for prepaid mobile recharge, which failed and instead, ₹1.25 lakh was debited from his bank account through a mobile payment application. An FIR under similar charges has been registered at the IT Park police station. Two held for insurance fraudCyber crime investigation cell of the Chandigarh Police have arrested two Delhi men for duping a Chandigarh woman of about ₹41 lakh. The accused are Aashish Gupta, 29, and Shiv Nath. They were arrested from the national capital on August 25 and produced in a court on Thursday. The police have secured their three-day remand. The have been accused of duping one Baljit Kaur Modi of Chandigarh’s Sector 46 on the pretext of providing insurance bonus. The victim claimed to have deposited about ₹41 lakh in different accounts as directed by the accused, but no amount was disbursed to her. The fraudsters later switched off their mobile phones, the victim alleged. Further investigation revealed that Aashish Gupta had got ₹2.8 lakh credited to his account and ₹1 lakh to his brother’s account, while Shiv Nath had got an amount of ₹8.4 lakh deposited in his account. The accused used to target people and lure them on the pretext of helping them avail the bonus amount of their insurance policies. They would also dupe people by issuing fake insurance policies and used to get the money deposited into their accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-from-chandigarh-lose-1-5-lakh-in-fraudulent-withdrawls-101630006166567.html
27-08-2021||Other||Day after wedding anniversary, 28-year-old woman kills self in Ludhiana||A day after her fifth wedding anniversary, a 28-year-old woman ended her life at her rented accommodation in Namdev Colony on Wednesday. Police have recovered a suicide note, in which the woman accused her husband and mother-in-law of dowry harassment. The duo has been arrested.The victim’s mother, who is the complainant in the case, said that her daughter had got married to the accused five years ago and the couple has a three-year-old daughter. She said that her daughter started facing dowry harassment soon after marriage. She further said that her son-in-law is unemployed and used to force her daughter to work and earn. The complainant said that around eight months ago, the accused threw her daughter out of the house following which her daughter stayed with her for two months and then moved in with her younger daughter, who is widow. “On Tuesday, as it was her fifth wedding anniversary, my daughter called her husband to wish him. But he misbehaved with her. Upset over it, my daughter ended her life by hanging herself from a girder on Wednesday,” alleged the woman.“We came to know about the incident when my second daughter returned home and raised the alarm,” she added.Sub-inspector Baldev Raj, the investigating officer, said an FIR under Sections 304-B (dowry death) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. Police will produce the accused before the court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-wedding-anniversary-28-year-old-woman-kills-self-in-ludhiana-101630006164021.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Flouting norms: Chandigarh MC may penalise parking contractors||The municipal corporation considering penalising parking contractors for failing to adhere to norms stipulated under their contract. The civic body had on Wednesday issued notices to the contractors and deputed a team of the officials to examine the working of parking lots over the next two days. The action had come after the UT adviser Dharam Pal expressed dissatisfaction over the poor working of the “smart parking” in the city.“The officials will continue with their inspections on Friday. The initial report, based on the checking carried out on Thursday, indicates that stipulated conditions are being flouted. The officials were directed to start the process of imposing penalties as per preliminary findings,” said an MC official. The civic body held a hearing on Thursday regarding lack of stipulated facilities at the lots. MC commissioner Anindita Mitra, said, “The officials have been directed to examine whether contractors are adhering to the conditions and facilities stipulated under the parking contracts. As per the report, further action will be taken. A checklist of services to be provided, as per the contract, has been prepared and the MC officials are examining if they are working according to it.” Meanwhile, the issue of parking lots throughout city was also discussed during a meeting of the finance and contracts committee (F&CC) on Thursday. Officials concerned were asked to submit a report within two days according to the checklist of facilities to be provided by the contractors.New facility for women to come up in Sector 47 marketTo facilitate women shopkeepers at the Sector 47 booth market, the F&CC has approved the construction of a public toilet block at a cost of ₹27.01 lakh.A decision in this regard has been taken during a meeting of the committee under the chairmanship of Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and attended by Mitra and other members of the committee including Anil Kumar Dubey, Rajesh Kumar, Satish Kumar and Sunita Dhawan.The committee also discussed and accorded approval for the agenda regarding celebration of 34th Chrysanthemum show scheduled to be organised in December this year at an estimated cost of Rs. 10.65 lakh. In view of the Covid situation at that time, the programmes may be allowed at a later stage.The panel also accorded approval to provide and fix the 80-mm thick interlocking paver blocks along the green belt of Kajheri for parking at Sector 52 at an estimated cost of Rs. 31.48 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flouting-norms-chandigarh-mc-may-penalise-parking-contractors-101630006104156.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn to build 209 new bus queue shelters in 9 months||After failing to attract firms to build bus queue shelters in the city under the public private partnership (PPP) model, the Chandigarh administration has decided to go ahead with the project on its own. Now, the UT engineering department will construct 209 new shelters and refurbish 200 old ones. Confirming the development, UT chief engineer CB Ojha said, “We will soon be floating the tenders for the project and the work is expected to start in a month’s time.”The project is slated to be completed within nine months at a cost of around ₹12 crore to ₹14 crore.The project gained additional importance recently with the UT transport department implementing the intelligent transport system (ITS). With delay in the construction of the shelters, the transport department could install ‘Passenger Information Display Screens’ only at 37 bus queue shelters. The screens are essential for the project and give information regarding bus routes, arrival and departure times besides other related information to commuters. Controversies mar progressThe project has been hanging fire for more than a decade. It has been delayed on account of the design to be selected, choice of the agency to complete the project, model for its implementation and no firm turning up to implement it. The initial decision of the engineering department to go for stainless steel bus shelters had elicited criticism from different quarters, particularly architects and heritage protection groups. It had even installed 60 stainless steel bus shelters in 2013 at a cost of around ₹8 crore, with each shelter costing about ₹13 lakh. Critics opined that concrete shelters could be constructed at half of this cost. The design and material of the steel shelters also didn’t go along with the original design of the concrete shelters which was in line with overall architectural plan of the city, critics had said. Under pressure, the department had in 2017 reversed its decision and decided to opt for structures made of concrete on the lines of the original bus queue shelters in the city. Model concrete design to be followed“We will follow the design of the model concrete shelter constructed between Sectors 17 and 18. This will be replicated across the city now for new construction and refurbishment of old structures,” Ojha said. The department’s plan to implement the project on ‘built operate and transfer’ (BOT) model couldn’t be realised. Under the model, the firm was to construct the shelters, maintain them and in return could generate revenue from advertisement. The department floated tenders six times, but could get the requisite response. Notably, one firm even approached the Punjab and Haryana high court over some tender-related issues. “There was apprehension among the firms that due to the pandemic, they would not be able to generate enough revenue to cover the cost of construction and management of the bus queue shelters. So, the response to our tenders remained subdued,” Ojha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-to-build-209-new-bus-queue-shelters-in-9-months-101630006044064.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: 26-year-old man killed in Kharar road mishap||A 26-year-old man was killed after a battery operated scooter hit the motorcycle he was riding pillion in Kharar late on Wednesday.The victim was Jagdeep Singh, a resident of Bassi Pathana, who was returning home from Swaraj factory along with his friend Sandeep Singh. He had suffered head injuries and was referred to PGIMER in Chandigarh, where he was declared brought dead. The police have arrested scooter driver Murari Lal of Kharar under sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC. He was later released on bail. Cab overturns in Chandigarh, 2 escape with minor injuriesA Toyota Innova overturned after hitting road divider near Press Light Point on Madhya Marg on Thursday night, leaving two of its occupants injured. Gurjot Singh, the driver of the vehicle, which was being used as a cab, has been booked for negligent driving. As per the information, the vehicle was coming from Punjab’s Rajpura and had two passengers, who escaped with minor injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-26-year-old-man-killed-in-kharar-road-mishap-101630005983989.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: School found running ‘illegally’, officials under HC lens||The high court has asked the Haryana government as to why action not be taken against the officials who allowed a private school to function in Panchkula without recognition.The high court bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli acted on the plea of a Panchkula resident, Manish Kumar Banger. Banger had told court that he had filed a plea against Sky World School, Panchkula, for running Classes 9 and 10 without obtaining necessary recognition. He alleged that after the plea was filed in 2020, his children were forced to leave the school without any refund of fee. The petitioner further stated that the permission granted to the school in July 2019 was conditional with a clear stipulation that it would not admit students till recognition is granted. Though the authorities had taken note of this fact, no penal action was taken against the school and the matter was closed by issuing a warning, it was alleged. The petitioner had referred to a high court judgment, wherein directions were given that no school be allowed to function in violation of the provisions of the Haryana School Education Act, 1995. According to another high court ruling cited by Banger, all such schools were ordered to refund fee to all students and the government was asked to take penal action too. It was further submitted that the school is playing with the future of children, as it has been granting admissions illegally and extracting hefty fees. Banger’s counsel Abhinav Aggarwal had told court that the authorities have passed the warning order in absolute ignorance of law. They have manipulated the record and have ensured that petitioner would not be granted time or opportunity to represent his case before them, by issuing notice to him just a day before the hearing, the court was told, adding that an appropriate action be taken against the school as well as against the officials involved. The government counsel had admitted that the permission granted in July 2019 was conditional, and had further sought time to file an affidavit about the steps taken by the authorities against the unrecognised school and the fact that how the school in question was allowed to continue to run Classes 9 and 10 in the absence of recognition. The court has now asked as to why steps be not taken against officials and also asked the state government to apprise the court about the steps taken by the authorities to prohibit this school as well as other similarly situated unrecognised schools from granting admissions to students. The state has been told to file a response by September 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-school-found-running-illegally-officials-under-hc-lens-101630005923835.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Two Panchkula kids among 11 +ve in Chandigarh tricity||After registering new cases in single digit for four straight days, the tricity recorded 11 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday.Chandigarh led with five cases, followed by four in Mohali and two in Panchkula district. Those tested positive in Panchkula were a 14-year-old boy from Ramgarh and a 13-year-old girl from Sector 11. In Chandigarh, Manimajra reported two cases, followed by one each in Sector 26, Behlana and PGI Campus. In Mohali district, two cases each surfaced in Mohali city and Dhakoli. Meanwhile, no virus-related death was reported on Thursday. In August, each of the three districts has recorded just one fatality.The tricity’s active caseload saw an uptick from Wednesday’s 89 to 94 on Thursday. Mohali has 43 patients, followed by 39 in Chandigarh and 12 in Panchkula. The daily positivity rate remained below one percent in all the three cities.So far, 65,077 people in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus of whom 64,226 have successfully recovered while 812 have succumbed to the disease. Of the 68,583 positive patients in Mohali, 67,482 have been cured while 1,058 have died.Panchkula’s total case tally stands at 30675, of which 30,286 have been cured and discharged and 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-two-panchkula-kids-among-11-ve-in-chandigarh-tricity-101630005683837.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: High drama outside Zirakpur multiplex||A high drama was witnessed outside Dhillon Plaza on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway in Zirakpur on Thursday after an exchange of words between a senior cop and protesting farmers. The farmers had gathered outside the multiplex to stop the screening of Akshay Kumar’s movie Bell Bottom, alleging that the actor had never supported them in their fight against the contentious farm laws. The protesters, led by Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajeywal) block president Karam Singh Karkaur, alleged that deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Amroz Singh termed them as “blackmailers” and “goondas” and warned them against protesting outside a private property. A video of the alleged incident was also shared on social media. Protesting against the “objectionable” words, the farmers then attempted to block the highway, but later claimed that the matter had been resolved after the DSP tendered an apology.However, DSP Amroz Singh outrightly denied using any objectionable word, calling it a “rumour spread by unscrupulous people”. “I had only requested them not to disturb the law and order situation,” he said. Meanwhile, the DSP met the manager of the multiplex and asked him to stop the screening of the film after the ongoing show, which was complied with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-high-drama-outside-zirakpur-multiplex-101630005503976.html
27-08-2021||Other||Couple robbed of car on gunpoint in Ludhiana||When the city police were busy with their late-night mock drill at Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Interstate Bus terminal on Wednesday, two armed men robbed a couple of their Maruti Brezza car on gunpoint in J-block of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar.The incident took place around 10.30pm when the couple, identified as Saurabh Sharma, 27, of Rajguru Nagar, and Meenakshi Sharma, 25, had come to the area to purchase milk. While Sharma went to the booth, his wife waited in the car parked on the roadside. Meanwhile, a white-coloured Tata Indigo car stopped beside the couple’s car. Two men, wearing white kurta-pajamas, alighted from the vehicle and brandished a gun at Meenakshi. They told her to keep mum and get off the car. She showed no resistance and did as she was told. The men then drove off with both cars, towards Ferozepur road.After the robbers left the spot, Meenakshi narrated the incident to her husband, who then informed the police.Sarabha Nagar station house officer, inspector Paramdeep Singh said that an alert has been sounded in the city and other districts. An FIR has been lodged against the unidentified robbers, who were three or more in number. Police are also scanning closed-circuit television cameras for more clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couple-robbed-of-car-on-gunpoint-in-ludhiana-101630004843831.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two held for supplying firearms to Khalistani activists, gangsters||Delhi Police special cell has arrested two men who allegedly supplied illegal firearms to Khalistani activists and gangsters across Punjab, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and the national capital, officials said on Thursday. A total of 18 illegal pistols and 60 live cartridges were recovered from their possession, they said. The accused have been identified as Rajender Singh Barnala (22) and Bablu Singh (30), both residents of Barwani district in Madhya Pradesh, the police said. The police got inputs that Khalistani activists were in touch with illegal firearms suppliers of Madhya Pradesh, officials said. It was found that the illegal weapon suppliers were active on social media platforms and the radical Khalistani groups and gangsters were also procuring weapons from them using these platforms, police said. On Wednesday, police got a tip-off that Barnala will come at Karala-Barwala Road in Rohini along with his associate to supply illegal firearms to his contacts, a senior police officer said. A trap was laid and the accused were nabbed. Several mobile handsets and SIM cards were also recovered from them, the officer said. Barnala said he and his brother Narender Singh had been supplying firearms in various parts of country, including Punjab, Haryana, UP and Delhi for past several years, they said. He and his brother also joined social media pages of Khalistan movements and different gangsters across the country. They were using virtual numbers and various apps to remain in contact with their receivers, the officer said. Barnala’s interrogation also revealed that he used to supply illegal weapons to Khalistani activist in Punjab. He disclosed that they used social media and app-based numbers so that their location could not be traced by the police, they said. They pictures, numbers and rates of illegal fire-arms were sent on different social media apps so that buyers can contact them, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-held-for-supplying-firearms-to-khalistani-activists-gangsters-101630004723857.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Two ETT-TET qualified teachers jump into Bhakra canal, rescued||Two ETT-TET qualified teachers jumped into Bhakra Canal near Passiana village on Thursday over the failure of the state government in issuing them appointment letters against their recruitment in the state education department. However, they were rescued by the team of divers deployed at the spot. Teachers under banner of 2,364 ETT-TET Qualified Union held a protest near the canal as they claimed that the government was not adhering to their demand. Union leader Amarjit Singh said the government advertised 2,364 posts in March 2020 and took written examination in November last year. “In December 2020, as many 2,364 candidates were selected on the basis of written examination following which the scrutiny of documents was carried,” he said.Bikramjit Singh, another teacher, said the government has not issued appointment letters to selected candidates. “We have met officials of the education department multiple times, but to no avail. Most of ETT-TET qualified teachers are jobless as private schools they were working with have relieved them due to Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. The protest was on till the filing of the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-ett-tet-qualified-teachers-jump-into-bhakra-canal-rescued-101630004603852.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||3 Punjab-origin men held for human trafficking in Canada||Three Indian-origin men in Canada have been arrested and charged with human trafficking in connection with a case involving a victim under 18, a media report has said.Police have arrested and charged the three men from Ontario’s Brampton city and are searching for a fourth suspect, a South Asian, in relation to a human trafficking investigation involving a minor victim, the Toronto Star newspaper reported on Wednesday.Amritpal Singh, 23, and Harkuwar Singh, 22, were charged with sex trafficking, advertising sexual services, and benefiting from sexual services, whereas Sukhmanpreet Singh, 23, was charged with forcible confinement and aggravated assault.On Saturday, police launched a probe into allegations that an underage girl had been held against her will, violently assaulted numerous times and was being trafficked within the sex trade, it said, adding that the victim was taken to a hospital with serious, non-life-threatening injuries.All the arrested men appeared before the Ontario Court of Justice on August 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-punjab-origin-men-held-for-human-trafficking-in-canada-101630004485474.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet nod to jobs for 104 kin of farmers who died during stir||The Punjab cabinet on Thursday gave ex-post facto approval for jobs to 104 legal heirs of farmers/farm labourers who died during the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh directed departments concerned to give any further relaxations needed to ensure that the next of kin of all such protestors are provided employment. The cabinet earlier authorised the CM to make any further changes in rules, while approving relaxations to candidates who were not covered under the Punjab government policy dated November 21, 2002, relating to compassionate appointments. With the cabinet decision, the deceased farmers’/labourers’ mother, father, married brother, married sister, married daughter, daughter-in-law, grandson, granddaughter, next of kin, as recommended by the deputy commissioner concerned, would be eligible for employment as a one-time measure.  ₹1,500 crore bonanza for govt employeesThe cabinet also announced additional ₹1,500 crore bonanza for government employees and pensioners by deciding to hike their basic pay by a minimum of 15% over and above the basic pay as on December 31, 2015, in addition to restoration of certain allowances. With this, the average increase in salary/pension per employee has gone up to ₹1.05 lakh per annum, from the earlier ₹79,250 per year that they were getting following the government’s decision to accept the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission with effect from July 1, 2021, which had earlier led to a ₹4,700 crore bonanza for the employees, said a government spokesperson. The decision was taken in the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The hike in the basic pay will put additional burden ₹42,673 crore per annum on the state exchequer. The CM said all operational allowances have not only been retained but also doubled in absolute terms over what they were being paid earlier, with the cabinet decision to restore common allowances, such as fixed medical allowance, mobile allowance, conveyance allowance and city compensatory allowance (CCA), at the revised rates (2.59 X 0.8), with effect from July 1, 2021. The cabinet also approved treating of non-practicing allowance (NPA) admissible to doctors at the rate of 20% of revised basic pay as pay, with secretariat pay for employees (working in Punjab civil secretariat) to be doubled with effect from July 1, 2021, and also to be treated as pay. Further, employees covered under the National Pension Scheme have now been given cover under family pension in case of death-in-harness, with the adoption of family pension guidelines dated 05.05.2009 and subsequent linked instructions dated 04.09.2019 with suitable state government modifications in respect of employees covered under new pension scheme as applicable to similarly placed employees in Government of India, as per the provisions under the Punjab Civil Services Rules- Volume II. The decisions taken by the cabinet are based on the recommendations of the committee of the group of ministers, headed by local government minister Brahm Mohindra. ‘Mera Kaam Mera Maan’ scheme launched The cabinet gave nod to a new scheme – “Mera Kaam Mera Maan” (MKMM), to facilitate unemployed youth in improving their skills and enhancing their employability through free short-term skill training.The scheme provides employment assistance allowance of ₹2,500 per month for 12 months from the start of the training course under the short-term skill training programmes in the Punjab Skill Development Mission training centres. Special assembly session on Sept 3 The Punjab cabinet on Thursday decided to summon a one-day special session of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha on September 3 for commemoration of the historic 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur. The cabinet, at a meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, approved recommending to the governor summoning of the 15th session of the House under Article 174 (1) of the Constitution of India. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said the session would start with obituary references at 10am, followed by celebration of the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur at 11am. The CM said he will invite Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore and former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh as guests at the special session. Other decisions Minimum qualification for gram sewaks raised from matric to graduation Nod to continuation of the services of 497 veterinary pharmacists and 498 Class 4/safai sewaks for two years Certain categories of industries allowed to install paddy straw fired boilers to claim fiscal incentivesNod to loan waiver up to ₹50,000 from Punjab Scheduled Castes Land Development and Finance Corporation and Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cabinet-nod-to-jobs-for-104-kin-of-farmers-who-died-during-stir-101630004303671.html
27-08-2021||Other||No Covid death in UP in 24 hours: CM||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday asked for strict and effective implementation of Covid-19 night curfew in the state, given the fact that Covid cases were rising sharply again in some states. He asked police to begin relaying warnings by blaring hooters before 10 pm every night. To note, the state government withdrew the Sunday closure, that meant the end of all kinds of Covid restrictions, barring the night curfew (10 pm to 6 am every day) in the state. At the Covid-19 review meeting, Yogi said: “We need to be extra cautious as Covid cases have begun rising sharply in several states once again. It is very important that Covid protocols are followed well. The night curfew should be made effective. Police teams should begin issuing warning and alerts by sounding hooters ahead of 10 pm every night, nudging people to not roam around unnecessarily and shopkeepers to shut shops by 10 pm.” Talking about the state’s current Covid status, Yogi said that the policy of ‘trace, test, track and vaccinate’ worked well in the state and helped control the pandemic. The state had done 7.12 crore tests, the highest so far among all states and by August 25, UP administered 6.60 crore Covid vaccination doses. “The second wave of the pandemic in the state is in control. In the past 24 hours, of the 2.16 lakh tests done, not a single case of fresh infection was reported in as many as 60 districts. Statewide only 19 fresh Covid cases were reported and not a single person died of Covid in the past 24 hours. Active cases, at present, are 342,” he said. . Yogi said that the daily positivity rate in the state was 0.01% and the overall recovery rate was 98.6%. Yogi called the Agra hooch tragedy unfortunate and said that local officers concerned would be made accountable for the incident. He asked for intensification of the drive against spurious and unauthorised liquor in the state. Yogi also asked the state railway police to be alert, as two incidents of loot on trains were reported from two different parts of the state. Asking the officers concerned to not let such incidents happen again, he directed them to be in constant touch with the Railway Protection Force (RPF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-covid-death-in-up-in-24-hours-cm-101630004124077.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 42 fresh Covid cases, two deaths||Two coronavirus-related deaths and 42 fresh cases were reported in Punjab on Thursday, according to a medical bulletin.The new fatalities were reported from Ludhiana and Kapurthala, raising the toll to 16,362.The toll also included two deaths which were not reported earlier.The infection tally rose to 6,00,420 with the detection of new cases.The number of active cases stood at 407.Amritsar and Jalandhar reported six fresh Covid-19 cases each, followed by five in Bathinda.With 32 recoveries from the infection, the recovery count reached 5,83,651, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-42-fresh-covid-cases-two-deaths-101630004063811.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Congress leader’s murder: Mumbai court rejects plea for inquiry against CBI prosecutor||charul.shah@htlive.comA special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court has rejected the plea filed by former corporator Mohan Shukla – an accused in Congress leader Pawanraje Nimbalkar’s murder case – for preserving CCTV footages of the lobby of a five-star hotel in Mumbai, alleging that the central agency’s prosecutor had stayed at the hotel where bookings were made by the victim’s son.Nimbalkar was shot dead at Navi Mumbai in 2006.Shukla had claimed that the Nimbalkar family had been influencing the trial, and it was only due to their pressure that one of the accused had turned approver. Shukla had also pleaded that the deposition of the approver be deferred till the time an appropriate inquiry is made into the CBI prosecutor’s stay at the five-star hotel. In his plea, Shukla had claimed that on April 5, the prosecution examined the approver before the court and his evidence was recorded. Further examination of the approver was scheduled for the next day. After the court hearing, when he went to a five-star hotel to discuss the case with his lawyer, he was shocked to see the special public prosecutor in the hotel lobby with the victim’s son.He alleged that the trial in the case was “being conducted by CBI through its public prosecutor solely on the instructions of the victim’s sons – Jai Prakash and (Shiv Sena Member of Parliament) Om Prakash – which is nothing short of a coup being played upon to falsely implicate all the accused.” The court rejected his pleas after finding that it contained “vague” allegations. “It is seen that though the application has been filed on affidavit, no material has been placed on record in support of the application. However, it appears that accused No 3 [Shukla] is trying to collect the evidence at the hands of this court,” the special court said in its order, rejecting Shukla’s plea.The court also rejected Shukla’s allegations that an accused had agreed to become approver under pressure. “Can’t consider plea for nod to die by suicide”The special CBI court also rejected a plea by Pintu Singh Choudhary – another accused in the case – seeking permission to end his life in prison as he was suffering from anxiety due to the “protracted trial and inordinate incarceration”. Choudhary – one of Nimbalkar’s alleged shooters – had written to the court to either transfer him to Siwan Central Jail in Bihar, where he has a case pending trial or conduct the trial in the murder case on day-to-day basis or allow him to end his life by his own consent. He claimed that he had been languishing in the prison for the past 12 years, thereby violating his right to speedy trial. He further alleged that he is very frustrated and his non-production in the court is causing severe anxiety to him, making him suicidal as his family is completely ruined due to his long incarceration. The plea was opposed by prosecution on the grounds that he cannot be transferred to Bihar as it will hamper the probe. Instead, the prosecution suggested: “The court may direct Arthur Road Jail authorities to refer the accused to the medical board to take such steps to ensure that the mental condition of the accused remain stable and that the jail authorities may be directed to keep a close surveillance/watch on the activities of the accused, so that he does not harm himself by taking any adverse steps.” The court, while rejecting his plea, observed that due to second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, his further examination-in-chief could not be recorded till today. The courts in Mumbai have now started functioning regularly and the prosecution is also ready to conduct the trial on a day-to-day basis. Further, the court said his prayer to die by suicide cannot be considered and is liable to be rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-leader-s-murder-mumbai-court-rejects-plea-for-inquiry-against-cbi-prosecutor-101630004006117.html
27-08-2021||Other||Farmers hold two day ‘Akhil Bharatiya Sammelan’||The farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws on Thursday kick-off a two-day ‘Akhil Bharatiya Sammelan’ in which over 2,500 representatives of farmers, labourers and others took part and discussed the new strategy to intensify the stir.Three sessions were conducted by the protesters to discuss the strategy to intensify farm agitation and 15 speakers addressed in each shift.BKU spokesman Rakesh Tikait said the agitation has completed nine months and they conducted the Sammelan to discuss future course of action.“I’m reiterating that we will continue the agitation till the Union government scraps the black laws and forms a committee including farm leaders to discuss farmers’ issues before bringing in new laws. I urge the youth to come out of their homes and join the stir,” he added.Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said this is not the agitation of a particular caste, community or farm union but the true voice of labourers and farmers.BKU national president Gurnam Singh Charuni said over 650 farmers have lost their lives during the stir and over 37,000 persons were booked by the government.“These laws will be scrapped only after we take out a march towards Delhi. This is the right time to give ‘Delhi Chalo’ call and I expect people to come out in large numbers to mount pressure on the Centre to scrap the farm laws,” he added. ₹5 increase for sugarcane is a joke: Tikait
27-08-2021||Other||19-yr-old Khanna girl honoured for social work||The district administration on Thursday honoured Raavi Gulzar, 19, of Ikoloha village, Khanna, under the “Pride of Punjab” programme, for bringing social and infrastructure changes in her village.Through a virtual programme, additional deputy commissioner (development) Amit Kumar Panchal handed over an appreciation certificate to Gulzar for the social work carried out by her in tandem with the village sarpanch and local panchayat like ensuring 100% Covid vaccination. enrolling all beneficiaries for old-age pension, installing solar street lights and cleaning the village ponds.An elated Raavi thanked the Punjab government and district administration and said this honour will further motivate her to continue her work. Raavi is among 27 youngsters selected under the program. She is doing her diploma in ETT and has represented Punjab in karate at the Khelo India games.Panchal said it is the state government’s priority to channelise the energy of the youths in a positive direction. He added that the programme was launched as a partnership between the department of youth services and sports and YuWaah – a joint initiative of UNICEF, other UN agencies, civil society organisations and the private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/19yrold-khanna-girl-honoured-for-social-work-101630003589097.html
27-08-2021||Other||Congress resorting to corruption to raise election fund: SAD||Citing the recent allegations of corruption levelled by the bitumen contractors against municipal corporation (MC), the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) took a dig at the Congress leaders and the government stating that the charging commission is raising election fund from the contractors in exchange of clearing their bills.District SAD president Ranjit Singh Dhillon on Thursday said that the state government has failed to take up development works in the last four and half years and now, the projects have further been delayed as bitumen contractors have announced to boycott work citing “corruption”.Dhillon alleged that a 3% commission is being charged from the contractors for getting the bills approved for works completed by them.The MC officials are involved in this nexus to benefit the Congress which is raising election funds through corruption, he added.“The MC has been politicized completely, and the democratic system has been destroyed. Soon after the SAD-BSP comes to power after the 2022 assembly elections, action will also be taken against the officials involved in this,” said Dhillon.Earlier on Tuesday, a group of 20 bitumen contractors announced that they will boycott the road construction works in the city citing alleged corruption in MC while allotting of contracts.The mayor had refuted the allegations and accused the contractors of trying to blackmail the MC for allotment of contracts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-resorting-to-corruption-to-raise-election-fund-sad-101630003587910.html
27-08-2021||Other||High drama at Karnal district court, man alleges kidnapping of wife||High drama was witnessed at the Karnal district court and civil lines police station as family members of a girl allegedly took her from the court premises where she had reportedly come to seek police protection after her marriage to a man at a temple earlier this month.However, the 18-year-old girl denied the claims and said the man is her friend on social media and she had not married him.Even in videos, the family can be seen forcibly taking the girl from the chambers. Later, police reached the family members of the girl and they took her to police station to record her statement. This was after Sumit Kumar of Seedhpur village filed a complaint of kidnapping of the girl who he claimed is his wife.“I had come with the man and we were going to an advocate. He is my friend on Instagram. I never married him. I called my parents as I did not want to marry him,” she told the media.There is a possibility that the girl has changed her statement due to the presence of her parents and police will record her statement again.Father of the girl said she was friends with a man from Sidhpur village and on Thursday she made a call to them and told that she was in court and asked them to take her back.On the other hand, the man had filed a complaint accusing parents of the girl of kidnapping his wife.Roshan Lal, in-charge of Civil Lines police station, said as per the complaint filed by Sumit, he had gotten married to the girl at a temple on August 6. On Thursday, they had come for protection from police but then, her parents took her away.Police have CCTV footage in which some people are seen taking a girl with covered face outside the court chamber.Investigation officer Sunita said in the preliminary investigation, police have come to know that the girl had come with a man for police protection as they had gotten married at a temple. But now, she has denied marriage and said she was going with her parents as she did not want to marry the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-drama-at-karnal-district-court-man-alleges-kidnapping-of-wife-101630003586795.html
27-08-2021||Other||Streetlights at over 900 points in Ludhiana missing: Survey||Streetlights at over 900 of the total 1.3 lakh points in the city are missing, a survey by Tata company, the firm entrusted with task, has found. The finding comes amid the municipal corporation’s claims that the firm had installed fewer streetlights than what was mentioned in the contract. The firm submitted its report to mayor Balkar Sandhu’s office on Thursday.The report is based on joint inspections conducted by MC and the company officials in 93 wards of the city. The survey is still pending in two wards including, ward number 67, which is represented by councillor Mamta Ashu and ward number 94, represented by Gurpreet Singh. The mayor stated that he is waiting for the MC officials’ report to cross-check the data.Suspecting that the company had installed fewer streetlights than the agreed number in the contract, mayor Balkar Sandhu had ordered a survey after a meeting with councillors. The councillors had sought action against the company and accused it of fraud. As per sources, over 150 streetlights were found missing even in mayor Sandhu’s ward. On the other hand, some wards had more lights than what was listed in the MC data. Sandhu, however, refused to disclose the details of the report. He said a complete report will be disclosed after the MC officials submit their report and the data is cross-checked. The officials stated that the mayor will be conducting a meeting with the MC and Tata company officials in this regard on Friday. Residents, councillors raise hue and cry over defunct streetlightsEven as the MC is conducting surveys to find out the number of missing streetlights in the city, residents and councillors are raising a hue and cry over the defunct LED streetlights in the city. Citing security concerns, the residents rued that the lights installed on the streets and main roads remain non-functional most of the time, despite repeated complaints submitted to the civic body and the private company concerned.Non-functional streetlights can be seen at different points in the city including Model Town, Gol market, Shingar Cinema Road, Model Town Extension, Field Ganj, and Haibowal, among other areas.Amarjit Singh, president of Model Town market association, said, “A certain number of streetlights remain non-functional most of the time as maintenance teams deployed by the private company tasked with the job visit the area after a week. It puts the safety of residents and shops at risk as the area becomes pitch dark after sunset. The MC should take corrective steps to bring some relief from the problem.”The councillors rued that the issue was also raised during the general house meetings of MC in the past but to no avail. Leader of opposition in the MC general house Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “The working of the company involved in installation and maintenance of LED streetlights is very poor, and we have also demanded that the MC should terminate the contract with the company. We will again take up the matter with the mayor as the councillors and public have to bear the brunt for the failure of the company.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Apart from conducting a survey on missing streetlights in the city, we have also directed the company to improve its functioning in terms of maintenance of the streetlights. If the company fails to do so, action will be taken against it after discussing the matter with the councillors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/streetlights-at-over-900-points-in-ludhiana-missing-as-per-tata-company-s-survey-report-submitted-to-mayor-101630003585743.html
27-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana man arrested for stalking, molesting nursing student||The Jamalpur police arrested a man for molesting a nursing student near Mundian Kalan. The victim was on her way back home from the hospital when the incident took place.The arrested accused was identified as Jaspreet Singh of Village Ramgarh.The incident occurred on August 20, but the victim reported the matter to the police on Wednesday. The 22-year-old victim, a nursing student, stated that the accused was her classmate in school. The woman added that the accused had been stalking her for a long while. When she was returning home from the hospital on August 20, Jaspreet Singh intercepted her way near Mundian Kalan. She said that he forcibly took her to a vacant plot, and molested her.The accused also threatened to kill her if she told anyone about the incident.The victim stated that she was afraid of him therefore, she did not report the matter to the police immediately.Assistant sub-inspector of police Dalbir Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the police registered a case against the accused and arrested him immediately after receiving the complaint. A case was lodged under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354-D (stalking), and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-arrested-for-stalking-molesting-nursing-student-101630003583835.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Tussle between Governor Koshyari and Maharashtra govt yet to end?||The tussle between Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra VIkas Aghadi (MVA) government is yet to end. A meeting between a delegation of MVA leaders, led by the chief minister (CM) and the governor could not be held on Thursday as the latter refused to give an appointment to MVA leaders, state Congress chief Nana Patole has alleged.“The meeting could not be held as the governor didn’t give an appointment,” Patole told reporters. Thackeray, along with deputy CM and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar and revenue minister from the Congress Balsaheb Thorat, wanted to meet Koshyari to discuss the issue over not clearing the 12 names for the legislative Council. The list of names, approved by the state cabinet, is pending with the governor for the past nine months. “The BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) will face a major rift if the 12 MLCs (Members of legislative Council) are appointed. The fear within the BJP has delayed the appointment for the vacant seats of the legislative Council,” Patole alleged.However, officials from Raj Bhavan clarified that the government communicated over the meeting only after 4pm, as a result of which the governor said a meeting would not be possible on Thursday due to his prior appointments. The meeting is likely to be held on or after September 1 as Koshyari will be visiting Delhi on Friday to attend the launch of his biography the next day and will come back to Mumbai only next month.The book, ‘Bhartiya Sansad Mein Bhagat Singh Koshyari’, will be launched by defence minister Rajnath Singh. According to the Raj Bhavan officials, Koshyari will visit Dehradun after the book launch.Late on Thursday evening, Thackeray’s close aide and Shiv Sena secretary Milind Narvekar visited Raj Bhavan to meet the governor. Koshyari is believed to have informed Narvekar about his schedule for the next five days.Narvekar didn’t respond to calls and text messages.Most of the seats in the Council have been vacant since last June. The state had approved the names of 12 MLCs in November 2020 to be nominated by the governor for six-year tenure. The appointments are made by the governor based on the state cabinet’s recommendation.The list submitted to the governor included the names of Vijay Karanjkar, Urmila Matondkar, Nitin Bangude-Patil and Chandrakant Raghuvanshi from the Shiv Sena; Eknath Khadse, Raju Shetti, Yashpal Bhinge and Anand Shinde from NCP; and Rajni Patil, Sachin Sawant, Anniruddha Vankar and Muzaffar Hussain from the Congress. The inaction by the governor was challenged before the Bombay high court (HC).On August 13, HC had said that the governor is constitutionally obligated to either accept or reject the names within a reasonable time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tussle-between-governor-koshyari-and-maharashtra-govt-yet-to-end-101630003463646.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Congress announces list of 190 office-bearers||All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Thursday announced jumbo list of 190 office-bearers including 18 vice-presidents, 65 general secretaries, 104 secretaries, spokespersons among others. The party is said to have given representation to 48 communities in new appointment, including two transgender persons who have been appointed as general secretary and secretary. AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal made the announcement on Thursday in Delhi. Dr Pradnya Satav, wife of MP Rajiv Satav who died of Covid-19 in May this year, has been appointed as a VC, along with Ulhas Patil, Amar Rajurkar among others. Amar Kale, Amar Khanapure, Atul Londhe, Brijkishore Dutt, Vilas Muttemwar, Utkarsha Rupwate have been named as general secretaries while Abhijit Sakpal, Avinash Lad, Deepti Chaudhari, Salma Umar Khan Sakarkar and Parvati Parsuram Jogi have been appointed as secretaries. Besides the appointment of Amarjit Singh Manhas as treasurer, an executive committee comprising all former chief minisers, Union and state ministers, state unit chiefs has also been formed. A disciplinary committee of five party leaders headed by former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan has also been constituted.“The average age of the leaders appointed in various capacities is 52 years, with youngest aged 30 years. Only one leader is aged above 70. The party has tried to give representation to almost all the communities,” said a state party leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-announces-list-of-190-officebearers-101630003405083.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to fix minimum basic DC rate: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said changes are being made in what is called the deputy commissioner (DC) rate of the state.A section of the employees hired through outsourcing or on contract by the government departments are paid daily wages as per the fixed DC rates of that district.The lack of uniformity in DC rates and huge differences in DC rates of all districts had echoed in the recently concluded Vidhan Sabha session as well.Presiding over a meeting of the officebearers of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, Khattar said the minimum basic DC rate for the entire state will be fixed.Keeping in mind the cost of living in the national capital region (NCR) and other districts, new DC rates will be fixed by making slabs, he said, adding that the DC rate will continue to increase according to the inflation rate.The CM also directed to open ESI dispensary at Jhajjar’s Jharli having national power plant and industries of many companies in which workers of the unorganised sector work.Khattar said a fund has been set up to ensure monthly salary of rural tubewell operators on the lines of sanitation workers and rural watchmen working in rural areas, through which they will get their salaries on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-fix-minimum-basic-dc-rate-khattar-101630003403599.html
27-08-2021||Other||Former JJP Karnal dist chief joins Congress||Jannayak Janta Party’s (JJP) former Karnal district president Inderjit Singh Goraya on Thursday joined the Congress party.Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja welcomed Goraya and his supporters into the party fold.Goraya had left the ruling JJP alleging negligence of the farmers by the BJP-led central and state governments amid ongoing farmers’ protest against the three controversial farm laws.In an interaction with the media, Selja said Goraya and his supporters will be given due respect in Congress.“Leaders of the ruling coalition are joining other parties, this is proof enough to show that there is an unrest against this government as these parties have lost faith of people ”, she added.She said Goraya has shown faith in Congress. This will help give strength to the party in its fight for the common man, the poor, and farmers, she added.Selja also slammed the Centre and BJP-led states for not taking steps to sort out farmers’ issues. The former Union minister also slammed the state for enacting laws to provide benefits to big corporate houses.On the differences within Congress leaders, she said Congress is united and all leaders are taking the struggle of people forward.She demanded a CBI investigation into the constable paper leak scam as she said state home minister Anil Vij is also demanding CBI probe.Goraya said it’s an honour for him and his supporters that Selja herself visited Karnal to welcome them to the party.Goraya, however, hesitated to make any comment on JJP and its leadership. He said he will work to strengthen Congress on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-jjp-karnal-dist-chief-joins-congress-101630003225364.html
27-08-2021||Chandigarh||Will write to governor to stall anti-farmer land acquisition amendment: Hooda||Former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday said the BJP-JJP coalition government is constantly engaged in attacking the rights of farmers.At a press briefing, Hooda said a state-specific amendment to the land acquisition law was passed by the assembly in the monsoon session with an aim to abolish all provisions which protect the interests of farmers.“The purpose of the new law is to handover the land of farmers to capitalists without consent. We will write to the governor to hold back the Bill and not forward it to the President for assent,” he said.The former CM said BJP-JJP want to run the government only by event management and advertisements.Hooda said the state has no representation in the Bhakra Beas Management Board for the past one year. “If we do not have any representative in the board, how will Haryana get its due share of water?” he said.He criticised the state government for misleading people on deaths due to oxygen shortage. “The height of insensitivity is that government is lying to cover up the truth. The government misled people of the state, the House and the Centre,” he said.He said leaking of question papers has become an unfortunate tradition in this government. “The HPSC and HSSC have been reduced to shops of government jobs. Some people have been caught from Pulwama in the paper leak case,” Hooda said.“This crime has now become an inter-state matter and thus, a CBI inquiry is necessary under the supervision of a sitting judge. Government may ignore what the Opposition is saying but it should at least listen to its own home minister,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-write-to-governor-to-stall-anti-farmer-land-acquisition-amendment-hooda-101630003105520.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray going far from BJP and closer to Congress-led coalition?||Barely three months ago, speculation of reunion of the Bharatiya Janata Party and Shiv Sena in Maharashtra was rife, following a half-an-hour-long one-on-one meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The latter had led a state delegation to seek the Centre’s intervention in restoring Maratha quota and other issues on June 8. “Wait and watch!” said a few state BJP leaders after the meeting, pointing out that the Sena was a natural ally of the BJP and nothing could be ruled out. Thackeray, however, had something else on his mind. On August 20, he participated in a meeting of chief ministers of opposition parties and opposition leaders called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. In this virtual meeting, Thackeray even made a case for a proper strategy to work together, so that people would be convinced that the opposition coalition meant business and the parties were not together only for contesting the elections. Within four days, Thackeray’s government arrested Narayan Rane, a member of Prime Minister Modi’s cabinet, over a case related to a remark passed by him against the chief minister. The message seems to be clear: Thackeray is not keen to go back to the NDA camp, he is not a pushover and he is ready to take on the BJP. The bitterness between the two parties that were together in Maharashtra for over 25 years began in 2014, after the BJP won power at the Centre with a thumping victory. They still came together after the 2014 elections, but parted ways over the issue of chief ministership even, after winning the 2019 elections as an alliance. Thackeray went with traditional rivals such as the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to form the government. Since then, a bitter political tussle is on between the Sena and the BJP. Ahead of the elections to municipal corporations and district councils, the BJP made its intention clear when it inducted Rane—Thackeray’s biggest critic—as a Union minister. It wanted to target Sena stronghold in Mumbai and Konkan. Rane who spent more than two decades of his political life in the Sena and knows the organization inside out, is expected to counter the Sena and cut it to size. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is a weak point of the Sena as it derives its power and strength from its control over Mumbai. Wresting the BMC from the Sena would deal a severe blow to the party. Knowing this well, the BJP has been planning its strategy and Rane is expected to be a key player in it. Thackeray has struck at the first opportunity, which has sent a signal to his former ally and also galvanized his cadre which loves such atmosphere. “It is not the first time that Thackeray and Sena have targeted the BJP. They did it on several occasions since 2014, but this time, it is different. Arresting a minister in Modi government is a direct challenge to the Centre,” said a senior NCP minister, on condition of anonymity. “The battlelines are clear now,” he added. In the run-up to the local body elections, expect a fierce battle between the two parties. “The BJP won’t take the things lightly and will hit back at the Sena. The bitterness is likely to grow,” the above mentioned minister added. “I think it is impossible that the two parties would come together now. Uddhav Thackeray realised that his political existence was in danger due to the BJP’s growth. That’s why he took a bold decision to form the government with the NCP-Congress. He sees political space in the anti-BJP stand,” opined Surendra Jondhale, a political analyst. Significantly, even as the BJP and Sena were protesting against each other following Rane episode, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Wednesday told mediapersons that he would not rule out any possibility of the BJP and Sena coming together in the future. “We are blood brothers and have a common ideology. Things are not good as of now, but anything can happen,” he said. The Shiv Sena, however, ruled out any truck with the BJP. “The Shiv Sena walked out of the alliance over an ethical issue when a promise was not kept. After that, the behaviour of our former ally continued to hurt us. The way the chief minister was individually targeted (by Rane) has angered us. Our former ally made Rane an instrument to target us. I think the coming together is difficult,” said Sena deputy leader and spokesperson Sachin Ahir. The BJP on Thursday said a reunion with the Sena is not an issue before the party now. “Realignment with the Sena is not a priority issue for us. Our priority is to raise issues concerning people and agitate against the policies of the three-party government that are hurting the common man. As far as political equations are concerned, we are going ahead independently and gaining strength. We defeated the three-party coalition in Pandharpur assembly byelection, which is a clear indication of it,” said state BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-going-far-from-bjp-and-closer-to-congress-led-coalition-101630003103569.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Narayan Rane’s arrest: Maharashtra BJP assesses the situation||Although the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has taken a firm stance to support Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Narayan Rane amid their face off with Shiv Sena, the party is treading cautiously over its political stand on the entire episode. The party is expected to take a review of the situation in the backdrop of their recent clashes with Shiv Sena as it fears that it may backfire, especially during Mumbai local body elections if the Uddhav Thackeray-led party succeeds in convincing people that Rane’s remarks meant demeaning the chief minister of the state. After Rane’s remarks kicked up a controversy, state BJP leaders such as Devendra Fadnavis and Maharashtra unit chief Chandrakant Patil wasted no time in clarifying that they do not approve the remarks made by Rane against CM Thackeray, though the party would stand by the Union minister. Patil, however, went a step ahead and said that Sena was still a “blood brother” to them, creating further confusion among the party cadre. Insiders believe that Patil’s remarks were an indication that BJP did not want a full-fledged confrontation with the Sena at this stage. Both Fadnavis and Patil have not met Rane since his arrest on Tuesday. Rane was arrested by Ratangiri Police for his remarks against Thackeray in Mahad on Monday. He had said that had he been present at Mantralaya on August 15, he would have slapped the CM for forgetting the year of the country’s Independence. During his speech on Independence Day, Thackeray had to lean back to ask an official about the year India had attained freedom.“A section of party leaders think that an aggressive leader like Rane will help them in taking on the Shiv Sena in the forthcoming elections and help reap political gain. However, few other leaders do not approve the same as they believe it’s against their culture and the political texture of the party. Secondly, established leaders would definitely not like the shift of the leadership epicentre which could happen if Rane gets sizable response in the state,” said a party leader, requesting anonymity.The party is also wary about a potential backfire of such an aggressive stand and personal attacks on Shiv Sena and its leadership. “Sena’s rank and file get charged up if its leadership or the Marathi pride is hurt. Sena workers taking to the streets and threatening BJP leaders over the past two days has proven it. After a long period, Sainiks got the opportunity to show their original colours by taking to the streets. Such spontaneous response may play against BJP’s political prospects in Mumbai, Thane, Nashik and Dombivli. Taking it into consideration, the party will surely revisit its strategy by holding brainstorming sessions, conducting surveys etc,” another BJP leader said.BJP’s poll in-charge for next year’s BMC elections Atul Bhatkhalkar said that there are no two opinions within the party over supporting the Union minister. “It was a non- issue blown out of proportion by Shiv Sena and the CM. The People of Maharashtra adjudge well over issues and they know this was raked up by the Sena just because their leader was hurt. It was not a protest on any social issues in the interest of the people. BJP never endorses violence or wrong statements, the same goes for our stand on Ranesaheb’s statement. But the party is fully with him in this entire episode,” he said.Bhatkhalkar said that they do not think the Sena has got a chance to energise their cadre. “It is no more (Sena founder) Balasaheb Thackeray’s party which would go to any extent for the sake of the leadership’s call. Uddhav Thackeray is not Balasaheb; Balasaheb had never met Congress leaders or compromised on the ideology. Sainiks adjudge their leadership and the policies, and they fairly know the sincerity of their leadership. How can a Sena worker or even people from Mumbai and Konkan tolerate an attack against a Marathi manoos? We are sure that Ranesaheb’s leadership will help us politically in the forthcoming elections,” he said.Shiv Sena’s Ratangiri-Sindhudurg Member of Parliament (MP) Vinayak Raut said, “Rane has no acceptance even in BJP as key senior leaders are against him over the entire issue. There is unrest among the senior and loyal party leaders over Rane’s standardless politics. People have been watching closely how Rane has been attacking us, and they do not approve this type of behaviour. People in Konkan, including Mumbai, will support Sena as they have been doing for years.”Political analyst Hemant Desai said that BJP would not give Rane a free hand due to various reasons. “In the past two days, [Sena mouthpiece] Saamana has started evoking Marathi and Maharashtra pride as they do for every election. This may turn in their favour and against BJP. Secondly, whatever Rane said is against BJP’s culture and cannot go down well with the party’s middleclass electorate, living in Parle, Dadar, Dombivli. As such, BJP would think twice over its poll strategy ahead of local body elections early next year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/narayan-rane-s-arrest-maharashtra-bjp-assesses-the-situation-101630003043711.html
27-08-2021||Lucknow||SGPGIMS Lucknow convocation: President Kovind to award degrees to top performers||President Ram Nath Kovind will be the chief guest at the 26th convocation ceremony of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) here on Friday during which he will award degrees to super specialist doctors produced by the premier medical institute.Governor and visitor of SGPGIMS Anandiben Patel will preside over the function that would be held at Shruti auditorium. The function will be held in hybrid mode keeping in view the Covid norms. Barring a few selected guests, the rest of the faculty members as well as degree recipients’ families will join the event through Zoom platform, said institute director professor Radha Krishna Dhiman.“Degrees will be awarded to 116 students, who have successfully completed their DM/M.Ch/PDAF/ PhD/MD/ MHA and B Sc (Nursing) training. This year, Dr Gaurav Agarwal, professor, department of endocrine surgery and chief medical superintendent, SGPGI will be conferred the professor SR Naik award. Dr Sangam Rajak, department of endocrinlogy, will be felicitated with professor S S Agarwal award for the best research paper. Professor R K Sharma award to the best DM student will be given to Dr Pankti Mehta of clinical immunology and Dr R K Sharma Award for best MCh student will be conferred upon Dr Shitangsu Kakoti of department of urology,” Dhiman said.The director will also present the annual report of last year. Giving further details, Dhiman said: “The degree of MD-(Doctor of Medicine) will be conferred upon 33 students. A total of 40 candidates will obtain DM-(Doctorate of Medicine) degrees. As many as 18 students will get MCh (Magister Chirurgiae) degrees and 10 students have qualified for PDAF-(Post doctoral Advance Fellowship) degrees. Ph.D (Doctor of Philosophy) will be given to 2 candidates. 5 students will get Masters in Hospital Administration (MHA) degrees and 8 students will receive BSc (Nursing) degrees.”He added all these students had worked tirelessly to achieve their dreams, worked as Covid warriors too in the pandemic and their contribution to providing health care to society will be immense.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sgpgims-convocation-president-kovind-to-award-degrees-to-top-performers-101630002869189.html
27-08-2021||Other||Meham DSP suspended for allowing unauthorised access of visitors to Ram Rahim||The Haryana government on Monday placed Meham DSP Shamsher Singh Dahiya under suspension for allowing unauthorised access of visitors, including two women to Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim during his travels for medical examination to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi on July 13.The Dera head is serving life sentence at Rohtak’s Sunaria jail for raping two of his disciples. Dahiya was the officer in-charge of the security detail during some recent out-of-prison visits of the Dera head.The government order said, “The governor of Haryana is pleased to place the services of Shamsher Singh, HPS, DSP/Meham, under suspension with immediate effect. During suspension, he will be entitled to subsistence allowance as admissible under Rule 83 of the Haryana Civil Services (General) Rules, 2016, and his headquarter will be in the office of DGP Haryana, Panchkula. He will not leave the station without prior permission of the competent authority.”Rohtak DSP Sajjan Kumar, in a communication to the Rohtak SP, wrote that during a July 13 visit to AIIMS, New Delhi, four persons including two women were given unauthorised access to the Dera chief on the hospital premises.Kumar said when he objected to the presence of these persons citing security risks and protocol, he was told by Dahiya that he got a phone call from Chandigarh to facilitate the meeting of the Dera head with these persons.DSP Kumar had said that after completion of medical examination and tests at AIIMS, the Dera chief boarded Dahiya’s vehicle on the way back to Rohtak prison.As per Kumar’s communication, the vehicle with the Dera chief on board made multiple unscheduled stops and two women were also allowed to board the vehicle.Kumar wrote that while Dahiya claimed of getting telephonic directions from Chandigarh to facilitate the access, he felt that it was a mere ploy to mislead his fellow cops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meham-dsp-suspended-for-allowing-unauthorised-access-of-visitors-to-ram-rahim-101630002803703.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||Narayan Rane to resume yatra in Maharashtra’s Konkan today||After his arrest for his “slap the CM” remark on Tuesday, Union Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) minister Narayan Rane is expected to resume his Jan Ashirwad Yatra on Friday in Ratnagiri and continue it in Sindhudurg for the next two days before its culmination. Meanwhile, the political slugfest between the Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continued on Thursday amid fresh police complaints and allegations. In response to Rane’s threat to pull skeletons out of cupboards, Sena mouthpiece Saamana said the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government should reinvestigate murders of four political activists in Konkan who happened to be Rane’s rivals. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who chose to remain silent during the slugfest for last three days, taunted Narayan Rane while speaking in a conclave on Thursday. He said that a few viruses have emerged again and they need to be shown their place. Back in Konkan, a new round of clashes is expected during Rane’s yatra in Sindhudurg. The BJP has alleged that the prohibitory orders issued by Sindhudurg collectors, banning assembly of more than five people for two weeks, was an attempt to stall the yatra. “We have been taking legal advice over the prohibitory orders issued by the Sindhudurg collector. Ranesaheb is coming to his home district after becoming a Union minister. Nobody can stop him from meeting people from his constituency. The yatra will begin in Ratnagiri on Friday and will culminate in Sindhudurg on Sunday,” said BJP leader and yatra in-charge Pramod Jathar. Vinayak Raut, Shiv Sena MP from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg, said the Sena was not against the yatra. “The prohibitory orders are not to stop the yatra. They have been issued in the wake of the high number of Covid-19 cases and such orders were issued time to time in the past one-and-a-half years of the pandemic. The district administration will decide whether to give permission to the yatra,” he said.The BJP has made arrangements for a show of strength. After addressing a couple of meetings in Ratnagiri, Rane will reach Kharepatan, the entry point of Sindhudurg in the evening. Thousands of party workers and his supporters are expected to gather to welcome the minister. Rane was rushed to a private hospital in Mumbai on Thursday for a health check-up after his blood sugar shot up. Rane’s yatra, the outreach programme which kicked off in Mumbai on August 19, was halted after Rane was arrested from Ratnagiri on Tuesday over his remarks against the CM at a press conference in Mahad. The remark led to an uproar among Shiv Sena workers, resulting in multiple FIRs against Rane on Tuesday morning. He was given bail by a district court in Mahad at midnight on Tuesday. Rane rushed back to his Mumbai residence on Wednesday. After the arrest, leaders from both the parties hit out at each other and complaints were filed against their leaders. BJP’s Nashik Central MLA Devyani Farande lodged a complaint with the local police stations against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for his remarks against Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in a public meeting in 2018. Thackeray had reportedly said that the UP CM needed to be beaten with chappals for garlanding a photo of king Shivaji while wearing chappals. Similar complaint has been filed against Thackeray in Yavatmal by a BJP worker. Rane had on Wednesday warned to expose Shiv Sena leaders for their corruption and alleged involvement in criminal cases. He had referred to the death case of film industry personality Disha Salian and alleged involvement of a minister in the suicide. “The BJP will take it to its logical end and expose the minister who is involved in it,” he said. Rane also warned the Sena with ‘befitting reply’ for violent protests by Sena workers outside his Juhu residence. In response, an editorial in Saamana said, “Some people claim that Rane was arrested while having lunch. This would not have happened if Rane would have cooperated with the police. This incident was no doubt bad. However, at the same time, the Thackeray Government should investigate who was responsible for killing (political activists) Sridhar Naik, Ramesh Gowekar, Satyavijay Bhise and Ankush Rane,” said an editorial in Saamana. It said though Shiv Sena-BJP have had their differences in the past, it has not escalated to such levels. “Rane’s arrest, the unrest on the roads, fighting between the political workers as well as attack on the offices of the political parties have never been witnessed before in Maharashtra,” said the editorial. BJP legislator Ram Kadam said the editorial reflected the frustration of the Shiv Sena. The BJP has also announced to move court against Sena leader Anil Parab for his orders to police officers to arrest Narayan Rane. They also announced legal action against Sena leader Neelam Gorhe for her political statement despite holding a constitutional post of the deputy chairman of legislative council. (With inputs from Naresh Kamath)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/narayan-rane-to-resume-yatra-in-maharashtra-s-konkan-today-101630002685685.html
27-08-2021||Lucknow||UP undertakes facelift of major pilgrim towns ahead of 2022 polls||A visit to the Kashi Vishwanath temple through the narrow and slippery lanes of Varanasi had left Mahatma Gandhi in deep pain about 100 years ago.As the Mahatma went to the temple, he saw swarming flies, and stinking rotten flowers greeted him at the entrance there.“I went to the Kashi Vishvanath temple for darshan. I was deeply pained by what I saw there. When practising as a barrister in Bombay in 1891, I had occasion to attend a lecture on ‘Pilgrimage of Kashi’ in the Prarthana Samaj hall. I was therefore prepared for some measure of disappointment. But my actual disappointment was greater than I had bargained for,” observed Mahatma Gandhi in his autobiography My Experiments With Truth while recalling his experiences during his visit to Varanasi. Gandhi further observed, “The approach was through a narrow and slippery lane. Quiet there was none. The swarming flies and the noise made by the shopkeepers and pilgrims were perfectly insufferable. Where one expected an atmosphere of meditation and communion, it was conspicuous by its absence….When I reached the temple, I was greeted at the entrance by a stinking mass of rotten flowers.”Much water has flowed down the Ganga since then. A mega project is underway to give the temple area a facelift.A sum of over ₹1000 crore is being spent on implementation on the facelift projects and the ongoing Kashi Vishwanath corridor is among them. Varanasi is not the only town in focus. A number of other projects are underway for the development of Mathura, Ayodhya, Chitrakoot and the Vindhya region ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election.“Uttar Pradesh has a huge potential for the development of tourism. It’s better to explore possibilities of attracting more domestic and international tourists. We have identified 12 circuits, including Ramayana (spots related to Lord Ram), Mahabharata (spots linked to the epic), Krishna (spots linked to Lord Krishna), Buddhist, and Sufi spiritual circuits. We also have freedom movement and eco-tourism (national parks etc) circuits. We are providing basic amenities at the all such spots and trying to make them aesthetically nice,” said Mukesh Meshram, director general, Tourism.Chief secretary RK Tiwari said this would not be just a face lift but would bring about a comprehensive development of these religious cities/towns. He said in the long run this would lead to transformation of these cities/towns and development of the areas around them as well.Union home minister Amit Shah laid the foundation stone of the “Maa Vindhyavasini Corridor” project on August 1 that will come up at a cost of about ₹300 crore in Mirzapur district of eastern Uttar Pradesh. At the instance of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the state government recently got the Uttar Pradesh Vindhya Dham Teerth Vikas Parishad Bill 2021 passed in the state assembly “to provide high level infrastructure facilities for devotees and tourists visiting Vindhya Dham region, to preserve, develop and maintain the aesthetic quality of cultural, ecological and architectural heritage of Vindhyachal and to coordinate and monitor the implementation of schemes and to develop relevant policies for integrated development of tourism there.”The Uttar Pradesh Shri Chitrakoot Dham Teerth Vikas Parishad Bill 2021 has also been passed “for the preparation of a plan for preserving, developing and maintaining the aesthetic quality of Chitrakoot heritage in all hues — cultural, ecological and architectural; coordinating and monitoring the implementation of such plan and for evolving harmonised policies for integrated tourism development and heritage conservation and management in the region.”The state government got another bill passed to rename the Saharanpur State University, Saharanpur, as Maa Shakumbhari University, Saharanpur, in the recent Monsoon session of the state assembly.The Uttar Pradesh Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad was set up for conservation of culture and development of Braj region in 2017.“The chief minister decided to set up the board for the development of the Braj region. The chief minister is president of the board and chairs its meetings. He has visited the region eight to 10 times in the past four years. A number of projects are being undertaken for development of the area that include the projects being undertaken by the board with an investment of about ₹300 crore,” said Shailja Kant Mishra, a former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer and vice chairman of the board.“It’s a welfare state and the government’s job to work for the welfare of people and provide facilities to them. If the government is carrying out development at religious places and providing facilities to the people, it is bound to get the support of people. Such steps are bound to prove advantageous to the party in power in the elections,” said professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science at Lucknow University.The Opposition is, however, not amused.“Most of the projects, including the work on the Kashi Vishwanath corridor or the development of Mathura and Ayodhya, along with Poorvanchal Expressway, were conceived during the tenure of the Samajwadi Party government. The BJP government has failed to complete such projects and talking about them is only an election stunt,” said Samajwadi Party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary.Ayodhya has been in focus after the Supreme Court verdict of November 9, 2019, paved the way for construction of the Ram temple. A large number of development projects are being implemented there.A vision document has been worked out for development of the temple town. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently viewed a presentation about the vision document in the presence of Yogi. PM suggested that Ayodhya should be developed in a manner that would put the temple town on the centre stage of the world as a modern city while maintaining its ancient cultural heritage and glory. An international airport is coming up in Ayodhya and the state government recently shifted two PWD divisions to expedite the pace of implementation of various development projects there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-undertakes-facelift-of-major-pilgrim-towns-ahead-of-2022-polls-101630002625101.html
27-08-2021||Mumbai||FYJC first merit list to be out on Friday, cut-offs expected to rise||After much anticipation, the first general merit list for first-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants will be released on Friday. Several minority institutes have already started admitting students for their quota seats including management, minority and in-house quotas, and while the cut-offs have been similar to last year, colleges are expecting higher cut-offs in the general merit list.“Minority quota seats are usually filled up by students out of fear, because for top scorers the main aim is seats in bifocal courses, which are only available in the general merit lists. Even though minority quota lists were similar to last year, high scores of Class 10 students this year will definitely push overall cut-offs,” said Marie Fernandes, principal, St Andrew’s College in Bandra. While cut-offs for science and arts streams remained similar or lower than last year, the demand for seats in the commerce stream at St Andrew’s College witnessed an increase this year compared to last year, she said.At St Xavier’s College, too, the cut-off for the arts course, a popular choice for many, surprisingly dipped by 1.5% in the minority list released last week. Similarly, at RD National College in Bandra, cut-offs for all three streams remained similar to last year, said the principal.While the provisional general merit list was released on August 23, the first general merit list will be released on Friday at 10am. “In 2021-22, common entrance test (CET) was introduced for Class 11 admission. This CET, however, has been cancelled as per a government resolution dated August 11. AS per directions of the Bombay high court, instructions have been given by the education department to start the process of FYJC admission in the state,” said a circular released by the department of secondary and higher secondary education on Friday.This year, Class 10 board exams across several school education boards had to be scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. Results for the Class 10 batch was instead based on students’ performance in Class 9 and 10 combined. This decision helped boost marks of students across education boards. While overall success rate of Secondary School Certificate (SSC) students was 99.5% this year, ICSE student in Maharashtra and CBSE students from the Pune region (which includes Mumbai) boasted of a 100% success rate.“Like degree college admissions, all FYJC admission process will also be conducted online only, so we are preparing for an overload of work to be done on Friday. Students are anyway anxious so we want to make sure our staff and teachers are available to guide and help students,” said the principal of a suburban college.Students whose names appear in the first merit list will have time till 6pm on August 30 to complete the admission confirmation process. A list of vacant seats after the first round will be displayed on the admissions website after 10pm on August 30, following which the second merit list is scheduled to be announced on August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fyjc-first-merit-list-to-be-out-on-friday-cut-offs-expected-to-rise-101630002623767.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Over 158k vaccine jabs administered in Delhi, most in a day since July 8||Over 158,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in Delhi on Thursday, the most in a day since July 8, showed data from the Centre’s CoWin dashboard.The city vaccinated 159,037 people on July 8, according to the dashboard.The vaccination drive has picked up pace in the national capital this month, and the number of jabs given in 26 days of August so far has already exceeded the count from July .Over 2.13 million jabs were administered in Delhi in July, and 2.76 million have been given till Thursday evening, an increase despite three public holidays when most inoculation centres were shut — Independence Day, Muharram, Rakshabandhan.More people have also received their first shot of a Covid-19 vaccine in the city this month, with the number of first doses administered being more than double second ones each day last week, August 22, a Sunday that coincided with Rakshabandhan.In July, the government stopped administering first doses for over a week when people who were vaccinated with Covishield in May became eligible for their second shot, leading to the number of second shots overtaking first doses for the first time in the city.The vaccination drive in the city has been intermittently dogged by shortages since being opened up for those between the ages of 18 and 45 on May 1, as state governments and private sector were responsible for purchasing a majority of vaccine doses and at a higher price than the Centre.The policy was later changed June 21 onwards, with the Centre procuring 75% of all vaccine doses manufactured, leaving the other 25% for private sector.This has led to a boost in the vaccination drive, with over 200,000 doses being administered three times in June.Three vaccines are currently available in Delhi — Covishield (which makes up a bulk of the administered shots), Covaxin, and Sputnik V.So far, 9.22 million people or 61% of Delhi’s adult population of around 15 million have received at least one jab of a Covid-19 vaccine. Of these, 3.65 million people have completed the two-dose vaccination regime, meaning almost one in four Delhi residents has been fully immunised against the coronavirus disease.Experts believe this should provide a fairly good protection against the viral infection, with a high proportion of persons also having been exposed to the infection during the severe April-May surge.“A significant proportion of Delhi residents have already been exposed to the virus, especially during the huge April surge in cases. And, many others have now been immunised. Delhi is now in a good situation, even though with the delta variant (which is significantly more transmissible) 90% of the population would have to be immune to achieve herd immunity,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine, Safdarjung hospital.He added, “The vaccination drive should now focus on people who haven’t had the infection.” This can be estimated through population level sero-surveillance to check for presence of antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. Delhi’s seventh round of sero-survey, to be undertaken soon, is likely to provide population level exposure to the virus during the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-158k-vaccine-jabs-administered-in-delhi-most-in-a-day-since-july-8-101630001363703.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Cop’s son shoots at man in south Delhi in alleged case of road rage||A 27-year-old man, the son of a Delhi police head constable, shot at a 22-year-old man near the Delhi airport on Wednesday in a case of road rage, police said.Police said the suspect, Nitin Singh, 27, who was allegedly drunk at the time of the incident shot at Sandeep Bhati because he did not allow Singh to overtake his vehicle. Police have arrested Singh, who is a resident of Kalkaji.Police said around 5am on Wednesday, Bhati and his friends were returning to their village in Noida sector 83 from Bhiwadi in his car. “When Bhati and his friends reached near Delhi airport, they noticed one blue colour Swift car behind them. The head lights of the vehicle were switched off. They sensed trouble and increased their speed. The driver of blue car followed them and when they reached RTR Marg in front of Western Air Command Gate, the driver of the alleged car fired at them. The bullet hit the rear windowpane of their car and then Bhati’s head,” said a police officer quoting the statement of the eyewitness, Ashu Bhati, who was travelling in Bhati’s car.Ashu called the 112 police control room number at 5.08pm. Before police could reach the spot, Ashu rushed his friend to the Yatharth Super Speciality hospital in sector 110, Noida. Ashu told police they feared the gunman will shoot at them again and chose to rush to the hospital near their house in Noida.Police said the victim, Bhati is currently admitted to the hospital where doctors are treating him.A senior Delhi police officer, who asked not to be named, said, “Our team went to Noida and record the statement of the eye witness. Based on his statement, we analysed over 50 CCTV cameras between from the crime spot towards south Delhi. The car was spotted in footage of several CCTV cameras on the Outer Ring Road up to Kalkaji. Our investigation showed that the same car had hit a divider an accident in Kalkaji B block. The boot and the bumper of the vehicle were damaged in the accident. We got the car details and took the registration address. It was traced to a house in police colony, Kalkaji.”Police said they found the car to be registered in the name of a woman head constable, Archana Singh. Police said she is posted in the south district. “We arrested Archana’s son after learning that he was using the vehicle. We also recovered the car from a service centre in Okhla. Nitin, the suspect had given it for repairs after the accident at Kalkaji B block,” the officer mentioned above said.Nitin, who was arrested in the early hours of Thursday, told police that he fired the shot because Bhati did not allow him overtake. Nitin also confessed that he was drunk at the time of the incident. Police said Nitin was using an unlicensed pistol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-son-shoots-at-man-in-south-delhi-in-alleged-case-of-road-rage-101630001006707.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Former Unitech bosses had several run-ins with law during their stay in Tihar||Former Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra --- who were ordered to be shifted separately to Arthur Road jail and Taloja central jail in Maharashtra -- have had a controversial stint inside Delhi’s Tihar jail, the country’s largest prison.They were arrested in 2017 for duping over 500 homebuyers, in 74 Unitech projects, and were lodged in a cell inside jail number 7. During their time inside Tihar, there were at least four cases, in which the they used their influence to circumvent rules inside the prison.The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the Chandra brothers to be immediately shifted out from Delhi’s Tihar Jail after the Directorate of Enforcement (ED) claimed that the accused in collusion with jail authorities were using the jail precincts to engage in illegal activities, share proceeds of crime and influence witnesses with a view to derail the investigation against them.On August 16, ED wrote to Delhi Police Commissioner seeking an inquiry into the alleged collusion of Tihar jail authorities with the Chandra brothers. Wondering why the Commissioner of Police waited for 10 days to take action on such a serious issue, the Court directed the Delhi Police chief to personally take up the investigation to begin forthwith and submit a report in four weeks on the “complicity of all officers (of Tihar Jail) who acted in violation of law” as detailed in the ED letter.In May 2019, Tihar jail authorities, on the directions of the Supreme Court, withdrew facilities such as telephones, an air cooler and a desktop computer, that the two men had got to conduct their business and recover money to pay back the investors.On May 23, 2018, during an inspection jail officers found a mini fridge, imported chocolates, perfume bottles and at least six cell phones in their jail cell. At least two jail warders were suspended for helping the two men get access to the items that are not allowed to the prisoners.Also on May 18, two prison warders were suspended for allowing the Chandra brothers to meet their wives inside an office in jail 1, and also allowed them to bring in home-cooked meal. The two prison warders were suspended only after a third warder filed a complaint and informed the Tihar control room. Under prison rules, allowing their wives inside the office and bring food from outside are barred under the rules.A month later, on July 31, the then station house office of the Hauz Khas police station, inspector Neeraj Tyagi was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation for taking bribe from the two businessmen to settle at least 47 cases filed against Unitech at the Saket police station.In November 2018, when a city judge visited the prison premises for a surprise inspection, he noted that the Unitech promoters were living “an extra luxurious life” and had access to their special brand of mineral water, one that was not sold in the jail’s canteen.A mid-level prison officer, who asked not to be named, said on Thursday that Sanjay and Ajay Chandra must have heavily bribed prison guards who helped them run their alleged racket inside the prison cell.“At least in official prison records, they have not been caught for violating any rule in the last one year. They are clean as per the jail records but how is it possible? It is apparent that some officers were helping them and covering their crimes. The inquiry by the police will unearth the role of the jail guards. An independent inquiry will expose the corruption inside the jail,” one prison officer, who asked not to be named said.Siddhartha Dave, the counsel for the Chandra brothers, did not comment on the previous cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-unitech-bosses-had-several-run-ins-with-law-during-their-stay-in-tihar-101630000946115.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi zoo gets 465 new ‘high-end’ CCTV cameras to monitor animal’s welfare||The Delhi zoo has got 465 new high-end surveillance cameras covering its entire premises, officials said on Tuesday, adding that the CCTVs will help observe animals’ behaviour, besides monitoring their well-being.“These are high-definition cameras that have a 20X zoom and can rotate 360 degrees. A full-fledged control room has been set up within the premises for round-the-clock monitoring,” a statement by the zoo authorities said.So far the zoo had a few surveillance cameras installed only at critical points that did not cover the entire premises.“The cameras will now cover all the cages, pathways, visitors areas and even the wooded area, which will help ensure security and better monitoring of the health of the animals”, said a senior official, who asked not to be named.“Round the clock monitoring of animal’s health is crucial. Though zookeepers keep a watch 24x7, the cameras will give us insights into their behaviour for a prolonged period and help us identify things that can bettered for their well-being. If an animal is sick or is in a reproductive stage, it will be an added advantage to monitor their movement and make arrangements for what it needs accordingly,” the official said.Zoo officials said the monitoring control room was opened on Thursday. Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director general of forests (wildlife) of the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, was the chief guest on the day.The Delhi zoo, located near the Old Fort, is spread over an area of 176 acres, and presently houses 94 species and 1,162 animals.Zoo authorities also said they are aiming to increase the number of species by bringing in more animals under a host of exchange programmes.The Delhi zoo was reopened to the public on August 1 this year.It was shut for visitors on March 18 last year, a week before the nationwide lockdown that lasted 68 days was imposed. This was followed by an avian flu outbreak in January this year. The zoo finally reopened on April 1 this year, only to be closed two weeks later, as the fourth wave of Covid-19 spread in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-zoo-gets-465-new-high-end-cctv-cameras-to-monitor-animal-s-welfare-101630000945410.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Teachers oppose DU’s move to appoint foreign scholars as adjunct faculty||Several teachers of Delhi University have objected to the varsity decision to allow international scholars as adjunct faculty members in DU, at a time when the university has over 4,100 ad hoc teachers waiting to be regularised. They said the move will adversely impact the pay of such ad hoc teachers.The decision to appoint global scholars as adjunct faculty was taken by the academic council on Tuesday and will be placed before the executive council, the highest decision-making body of the university, on August 31. This came after an August 3 meeting of senior university officials to discuss issues about the appointment of such teachers.According to the minutes of that meeting, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, the six-member committee decided that international scholars, including those of Indian origin from the top 500 universities (as per QS rankings), could be involved in multiple teaching-learning activities in DU. The QS rankings is an annual rating published by Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) and is one of the most widely followed rankings both by academics and students.According to the minutes, the foreign scholars may be involved in teaching core and elective Masters courses; teaching of existing or newly designed courses to PhD students based on the individual’s area of expertise; co-supervision of PhD scholars; supervision of Masters dissertation; and other academic or research activities in consultation with the departments concerned.“The teachers could also be involved in providing guidance to departments on securing external funding, student scholarships, internships, and “develop international collaborations, linkages with industry, patents and commercialisation of research,” the minutes said.Academic council member Alok Pandey, who was one of four members who gave a note of dissent on the matter on Tuesday, said, “If the foreign faculty members start teaching core papers, the existing teachers will suffer. We have around 4,100 ad hoc teachers who have to take a minimum of 16 classes a week. If the number of classes is reduced, these teachers will be considered guest teachers, further reducing their pay. What is the need for appointing international faculty when we have no dearth of good teachers?”Colleges may also consider appointing foreign teachers after securing approval from the governing body and dean of colleges, the DU said. Pandey said they had agreed to the appointment of such teachers on a needs basis in departments that require scholars from specialised fields.“We had asked them (DU officials) to refrain from implementing it in colleges but they didn’t agree. So we gave a dissent note saying that the adjunct faculty will replace current ad hoc teachers,” he said.Former DU officials, however, said adjunct faculty were used globally for assisting teachers. “The current provisions leave room for increasing the workload of these international teachers and move towards contractualisation. The committee’s decision of allowing colleges to appoint such faculty members encourages that,” said Pankaj Garg, former AC member.Suman Kundu, chair, DU committee on the matter and director of south campus, said, “Adjunct faculty cannot replace our teachers. They cannot be appointed on a regular basis or be paid a salary. They are not regular teachers. They are faculties appointed in their respective organisations with their own assigned workload and duties. They are only for value addition and we are committed to our teachers.”“Budgetary provisions may be created for honorarium and local travel expenses... for appointment of adjunct faculty at the level of university. Departments may also sponsor adjunct faculties from their internal sources with approval from the competent authority as per the implementation plans,” the minutes of the August 3 meeting stated.According to the plan, the department has to consult the staff council before forwarding the nomination of adjunct faculty to the dean with required justifications. Following this, a seven-member committee with dean (academics) as chair would forward the proposal to the competent authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/teachers-oppose-du-s-move-to-appoint-foreign-scholars-as-adjunct-faculty-101630000822984.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||English syllabus changed so as not to ‘hurt sentiments’, says DU registrar||A day after several Delhi University (DU) teachers voiced their dissent in the strongest terms against the removal of texts by renowned author Mahasweta Devi and two Dalit authors from the undergraduate English syllabus, the varsity administration on Thursday said the dissent and objections were “misplaced” and “unfounded” as the final syllabus was approved through a democratic process.“The final content of the syllabus has been designed by the department of English,” registrar Vikas Gupta said in a press note on Thursday, adding that the oversight committee finalised the syllabus after “due deliberations and recommendations of the head of the department”.The oversight committee is tasked with looking into problems with regards to exams, course changes, and other department requirements in the absence of statutory body meetings.“The university subscribes to the idea that the literary content, forming a part of the text in a language course of study, should contain materials that do not hurt the sentiments of any individual and is inclusive in nature to portray a true picture of our society, both past and present,” Gupta said.On Wednesday, Hindustan Times had quoted the oversight committee chairperson MK Pandit saying the committee had “conflicting opinions” over Devi’s work “Draupadi “, the story of a tribal woman.Devi, a Bengali author and tribal and women rights activist, had received several awards and accolades for her seminal body of work, including the Sahitya Akademi award and the Jnanpith Award, and was also conferred with the Padma Vibhushan, the second-highest civilian award in India. She died in Kolkata in 2016.In a dissent note submitted by 15 academic council (AC) members on Tuesday, teachers said the oversight committee approved changes without consulting the English department.Apart from the removal of Devi’s “Draupadi”, the changes also included the removal of works by two Dalit scholars, Bama and Sukartharini, which were replaced by texts by upper caste author Ramabai. The committee also removed “a feminist interpretation of Ramayana”, and deleted sections from “Interrogating Queerness” paper.Responding to the registrar’s press note, academic council members Rajesh Kumar, Biswajit Mohanty, and Mithuraaj Dhusiya released a statement on Thursday saying, “To use “hurt sentiments” as an excuse to delete texts is a blatant attempt to impose thought control of the dominant and privileged social groups. By suggesting that the syllabus should merely uphold the status quo and not critique or question the same, the DU press release has actually undermined the very ethos of the university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/english-syllabus-changed-so-as-not-to-hurt-sentiments-says-du-registrar-101630000767887.html
27-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi has most CCTV cameras, surpasses New York, London||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the national capital has surpassed the megacities such as New York, London and Shanghai in having the most number of CCTV cameras installed per square mile.He cited a Forbes India report on the most surveilled cities of the world, which put Delhi on the top with 1,826.6 CCTV cameras per square mile, followed by London with 1,138. Chennai secured third place with 609.9 CCTV cameras while Mumbai came in 18th with 157.4 CCTV cameras per square mile, the report said.In a tweet, he said, “I feel proud to say that Delhi beat cities like Shanghai, New York and London with most CCTV cameras per square mile across the world. At first, Delhi has 1,826 cameras, while at second, London has 1,138 cameras per square mile. My compliments to the Delhi Government’s officers and engineers who worked on the project like a mission and achieved the feat in such a short time.”A press statement issued by his office later in the day said: “The Kejriwal government has delivered on its promise. Delhi ranks number 1 out of 150 cities across the world in terms of CCTV cameras installed per square mile. It beat cities like Shanghai, New York and London. Delhi has 1,826 CCTVs installed per square mile, three times more than Chennai, and 11 times more than Mumbai.”“Delhi ranks number one in the list with 1,826 cameras per square mile, followed by London with 1,138, Chennai with 609, and Shenzhen (China) with 520. Only three Indian cities feature in the top 20— Delhi at rank 1, Chennai at rank 3, and Mumbai is at rank 18 with 157 cameras per square mile,” the release said.In the first phase of the project, the government installed nearly 275,000 cameras across the city and is currently working on the second phase of the project, in which it aims to install 140,000 cameras, the statement said.The CCTV project is part of the government’s larger action plan on enhancing women safety in the capital, which was one of the main aspects of the manifesto of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the 2020 assembly elections.The government further said, “All CCTV feeds are highly secure, with hardware monitored by the community. Feeds are accessible only to authorised users, and the system itself is capable of automatic health checkups to detect disturbances and intrusions. The Delhi government ensures the security and privacy of all feeds collected, and ensures that it is only used for authorised purposes by authorised users.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-has-most-cctv-cameras-surpasses-new-york-london-101630000523726.html
27-08-2021||Pune||982 runaway children found at Pune railway station over past 2 years||Over the past two years, around 982 children – mostly from Jharkhand and Bihar, who ran away from their homes due to abject poverty or because they were tired of studies, in search of a better life in the city - have been traced at Pune railway station.Rohit Dubey, coordinator of Sathi Pune Railway Childline, an NGO, said, “Our social organisation is working round-the-clock to trace runaway children and ensure that they go back home. In the past two years, 982 children have come to Pune from different parts of the country, especially Jharkhand and Bihar.”The NGO workers keep a very strict vigil at the railway station and carry out patrolling thrice during the night to find out children who are either crying or begging. The NGO workers then take the children into confidence and find out their place of residence. A legal process is completed after which the children are repatriated to their hometowns. In similar instances in the past, counselors have found children addicted to tobacco, cigarettes and even drugs.According to the Government Railway Police (GRP) on an average, two to three children in the ages of 6 to 14 years land up at Pune railway station on a daily basis. A majority of these children arrive ticketless in the general bogey and take up odd jobs at paan stalls and other small business establishments. After completing their day’s work, they return to the railway station premises to sleep.Physically assaulted and not given food on time by their kin, the children, fed up of constant torture and harassment, flee their homes and land up in Pune. When such children are found, the police try to locate their address and send them home. If the address cannot be located, the children are turned over to observation homes where detailed enquiries are carried out to locate their address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/982-runaway-children-found-at-pune-railway-station-over-past-2-years-101629998242787.html
27-08-2021||Lucknow||President’s UP visit: Women gold medallists outnumber men at Ambedkar univ convocation||Women students bagged more gold medals than men at the ninth convocation of the Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU) here on Thursday. Overall, the men received more degrees. Ninety women students and 43 men were awarded gold medals. These gold medals have been awarded for a total of 16 undergraduate courses, 42 postgraduate courses, nine MPhil courses and one diploma and one integrated BSc-MSc course.A total of 1424 students —771 men and 653 women — were awarded degrees this year.A total of 18 diplomas were also awarded, seven to men and 11 to women. As many as 423 graduate students got degrees and 262 of them were men and 161 women. A total of 815 students obtained post graduation degrees, out of which 416 were men and 399 women.A total of 37 MPhil candidates, including 10 men and 27 women, got degrees this year. A total of 131 degrees were awarded in Ph.D, including to 76 men and 55 women scholars.The President gave gold medals to seven university toppers, including two graduate students, Bhanu Pratap Singh of B.Sc food science and technology and Priyanka Gautam of B.Tech computer engineering. Two masters students also got gold medals. They are Shubham Mishra of M.Sc geology and Pooja Meena of M.Sc agriculture.The other gold medallists are: Shanya Baghel of MPhil statistics and Kumari Niharika of MPhil information and library science. Anju Rawat of the History Department got the R.D. Sonkar Founder Samta Samaj Award.“It was an honour to get the gold medal from the President of India. My family members are particularly happy about this. I hope to continue working hard in future and be a pioneer researcher,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh of BSc. Another gold medallist Pooja Meena said, “I was delighted to get the medal from the President. I will cherish this moment all my life.”The second session of the programme started at 6.30 pm. A total of 133 students were given gold medals by university chancellor Prakash C. Bartunia, and vice chancellor Sanjay Singh. In this session, 131 PhD scholars were also awarded degrees. The third session began at 8pm. This session was conducted online in which all the candidates of the 2019-20 session were awarded degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-more-women-students-than-men-get-gold-medals-at-ambedkar-univ-convocation-101629997826362.html
27-08-2021||Pune||Now an app for individuals, societies in Pune to celebrate Bappa virtually||While we are inching closer to the arrival of Lord Ganesh, several societies and Ganesh mandals are worried about organising the festival at a time when covid-19 restrictions are still in place. However, Gaurav Tripathi, entrepreneur and chief executive officer of Superpro.ai, has beaten the odds to offer people a chance to celebrate their favourite festival albeit virtually.Tripathi has come up with an app, to be used free-of-cost by individuals and societies seeking to create virtual pandals for their Bappa. Society pandals can be customised as per the theme and other specifications and can accommodate nearly 20,000 people at a time. What’s more, 25 societies have already registered for the virtual Ganesh festival on Tripathi’s app.“The Ganesh festival is one of the biggest festivals but due to covid restrictions on public gatherings, we are offering residential societies a chance to hold all events of the Ganesh Utsav on a virtual platform. I have created an app which can be used to create a customised virtual pandal and celebrate the festival,” Tripathi said.“The app is interactive and has Indian motifs as emojis, so one can shower marigolds on Bappa or even draw Swastikas or send ‘Om’ symbols through chats. One can also participate in live videos through the app chat,” added Tripathi, who is busy pursuing Ganesh mandals to opt for this manner of holding the festival.Jay Salunkhe, Shahupuri mandal, Kolhapur, said, “We have spoken with the team, and are thinking of going online but we will decide in the committee. Last year, it was very difficult and we just had the idol and it was under heavy security.” Sanjeev Singh, a resident of Balewadi, said, “The Ganpati festival began for the wellbeing of the society and country. Due to the benefits and emotions attached with the Ganpati festival, we cannot ignore this tradition. Today in the interest of society, it is the need of the hour to avoid gatherings and still celebrate our festival. We have decided to solve this challenge using technology. Additionally, this platform has been developed by techies in Pune. It is made in India, by India and for India. The data will not go outside our country or into the custody of others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/now-an-app-for-individuals-societies-to-celebrate-bappa-virtually-101629995722606.html
27-08-2021||Pune||Students skipping Class 11, going for Class 12 boards externally||Avinash Pingle has decided to skip Class 11 and directly take admission for next year’s Class 12 board examination externally as he cannot pay the college fees for Class 11 this year. Priyanka Sharma has decided to focus on the JEE exams for which she has already started preparation, rather than going the regular Class 11 followed by Class 12 way.Pingle and Sharma are not alone. A large number of Class 10 students have decided to skip Class 11 for further preparations and also due to heavy college fees, and directly take external admission for Class 12 board exams next year. Instead of registering for the Class 11 centralised admission process, these students have filled out “form number 17” to appear externally for Class 12 board exams next year while also getting access to the campus, laboratories and other facilities by paying nominal college fees.Pingle said, “I lost my father to the Covid-19 pandemic and so, I need to earn for my family now. We have already started a small, in-house business of making papad and other food materials. I have decided not to take admission this year for Class 11 and will directly appear for Class 12 board exams next year externally.”While Sharma said, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire education field has gone online and despite studying so hard, our Class 10 exams were cancelled. Even if I take admission for Class 11, there will be online lectures for the whole year. So I have decided to skip this year, focusing instead on my JEE preparations after the Class 12 exams to get a good college.”The trend may be finding favour among students but is seen as adversely impacting junior colleges which are already struggling with college fee issues and now, less number of students.Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar, said, “Less number of students registering for Class 11 admissions is a matter of concern for all junior colleges, and it is seen that students have deliberately skipped this year and are going directly for Class 12 exams externally. By filling up form number 17, they will be able to appear for the board exams externally and by paying some nominal fees to the college, they will be able to attend practicals in laboratories during studies.”A total 79,217 students have registered for Class 11 admissions this academic year. Despite the high Class 10 passing percentage of 99.95% this year – 4.65% more than that in 2020 – student registrations for Class 11 have been less when compared to the available 111,205 seats. Hence, it is feared that a large number of Class 11 seats will remain vacant this year.Meanwhile, Shehanaz Cottar, principal of the Podar International School and Junior College, Chinchwad, said, “This year, the admission process has been delayed due to late declaration of results and the court’s decision to cancel the CET. This has had an impact with less number of students registering for Class 11 admissions. The students are anxious and schools have to prepare themselves to work around the new centralised processes. Nevertheless, the education system is trying to pull through one of the toughest situations on hand with able support from schools. They have proceeded for the centralised admission process through online registration, which has helped students register for round 1.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-skipping-class-11-going-for-class-12-boards-externally-101629994882590.html
