30-08-2021||Other||2 new Covid cases, no deaths in Ludhiana||Two fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 87,463 so far. However, no death was reported on the day. Currently, there are 21 active patients in the district. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing mask, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to not only save themselves but others around them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-new-covid-cases-no-deaths-in-ludhiana-101630348004356.html
30-08-2021||Other||Ludhiana police commissioner wants the force to be ‘present’, ‘punctual’ and ‘prepared’||Recently appointed police commissioner Naunihal Singh has instructed the force to work on the principle of 3 Ps – ‘present’, ‘punctual’ and ‘prepared’. He has issued instructions to all senior officers of the department to always be prepared and armed with all information pertaining to any case within their jurisdiction.The senior official also released two phone numbers – 0161-2414934 and 7837018650 -where people can contact him for appointments related to any complaints.He also asserted that all efforts will be made to bring about behavioural change in police personnel, especially those who deal directly with the public.“Special training will be given to the personnel to improve public dealing so that people who approach the police do not face any harassment,” he said.Disclosing figures of snatchings reported in the city between August 21 and 28, Singh stated that as many as 19 cases were registered out of the 23 calls that were received pertaining to snatching incidents.In comparison, only ten cases of snatchings have been registered between August 1 and 20, against 53 calls received. “This doesn’t mean the crime graph has gone up. We are registering quick FIRs for speedy redressal of complaints,” he said.Naunihal also stated that there are many unsung heroes in the force who contribute a lot with their work but are not recognised. “We will be facilitating such unsung heroes based on the credentials,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-police-commissioner-wants-the-force-to-be-present-punctual-and-prepared-101630347824255.html
30-08-2021||Other||Amid staff shortage, PCR teams in Ludhiana forced to work on 24-hour shifts||While the new police commissioner, Naunihal Singh, wants to infuse new energy into the force, staff crunch and poor working conditions for the personnel are set to make the task all the more difficult.The PCR patrolling teams, which have now been told to join mock drills and morning parades, reveal that they are often forced to work on 24-hour shifts due to shortage of staff. The police control room (PCR) force, which has a strength of 350, is expected to be on duty the whole day, following which they are allowed rest. Many say that the long and hectic working hours have taken a toll on their physical and mental health, and they are unable to take out time for themselves or their families.A PCR personnel, on the condition of anonymity, said, “As our shift lasts the whole day, our sleep cycles have been disturbed. When the PCR motorcycle squad was launched, we used to work in eight-hour shifts, then we were asked to stretch for 12 hours and now, it has been extended to 24-hours.”“We barely have any time for our families and social life is also affected. We can hardly attend family functions, weddings etc. The situation is worse for police personnel whose families stay in other districts,” said the cop.Police commissioner Naunihal Singh said that PCR teams are overworked and they are working to ease duty hours for these personnel.The Ludhiana police commissionerate has 30 patrolling vans, including a Maruti Suzuki Ertiga, Mahindra Bolero and Chevrolet Tavera and 80 motorcycles. A total of 350 police personnel are deputed in PCR teams, who work in teams of two.Six litres of fuel for PCR vansPCR vans get only six litres of fuel for one shift of patrolling, while the motorcycles teams get two litres of petrol for 24 hours. PCR personnel said that as the mileage of cars is less, they need for more fuel as they have to keep moving all the time. Sometimes, they end up paying for fuel from their own pockets.Police personnel dies of cardiac arrest on dutyA police personnel, head constable Jaswant Singh, 53, who was deputed at police post Jagatpuri had died of cardiac arrest while on duty on Sunday night. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Iqbal Singh, in-charge at Jagatpuri police post, stated that Jaswant Singh was deputed on a checkpoint in the area at around 11.30pm, when he complained of chest pain and collapsed. He was rushed to a hospital, where he died during treatment. Jaswant Singh is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-staff-shortage-pcr-teams-in-ludhiana-forced-to-work-on-24-hour-shifts-101630347585112.html
30-08-2021||Noida||Security at Jewar airport site to be beefed up||NOIDA: Taking stock of the security arrangements at the construction site of the upcoming international airport in Jewar, a high-level co-ordination meeting, between the officials of Gautam Budh Nagar police and Noida international airport, was held in the office of the GB Nagar commissioner of police (CP), in Sector 108 on Monday. Official sources said that the Uttar Pradesh government directed the police to upgrade its apparatus before the airport commences operation. CP Alok Singh, who chaired the meeting, said, “We are all prepared to provide foolproof security to the officials and staff who’ll be working on different construction sites, including the runways, terminals, commercial areas, and parking and office spaces of the airport. Adequate forces will be deployed there in different shift, to avert any mishap there.”“The possible connectivity through roads, metros and high-speed trains and security arrangements were also discussed in the meeting. We assured the officials of the Noida international airport that security will be increased to ensure construction without interruption,” he said. The police chief also said that four new police stations and one police outpost are coming up under the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) jurisdiction, which will further tighten security near Jewar airport. “Yeida has already allotted land for upcoming police stations at sectors 18/6D, 29 and 25A and a police outpost at Ranhera,” he said. Christoph Schnellmann, the chief executive officer of Noida International Airport, who also attended the meeting, expressed his satisfaction with security arrangements made by the GB Nagar police. “The preparatory works for the Noida International airport in Jewar will begin in the next few weeks. It will include the earth works, construction of boundary walls, access for utilities among others. Tendering process to select the contractor for making the terminals and airside facilities is already on the cards and will be completed soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/security-at-jewar-airport-site-to-be-beefed-up-101630347223694.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 2 minors injured in wall collapse in Tughlaqabad Extension||Two brothers, aged 4 and 9, were injured after a portion of the wall of an under-construction building collapsed and fell on them in south Delhi’s Tughlaqabad Extension on Monday evening. Police said the brothers were walking to a private tutor’s house for tuition when the incident took place. Both of them suffered head injuries and were admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where they are undergoing treatment. “We are taking a legal action,” said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi2-minors-injured-in-wall-collapse-in-tughlaqabad-extension-101630347044375.html
30-08-2021||Noida||Relief for commuters as NHAI to open 6 more lanes of Chipiyana ROB||It will be a big relief for thousands of commuters using the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has decided to throw open six more lanes of the Chipiyana rail overbridge (ROB) for traffic on Tuesday. Currently, the 16-lane ROB near Lal Kuan, a major intersection in Ghaziabad, has only four lanes active, forcing commuters to brave long snarls during rush hours. The ROB is part of phase 2 (UP Gate to Dasna) of the DME that was thrown open for commuters in April this year. According to official estimates, the UP Gate-Dasna stretch has movement of about 60,000 passenger car units per day.“With the opening of six more lanes of the ROB, the total constructed lanes will be 10. But we will use two of these for completing the pending work. In all, the commuters will now get eight lanes with four each side. This will considerably reduce the traffic jams,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. “We have completed the load tests and installation of signages for the new six lanes. The work for the remaining six lanes is likely to be completed by December this year,” Garg added. The under-construction ROB is a major roadblock for traffic under the 19.2km of DME’s phase 2. “Whenever commuters get stuck in jams, they find ways down the DME to the side lanes. Many try to drive on wrong side as well. The situation becomes worse during monsoon,” said Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Vijay Nagar. The ROB is located close to the border of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar and witnesses heavy traffic of commercial vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/relief-for-commuters-as-nhai-to-open-6-more-lanes-of-chipiyana-rob-101630346864348.html
30-08-2021||Noida||RRTS stations, trains to be made ready for medical emergencies||The NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC) said all stations and trains on the 82-km Rapid Rail Transit System (RRTS) from Delhi to Meerut will be equipped to accommodate emergency medical cases that require transport to a hospital on the network’s route.Construction on the RRTS stations is on full swing with aim to complete the entire project by 2025, while a 17-km priority section from Sahibabad to Duhai in Ghaziabad is expected to be complete in 2023. NCRTC is the implementing agency.“The work on five stations of the priority stretch has advanced. One of the vital features of all stations in RRTS corridor is that the infrastructure will be compatible with the requirement of medical emergencies. The elevators will be of high capacity and spacious enough to accommodate stretchers and patients and taken through different levels up and down the train level,” said Puneet Vats, chief public relations officer of NCRTC. “The space inside the high-speed trains will also be able to accommodate stretchers and patients. Once the network is complete, patients will not have to change trains or stations to move from one end of National Capital Region (NCR) to the other.”The NCRTC is also implementing two other networks — a 160km link between Delhi and Alwar and 103km link between Delhi and Panipat.With this, patients from Meerut to, say the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, can catch a train from there to the proposed Safdarjung station on the upcoming Delhi-Alwar route in 60 minutes.Officials familiar with the development said that the network will serve as an alternative “green corridor” that is put in place by clearing traffic to transport critical patients or organs over road.Another NCRTC official said that the buildings of the five stations on the priority section — Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Guldhar, Duhai and Duhai depot — will be visible by 2022.“The work is progressing fast at the Ghaziabad station (near the New Bus Adda metro station), and it will be the highest of all the stations on the 82km route at a height of about 24 metres from the ground and above the Delhi Metro’s Red Line alignment. Its foundation and pier work are complete and work for installation of cross-arm structures is on now. On these cross-arms, different pre-cast levels of station building will be placed,” said an official from NCRTC. “The work to install cross-arms at Sahibabad and Guldhar are also on, while the pier work is ongoing at the Duhai and Duhai Depot stations.”The RRTS project between Delhi and Meerut is pegged at ₹30,274 crore. The actual operational speed of the trains under the network will be 160kmph, while their average speed will be close to 100kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rrts-stations-trains-to-be-made-ready-for-medical-emergencies-101630346863711.html
30-08-2021||Other||Ghaziabad: QR codes on electric poles to check power theft||In a move to check faults and power theft, the Ghaziabad division of power distribution company – the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) – has started putting up location-tagged quick response (QR) codes on all electric poles and transformers in the district.According to discom officials, PVVNL teams can scan QR codes with their devices to gauge how much power was drawn from a pole or transformer. If there is a mismatch, the company can now pinpoint where the leak is, they said.The chief engineer of PVVNL (Ghaziabad division), Pankaj Srivastava, said they have begun the process of putting up QR codes on every pole. “An independent agency was hired to put up stickers on all 280 transformers and over 250,000 poles in the district,” he said.The discom has long been suffering from aggregate technical & commercial (AT&C) losses that have put a dent on its revenue. While technical losses include faults in the system, commercial losses are those due to billing issues and thefts. The annual AT&C loss in Ghaziabad is nearly 17% of the power purchased by the discom, said Srivastava.“With the help of this new system, we can easily monitor areas reporting greatest AT&C losses and reduce the gap between the input we receive from power generation companies and the supply for which the payment is made to us, will be reduced,” he said.The chief engineer said the new system will also make the billing process more transparent. “The accumulative consumption of power by the consumers will be matched with the units drawn from transformers of the areas concerned. If it is alarmingly low or high, the meter readers will be held accountable,” he said.Under the system, Srivastava said, an electric pole will automatically send alerts to control room in case it detects a fault. “The system is such that if a fault is detected, it will automatically shut power in that location and alert the control room. Our enforcement wing can easily launch a crackdown against power thieves this way and correct faults,” he said.Archana Lal, who resides in Vasundhara’s Sector 1, said the new system is supposed to give respite from frequent power outages in her area. “The moment power theft is checked, the power blues will be minimised. The new system will also give relief from the low-voltage problem, particularly in the evening hours,” she said.BP Singh, a Indirapuram resident, said that after installing unique QR codes on the transformers and poles, the casual approach of meter readers will also be stopped. “They often make readings on the trial-and-error basis. The new system will definitely bring transparency in the billing system,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghaziabad-qr-codes-on-electric-poles-to-check-power-theft-101630346684765.html
30-08-2021||Noida||28-year-old woman dies, family alleges foul play||The family of a 28-year-old woman who died on Sunday night has alleged foul play and blamed her husband for the death. Police said a probe in the matter is underway. According to police, the woman consumed some poisonous substance around 11pm after an argument with her husband in their home under the Surajpur police jurisdiction. “She and her husband had an argument over his consumption of alcohol. He had been sober for three months. But last night he drank that led to a domestic dispute. Following this, the woman consumed the poison. She was rushed to a local hospital by him from where she was referred to a higher centre where she was declared brought dead,” said Ajay Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Surajpur police station.“We were informed about the incident around 8.30am today, following which a team was rushed to the spot and her body was sent for an autopsy. The report is yet to come,” Kumar said.However, the woman’s father has alleged that there was a foul play involved in her death.“My daughter’s husband had been harassing her for dowry for the past several years. She was being mentally tortured. We believe that he had a hand in her death,” said the woman’s father who has also filed a complaint with the local police.The couple got married in 2012 and also has a four-year-old son, police said, adding that the woman’s husband runs a small plumbing business in Greater Noida.“An investigation in the case is going on. Based on her family’s complaint, a case of abatement will be registered against the husband. No arrests have been made so far. We will take due action soon,” said the SHO.The woman’s body was handed over to her family following the autopsy, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/28yearold-woman-dies-family-alleges-foul-play-101630346565781.html
30-08-2021||Other||Jiribam becomes Manipur’s first district to achieve 100% 1st dose vaccination||Manipur’s Jiribam district, which borders Assam’s Cachar district, becomes the first district to achieve 100 per cent vaccination with the first dose against Covid-19 in the state, official sources said.“There are 27,392 electors in the district as per 2001 electoral rolls. A total of 27,429 eligible residents have been vaccinated,” said deputy commissioner, W Malemnganba Chenglei of Jiribam district in a press release on Monday. “All eligible residents of the district, except Covid positive patients and seriously ill persons, have been vaccinated with the first dose,” he added. Vaccination against Covid-19 started in Manipur on January 16 this year but in Jiribam district, it was started on February 9 initially covering healthcare workers and frontline workers. Later, it was extended to persons even 18 years of age.Jakuradhor Gram Panchayat became the first Gram Panchayat in the state to achieve 100 per cent vaccination of the first dose on August 3 while the Jiribam district achieved 100 vaccination with the first dose against the Covid 19 on August 29, the release stated.According to the latest official reports, the state has so far given 15,19,826 doses of Covid vaccines including 11,85,319 first and 3,34,507 second doses to the residents.A total of 6,05,525 first doses and 41,887 second doses of Covid vaccine were given to people between 18-44 years of age and 2,91,080 first doses and 1,25,949 second doses to people between 45-59 years besides 1,46,715 first doses and 65,696 second doses to people above 60 years till date, as per latest vaccination report available.Commenting on the present vaccination trend in the state, chief minister N Biren Singh in a Facebook post on August 29, wrote, “COVID vaccination is very encouraging in our State. Till yesterday more than 15 lakh people have been vaccinated with 1st doses and around 11 lakhs with 2nd doses. From today, school and college teachers will be given priority. Pls get vaccinated to stay safe from the COVID pandemic.”Meanwhile, the state reported 223 new Covid-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours. Thus, the state’s total infection tally increased to 1,13,551, the official source said. The total number of active cases stands at 3,340.On the other hand, a total of two Covid-19 fatalities were reported, taking the state’s Covid-19 death toll to 1,781, it said. With 269 new recoveries in the last 24 hours, the total number of recovered Covid-19 cases reached 1,08,430. The state’s recovery rate has increased to 95.49%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jiribam-becomes-manipur-s-first-district-to-achieve-100-1st-dose-vaccination-101630346445103.html
30-08-2021||Gurugram||Leachate samples collected from Bandhwari landfill found to be toxic||Samples of leachate collected from the Bandhwari landfill in the second week of August were found to contain chemicals in excess of the permissible limits as well as toxic substances, according to the results of the tests released by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) last week.The samples were collected from three sites, including the outlet of a leachate treatment plant, and ponds that had formed outside the landfill and on forest land in the vicinity. Vaishali Rana Chandra, a city-based environmentalist who had complained about the issue to the pollution control board on August 10, said, “Untreated leachate is being discharged in the jungle, which the report clearly shows is highly toxic. This is a damning report on the basis of which Ecogreen’s contract should be suspended immediately.”However, officials of Ecogreen Energy, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s concessionaire for waste management at Bandhwari landfill, said that these levels were found in leachate and not the water released after treatment. He said that they have also fixed a broken wall through which leachate spilt outside due to excessive rainfall.Sanjeev Sharma, the spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy, said, “These high levels of COD [chemical oxygen demand], BOD [biological oxygen demand] and other elements have been found in leachate water and not the treated water released from the plant. Our Disc Tube Reverse Osmosis (DTRO) system used to treat leachate is working properly and the samples collected from there are all as per the norms.”On August 10, officials had denied that the pond outside the landfill contained leachate and said that it was accumulated rainwater.According to the report, biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), zinc, chloride, fluoride were all found to be significantly higher than permissible norms. The BOD level of the samples collected from a pond inside the forest area was 540 mg/l, while the COD was 1680 mg/l, chloride was 420mg/l and fluoride was 1mg/l. The BOD level of the samples collected from the outlet of leachate treatment plant was 520 mg/l, while the COD was 1640 mg/l. The BOD level for samples collected from a leachate pond was 640 mg/l and COD level was 1780 mg/l. For treated leachate, the BOD level was 12 mg/l while COD was 64mg/l. Experts said that elements such as fluoride, even in minuscule quantities, can be harmful as it affects bones in the human body. According to Central Pollution Control Board norms, BOD for a river or waterbody should be less than 30mg/l and COD should be less than 250 mg/l. The report also mentions that elements traces of nickel and lead were not detected in the samples, despite battery waste (which contains lead) being dumped in the area. “The HSPCB report states that heavy metals like lead and chromium were not detected in the leachate samples. Even a layman can infer that this would be a gross anomaly as it is impossible to not have these two elements in the leachate being released from mixed municipal waste consisting of batteries, phones, electric wires. Heavy metals are detected even in drinking water at times,” a letter sent by three city-based environmentalists to the chief secretary of Haryana stated. Vinod Kumar Mogha, an independent consultant working on environmental projects, after an analysis of the report, said, “First, both BOD and COD being on the extremely higher side is extremely toxic; then fluoride is so harmful that it can melt one’s bones. It should not have been detected in the sample, but it is, again, on the higher side. The report is contradictory as battery wastage is dumped in the same area, but it has not been detected.” “These elements are signs that the whole area is contaminated and any vegetation growing on that soil will also have these substances,” he said. A senior official of the pollution control board, who did not wish to be named, said, “We have released the report, but we are yet to look into it in detail. At present, work is being done for the public hearing scheduled for Tuesday, where people can raise their concerns.” A public hearing has been scheduled by HSPCB to discuss concerns over setting up a waste-to-energy plant at the landfill site. Residents have been protesting against the plan on the grounds that it could endanger the ecologically sensitive forest land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/leachate-samples-collected-from-bandhwari-landfill-found-to-be-toxic-101630346268087.html
30-08-2021||Gurugram||Coronavirus cases may rise, restrict gatherings, state tells district admin||Ahead of the festive season, the state health department on Monday advised the chief medical officer and district administration to prohibit social gatherings to the maximum extent possible over concerns of a spike in Covid-19 cases. “We are looking at the rise of coronavirus infection in Kerala due to festive season, which we do not want to repeat in the district. Employees from multiple departments handling Covid-19 duties have been directed to check the implementation of Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana and take actions accordingly,” said Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner.The state administration on Monday circulated a message on the official WhatsApp group of the district administration, advising officials to regulate gatherings and ensure proper follow-up of patients in home isolation. According to Garg, the administration will continue to comply with the Mahamari Alert- Surakshit Haryana guidelines of the state administration, which was last revised on August 22. Under the guidelines, gatherings in indoor spaces are allowed with a 50% cap on the hall capacity, whereas 200 people are allowed to gather in open spaces. Religious places are allowed to host 50 people at a go, as per the guidelines.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “As directed by the state health department, teams will continue to follow up with home-isolated patients to prevent transmission of infection and cluster formation.”Currently, the district has been reporting a constant decline in daily cases. The district on Monday reported at least five new cases of the coronavirus infection. Sixty-six positive cases are currently active, of whom 58 are in home isolation and eight are hospitalised. Weekly cases over the past month have declined dramatically, from almost 52 in the first week of August to nearly 20 new cases last week. However, Garg said that despite a decline in cases, they do not want to take any risks.On Monday, as the city celebrated the Janmasthmi festival, many temples across the city received low footfall during the morning hours. The Shri Krishna temple in Sector 4 was closed during the morning hours, and when it opened in the evening, a limited number of people were allowed inside at a time. The Prem temple on Old Railway Road also received a low footfall in the morning.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram police, said, “Adequate police force will be deployed if we notice gathering in any market area or at any religious place to regulate the crowd.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/coronavirus-cases-may-rise-restrict-gatherings-state-tells-district-admin-101630346266836.html
30-08-2021||Gurugram||Tree plantation target unlikely to be reached by MCG this year||Even as the monsoon season is at its later stages, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has so far been unable to plant saplings in at least eight of its wards. Officials said that their target to plant 300,000 saplings this season is likely to be completed by March 2022.Prior to the start of the monsoon season in June, the MCG had set a target of planting 300,000 saplings in an official release. However, the MCG started the plantation drive only in August and has recalled tenders for planting saplings in at least eight of its wards, including wards 1, 2, 3, 31, 32, 33, 34, and 35.Officials said that bids for the eight wards will be opened only on September 4, after which a contractor will be finalised and planting of saplings will commence. Even for the other 27 wards, MCG floated tenders in mid-August for planting saplings and subsequently, maintaining them. Subhash Yadav, the district forest officer (DFO), who is also the additional chief executive officer of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the nodal officer of the MCG’s environment and sustainability wing, said that the civic body is lagging behind its target due to a change in strategy.“Previously, the MCG was not accounting or keeping records of the saplings it had planted. This year, we decided to involve private contractors in this project so that there is higher accountability and to increase the survival rate of the saplings, due to which there is a delay in the plantation process. However, this process will have long-term benefits,” said Yadav.Yadav said that while the MCG is likely to plant around 200,000 shrubs by this monsoon, plantation of around 100,000 trees would be completed by March next year.“Around 90-95% (of the target) for planting shrubs would be achieved by this monsoon season. We are aiming to complete planting remaining shrubs, along with around 60,000 tree saplings, in February-March next year,” said Yadav.Environmentalists said that the conditions of contracts with private contractors should be stringent to ensure proper maintenance of saplings.“The MCG needs to ensure that it mentions the number of times the contractor has to water the saplings in a month as well as list the repercussions for failing to do so. Most saplings need to be watered at least on a weekly basis and the MCG needs to ensure the same is maintained for the survival of shrubs and trees,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, a city-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/tree-plantation-target-unlikely-to-be-reached-by-mcg-this-year-101630346265619.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Suspect in Jantar Mantar hate sloganeering case, to surrender to cops on Tuesday||Days after the Delhi high court declined to give interim protection from arrest to Hindu Raksha Dal chief Bhupinder Tomar alias Pinky Chaudhary for his alleged involvement in raising hate slogans at Jantar Mantar on August 8, a video emerged on social media on Monday in which the right-wing activist could be heard saying that he will surrender at the Connaught Place police station on Tuesday noon. Chaudhary has been evading arrest ever since a case for promoting enmity between different groups and defying Covid-19 guidelines was registered on August 8, hours after videos of an event — which the organisers claimed was held that day near Jantar Mantar to push for the abolition of “colonial-era laws” — showed people shouting anti-Muslim slogans. After the videos were widely circulated on social media, several activists filed police complaints, prompting the police to conduct raids and arrest the alleged perpetrators. The new 1.37-minute video clip has Chaudhary standing against a wall with a saffron cloth wrapped around his shoulders. “…I am still firm on my point that neither I nor any worker of my organisation did anything wrong at Jantar Mantar. I respect the court. I will get myself arrested tomorrow, on August 31, around 12pm at Connaught Place police station and will cooperate with police during the probe,” Chaudhary could be heard saying in the video.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video, which appears to have been shot inside a temple, as a bell could be heard tolling while Chaudhary speaks. “I never run away from being arrested. It is the right of every person to go to court and I did the same. I want to tell you that all the allegations against me are false and baseless. My life has been devoted to Hinduism and Hindutva. As long as I breathe, I will continue to do the work of religion. Every Hindu citizen should support me and take our movement forward. I am not scared of going to jail,” Chaudhary said in the video. On being asked about the video and Chaudhary’s latest statement, joint commissioner of police (New Delhi range) Jaspal Singh said, “As per the provisions of the law, any person wanted in any case can surrender before the police or court. Our teams have been conducting raids to arrest Chaudhary.”Police have said that they didn’t grant permission to the August 8 event called by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashwini Upadhyay under the banner of ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’ (literally, ‘unite India movement’). Upadhyay, a former Delhi BJP spokesperson, was arrested along with seven others. He is out on bail at present and claims that no inflammatory slogans were raised that day. On Friday, the Delhi high court had refused to grant interim protection from arrest to Chaudhary. On August 21, a sessions court had dismissed Chaudhary’s anticipatory bail plea too, saying, “We are not a Taliban state and the rule of law is the sacrosanct governing principle in our plural and multicultural society.”Police have so far arrested eight people in connection with the case, most of them associated with various right-wing outfits: Uttam Upadhyay, Ashwini Upadhyay, Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma, Vinit Bajpai and Sushil Tiwari. Preet Singh is the director of ‘Save India Foundation’, one of the organisers of the August 8 march, while Sushil Tiwari is the chief of Hindu Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-surrender-to-cops-on-tuesday-pinky-chaudhary-suspect-in-jantar-mantar-hate-sloganeering-case-says-in-video-101630346264267.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Portable mohalla clinics envisioned for JJ colonies, dense areas in Delhi||The Delhi government is constructing two mohalla clinics inside portable shipping containers in the city's Shakurbasti area, which the authorities plan to replicate in dense cluster colonies where creating health infrastructure in a dedicated building is a challenge owing to space constraints.The Delhi government opted for this model in order to tide over the issues of land posed by DDA and civic bodies, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said."Land is a subject that comes under the Centre. Politics has been happening with the construction of mohalla clinics. DDA had promised in the Delhi High Court that it would give land for mohalla clinics but it did not given us anything for even a single mohalla clinic."The municipal corporations has also been troubling us. What we did was that we took a shipping container and prepared a readymade mohalla clinic," he told reporters.Mohalla clinics is one of the flagship initiatives of the Kejriwal government to boost the primary healthcare system in Delhi.A typical mohalla clinic has a doctor and a midwife-cum-nurse. It provides an array of diagnostic services and essential medicines free of cost.Jain had earlier visited the sites of two mohalla clinics being constructed in giant containers in Shakurbasti and took stock of the situation. The clinics in these containers would also be fully air-conditioned."Visited the construction site of 2 new Mohalla Clinics at Shakurbasti. These Clinics have been set up in portable containers. Such Clinics are easy to set up & transport in Cluster areas like Jhuggi-Bastis & narrow streets where healthcare infrastructure is less accessible," he tweeted after his visit.Talking about the new version of mohalla clinic, Jain said these are being made by a company as part of its CSR activity. Mohalla clinics were also made inside porta cabins at some places."These are 100 per cent transferable, and can be installed wherever there is space. At present, we have one sample. I think the cost of these will be similar to the ones in porta cabins," he said.He said these will be a better option since they can made in bulk in a factory, can be installed within no time and are made of sturdy material."There were issues of thefts arising at mohalla clinics but these shipping containers are made of sturdy material and will be able to withstand the danger of thefts," he said.Jain said these will be put up at the Delhi government land. "The porta cabins were assembled on the site but these would be made in factories and then put up at the designated places. These would occupy lesser space."A mohalla clinic would be made in an area of 600 square feet but these will occupy 320 square feet. The idea behind their design is derived from an aeroplane, which is well-designed and has everything in a compact space. There are around 500 mohalla clinics currently functional in Delhi," he said.The AAP government had in February 2019 flagged off 16 bike ambulances, known as First Responder Vehicles (FRVs), in a district in east Delhi on pilot basis.The facilities available in FRV include a portable oxygen cylinder, a first aid kit and dressing materials, air-splints, foldable transfer sheets, ambu bags, glucometer, pulse oxymeter, a portable manual suction machine, a GPS device and a communication device.These FRVs are manned by trained ambulance manpower.Buoyed by the "overwhelmingly positive response" to the bike ambulance project in east Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in September 2019 had said plans were afoot to expand the service across the national capital."A large number of people in Delhi live in unauthorised colonies or other such areas where streets are very narrow. I was very concerned about how to provide better emergency healthcare to the people living in these colonies. With this in mind, the Bike Ambulance service was launched. The Delhi government is planning to extend the service to the entire city," he had said.Jain recently had opened a new mohalla clinic at Tis Hazari court.In January 2020, two months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Delhi, Chief Minister Kejriwal had inaugurated 152 mohalla clinics en bloc.Earlier, Jain had said mohalla clinics help in keeping quacks away, as people have a facility to go to for simple ailments. The plan is to have such facilities as close to households as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/portable-mohalla-clinics-envisioned-for-jj-colonies-dense-areas-in-delhi-101630345673712.html
30-08-2021||Noida||Cases of viral fever on the rise in Ghaziabad; not Covid, say doctors||The district is seeing a spike in the number of viral fever cases, unrelated to Covid-19, with several doctors saying these were cases of the seasonal flu.The district health department said there has been about up to 20% spike in such fever cases, affecting both adults and children. There has, however, been no flu-related death in the district, they added. “In our out-patient department (OPD), we are getting about 100 patients a day who report with high fever, runny nose, cough and other symptoms,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar District Combined Hospital. “Of the 100, 40-45 are children. We ensure that patients coming with fever and other symptoms are tested for Covid as well. However, none has yet tested positive for Covid-19.”The fever generally subsided within 4-5 days, although in some cases, it took a few days longer, he added. “These days, viral fever cases are 10-20% of daily cases as against 2-4% on other days. We get our patients tested for Covid-19 as well as for H1N1 (swine flu) as a precaution,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). “It is vital to consult a doctor if one has fever and patients should get adequate hydration and nutrition besides taking bed rest.” The district surveillance officials said that they are keeping an eye on these cases. “It has been about a fortnight since fever cases started spiking and it could be due to seasonal changes. As a precautionary measure, we have asked hospitals to get fever patients tested for Covid as well,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. He said there were seven Covid cases reported in the district on Monday, and these included two old cases which were transferred from Gautam Budh Nagar. “The other five cases are of two families who travelled together to Ladakh and tested positive for Covid-19 upon their return. Two of the five cases are of a family from Delhi while three cases are of a Ghaziabad family. We have directed for genome-sequencing of the three cases and have strictly asked them to stay in isolation,” Dr Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cases-of-viral-fever-on-the-rise-in-ghaziabad-not-covid-say-doctors-101630345783723.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Schools in Delhi told to involve parents in chalking out reopening plan||With the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) giving the go-ahead for the resumption of in-person learning from September 1 for students of classes 9 to 12, public and private schools have been directed by the authority to hold meetings with parent representatives to finalise their respective reopening plans.This is the first time that schools have been asked to involve parents in the decision-making process and engage them in confidence-building measures, including vaccination, among parents’ groups, stakeholders said.“Head of school/institute are also advised to convene SMC/PTA (school management committee/parent teacher association) meetings as and when required to review the compliance of Covid protocols, attendance of students, and other confidence-building measures,” the DDMA order on Monday said.Government school principal Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of Vice- and Principals’ Association of Delhi, said the school would continue to hold in-depth engagements with school management committee members. “We have shared the latest guidelines with SMC members and we will be holding a meeting Tuesday to discuss issues,” said Yadav.But SMC members say not all of them have been informed of this. Rama Sengar, who is a member of the SMC at Shaheed Amir Chand Government Sarvodaya Vidyalaya (SAC GSV) in Civil Lines, said, “As of now, we have not been approached for any decision-making or meeting. We will be happy to share the concerns of parents.” Several private schools said they have been updating parents regularly and have routinely sought their feedback on key issues. Amit Chawla, a member of the parent body at KR Mangalam School, GK-2, said they will be holding a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the reopening. “We feel that the focus should be on vaccination. Vaccination is extremely crucial and the government should focus on vaccinating students as well,” he said.Many parents are also waiting to see how many of their concerns will be addressed. Aprajita Gautam, president of the Delhi Parents’ Association, said, “The government issues orders but eventually parents are left on their own. Even today, most parents we spoke to are not in favour of reopening schools.” She said authorities need to decide on what action would be taken against schools that are found flouting social distancing norms and other Covid-19 safety guidelines. The DDMA guidelines issued on Monday have capped the occupancy capacity of classrooms and laboratories at 50%, keeping in mind physical distancing needs. However, implementing this will be difficult for budget schools that have infrastructure constraints. Chandrakant Singh, national general secretary, Private Land Public School’s Trust, an association of budget schools, said, “While it will be challenging to accommodate students in schools with space constraints, reopening is important. Children in budget schools come from economically weaker sections and their parents don’t have smartphones or data bundles to aid digital learning. The government should consider reopening the primary sections as well.” Since schools have been asked to continue with online classes for those who wish to continue with that, principals said conducting classes in a blended mode was going to be challenging.Malini Narayanan, principal of Army Public School in Shankar Vihar, said, “Many schools do not have the infrastructure to conduct blended classes such as interactive panels and smart boards. In the absence of that, schools will be recording class sessions and sharing them with students.”In order to ensure the safety of all stakeholders, the National Progressive Schools Conference (NPSC) said its 122 member schools will only encourage vaccinated teaching and non-teaching staff to come to school. While the DDMA order has asked schools to ensure mandatory vaccination of bus drivers and other transportation staff, most schools said for now, they will not be resuming the school bus facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/schools-in-delhi-told-to-involve-parents-in-chalking-out-reopening-plan-101630345724709.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Man impersonates as lawyer to join hearing in rape case at Rohini court, arrested||The police have arrested a man for impersonating a lawyer and appearing for a rape victim during a bail hearing in the Rohini Court on Saturday.During the hearing, the man, identified as Mukesh Kumar, began arguing in favour of the accused despite claiming to be representing the victim, which prompted the judge to ask the Bar Association to intervene. He was found out when he couldn’t furnish the Bar Association with a valid enrolment number.The police arrested him hours later, after the Association and the rape victim’s parents filed a complaint at the Prashant Vihar police station. The police said Kumar works as a lawyer’s assistant in Bihar and they are investigating if he has criminal antecedents. The matter was reported on Saturday during a bail hearing at the Rohini court for a man arrested on charges of rape in 2019. Apart from the accused man’s representation, lawyers from the government and the women’s commission were also in court during the hearing. Kumar introduced himself as the victim’s lawyer and claimed in court that the women’s commission and police were pressuring her to withdraw her complaint, and even said they were opposing the victim’s bail.He also claimed that the victim wanted the accused to get bail so that they can get married. Suspicious at his disjointed arguments, the judge hearing the case asked the Bar Association to intervene. Kumar’s impersonation came to light when he could not produce any valid identity documents, registration details or an enrolment number.It was then revealed that he used to work as an assistant to a lawyer in Bihar and bought a white shirt, black trousers and shoes from a showroom near the court on Saturday, after which he headed into a courtroom.The Prashant Vihar police registered an FIR on a complaint from the Bar Association and the victims’ family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-impersonates-as-lawyer-to-join-hearing-in-rape-case-at-rohini-court-arrested-101630345545455.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||With one more day still to go, UG registrations at Delhi University already cross 435,000||New Delhi: The Delhi University has received over 435,000 applications for around 70,000 seats in various undergraduate programmes till Monday, the highest so far, university officials said. The numbers are expected to go even higher with registrations continuing till Tuesday evening.Last year, the university received 351,974 paid applications in the three-month registration window that was 100,000 more than 2019 (258,388). To be sure, the registration portal was open for around 10 weeks in 2020, as compared to four weeks this year, in order to help students amid problems arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.The first cut-off is expected to come out on October 1 and admissions to the undergraduate courses will begin on October 4, university officials said.Though there are over 435,000 registrations on the admissions portal so far, only around 250,000 among them are paid applications due to various factors, including duplicity and multiple registrations per candidate. University officials said the number of paid forms is expected to increase by Tuesday night as more candidates are expected to complete the process by paying the registration fee.This year, registrations for undergraduate courses began on August 2, and online registrations for the postgraduate, MPhil, and PhD courses took place between July 26 and August 21. The university received over 183,815 applications for 20,000 PG seats and 30,019 registrations for MPhil/PhD slots.A senior university official who asked not to be named said, “Students can pay the registration fee till 11.59pm Tuesday. Only the paid applications will be considered. We did not extend the registration date as we have to submit data for the undergraduate entrance test as well. This week, the university officials are likely to hold a meeting with the admissions committee to discuss the suggestions put forward by the principals on cut-offs.”The official added that the university would have continued with the merit-based admissions had it not been for the scheduled entrance tests. “Along with engineering and medical entrance exams, we also have the undergraduate DU entrance test (DUET) scheduled for the last week of September. The admission process is dependent on these tests because students tend to change their academic choices based on their performance in the tests. This is why we chose October 1 as the date for tentative cut-off,” the official added.Since DU does not follow a first-come-first-serve system for UG admissions, colleges are supposed to offer admission to all applicants who meet the announced cut-off criteria. With around 220,000 students scoring 90% and above marks in CBSE Class 12 results this year and 70,000 of them scoring around 95% or more, the undergraduate cutoffs are likely to soar this year as well. Every year, DU receives around 80% of applications from students graduating from CBSE affiliated schools.Bijayalaxmi Nanda, principal of Miranda House college, said, “We have seen preliminary data from this year’s results and analysed the trends from last year as well. Colleges generally look at preferred subjects, cancellation between cut-offs, and other data points before deciding on the numbers. Cut-offs in most subjects including popular ones like some combinations of BA Programme, Political Science, Economics will increase by one to two percentage points and many courses will be in the range of 98-99%.”In DU, admissions to all undergraduate courses, except 15, are conducted on the basis of merit and scores in the previous qualifying examination. Admission to postgraduate, MPhil-PhD courses, and 15 undergraduate courses that include journalism, finance, and music, are held through DUET that is conducted by the National Testing Agency. This year, the exams will be conducted between September 26 and October 1.Though registrations will be closed on Tuesday, students appearing for their compartment exam or improvement exams will be allowed to upload their documents such as mark sheets and certificates after their results are declared later.In the absence of final board exams due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Class 12 CBSE results were prepared on the basis of Class 10, 11, and 12 internal scores of students in a ratio of 30:30:40. Students who were not satisfied with their results declared in July were given the option of appearing for physical exams later. The board is currently conducting examinations for such students along with those who need to appear for their compartment papers till September 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-one-more-day-still-to-go-ug-registrations-at-delhi-university-already-cross-435000-101630344825260.html
30-08-2021||Other||Shivajinagar tragedy: Teen on cycle killed in accident with PMPML bus; driver arrested||PUNE A 15-year-old girl riding her bicycle in Shivajinagar died after being hit by a PMPML bus on Sunday afternoon. The driver of the bus was arrested by the Pune police for rash driving and causing the teenager‘s death. The deceased teenager was identified as Chanda Suresh Parihar (15), a resident of the area where the accident happened. The driver of the bus was identified as Nandkumar Mahadu Nandkar (40), a resident of Bhosari, Pimpri-Chinchwad.The incident happened around 3pm near DSK chowk in Model colony, Shivajinagar. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the girl’s father Suresh Parihar (36) . He works as a security guard, according to the police.“She was returning home after buying vegetables. The bus rammed into her and the driver did not realise it until later. The bus stopped and the conductor and driver took her to a private hospital where they then referred her to Sassoon General Hospital as she had died,” said sub-inspector B Shelke, who is investigating the case.A case under sections 279, 338, and 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 184, 119/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Shivajinagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shivajinagar-tragedy-teen-on-cycle-killed-in-accident-with-pmpml-bus-driver-arrested-101630344523584.html
30-08-2021||Other||Balasaheb Patil: Coop hsg societies with less than 250 members will be allowed to hold elections||PUNE Maharashtra’s cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil said on Monday that cooperative housing societies with below 250 members will be allowed to hold elections. Given the surge in Covid cases, the Maharashtra government had postponed elections to cooperative bodies till August 31, 2021. As the deadline approached and Covid-induced restrictions eased, housing societies are eagerly awaiting government directions. In Pune district, there are 18,000 cooperative housing societies of which 4,000 are due for elections. “Housing societies with members less than 250 would be allowed to hold the elections. The official decision would be declared after the scheduled cabinet meeting this week,” said Balasaheb Patil.He also added that the final decision regarding the elections of other bigger cooperative societies is hanging because of the possibility of the third Covid wave. “The election process for bigger cooperative societies has begun, for example the work of preparing voter lists of four district cooperative banks whose financial condition is not good has started. As for the other societies, we are still contemplating what to do. Experts have warned about the third wave and so we have to be cautious,” said Patil. In the Pune district, of 18,000 cooperative housing societies, 17,000 have below 250 members. The Federation of Housing Societies demanded permission to hold elections for all cooperative housing societies. “We are demanding that all societies be allowed to hold elections. Preparations for all the other big elections have started. So housing societies should be given permission to hold the elections,” said Suhas Patwardhan, chairman of Pune District Cooperative Housing Societies Federation. Earlier, speaking in Pune on Friday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had also hinted at allowing the elections to housing societies. After the postponement of elections in April, the District Cooperative Housing Societies Federation started to train members of housing societies to be returning officers for the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/balasaheb-patil-coop-hsg-societies-with-less-than-250-members-will-be-allowed-to-hold-elections-101630344163621.html
30-08-2021||Other||Junnar sees 2 leopard attacks: 3-yr-old in hospital, 80-year old escapes||PUNE In two separate leopard attacks in Junnar taluka – a three-year old boy got seriously injured, while an 80-year old man received minor injuries on Sunday.The first incident happened in Ale village, where the 80-year old man returning from his farm in the evening was attacked by a leopard. He was able to escape quickly.In the second incident, which occurred at 8 pm – Ved Akshay Chaskar, the three-year old, was attacked by a leopard when he was playing in front of his house in Rajuri village.The leopard dragged the boy for 25 metres before his parents heard his screams and rescued him. “The boy was bleeding and he was rushed to hospital in a nearby village, but after his parents’ consent he was shifted to a private hospital in Bhosari where his treatment is going on. The boy has more than 150 stitches and the doctor has said he is out of danger,” said Jayram Gowda, deputy conservator of forest, Junnar.“The family will get compensation from the government. This case will be considered as a special category case and along with all the financial help for medicinal aid, more support will be provided. We are submitting a report to higher authorities,” added Gowda.In Junnar, known for its sugarcane belt, leopard attacks are common. Forest guards are seeking permission to install trap cages in the villages to catch the animals||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/junnar-sees-2-leopard-attacks-3-yr-old-in-hospital-80-year-old-escapes-101630344103526.html
30-08-2021||Other||Alert Baner-Pashan resident helps PMC catch debris-dumping tractor red-handed||PUNE: An alert resident helped the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) catch the errant tractor dumping debris and rubble on the slopes of the Baner-Pashan hills over the weekend. The vigilant resident spotted the debris and rubble-laden tractor struggling up the kuchcha road along the hill slope and immediately notified the Aundh ward office. No sooner, the ward officials rushed to the site and managed to catch the tractor red-handed while dumping the rubble and debris on the road cutting through the hills.Sandip Khalate, assistant commissioner of the Aundh ward office, said, “We have confiscated the tractor, imposed a penalty of Rs25,000 on the driver, and are investigating further to find out the person behind it. Once we get the details, we will send our report to the roads’ department which will take necessary action.”Recently on August 24, locals and environmental activists complained about the sudden dumping of debris and rubble to build a kuchcha road cutting through the Baner-Pashan hills when PMC and Pune Smart City Development Corporation (PSCDCL) officials visited the area and denied tendering or authorising any work on the road. The officials assured the group that the debris and rubble would be removed, and that action would be taken against those responsible. Thereafter, the residents, along with the local corporators, lodged a police complaint against those responsible and sent letters to the PMC and PSCDCL to take further action.Vaishali Patkar, a concerned citizen and part of the team that lodged the police complaint, said, “This hill is part of the BDP (bio-diversity park) area and any kind of work here is illegal. It needs to be protected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alert-baner-pashan-resident-helps-pmc-catch-debris-dumping-tractor-redhanded-101630343983547.html
30-08-2021||Other||Pune FYJC admissions: 30-day time limit to submit NCL certificate||PUNE In a major relief to students who are in process of gaining admission to Class 11 (FYJC) via the online centralised process, the education department has extended the deadline for submission of the NCL (non-creamy layer) certificate. Instead of the previous 21-day limit, students now have 30 days to submit the certificate.At the time of confirming the admission in a college, a student has to submit an affidavit that the certificate copy will be submitted within 21 days. This can now be 30 days The first merit list of round 1 was declared on August 27 by the state education department. In this first regular admission round, a total of 86,482 seats are available, for which 56,767 student applied, and 38,858 students were allotted a college. “It is a good decision taken by the education department. We are running from pillar to post to get all the necessary documents and certificates. Now at least we get some time to get the NCL certificate within 30 days,” said Santosh Joshi, parent of a student.For this academic year, a total of 78,745 students registered for Class 11 admissions. Despite a high passing percentage for Class 10 this year, student registration was low. It is feared that a high number of seats will remain vacant this year. The Bombay HC earlier this month cancelled the Common Entrance Test (CET) which was going to be held on August 21 for Class 11 admissions after which, the centralised online admission process kickstarted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-fyjc-admissions-30-day-time-limit-to-submit-ncl-certificate-101630343803543.html
30-08-2021||Other||Three in dock for throwing labourer from 1st floor in fight over unpaid dues||PUNE: Three men were remanded to police custody on Monday for the attempted murder of a labourer who tried to stop them from hitting his friend as the latter asked for unpaid dues while they demanded that he speed up work at Vadgaon Khurd, Pune.The labourer was identified as Mantajeer Alam, 21, who works at the Vyomkesh Heights construction site near Prayeja City in Vadgaon Khurd. The incident occurred between 2pm and 2.30pm on Saturday at the construction site. Alam sustained grievous injuries and is undergoing treatment at a local hospital.“Alam’s friend is a foreman and the three accused were shouting at the latter for making changes in the construction work and not doing it fast enough. Alam tried to interfere and told the trio that all changes and requests should be channelled through the labour contractor. This enraged the three who then beat Alam mercilessly and took him to the first floor of the building and pushed him down. All three men are in police custody while the foreman has been called to record his statement at the police station,” said police sub-inspector Deepak Khedkar of Sinhagad road police station.The three arrested men were identified as Sanjay Murlidhar Tunwar, 46; Ramchandra Kisan Vaghchaure, 36; and Govind Kisan Vaghchaure, 47. A local court remanded them to three days’ police custody. The three were demanding that the men speed up work while the latter were asking for unpaid dues, according to the complainant. A case under sections 307, 323, 504 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sinhagad road police station against the trio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-in-dock-for-throwing-labourer-from-1st-floor-in-fight-over-unpaid-dues-101630343684729.html
30-08-2021||Other||Factory worker throws acid on woman colleague in Jalandhar||Jalandhar A 47-year-old woman suffered around 35% burn injuries, after a co-worker in the factory threw acid on her over a minor argument related to work at a factory in Focal Point area of the Jalandhar city on Monday around noon. The exact reason for the attack remained unclear till the filing of the report, police said. The victim was rushed to a private hospital after the incident, and was later referred to the Jalandhar civil situation, where she is still critical. Doctors said that there were injuries on his face, hands and knees. Police have identified the accused as Sohan Lal, 30, of Ram Nagar, while the victim has been named as Ran Rani, 47. Police said they both worked in the same factory, that manufactures nut and boltsThe co-workers in the factory immediately grabbed the accused and police from the Focal Point check-post reached the spot and arrested them. Investigation officer ASI Madan Singh said the exact reason for the attack was unclear and CCTV footage was being tracked to establish the sequence of events. “Doctors have told us that acid has damaged the vitals of the victim and is still under observation,” a family member said. Police added that the accused had been known to the victim for the past couple of years and he visited her home frequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/factory-worker-throws-acid-on-woman-colleague-in-jalandhar-101630343684243.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Tokyo medals: Haryana paralympians’ kin, friends celebrate||Celebrations erupted in the villages of two paralympians from Haryana after they bagged gold and silver medals at the Tokyo event. Sumit Antil of Khewra village in Sonepat and Yogesh Kathuniya of Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district brought laurels to the country after securing gold and silver medals in the javelin (F64) and discus (F56) throw events, respectively. Sumit’s mother Nirmla Devi said Sumit had lost his father Ram Kumar, an Indian Air Force personnel, when he was just 7. “He had promised me gold medal after Neeraj Chopra made history. I can’t forget that evening of January 5, 2015, when Sumit’s bike collided with a tractor-trolley and he lost one of his legs. He remained hospitalised for many months and a prosthetic leg was fitted in 2016. He never gave up on life,” she said. “He was trained by Virender Dhankar at Sai Centre in Sonepat initially and then he went to Delhi. His skills were sharpened by coach Naval Singh in Delhi. He was placed 5th in the Asian Championship in 2018. He bagged a silver in the World Championship the next year,” said the mother, narrating his sporting journey. Gian Chand, father of Yogesh Kathuniya, said they had installed a big screen to watch his son’s match. “He has fulfilled his promise of winning a medal,” he said. “After the match, we talked to Yogesh through a video call. He was jubilant. Hard work has paid off,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tokyo-medals-haryana-paralympians-kin-friends-celebrate-101630343384443.html
30-08-2021||Other||State to hsg soc: Set up charging stations for e-vehicles to get property tax discount||PUNE In a bid to encourage the push for green energy in the state, housing societies who have set up charging stations for electric vehicles will get a property tax exemption ranging from two to five per cent, as per the newly formed Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy. This will be implemented from March 31, 2025. The circular was issued recently by deputy secretary Kailas Badhan of the state urban development department. As per the circular, if an individual sets up a charging station for his/her own electric vehicle or any other electric vehicle in the society, then two per cent relief in property tax will be given. If a housing society sets up the charging facility for its members, then the property tax relief will be of 5 per cent for all society members. This decision has been taken to encourage use of electric vehicles in the state. Property owners will have to ensure the charging stations do not obstruct traffic in any way. If a housing society uses its charging facilities on a commercial basis, then the tax will not be charged at commercial rates, but at household rates. Atul Namekar, secretary of Sinhagad road-Warje residents association said, “There are many citizens in our area who have purchased electric cars in the recent times, but they find it difficult to charge. This decision will now encourage many housing societies to set up their own charging stations to help the public get some benefit it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-to-hsg-soc-set-up-charging-stations-for-e-vehicles-to-get-property-tax-discount-101630343324205.html
30-08-2021||Bhopal||AIMIM member among 4 arrested in MP for inciting communal tension, says minister||BHOPAL: One of the four men arrested on Saturday for allegedly spreading fake messages to incite communal tensions is a member of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), and “connected” to Pakistani nationals, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said on Monday.The four, identified by the Indore Police as Altamash Khan, 28, Javed Khan, 32, Imran Ansari 31, and Irfan Ali, 34, were arrested on charges of circulating fake messages to incite riots in the city.“Altamash was connected with Pakistani nationals through social media while he was also found to be a member of All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen. Police also found sensitive materials from the possession of Altamash, which he wanted to use to create tension in the state,” the minister said.Also Read: Spurt in communal incidents in Madhya Pradesh’s Malwa regionMishra, however, also said the authorities have not come across any link between the four accused and the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Population Front of India (PFI) as previously suspected.Indore collector Manish Singh earlier indicated that there were intelligence inputs that these organizations were involved in the attempt to “create unrest.”“As of now, we found only a connection with AIMIM, not with PFI and SDPI. But more things will come out as police are still investigating the matter,” Mishra said.Local AIMIM representatives said the party held a membership drive in the state, and that anyone could have become a member.“We are holding a membership drive through a mobile application and anyone can become a member of the party. He might have taken membership but he was not connected with any leader,” said Tahir Anwar, a senior AIMIM leader in the state.Senior police officials said investigations into a series of incidents and protests led the police to the four accused, who during the investigation, allegedly revealed they were angered by the attack on bangle seller Taslim Ali.“After a series of incidents and protests, a special team of the cyber cell was formed to look at social media. During surveillance, police identified these four accused. They then told police that they were upset with the assault on bangle seller Taslim Ali and decided to create tension in a way that was difficult for the police to understand,” said Ashutosh Bagri, superintendent of police Indore (East).Police said more than 10 Whatsapp groups were allegedly created to circulate provocative and communal messages. “Many members of different organisations were found to be part of the groups. We also found a recording of more than 200 people on the mobile phone of Altamash,” said Bagri. In some recordings, he added, Altamash is heard making Altamash statements.Senior officials said the suspects were produced before the Indore district court on Monday via video conferencing.Indore deputy inspector general DIG Manish Kapuriya said, “The series of incidents relating to promoting enmity between two communities are happening due to social media. More people will be arrested as soon as a special team identifies them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/aimim-member-among-4-arrested-in-mp-for-inciting-communal-tension-says-minister-101630342844366.html
30-08-2021||Other||Cotton being procured at above MSP; trend positive for stakeholders||Bathinda Cotton purchase for 2021-22 kharif season is picking up in the markets of Mansa, Bathinda, Fazilka and Muktsar. with farmers being paid up to ₹6,711 per quintal, higher than this season’s expected MSP (Minimum Support Price) of ₹5,925.According to the Punjab Mandi Board, 17,000 quintal cotton has been purchased over the past 10 days till August 30, with private players buying the entire produce.On Monday, purchase of 218 quintal cotton was recorded in Bathinda at ₹6,705 per quintal. Mandi Board cotton state coordinator Rajnish Goel said, “Cotton purchase began on August 18. It was after nearly a decade that farmers started arriving in mandis with their produce in August.”Authorities attribute the early arrival to higher rates, which is a result of the growing demand. “Last season, the MSP for cotton varieties grown in Punjab was ₹5,725 per quintal. For this kharif season, the Centre has enhanced MSP on cotton by ₹200 onwards, depending on staple sizes. A notification of MSP on long-medium varieties sown in Punjab has not been issued yet, but this season’s MSP is expected to be ₹5,925,” he said, adding that the state was expected to produce 50 lakh quintal for the second consecutive season.“If private players continue paying higher prices, the season will also be ideal for arthiyas as Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) buys the produce directly from growers. Arthiyas get a fee of 2.5% per quintal. Private agents also lead to more employment for mandi labourers” he added.State agriculture director Sukhdev Sidhu said the early-sown or cotton crop sown in March gets ready for first picking in August whereas, in most of the area cotton, harvesting begins after September 15.“We have conducted two meetings with CCI authorities and they have assured us that they will procure, if rates crash below MSP; there are bleak chances of this happening. This season, no major pest attack has been reported. Bathinda and Mansa districts have reported few cases of deadly pink bollworm. Timely intervention contained the spread of the pest,” Sidhu added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cotton-being-procured-at-above-msp-trend-positive-for-stakeholders-101630342784832.html
30-08-2021||Other||Pune to get moderate rainfall till Sept 1: IMD||PUNE Pune city and district is likely to receive moderate rainfall till September 1. Because of a third break in the monsoon, Pune city has now seen a rainfall deficiency of 51.7 millimetres since June 1. From June 1, till date, the city reported 384.1mm of rainfall against the normal rainfall of 435.8mm, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that the low pressure area now lies over south Chhattisgarh. The system and its remnant are likely to move west-northwestwards across Central and West India till September 2.“The monsoon trough at mean sea level lies south of its normal position. It is very likely to be south of its normal position till September 2. An off-shore trough at mean sea level runs from Karnataka coast to Kerala coast. Due to above meteorological conditions, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is expected over Vidarbha, Madhya (central) Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa till September 1,” said Kashyapi.He added that Pune may receive moderate rainfall and the weather in the city will remain cloudy till September 1. “Along with Pune city, ghat areas may receive isolated heavy fall till September 1. Pune on Monday reported 0.4mm of rainfall. Pune on Monday reported a maximum temperature of 28.2 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 21.9 degrees Celsius,” said Kashyapi.Madhya Maharashtra has reported 2 per cent less than normal rainfall between June 1 and August 30. Drought-prone Marathwada has reported 13 per cent more than normal rainfall during this time. Konkan and Goa reported rainfall only 11 per cent more than normal. And Vidarbha reported 15 per cent less than normal rainfall during this time, as per IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-to-get-moderate-rainfall-till-sept-1-imd-101630342783497.html
30-08-2021||Other||Maha to get 17 million Covid vaccine doses in Sept from Centre: Tope||PUNE Maharashtra is expected to receive 17 million Covid vaccine doses in September from the Central government, Rajesh Tope, state health minister, said on Monday. This is substantially higher than July and August, when Maharashtra received close to 11.5 million doses in each of the months. According to the state health department, Maharashtra administered close to 11.9 million doses in August (till the 30th), while this number was 11.9 million in July as well. Tope said while supply from Centre to the state will increase in September the state will have a robust system in place to vaccinate even more beneficiaries.“The centre has promised to supply 17 million doses in September. Whatever centre gives, we distribute. We have proved we can vaccinate over 1 million in a day and can stretch beyond 1.5 million in a day,” Tope said in Jalna. In August, state administered 1.1 million doses on August 21, the highest so far. In Pune, a total of 7,454,366 doses have been administered as of August 29, with first doses being administered to 5,436,620 beneficiaries and second doses to 2,017,746 beneficiaries. The health minister also advised caution in the light of various festivals coming up in the state. Reacting to the Centre’s advisory on imposing a night curfew in Kerala and Maharashtra, Tope said, “This is in view of the rising cases in Kerala after the Onam festival - about 31,000 new Covid-19 cases a day. Maharashtra also needs to be cautious. We also have many festivals coming up one after the other, in two days we have Pola, then in the coming weeks, Ganpati, Dussehra and Diwali. In view of this I think that we need to take care. The central government has given us some guidelines including night curfew and because of this we at the state government are also considering the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maha-to-get-17-million-covid-vaccine-doses-in-sept-from-centre-tope-101630342603525.html
30-08-2021||Other||Decision on Baramati-Daund-Pune train restarting soon: collector||PUNE It has been a travel issue for thousands of passengers on the Baramati-Daund-Pune route, as the daily train has not yet started, despite repeated demands by passenger groups. Prior to the Covid pandemic, daily, around 10,000 passengers would travel between these two cities, but service was shut down due to the pandemic. The ticket fare is ₹30 on the route, but now, for commuters, traveling by MSRTC buses, private vehicles or other transport options, has raised expenses.“Thousands of people come to Pune city from Baramati and Daund daily for their work in different fields like government and private offices, semi-government, banks, police department, blood banks, hospitals and several other emergency services. The number of passengers traveling between the cities is more than 10,000, so it is necessary that the train service be started immediately. Most of them cannot afford to travel by private buses or vehicles,” said Vikas Deshpande, secretary of the Daund-Pune-Daund Pravasi Sangh. “I daily travel by ST bus from Baramati to Pune for my job and many times I miss my scheduled bus and reach office late. If train is started there won’t be any problem. As the Pune-Lonavala local train has started, our daily shuttle should also start,” said Prakash Shinde, a daily commuter on this route. Pune district collector Rajendra Deshmukh said, “We will convey the demands of passengers to the concerned state government authorities and further decision to start back the train service will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decision-on-baramati-daund-pune-train-restarting-soon-collector-101630342543486.html
30-08-2021||Other||Pune NCP to adopt a hard line on all BJP-driven civic proposals||PUNE: With an eye on the municipal elections, tentatively scheduled for February 2022, the main opposition party in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the Nationalist Congress party (NCP), has decided to oppose several major proposals slated to come up before the general body for clearance.These proposals include the leasing of amenity spaces, selling apartments owned by the PMC, and a civic plan to hire electric cars for civic officials. The standing committee of the PMC, with the BJP in a majority, has cleared all these proposals.NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “We have decided to oppose almost all proposals in the interest of the city. As BJP realises that they will not win power again, they are selling PMC properties with a vested interest. Besides the Swargate-Katraj metro route, we will oppose all proposals.”This latest statement comes on the back of much brouhaha about the NCP taking a stand on the leasing out of civic amenity spaces.All “mis-communication” was put to bed as NCP leader Ajit Pawar met party leaders and rank and file on Sunday to clear the air.NCP’s Rajya Sabha MP Vandana Chavan was of the opinion that since the BJP has the numbers to pass the proposal, her party should suggest some changes to the proposal. As those “suggestions” became demands, the proposal was left hanging fire before the GB last week, forcing the BJP to postpone the decision.After the Pawar tete-a-tete on Sunday, the NCP decided not to support the leasing out of amenity spaces by the PMC in Pune.Then on Monday, the party line seem to get even more strident as regards BJP proposals up for clearance at the PMC’s September GB.Speaking anonymously several NCP party leaders said, “Considering the municipal elections, we should become aggressive and oppose all such proposals. Already, for the leasing of amenity spaces, citizens have moved court opposing it. If BJP is getting the defamed, why should the NCP support them?”The NCP sources added, “The NCP has decided to become more aggressive in the coming days on all such new proposals. If NCP go with the BJP, it would send a wrong message to voters.”A Congress leader in the city, also speaking anonymously, said he expects the influx of several major, controversial proposals to come before the standing committee. “Already, the ruling party (BJP) has asked the administration to prepare these proposals,” the Congman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-ncp-to-adopt-a-hard-line-on-all-bjp-driven-civic-proposals-101630342303478.html
30-08-2021||Other||A good govt ensures people get benefit of welfare schemes: Yogi||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said when a good government was elected, the people got benefits of welfare and development schemes. The people also got benefit of a governance system that worked without discrimination and was free of corruption, he said.The chief minister was speaking in a programme organized for the online transfer of the ₹1341.17 crore fund to the 2,00,853 beneficiaries of PM Awas Yojana (Urban) and PM Svanidhi Yojana at his official residence.The fund is being directly credited into the account of the beneficiaries with direct benefit transfer (DBT) system whereas earlier when money was given through cheques, there was corruption in the transfer of the money to the beneficiaries. Earlier, a Prime Minister had stated that central government sent ₹100 but the poor beneficiaries got merely ₹15. ₹85 was pocketed by corrupt officers, he said.To check corruption, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had created a DBT digital system under which the money was directly credited into the account of the beneficiaries of the various schemes launched by the BJP government, he said.Under Jan Dhan scheme, the account of the poor people was opened in the banks to ensure that poor people got benefits of government schemes. During the Covid 19 pandemic, crores of people got the benefits of the scheme.. They did not have to go to the banks to withdraw the money and were able to do so with the assistance of the banking correspondent sakhis appointed by the state government.The sensitive government committed for the welfare of the masses worked with devotion. Today without discrimination the people from various communities and class were getting benefits of the schemes, he said.During the past four and half years, the Uttar Pradesh government allotted houses to 40 lakh people in rural and urban areas. In urban areas alone, 17.16 lakh poor people got the benefits. As many as 8.65 lakh houses were constructed and the state government was working to provide houses to all the eligible poor people by 2022. The work done by the urban development and rural development departments for the welfare of the poor people had set an example before the country, he said.Before 2017, UP did not hold positions in the PM Awas Yojana scheme as the previous state government was not interested in ensuring that the poor people get benefit of the schemes. When the BJP government came to power in 2017, it worked to ensure that people got benefits of all the schemes. Today UP was top in the country in achievement of targets of all the schemes, he said.In PM Awas Yoja UP topped in the country. Nagar Palika Parishad Mirzapur had got first rank award in the country and Nagar Panchayat Haripur achieved third position in the ranking. UP would achieve top position in the 100 days challenge programme launched under the PM Awas Yojana in the country, he said.During Covid 19 pandemic, the central and state government launched PM Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Nidhi. UP achieved first rank in this scheme as well. During lockdown, the street vendors suffered though the government supplied ration and distributed aother items. Out of the 7.55 lakh street vendors, 6.84 lakh were given loans. The state go0vernment was working for the rehabilitation and assistance of the street vendors, he said.The CM interacted with the beneficiaries of the both schemes through virtual medium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-good-govt-ensures-people-get-benefit-of-welfare-schemes-yogi-101630342244671.html
30-08-2021||Other||Education minister Uday Samant : CET exam schedule will be declared in next 4 days||PUNE Students registered for the Maharashtra state Common Entrance Test (CET) are eagerly awaiting the declaration of the examination schedule. In preparation for this CET, students from across the state have returned to Pune and are eagerly waiting for the dates to be announced. At least 0.8 million students have registered for the CET exam for various professional courses in the state. Earlier this month, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant had declared the tentative dates of the examination, but the state CET cell has not yet declared the final exam schedule. Talking about the issue on Monday, minister Samant said, “Against the background of the pandemic we are increasing the number of test centres due to which it is getting delayed. In the next four days the CET exam schedule will be declared.”“I came to Pune in the first week of August to prepare for the CET exams from my village in Buldhana district, but my entire month was wasted. Our family’s financial condition is weak due to the pandemic and staying here in Pune for more than a month is not possible. If the CET exam is taken soon, then it will be a problem for many students like me,” said Amar Nimbalkar, a student. “Thousands of students want to take admission in good colleges by appearing for the state CET and scoring well in it. Now September will start and still the CET exam has not been held. The admission process will go on till October or may be November. This will put a lot of financial burden on students coming from the rural parts to the city. CET cell should immediately declare the exam schedule,” said Kuldeep Ambekar a student and president of the Students Helping Hand organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/education-minister-uday-samant-cet-exam-schedule-will-be-declared-in-next-4-days-101630342063491.html
30-08-2021||Other||Pune sees more Covid cases and deaths in Aug than in June||PUNE Even as the state government is contemplating a night curfew due to rising cases, the city is showing early signs of a third Covid surge.The night curfew is especially being considered in Kerala which has a spike in Covid cases following the Onam festivities there this month.Although Pune city is reporting a lower positivity rate and restrictions have been eased, August saw a slight surge in the number of new Covid-19 cases and deaths reported by district authorities.August saw more Covid-19 cases and deaths than June, as per data from the district health office. The first wave ended in February, however, post that, numbers continued to rise and peaked in April. In June, the district reported 7,698 new Covid-19 cases and 135 deaths. This rose in July to 8,362 new Covid-19 cases and 2,283 deaths. The rise in cases could be because of the reconciliation process. However, the number of new Covid-19 cases has once again risen in August, with 7,794 new cases and 143 deaths reported. In August the city reported, on an average, 269 cases every day and 4.9 deaths on a daily basis, as of August 29.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state Covid-19 advisor said, “There is definitely crowding in the streets of the city now that everything has opened up. The fear of the virus is reversely proportional to the number of new Covid-19 cases and so, when the number of cases fall, people are careless about following Covid-appropriate behaviour. We have multiple major festivals lined up from here onwards and so we have to be more careful. The reason for more cases could also be due to high testing carried out by the PMC, which is essential for early isolation and early treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-sees-more-covid-cases-and-deaths-in-aug-than-in-june-101630341943493.html
30-08-2021||Other||BJP demands temples be allowed to reopen||PUNE: The Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) on Monday demanded immediate opening of religious places with some restrictions by the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The party warned that if the state did not do so within a week, it would be forced to open the doors of temples itself. BJP Maharashtra president Chandrakant Patil, mayor Murlidhar Mohol, and BJP Pune president Jagdish Mulik led an agitation in front of the Kasba temple for the purpose.Patil said, “This government’s only priority has been to open wine shops as these are a source of revenue. Before assuming office as chief minister, Thackeray used to visit temples but he has changed his stand now.” Thackeray and his party have become secular after entering an alliance with the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Patil taunted.According to BJP leaders, “Citizens cooperated with the state government during the first and second wave of covid-19 however the government allowed everything to open except religious places. There are many people who depend on religious places for an income.” They added that the state government can open these places while taking precautions such as allowing only a few people inside at a time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-demands-temples-be-allowed-to-reopen-101630341763459.html
30-08-2021||Other||Newborn girl dumped into Bhakra canal; body found||Patiala The body of a newborn girl was found from the Bhakra Canal in Patiala’s Samana division on Monday. Police said they received information from Shankar Bhardwaj, head of a divers’ team, that the body of girl was seen floating near Fatehpur village on the Patiala-Samana road. “The victim was immediately rushed to civil hospital where she was declared dead,” the police said, adding that it was clear that the newborn had been dumped immediately after birth. “We are checking the CCTV (closed-circuit television camera footage of nearby areas and checking records at maternity centres and hospitals to find data of babies born in past 15 days. This will help us identify the accused,” police said.Police have registered a case against unidentified persons under Section 317 (exposure and abandonment of child under twelve years, by parent or person having care of it) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/newborn-girl-dumped-into-bhakra-canal-body-found-101630341704171.html
30-08-2021||Other||Tikait resolves differences with another Khap chieftain||MEERUT: Bharatiya Kisan Union chief and head of Baliyan Khap Naresh Tikait resolved his differences with Choudhary of Gathwala Malik Khap Rajendra Singh, sharing the dais with him in the panchayat in Kurawa village in Muzaffarnagar district on Sunday, with the former extending his full support to the proposed Mahapanchayat on September 5. To note, Rajendra Singh was annoyed after the attack on BJP MLA Umesh Malik in Tikait’s village Sisauli. Gathwala Malik Khap is one of the major Khaps in the region which extends up to Haryana and has members in 52 villages of the region. Rajendra Singh, head of this Khap had expressed his dismay after attack on BJP MLA from Budhana constituency Umesh Malik in Tikait’s village Sisauli on August 14. Sisauli is also headquarters of the BKU where Malik had gone to attend a programme and faced the wrath of farmers. Umesh is a member of Gathwala Khap and believed to be close to Rajendra Singh. Attack on him annoyed Singh and he avoided attending panchayats being organised to support the proposed Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on September 5 under the aegis of BKU. Naresh Tikait is also choudhary of Baliyan Khap which has its members in 84 villages of the region. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha ( SKM) has given call for Muzaffarnagar Mahapanchayat under BKU. It’s chief Naresh Tikait, his son Gaurav Tikait and other BKU leaders are reaching out to people through meetings, panchayats and seeking support of Khap chieftains and thambedars, including Gathwala Malik Khap. Though Rajendra Singh kept away from such meetings after attack on Umesh Malik, his counterpart of Baliyan Khap said, “We will persuade him in the interest of farmers,” and eventually both shared the dais in Kurawa village on Sunday and vowed to fight together for farmers. Former MP and member of Gathwala Khap, Harendra Malik also attended the panchayat and admitted that both had resolved differences on Sunday. Describing the forthcoming panchayat asa symbol of farmers’ struggle, Malik said that choudharies always came together in he larger interest of society and farmers and the same thing occurred on Sunday. Vikas Malik of Kurawa admitted that Khap head Rajendra Singh had faced tremendous pressure to attend the panchayat and extend his support to the Mahapanchayat, as 3 out of 4 thambedars (regional heads of the Khap) were already supporting the Mahapanchayat and majority of clan members too had shown their inclination towards it. Budhana block pramukkh Vinod Malik too believed that clan members’ growing support to the Mahapanhayat eventually compelled Rajendra Singh to think over his decision and he attended the panchayat with Tikait and both leaders vowed to intensify their fight for farmers. Malik accused the BJP of trying to divide people to weaken the ongoing farmers’ movement and said, “People now understand their dirty politics of dividing people so they ey won’t fall in the trap anymore”. Referring to controversial statements given by a few BJP leaders about farmers’ movement in the past, former MP Harendra Singh said that it was a calculated move of the BJP to provoke people and their any wrong move could give the party opportunity to malign the movement. “Their eventual strategy seems to project the ongoing movement as a Jat and non-Jat stir”, said Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tikait-resolves-differences-with-another-khap-chieftain-101630341104070.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Book Karnal SDM, cops within a week: Farmers to Haryana govt||Farmer union leaders from Haryana have demanded registration of FIRs against Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha and police officials involved in Saturday’s lathicharge on peasants, besides listing other demands.The farmer leaders have given a week’s deadline to the Haryana government to accept their demands. They demanded ₹25-lakh compensation and government job to the next of kin of farmer Sushil Kajal, claiming that he had died due to injuries received in the lathicharge, financial assistance of ₹2 lakh each to all injured and free medical treatment.The decision was taken in a mahapanchayat called at Gharaunda grain market of Karnal. Farmers said if their demands are not met, they will gherao Karnal’s mini secretariat on September 7. Protect Haryana farmers, Charuni to SKMAddressing the gathering, Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni also made an emotional appeal to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders to help and support Haryana farmers facing legal action for their protests against the leaders of the ruling party. He said while Haryana farmers were braving batons and police cases, the SKM hasn’t moved a step to help them out. “We are fed up of the famer-police clashes now. The SKM should make it clear their stand clear once and for all; we can take care of ourselves,” he said. Farmers said they will continue the oppose the ruling party leaders in Haryana. They said only farmers in Haryana were facing police brutality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/book-karnal-sdm-cops-within-a-week-farmers-to-haryana-govt-101630340984425.html
30-08-2021||Other||BSP takes fight for upper caste votes to Yogi’s home turf||Lucknow: The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has decided to take the fight for the upper caste- Brahmin votes to Gorakhpur, the home turf of chief minister Yogi Aditynath. BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra will address a series of Brahmin community meetings named ;prabudh vichar goshthi’ in Gorakhpur region from September 1. To ensure the success of the meetings, the BSP has launched door to door contact in the rural areas of Gorakhpur region. BSP MPs, MLAs and office -bearers are visiting the villages dominated by the Brahmin community to urge them to participate in the meeting in strength. A BSP leader said by organizing successful Brahmin conferences in Gorakhpur region, considered a stronghold of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the BSP wished to send a message to the BJP that it maintained hold over his support base and was regaining lost ground as well. Along with the villagers, professionals, including lawyers, doctors, teachers, traders and people from various walks of life from the Brahmin community would participate in the meetings, he said. On September 1, the Brahmin conference will be organized in Shrawasti in Balrampur. On September 2, the conference will be organized in Deoria, Kushi Nagar, Gorakhpur and Maharajaganj districts. On September 3, the conference will be organized in Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar and Siddharth Nagar districts. In the 2017 assembly elections when the BJP wave swept the state, the BSP managed to secure victory on Chillupar assembly seat in Gorakhpur, with Vinay Shankar Tiwari defeating BJP candidate Rajesh Tripathi. Even as the BJP is working to maintain hold on the seats, the BSP plans to win the seats with the Dalit- Brahmin formula. A political observer AK Srivastava said Gorakhpur region had been witness to stiff rivalry between Brahmins and Rajputs for political dominance in the area. Former minister Hari Shankar Tiwari led the Brahmin community whereas the Rajput community was led by the successive mahants of Gorakhnath temple- Mahanth Avaidyanath and Yogi Adityanath. The BSP was working to propel the continuing rivalry to win the suppoort of the Brahmin community, he said. The BSP launched the Brahmin conference at Ayodhya on July 23. It played the Ram temple card, calling upon the voters to support the BSP in the 2022 assembly election for speedy construction of a grand temple. Addressing a Brahmin conference in Gonda on Monday, Mishra said the saffron brigade had raised a huge fund for the construction of Ram temple. But Ayodhya remained neglected and the construction of the temple was also continuing at a slow pace. The BJP must give details of the money contributed by the common people for the construction of the temple, he said. The atrocities over Dalits and Brahmins had increased under the BJP rule. Under the BSP government, the leaders of the Brahmin community were given important position in the government and party organization, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsp-takes-fight-for-upper-caste-votes-to-yogi-s-home-turf-101630340563964.html
30-08-2021||Other||‘AIUDF no longer part of grand alliance’: Assam Congress decides ahead of bypolls in state||Putting rest to speculations in past weeks, opposition Congress in Assam decided on Monday to sever ties with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which was part of the ‘mahajot’ (grand alliance) of 10 parties formed before the assembly polls in the state this year. The decision came at the core committee meeting of the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) held in Guwahati ahead of the by-election to six assembly constituencies in the state. “The committee observed that ‘mahajot’ alliance partner AIUDF’s behaviour and attitude in relation to the Bharatiya Janata Party has baffled Congress party members. The AIUDF leadership’s and senior members’ continuous and mysterious praise of the BJP and the chief minister has affected public perception of Congress party,” a resolution adopted by the meeting read. “The core committee members of the APCC unanimously decided that the AIUDF can no longer remain an alliance partner of ‘mahajot’ and in this regard will send intimation to All India Congress Committee (AICC),” it added. Congress, AIUDF, Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) and seven other parties were part of the ‘mahajot’ formed to counter the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. While Congress won 29 seats, AIUDF bagged 16, BPF won 4 and CPM bagged 1 seat—taking the grand alliance to 50 seats. On the other hand, BJP and its allies won 75 seats and returned to power for the second consecutive term. “The Congress is free to make decisions regarding their party, but we would term their decision to sever ties with us as a historical blunder. We had allied with Congress to oppose BJP’s communal agenda in the assembly polls,” said Md Aminul Islam, MLA and organising sectary of the AIUDF. “Congress can’t accuse us of having nexus with the BJP. Instead, today’s decision was the outcome of pro-BJP elements within Congress. It was a BJP strategy to use Sivasagar MLA and Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi to break our alliance. They become successful in that and Congress was the loser,” he added. In recent weeks, several Congress leaders have expressed that the party should sever ties with the AIUDF and instead try and include Raijor Dal in the alliance. Monday’s core committee meeting also decided that since the BPF had “already expressed their unwillingness in various forums to remain in the ‘mahajot”, it authorized APCC president Bhupen Borah to decide on the continuation of the party’s ties with BPF. By-elections to six seats are expected to take place in the coming weeks. Two seats were left vacant after the deaths of a BPF and a United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) member due to Covid-19 while two Congress leaders moved to the BJP. Former chief minister and Majuli MLA Sarbananda Sonowal joined the union cabinet and an AIUDF legislator is speculated to join BJP this week. Monday’s meeting reiterated the earlier decision to give full authority to the APCC president, along with working presidents and chairman of assembly seats constituted for the forthcoming by-elections to take decisions on election strategy, candidate selection etc. The meeting blamed the BJP-led government for failing on all fronts including resolution of border disputes with neighbouring states, management of Covid-19 and resolved to organize mass protests throughout the state in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aiudf-no-longer-part-of-grand-alliance-assam-congress-decides-ahead-of-bypolls-in-state-101630340386778.html
30-08-2021||Other||CM offers prayers in Mathura, targets oppn ‘volte face’||Agra Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath said on Sunday that those hesitating to visit temples in the past were now claiming that Ram and Krishna were theirs. Those in past governments were afraid of being painted as ‘non secular’ if they visited Ayodhya, he said. Now it was a new India with the BJP in power when President and Prime Minister were visiting Ayodhya. The chief minister was in Mathura on Monday to offer prayers at Sri Krishna Janambhoomi on the occasion of Janmashtmi. Before reaching Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi, he went to the Ramlila ground to be part of the three-day ‘utsav’ organized by Uttar Pradesh Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad to celebrate the birth of Lord Krishna. Addressing the gathering at Ramlila ground, Yogi targeted opposition leaders and said that in past regimes, there were restrictions on celebrating festivals and time limits were set but it was not the same now. “No one came for celebrating our festivals and there was disruption in power and water supply but it is different now. In fact, birth celebrations of Lord Krishna take place at midnight and are now celebrated with fervor,” said the CM who had earlier in the day provided relaxation in night curfew on Monday for Janmashtmi. “During past regimes, leaders of political parties were wary of visiting Ayodhya, afraid of being painted as ‘non secular’ but now the scene has changed. The spiritual centres are rising and President Ram Nath Kovind became the first President to visit Ayodhya. Earlier Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the first PM to offer prayers to ‘Ramlala’ in Ayodhya,” he said. “The political leaders who hesitated in going to temples are now in the race, claiming that Ram and Krishna are their. Led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, this is new India,” said the CM in sarcasm. “We are fighting a battle against corona under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the situation is better in UP this Janmashtmi, making it possible for me to be part of the event organized by Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad. Yet we cannot lower our guard and would pray to the Lord in Mathura to end the demon of corona like other demons destroyed by Him,” he said. “Uttar Pradesh Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad was created to develop the Braj bhoomi (land) while preserving the heritage. No stone will be left unturned for development of Braj where seven destinations are given status of ‘teerth’ in Mathura,” asserted the chief minister. Accompanied by energy minister and MLA from Mathura Srikant Sharma, the CM reached the sanctum sanctorum of Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi and offered prayers to Lord Krishna. He received ‘prasad’ before leaving. Earlier, the CM reached Firozabad and met the families who lost their members to viral fever which is feared to have claimed 39 lives,, including 32 children, in the glass city. The CM also reviewed the arrangements being made at the district hospital in Firozabad where patients are undergoing treatment. The CM also interacted with the children admitted there. “About eight to nine localities in Firozabad are affected with this suspicious dengue like fever. Because of lack of awareness at local level, the patients were taken to private hospitals and clinics. After coming to know about it, the health department and administration got active and apprised authorities at state level,” Yogi said. “A separate ward has been created for this suspicious fever in Firozabad and the dedicated Covid ward has also been reserved as separate ward. In all, 32 children and 7 adults died of the suspicious fever,” informed the CM ‘The state government will send a surveillance team to Firozabad to work out if it is a fever like dengue or something else,” the CM told newsmen. The CM also visited Sudama Nagar, a locality where four people had died of viral fever and dengue. He interacted with the families. Anger prevailed among locals against the health department and Nagar Nigam. They alleged that garbage was left lying and drains were overflowing in inner areas of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-offers-prayers-in-mathura-targets-oppn-volte-face-101630340084575.html
30-08-2021||Patna||Bihar: JD(U) bid to project Nitish as ‘PM material’ a move to counter BJP||The ruling Janata Dal (United)’s fresh bid to project Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar as “PM material” through a resolution at its national council meeting in Patna on Sunday has once again fuelled speculation about its rift with ally Bharatiya Janata Party and its plans for the future. It’s not clear whether Kumar is really eyeing the top post in the country or it is just a move aimed at browbeating BJP, the senior partner in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar, where fault lines have surfaced of late. The resolution put up by JD(U) national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh on Sunday had said that Kumar had all the qualities of becoming PM but was not in race for the top post. The resolution said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is holding the top post and is a candidate of the NDA for the premiership in the 2024 parliamentary polls too. JD(U)’s national general secretary K C Tyagi has said the resolution was aimed at dispelling confusion that Kumar was eyeing the top post. National parliamentary board Upendra Kushwaha, however, reiterated that Kumar is a “PM material” and the same has to be acknowledged.“The resolution has been brought to dispel confusion about the subject of Kumar being a PM candidate. But whatever one wants to take away from this is their choice,” Tyagi said on Sunday. On Monday, however, he reiterated that PM Modi will be the NDA’s candidate for the top post.Political insiders say BJP has started flexing muscles as a senior ally after the 2020 assembly polls, in which the party outperformed JD(U) for the first time in Bihar, and is no longer content with playing second fiddle in the coalition, which Kumar’s party has sensed all too well.In his latest move, Nitish Kumar recently led an 11-member all-party delegation from Bihar to meet the Prime Minister to press for a caste enumeration in Census 2021, which the union government had ruled out earlier. The delegation included Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tajashwi Yadav, who is the leader of Opposition in Bihar and Kumar’s arch political rival.JD(U) has also sought to put BJP on the back foot with demand for a coordination committee in the NDA both at the Centre and in Bihar. “A coordination committee in the NDA both at a national and state level would help in sorting out matters within the alliance and also put a check on unwarranted statements issued by leaders,” Tyagi said.Observers are of the view that projecting Kumar as a PM candidate suits JD(U)’s interests of expanding the party’s footprint in other states and also leaves enough room for the 70-year-old veteran to explore new alliance options, mainly with the Congress or other regional parties, ahead of the 2024 parliamentary polls. “At a time when west Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee is trying to fill in as a probable PM candidate by rallying regional forces, it’s obvious the Bihar chief minister has some similar plans in days to come. The resolution at the national council meeting on Kumar having qualities of becoming PM is an indication, though in a subtle manner,” said a senior NDA leader, wishing not to be quoted. Meanwhile, the state BJP leadership was circumspect in its reaction over JD(U)’s national executive adopting a unanimous resolution on Kumar having the qualities to become PM. “This was a JD(U) meeting and passing a resolution is its internal matter. All parties express their aspirations about their leaders. It is nothing new. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is steering the NDA in Bihar and the government. We are all working under his leadership to make Bihar a developed state and BJP respects leaders of its allies. BJP does not interfere in other party’s affairs. Such things are done by parties like RJD and others,” said Nikhil Anand, state party spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-jd-u-bid-to-project-nitish-as-pm-material-a-move-to-counter-bjp-101630339663974.html
30-08-2021||Other||Janmashtmi revives Aligarh brass trade||Agra Devotees are thronging temples not only in the twin religious towns of Mathura-Vrindavan but all over the country to celebrate Janmashtmi and many of them are buying brass idols of Lord Krishna, particularly his child form ‘Laddoo Gopal. As these idols come from Aligarh, business in the lock city has started looking up. There are bulk orders from Mathura for brass idols, specially ‘Laddoo Gopal’. Lord Krishna was born in Mathura and Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi is the most popular temple in the town. In the pre- pandemic phase, lakhs of devotees reached Mathura to be part of Janmashtmi – the festival organized to mark the birth of Krishna. Guest- houses and hotels were packed to capacity and many devotees would sleep on road dividers for paucity of space. They used to stand in long queues to have a glimpse of the idols of Lord Krishna in temples all over the twin cities of Mathura and Vrindavan. But with the outbreak of Covid -19, everything changed and restrictions were imposed on devotees visiting temples while the portals of major temples like Bankey Behari, Dwarkadheesh and Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi remained closed for most part of the year. The festival of Janmashtmi was no exception and in 2020 it was a dull affair. This dampened the mood of the markets and orders for supply of brass idols were rare. But things have changed now because restrictions have been eased with corona under control. “Things are not as dull as last year, although restrictions continue at temples and inflow of devotees is not as smooth as it was in pre-pandemic days. But compared to last year, it is better. We have placed orders for brass idols this time and naturally ‘Laddoo Gopal’ is the first choice’ said Ajay Goyal, who has a shop in Chatta Bazar of Mathura. “Ninety percent of devotees coming during Janmashtmi seek brass idol of ‘Laddoo Gopal’ – a child form of crawling Krishna carrying ‘laddoo’ in one hand. These brass idols come from Aligarh and their demand continues till Diwali,” said Goyal. Krishan Kumar Varshney, a young entrepreneur who deals in brass handicraft items in Aligarh is delighted by the orders for brass idols pouring in and hopes that this hike in business will continue till Diwali, if another corona wave does not spoil things. “Surprisingly, we are getting orders in abundance which we are not able to meet. These orders are mainly coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka, besides Mathura with Janmashtmi and Ganesh Chaturthi ahead. Smaller units are busy getting orders for ‘Laddoo-Gopal’ while exporters too are busy with increased business,” said Varshney. “It is a pleasant surprise that orders are flowing in despite sharp rise in cost of brass which is presently available at Rs. 500 per kilogram when compared to ₹325 per kg about eight months ago. This increase in business is not only confined to brass idols but also enhancing prospects of lock, building hardware business of Aligarh,” stated Varshney. However, patron of Aligarh Statue Supplier Association Ashok Yadav did not sound as optimistic as Krishan Kumar Varshney about prospects of brass idol business. “There are more orders for brass idols when compared to last year but turnover is not the same compared to pre-pandemic times. We live in a nation where religious festivals are celebrated with fervour and brass idols are mostly of gods and goddesses. Trade picks up with Janmashtmi and continues till Diwali,” said Yadav. “Brass handicraft is still a cottage industry with no use of machines and brass idols are handmade, backbone of Aligarh’s economy. There are about 400 to 500 small units engaged in making brass idols which includes ‘sand casting’ and use of industrial oxygen in fine welding while making brass idols,” Yadav said. Yadav also highlighted the issue of GST linked with metal industry. “The GST on purchase of raw material of brass i.e. zinc and copper is 18 % but GST on finished brass metal product is 12 %. It should be uniform on raw material and end product,” he said .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/janmashtmi-revives-aligarh-brass-trade-101630339364700.html
30-08-2021||Pune||Pune reports 677 new Covid cases, 3 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 677 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths in 24 hours on Monday. This took the progressive count to 1.117 million of which 1.085 million have recovered, 19,538 deaths and 12,717 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 18,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 426 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 344,841 and with three more deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,635. Pune city reported 168 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 511,117 and with no more deaths the toll stood at 9,089. PCMC reported 83 new virus cases and the progressive count went up to 262,017 and the death toll stood at 346. On Monday, due to a massive vaccination drive by a private company, the district saw over one lakh vaccines administered in a day. As per the Co-WIN dashboard, the district saw 109,349 vaccinations at 661 centres. In total, the district has recorded 7,891,591 vaccines administered totally of which 5,741,347 were first doses and 2,150,244 were second doses. A total of 402 centres were government sessions and 259 private sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-677-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-101630339244789.html
30-08-2021||Other||Villagers take shelter on roads amid flood fear in north Bihar; 2 drown||A large number of villagers in north Bihar have taken shelter on roads, embankments and safer places amid rising fear of flood in parts of East Champaran, Gopalganj and West Champaran districts with water level of rivers rising dangerously, officials said on Monday. Meanwhile, two deaths were reported owing to drowning in different parts of East Champaran.In East Champaran, major rivers like Gandak, Lalbakeya and Sikrahna continued to be in spate on Monday following heavy discharge of water from Valmikinagar barrage and incessant rain in the catchment area of Nepal. In the district’s Sangrampur block, while a large number of villagers have taken shelter on roads, Champaran embankment and other safer places, several families belonging to villages of Nautan block in West Champaran have taken shelter on Champaran embankment with their livestock. “We do not want to take any risk with regard to safety of our family members and livestock. Like many other villagers, we have put up our tent,” said one Prahalad Yadav, who has taken shelter on a road in Sangrampur block. When contacted, Sangrampur circle officer (CO), Suresh Paswan, confirmed the number of families taking shelter on embankment and other places between 50 and 60. “We are going to distribute raw food materials among them,” he said. Meanwhile, in Sagauli and Banjariya blocks of East Champaran, water entered low lying areas of about two dozen villages. “We are vigilant. However, need for evacuation has not arisen as yet,” Dharmendra Prasad Gupta, CO, Sagauli, said. Nautan CO (West Champaran) Bhaskar described few villages in the block as flood-prone. “There is a waterlogging in agricultural land and the possibility of flood in few villages cannot be ruled out if water level rises further. We have already alerted residents of those villages,” he said. Besides, in West Champaran, road link between Lauriya and Narkatiaganj was disrupted, as water from Sikarahana river inundated a road at a diversion near Ashokan Pillar in Lauriya. Link between Sheohar and Motihari through Patahi is expected to be disrupted for next few days, said Kumar Ravindra, SDM Pakaridayal. In Gopalganj district, several families in Baikunthpur, Gopalganj (Sadar), Barauli, Kuchaikote, Majha and Sidhawaliya blocks have also taken shelter on roads and safer places following incessant rainfall and rise in water level in Gandak river. “Around 200 people shifted to safer places each in Baikunthpur and Sidhawaliya. Community kitchens are on at five places in the district,” said Birendra Prasad, additional district magistrate (ADM), in-charge of disaster management, Gopalganj. Gandak’s water level has risen by around three inches above the danger level, he said. The district administration, however, has ruled out any threat on embankment. “Though water level has risen in Gandak, it is static now. We are watchful,” said Dr. Naval Kishor Choudhary, Gopalganj’s district magistrate (DM).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/villagers-take-shelter-on-roads-amid-flood-fear-in-north-bihar-2-drown-101630339244250.html
30-08-2021||Pune||Three of four-member gang arrested in Pimpri-Chinchwad, valuables worth ₹77.4 lakh recovered||PUNE: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested three persons of a four-member gang and recovered stolen valuables worth ₹77.4 lakh. The fourth member, identified as Krushna Jadhav of Walhekarwadi, Chinchwad, is on the run, said Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police at a press meet on Monday. The arrested are Lakhan Ashok Jetithor (32) of Walhekarwadi and native of Solapur, Ravi Shivaji Bhosale (42) of Nakhati vasti in Rahatani and a mechanic by profession, and Suresh Narayan Jadhav (42) of Kalewadi in Rahatani, and a native of Satara. Jetithor had sold the stolen valuables to Bhosale and Jadhav, according to the police. Jetithor has nine cases registered against him in Solapur between 2009 and 2012. He was found to have been running a Chinese cuisine restaurant near gurudwara in Chinchwad. The Pimpri-Chinchwad police forwarded his details to Solapur counterpart to confirm his identity. “The main accused would recce places with dense population twice a day – in the morning and evening – to ensure that the house was locked. He would return around 2 am, break into the house and steal valuables,“ read a statement from the police. To mislead the police, the man had rented three houses in the same area. Before leaving the house, he would put his phone on flight mode to avoid tracking. After the theft, he would take the loot to his friend and co-accused, Krushna, who lived nearby to avoid CCTV camera trail. The police have recovered over 780 grammes of stolen gold, 10 television sets, one Toyota Fortuner registered in Chinchwad from the four men. The total worth of the recovered goods was found to be 77,47,200, according to the police. “Due to the Covid lockdown, the two accused had kept the valuables with them. Jetithor was planning to buy a house with the money he earned after selling the goods to the other accused. Suresh used to sell the gold at a jewellery shop owned by one of his female relatives,” read a statement by senior inspector Vishwajeet Grey of Chinchwad police station. Of the 30 cases registered against the group since 2020, 26 were registered in Chinchwad, three in Bhosari and one in Checkley police station. These cases are in addition to the nine cases registered against the main accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-of-four-member-gang-arrested-in-pimpri-chinchwad-valuables-worth-rs-77-4-lakh-recovered-101630339123399.html
30-08-2021||Patna||Bihar faces fresh flood threat||Flood threat loomed over north and central Bihar as water level in almost all rivers, including Ganga, has started soaring again after a brief respite till last week, officials of state’s water resources department said on Monday. Incessant rains in the foothills of Himalaya in Nepal and in the upper catchment areas of river Ganga are causing the rise in water level of almost all rivers criss-crossing the northern districts of the state. Ganga, which has been maintaining a receding trend for the past few weeks, almost touched the danger level (DL) at Patna’s Gandhi Ghat Monday evening, while floodwaters from rivers like Gandak, Parmar, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati, Kosi, Adhwara, Ghaghra and Punpun have jumped the DL at different points and begun showing their ferocity, inundating a vast stretch of land around their course. The flash-flood in Masaan river, a tributary of Gandak, submerged over a dozen villages in Ram Nagar of Bagaha Sunday night, leaving no time for the residents to plan their evacuation. By the morning, these villages turned an island, as all road leading to them were under a sheet of four-five feet of water. Diara (riverine) areas of Gandak in West Chanparan district were submerged following heavy discharge in the river from Vamikinagar Barrage. Officials said nearly 4 lakh cusecs of water was released Monday morning. WRD officials said Ganga was reported flowing just three centimetres below the DL at Gandhi Ghat in Patna and was maintaining the rising trend, while it has jumped the red line at Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur by nearly 40 cm. At Hathidah, where the river set a new highest flood level (HFL) this year, Ganga was flowing 42 above the DL. Punpun was also in surge mode and crossed the DL at Sripalpur by 40 cm. Parmar river began wreaking havoc in Forbesganj and Araria districts, engulfing more than three dozen villages on Monday. The river was flowing nearly 27 cm above the DL at Araria. Over a dozen villages of Khairkha panchayat were cut off from the district headquarter in Forbesganj, forcing the people to take shelter on the uplands. Miseries of marooned people in Gopalganj and Chapra districts worsened after swollen Gandak and its tributary, Dabra river, rose above the DL along their course. Gandak was flowing nearly 1m above the DL at Dumariaghat in Gopalganj, while hundreds of houses in town areas of Chapra were flooded when safety embankment of Dabra river was partially broken down. The flood furyFlood death so far: 43 Districts affected: 14 Blocks affected: 73 People affected: 30.23 lakh Relief camps: 5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-faces-fresh-flood-threat-101630338885413.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar announces ₹6 cr for Antil, ₹4 cr for Kathuniya||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has announced ₹6 crore cash reward for Sumit Antil for winning gold medal and setting a world record in javelin throw, and ₹4 crore for Yogesh Kathuniya for winning silver medal in discus throw in Tokyo Paralympics. Haryana government will also give government jobs to both of them, Khattar said in a statement. The chief minister said Sumit Antil has won the hearts of the people of Haryana as well as the entire nation by winning a gold medal with a world record in javelin throw. He said Yogesh Kathuniya, a resident of Bahadurgarh, who won a silver medal in discus throw (F-56), has brought laurels not only to Haryana but also to the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-announces-6-cr-for-antil-4-cr-for-kathuniya-101630338227857.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Curbing graft, jobs on merit my biggest achievement: Khattar||Haryana chief minister ML Khattar on Monday said that tightening the noose around corrupt practices and providing jobs on merit were the two biggest achievements of his government. The chief minister, who was addressing a press conference on completing 2,500 days of two terms in power, said his government has always remained vocal about fixing accountability in the administrative process, not allowing interference of middlemen and ensuring people do not have to run from pillar to post to get their work done. “We have brought radical reforms to replace “right to corruption” with the right to service,’’ he said. The chief minister said several digital reforms were initiated in each sector be it issuing change of land use, transferring teachers online, giving government jobs on merit, curbing frauds in distribution of public distribution system, pensions, stipends and subsidies being given to the poor. He said that in a bid to eradicate irregularities in the transport department, the state government has launched ‘Operation Shudhi’. He said that good governance for him meant transparency and accountability in administration. The chief minister said various initiatives and schemes have been launched for farmers’ welfare and an amount of ₹11,000 crore has been transferred directly to the accounts of about 50 lakh farmers under various schemes. He said various schemes like Mukhyamantri Bagwani Bima Yojana (MBBY), Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana are being run for the welfare of farmers. Khattar said more than 82,000 youth have been given government jobs on the basis of merit. He said that ‘One Registration’ facility has been started so that the youth do not have to repeatedly apply for Group C and D government jobs. Besides this, a provision of the ‘Common Eligibility Test’ has been made to save the time of the aspirants applying and appearing for various government jobs, he added. Khattar said the present government didn’t only made announcements for the sake of making political noise. “We have instead revolutionised the system,” he claimed. “With the objective of facilitating disbursal of benefits to eligible citizens, the Parivar Pehchan Patra scheme has been launched under which, till date, about 63 lakh families have been registered,” said the CM. Responding to a question, the CM said for regularising unauthorised colonies of Urban Local Bodies, a Bill was passed after which around 1,200 colonies registered themselves and those fulfilling the criteria will be regularised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/curbing-graft-jobs-on-merit-my-biggest-achievement-khattar-101630337565284.html
30-08-2021||Other||Transport dept clarifies: RC valid for 15 years but diesel vehicles over 10 years old, petrol variants older than 15 years cannot ply on Delhi roads||New Delhi: The state transport department on Monday issued public notices to clarify that diesel vehicles over 10 years old and petrol variants over 15 years old cannot ply on Delhi-NCR roads even though the registration certificates (RCs) of the vehicles are valid for 15 years.The notice came after the department received a number of queries from the public pointing to the conflict in the validity of RC and the life of Delhi registered vehicles, especially the diesel variants. Many had also pointed to contradictions with the proposed national scrappage policy. “The general public is informed that the validity of all category of vehicles in the RC is shown as 15 years. But, a diesel vehicle cannot ply in Delhi beyond 10 years in terms of court orders. However, NOC can be obtained for diesel vehicle beyond 10 years but less than 15 years for states which have conveyed their concurrence for registration of such diesel vehicles,” read the notice. “Owners of such vehicles, i.e., more than 10 year old diesel and more than 15 years old petrol vehicles, are hereby advised not to ply these vehicles on the roads in Delhi-NCR, and further advised to get such end-of-life vehicles scrapped through authorised scrappers of the transport department, the list of which is available at the website of the department,” it further stated. At present, the Delhi transport department is reaching out to owners of vehicles registered in 2014-15 and have de-registered at least 100,000 such vehicles so far. Officials said that this number is quite small as there are 3.8 million vehicles -- 3.5 million petrol and 300,000 diesel -- which are older than the permitted age limits. As per orders issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2015 and the Supreme Court in 2018, any registered diesel vehicle over 10 years old and petrol vehicle over 15 years old cannot operate in the National Capital Region (NCR). This is different from the Centre’s draft scrappage policy, where the age for re-registration depends on whether it is a private or a commercial vehicle, and will also take into account the fitness of the vehicle.Officials, however, said the Centre’s draft vehicle scrapping policy will have little impact for owners of vehicles registered in Delhi, unless there are fresh directions from the NGT or the Supreme Court. In March, the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) released the first draft of the national voluntary vehicle scrappage scheme, under which a private vehicle over 20 years old will have to mandatorily undergo fitness and emission tests, failing which it will be deemed as an end-of-life vehicle (EOLV) and scrapped.For commercial vehicles, the age limit is 15 years, following which such vehicles will have to pay more for fitness certificates and also cough up a “green tax” which will vary from state to state, depending on the pollution levels.None of the rates have been decided yet and the policy is likely to be implemented from next year.“Delhi’s motor licensing officers issue no-objection certificates (NOCs) for vehicles that are either above 15 years old, or above 10 years if it is a diesel variant. The vehicles cannot be used in Delhi, but these NOCs can be used in select states to get the vehicle re-registered there. It is illegal to drive any such vehicle without re-registration in that state,” said a senior transport official.States where such vehicles are allowed to be sold and re-registered include Rajasthan, which allows it in all its districts; Bihar (18 districts); Maharashtra (26 districts); Uttar Pradesh (33); West Bengal (all districts but only BS-IV vehicles); and Meghalaya (all districts).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/transport-dept-clarifies-rc-valid-for-15-years-but-diesel-vehicles-over-10-years-old-petrol-variants-older-than-15-years-cannot-ply-on-delhi-roads-101630337264147.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bans gatherings, human pyramids for Dahi Handi festival tomorrow||The Maharashtra government on Monday prohibited all sorts of public gatherings, including human pyramids, for the Dahi Handi festival to be observed on Tuesday in view of the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.The Maharashtra home department has directed the organisers of Dahi Handi festival to hold "symbolic events" and broadcast them through local cable television network and on online platform to avoid crowding.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) trained its guns on the Uddhav Thackeray-led government and asked why it enforced restrictions "on Hindu festivals in Maharashtra”.Last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had urged the organisers of the Dahi Handi festival to put health and safety amid the Covid-19 pandemic first before festivities.The chief of the state Covid-19 task force Dr Sanjay Oak said it is not possible to physical distancing during the Dahi Handi festival as people come in close contact with each other while forming human pyramids. Maharashtra registered 4,666 cases of Covid-19 infection, taking the infection tally to 64,56,939, while 131 people succumbed to the viral disease in the past 24 hours on Monday. The civic body said at least 18 children had tested positive for the virus at a children's home in Mankhurd near Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dahi-handi-festival-maharashtra-covid-19-infection-mumbai-101630334793766.html
30-08-2021||Patna||Muzaffarpur police recover ₹67 lakh from engineer in disproportionate assets case||Bihar’s Muzaffarpur Police filed a disproportionate assets (DA) case on Monday against a superintending engineer (SE) of Rural Works Department, currently posted at Darbhanga division. The SE, identified as Anil Kumar, along with his driver Saroj Kumar Singh, was detained by Muzaffarpur police from Phakuli check-post of Kudhni police station after they recovered ₹18 lakh cash on Saturday. Kumar was on his way to Patna from Darbhanga. The police team, led by ASP (Muzaffarpur West) Syed Imran Masood, raided his rented flat at Barheta in Darbhanga on Sunday and recovered more cash, worth ₹49 lakh, besides documents related to flats and assets. Kumar, a resident of Malauli village of Khagaria district, has been booked under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code after the income tax department gave a green signal to the police. During the investigation, the I-T department found that the cash was supposed to be delivered to the state capital. The SE who was taking along this cash could not give a clear statement about where did he draw the cash and where was he was supposed to deliver it. He failed to produce any evidence to the EoU and the I-T department. Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Jayant Kant confirmed that the DA case was lodged with Kudhni police station against the superintending engineer and the matter is under probe by sleuths of the Economic Offence Unit (EoU). In the FIR, police also added the sections of the model code of conduct which was enforced on August 24 as the panchayat election was announced. The joint team of Muzaffarpur police, I-T department and EoU began an extensive probe into the assets and statements of the accused, his wife and others. He told HT that the Muzaffarpur police, with the assistance of the EoU, searched his flats in the state capital and ancestral house. The value of two flats, one at Jagdeo Path and another located near Veterinary College, was found close to nearly ₹1.5 crore. Additional director-general of the EoU, NH Khan, said the team comprising two DSPs have been investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/muzaffarpur-police-recover-rs-67-lakh-from-engineer-in-disproportionate-assets-case-101630336543919.html
30-08-2021||Patna||Water level of Ganga rises above danger mark in Bihar after heavy rainfall||The water level of Ganga in Bihar has risen above the danger level in most areas of the state, director of Central Water Commission, Patna, Sanjeev Kumar told news agency ANI on Monday.“Due to heavy rainfall in upper reaches of Bihar, water level of Ganga river rises above danger level in most areas,” he was quoted as saying.He cautioned that the water level is “expected to increase further,” while adding that it has not yet crossed the danger level in Gandhi Ghat region.Due to heavy rainfall in upper reaches of Bihar, water level of Ganga river rises above danger level in most areasWater level above danger level in all areas except Gandhi Ghat. It's expected to increase further: Sanjeev Kr, Director, Central Water Commission, Gandhi Ghat,Patna pic.twitter.com/mMBJxlQj3gThis comes amid the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting heavy rainfall in Bihar and some other states till September 2. “Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls very likely in Bihar on August 30,” the IMD bulletin stated.Besides Bihar, the MeT department has predicted heavy downpours in east Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh for today, west Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, central Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa between August 31 and September 1, and over Gujarat between August 30 and September 2.Also Read | IMD forecasts heavy rainfall in 5 states till September 2, warns of landslidesThe IMD has also predicted heavy rainfall over Marathwada in Maharashtra between August 30 and 31, and over east Rajasthan between August 31 and September 1.According to the IMD, Madhya Pradesh may have landslides due to heavy rainfall, besides flooding, water logging and even inundation.Meanwhile, the MeT department on Sunday issued an orange alert in the northern hill state of Uttarakhand, which resulted in a cloudburst in Pithoragarh district. So far, four bodies have been recovered while the search for the missing person is son, Pithoragarh district magistrate Ashish Chauhan told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/water-level-of-ganga-rises-above-danger-mark-in-bihar-after-heavy-rainfall-101630335638646.html
30-08-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to reopen schools for classes 6-8 from September 6||Karnataka education minister BC Nagesh on Monday said that the state will reopen schools for classes 6 to 8 from September 6 in talukas where the total positivity rate is below 2. The minister said that the classes will be conducted with 50% attendance and for five days a week.Karnataka resumed schools for classes 9 to 12 from August 23 in districts where case positivity rate was less than 2% after a gap of five months. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who visited a few schools on August 23, said that the schools would have to follow Covid-19 preventive measures.The decision on opening of schools in the state was taken by the Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19 which recommended that teachers and administrative staff should be fully vaccinated. It also asked the staff and teachers of pre-university colleges also to get vaccinated as these institutions reopened last week.The Karnataka chief minister last week said a decision would also be taken regarding classes 1 to 8 and also on border districts after a meeting with experts.Weeklong quarantine for arrivals from KeralaOwing to neighbouring state Kerala witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, Kerala revenue minister R Ashok said that people arriving from the state will have to remain under institutional quarantine even if they carry a negative RT-PCR report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-6-8-from-september-6-101630334630232.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Three cops booked for graft||Two employees of Haryana State Narcotics Control Bureau (HSNCB) and a Haryana Police constable posted in Sonepat have been booked for extorting ₹20,000 from a man while accusing him of peddling drugs. A spokesman of Rohtak police said the case was registered against the three after Ambala DSP Rajesh Kumar found them guilty in a probe.The Bahu Akbarpur police in Rohtak booked inspector Shiv Darshan, constable Rajiv, both posted with the HSNCB, and constable Pawan under sections 20, 27 and 59 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1959, and sections 7 and 8 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.In his complaint to the police, Anoop Kumar of Madina village in Rohtak said a HSNCB team raided his house on August 19. “Inspector Shiv Darshan told me they have recovered drugs. Constable Pawan of our village demanded ₹1 lakh in lieu of not registering a case against me. The team took me and my brother to a flat in Rohtak where the inspector asked us to sign on a blank paper. The next day, we paid ₹20,000 to Pawan. When I told them that I will raise the issue with the senior officials, Pawan came to my house on August 23 and returned the amount,” the complainant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-cops-booked-for-graft-101630334582183.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||2,500 days of BJP govt full of negative markers: Deepender||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda on Monday said Haryana government has created new records in unemployment rate, crime against women, drug abuse and corruption in its 2,500 days of governance.Speaking with the media in Rohtak, the Congress MP said the state government was busy in celebrating its 2,500 days of rule, which has drawn many people into poverty.“Haryana chief minister has been trying to become the blue-eyed boy of the Union government by taking coercive actions against farmers protesting against three farm laws,” he added.Deepender demanded the suspension of Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha who had given instructions to cops to ‘break heads of protesters’. “The officers must remember that the governments will come and go but they should not cross the line,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2500-days-of-bjp-govt-full-of-negative-markers-deepender-101630334203945.html
30-08-2021||Pune||No water supply in Pune city on September 2||PUNE: Areas across the city will have no water supply on Thursday (September 2) as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned repair works at all water treatment plants. According to a PMC water department press statement, electric related maintenance work will be carried out at all treatment plants on Thursday and there will be low pressure water supply on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-water-supply-in-pune-city-on-september-2-101630333843211.html
30-08-2021||Other||Pak repatriates two Indians after years in jail||Amritsar Pakistan repatriated two Indians, who had been languishing in the neighbouring country’s jails for several years, via the Attari joint check post (JCP) on Monday. The duo, Prahlad Rajput, 57, and Ram Bahadur, had crossed over to Pakistan inadvertently, officials said.Prahlad, of Ghoshi Patti village in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh (MP), had reported to be missing from his home around 30 years ago. In January 2014, the MP government had found that Prahlad had been lodged in a jail in Pakistan. The Indian authorities had initiated the process to bring Prahlad back that year itself.Ram Bahadur, of Uttar Pradesh (UP), is deaf and dumb. It is not clear when and how he had crossed over to Pakistan. Punjab Police’s protocol officer Arun Pal said, “Ram Bahadur has been handed over to the Amritsar Red Cross Society. The society will check his address to help him find his family.”The duo’s repatriation comes a day after India repatriated two Pakistani nationals, Abbas Ali Khan, 42, and Bhag Chand, 17. They had completed their sentences in jails. Of the two, one was a juvenile, who had inadvertently crossed the Indian border from Rajasthan two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pak-repatriates-two-indians-after-years-in-jail-101630332464002.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Is the world still a big place? Time to adjust our perspective||Our family get-together in the US couldn’t have come at a more perplexing time. On the one hand we were nearly smothered with warnings and admonitions about the dangers of going out and on the other hand the alluring words of persuasion urging us to board the flight. The nightmarish days of anxiety about Covid tests, results, immigration rules and arduous hours on the plane with double masks on were quite a walk on thorny path. On reaching home, the warm hugs, squeals of animated laughter from the grandchildren felt as refreshing as would water on desert-parched lips. Then dawned the realisation that though we were braving pandemic fears and the lockdown rules stoically, somewhere in the subconscious we were gasping for normalcy. We are a group of keen bridge players. During the pandemic, we discovered the wonders of technology as we switched over to online playing. We would log in at the same time and form a table of friends we wanted to play with. On reaching America while the body was still on India clock, I sent a message to three friends, one in London (also on a sojourn like us), another in Delhi and one in Jalandhar. We connected immediately and formed our foursome. What a euphoric experience! I don’t remember much of how we fared at the game but all of us felt a heightened sense of exhilaration. The unexpected connection traversing oceans and time zones left us on a high, unmeasured and unexplained. The initial couple of days in the beautiful, clean and green surroundings had a fairy tale feel. The largeness of everything takes the breath away. Nature can be experienced in all its magnitude. The ever-evolving shapes of the clouds in multiple layers across the infinite sky, the ineffable hues as the sun descends in all its majesty behind the trees that adorn the circumference of wherever one looks cannot be quantified. It reminds one of novelist Alice Walker’s quote: “In nature, nothing is perfect, and everything is perfect. Trees can be contorted, bent in weird ways, and they’re still beautiful.” In the backyard, on a big bough of a big tree hangs a beautiful bird feeder. It is a mesmerising sight as the birds swoop down to partake of the grains, jet black, a few scarlet, blue, grey and black, black and yellow, tiny green birds, all throng together with the squirrels and the chipmunks. The butterflies during the day and the glow worms at night leave one in silence, savouring every aspect of Creation. The microcosm and the macrocosm! Where do we fit? I still wake up with the alarm very often in the morning to play with my friends in India. In an age of globalisation characterised by dizzying technologies, at that moment I feel the connection and exchange of energy of both places. Is the world a big place anymore? Do time and distance keep anyone apart? I think it is time to adjust our perspective. A thing is mighty big only when time and distance cannot shrink it. promildada@yahoo.com The writer is a freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/is-the-world-still-a-big-place-time-to-adjust-our-perspective-101630331743795.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 20 Covid-19 cases, 1 death in 24 hours||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi dropped to 20 on Monday, the state government's health bulletin showed. The national capital reported one fatality due to the infection, after a gap of four days.On Sunday, the city reported 31 cases of Covid-19 and on Saturday, the number was 29.The low number of cases can be attributed to fewer tests (51,387) conducted in the last 24 hours. On Sunday, 71,634 tests were conducted during the same period.With the new cases, the overall infection tally in the city climbs to 14,37,736. Over 14.12 lakh patients have recovered from the disease. The death toll stands at 25,081.And in further good news, the positivity rate in the national capital stands at 0.04 per cent, which shows that the spread of the infection is under control. The positivity rate has stayed under 1 per cent in Delhi for more than 90 days now.Twenty-eight people have succumbed to the disease in Delhi this month so far. The cumulative death toll was 25,053 on July 31.There are 375 active cases in Delhi, of which 88 are in home isolation. The number of containment zones stands at 144, according to the health bulletin.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said earlier in the day that the Covid-19 situation in the national capital is under control. He added that the Delhi government will add 6,800 more ICU beds in seven hospitals within six months.Delhi battled a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a large number of lives. On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the beginning of the pandemic. On April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-20-covid-19-cases-1-death-in-24-hours-101630330074248.html
30-08-2021||Dehradun||AAP says Char Dham Board will be scrapped if party assumes power in Uttarakhand||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has announced that it will scrap Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board if it comes to power in Uttarakhand in the 2022 assembly polls. Colonel (retd) Ajay Kothiyal, chief ministerial candidate of AAP in the state, said if their party comes to power, it will scrap the Char Dham board in line with the aspirations of the agitating priests. “For centuries, priests of each of these shrines have developed unique relationships with the pilgrims. Against this backdrop, the government cannot just bring a board that uses the same barometer for all Char Dham shrines. You have to respect their unique traditions and the way they have been managing these shrines for centuries,” he said. This is another major announcement by the party after it said it will provide free electricity in the hill state and will make Uttarakhand the spiritual capital for Hindus across the world. The priest community is not happy with the formation of the board and the BJP government taking over the management of these shrines which they had been managing for centuries. The agitating priests have even warned that if the decision on scrapping the Board is not taken by September 1, a large number of people from the priest and Brahmin community will go for a mass resignation from the BJP. On August 17, one of the two main announcements party chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made in Dehradun was that AAP will make Uttarakhand the spiritual capital for the Hindus across the world. In April this year, the then chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat had announced that the state government will review the formation of the Char Dham Devasthanam Board. But when Pushkar Singh Dhami took over the reins of the state, he announced the formation of a high-powered committee that will talk with all stakeholders, following which a decision will be taken on the status of the Char Dham Board. The agitating priests are not happy with this. Santosh Trivedi, a priest from Kedarnath shrine and vice president of Akhil Bharatiya Teerath Purohit Yuva Mahasabha, who also wrote a letter with his blood earlier this month to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding to scrap the Char Dham Devasthanam Board, questioned why should government manage the shrines when traditionally the priests have been doing so efficiently for centuries. “The government keeps talking that it will not interfere with our rights. But they never talk about which rights. We want to extend our gratitude to AAP for coming out in support and announcing that it will scrap the board if it comes to power,” he said. Madan Kaushik, state BJP president said that the BJP government has already stayed the functioning of the board and formed an empowered committee that will hold talks with the priests and other stakeholders and resolve the issue. Devendra Bhasin, state BJP vice president said everybody knows that AAP will not come into power in the state. “They are making these announcements to mislead the people here. The BJP government is serious about this issue and that is why a high empowered committee has been formed which is talking to all stakeholders to come out with a solution,” he said.Political analyst Professor SS Semwal, who teaches political science at Garhwal University, said, AAP toeing the Hindutva line won’t make much difference in the elections as people here want jobs and upliftment of the local economy. “Voters won’t decide on whether AAP has supported priests or not. They are worried about unemployment, migration, poor healthcare and so on. Such announcements are more about optics right now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/aap-says-char-dham-board-will-be-scrapped-if-party-assumes-power-in-uttarakhand-101630327844867.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers demand FIR against Karnal SDM, cops, give a week’s ultimatum||Farmer union leaders from Haryana have demanded the registration of FIRs against Karnal’s sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha and police officers involved in Saturday’s lathicharge on farmers.The leaders have given the Haryana government one week’s time to accept their demands, which include compensation of ₹25 lakh and a government job for Sushil Kajal’s next of kin. The leaders said that Kajal, a farmer, died due to the lathicharge. They also demanded financial assistance of ₹2 lakh each for all injured farmers and free treatment for them at government hospitals.The decision was taken at a Mahapanchayat called at the Gharuanda grain market of Karnal. The farmers said if their demands were not met by September 6, they would gherao Karnal’s mini secretariat indefinitely on September 7. Also Read | Farmers broaden agenda, it’s no longer just about farm lawsFarmer leaders unanimously condemned Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha for ordering the police to hit farmers on the head if they crossed barricades to disrupt the state-level meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Hotel (BJP) at a hotel on August 28. Protect Haryana farmers, Charuni to Morcha Addressing farmers, Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni also made an emotional appeal to Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders to help and support Haryana farmers facing police action for their protest against the leaders of the ruling party.“Hum lath kha kha kar dukhi ho gaye hai aur SKM ek kadam aage nahi bada rahi hai, hum morche se kahna chahte hai ki aap ek hi baar me faisla le le, warna hame mafi de hum apni ladai khud lad lenge [We are saddened after continuously being lathicharged, and SKM is not moving forward. We want to tell SKM to decide on a plan of action once and for all, or forgive us--we will fight our battle by ourselves],” Charuni said in a chocked voice.Charuni said that farmers of Haryana are facing police action and FIRs have been registered against 40,000 farmers for holding protests.“Now we are fed up with the famer-police clashes every day, we need a strong decision and we will raise this issue with the morcha leaders for their support for farmers of Haryana,” Charuni added. Charuni said that he will unite all the farmer union leaders of Haryana like Punjab’s leaders.However, the farmers have made it clear that they will continue to protest against the ruling party leaders in the state until the agitation against the Central government continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-farmers-demand-firs-against-karnal-sdm-cops-give-a-week-s-ultimatum-101630327723661.html
30-08-2021||Lucknow||Adityanath says viral dengue-like fever led to death of 32 children in Firozabad||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday confirmed that 32 children and seven adults died in Firozabad owing to a suspicious dengue-like fever in the district. Adityanath visited the families of those who lost their members and assured them of help.The chief minister also visited the 100-bed district hospital at Firozabad where children showing symptoms of the disease are being treated. At least 30 children recently lost their lives in this hospital, reportedly to the same disease. “The dedicated Covid-19 ward at the district hospital of Firozabad is reserved for patients suffering from this fever,” Adityanath told reporters later.Firozabad MLA blames district officialsSome of the districts in western Uttar Pradesh, including Mathura, Firozabad and Mainpuri, witnessed a spike in cases of “viral fever” which sent alarm bells ringing among the district officials in Noida. BJP MLA from Uttar Pradesh's Firozabad, Manish Asija, on Sunday claimed that 40 children died last week from the disease. The claim was refuted by Uttar Pradesh health minister Jai Pratap Singh who termed Asija's claims ‘wrong’ and said that he received no such reports, according to a report by PTI.Asijia on Sunday blamed the health department and the district officials for not using the 50 vehicles given by the civic body for anti-dengue cleaning work.(with inputs from Hemendra Chaturvedi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/adityanath-says-viral-dengue-like-fever-led-to-death-of-32-children-in-firozabad-101630326012672.html
30-08-2021||Patna||Student goes missing after leaving home for coaching class, found dead||The body of an intermediate student, who seems to have been killed with a sharp weapon, was spotted on Monday near Aunta railway halt of rural Patna, officials said. The body has been sent for post-mortem. “The police were looking for him since Thursday night. Preliminary investigation suggested that the boy was killed over an old enmity with a close relative or friend,” said Dilip Kumar station house officer, Singhaul police station, adding that investigation is going on in the matter and the culprit will be caught soon. The deceased has been identified as Rituraj Kumar, 16, a resident of Binodpur village under Singhaul police station in Begusarai district. He was the nephew of advocate Gopal Kumar. According to the boy’s father Niraj Kunwar, Rituraj left home at around 8 am on August 26 to attend a coaching class. When he did not return till late evening, the family tried to locate him but his phone was switched off. The family registered a case at the Singhaul police station regarding the incident. Kunwar said his son was first abducted by unknown criminals and was later killed by them. Police recovered his bicycle and coaching institute’s bag from the premises of Begusarai railway station on August 27. On getting the information, the station house officer, Mokama, Government Railway Police (GRF) and Railway Protection Force (RPF) officers reached the spot and inquired into the matter. The GRP suspect that the boy was killed elsewhere and his body was dumped in this jurisdiction. As the news spread, hundreds of angry people blocked Begusarai-Patna main roads, disrupted vehicular traffic for more than four hours and demanded action against police over its failure to begin a search operation to trace the youth soon after the incident came to light. They claimed that had the police swung into action immediately, the boy would have been saved. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/student-goes-missing-after-leaving-home-for-coaching-class-found-dead-101630325445227.html
30-08-2021||Other||MLA Jignesh Mevani starts oxygen plant in his constituency in Gujarat||Independent Dalit MLA Jignesh Mevani has set up an oxygen plant in his backward constituency Vadgam in North Gujarat. The 13,000-litre plant that can refill 800 jumbo cylinders in a day was inaugurated on Saturday at a primary health centre in Chhapi town in Banaskantha district dominated by Dalits, minorities and adivasis.“It was to reiterate my team’s commitment to work for all irrespective of the religion or caste that Father Nelson, Mukteshwar Giri Maharaj, Maulana Abdul Khuddus and a Buddhist Satish Rashtrapal inaugurated the plant,” he said. The plant is the biggest in Gujarat to have been set up by any MLA or MP, and it took Mevani’s relentless effort to see the project through. The struggle began in May when the Gujarat charity commissioner froze the account of an NGO, We The People Charitable Trust, following a complaint that it was wrongfully collecting donations through crowdfunding on behalf of Mevani.By then, ₹36 lakh had been collected but since the account was frozen, Mevani moved the Gujarat high court seeking a direction to the state government to allow him to use his MLA fund to create health facilities in his constituency. The Congress, which had vacated the seat for him in the 2017 assembly election, joined him with a similar petition in the high court. While the hearings were on, the state government announced that all legislators could use their discretionary funds to create Covid-related health facilities in their respective constituencies. After the inauguration of the plant, Mevani said, “We have been able to cut through the red tape of a hostile government to initiate an accessible healthcare infrastructure for the people of Vadgam.”About the NGO’s funds, he said, “We took the help of an NGO but the authorities froze its account and it still remains inaccessible. We had no other alternative but to approach the high court to allow us to use funds from my MLA grant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mlajignesh-mevani-starts-oxygen-plant-in-his-constituency-in-gujarat-101630323763571.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab power tariff: Extend special assembly session to scrap PPAs, says Sidhu||Stepping up pressure on the Capt Amarinder Singh government for scrapping power purchase agreements, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday demanded the extension of the Vidhan Sabha session to bring a legislation to terminate PPAs for providing relief to consumers from the high power tariff.Also read: Punjab govt driving farmers’ agitation, says Haryana CMHis demand comes as the Congress government in the state has convened a day-long special session on September 3 to commemorate the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur. At present, there is no other legislation listed for the session. Direct PSERC to revise tariff, govt urged Sidhu posted a video on social media, seeking the extension of one-day Vidhan Sabha session to five to seven days to pass a legislation to terminate the PPAs. He said that the one-day session is not enough to take up issues concerning the public. The PPA scrapping issue is a part of the 18-point agenda of the party high command, he said, adding that he has raised it before the chief minister. “The Punjab government must immediately issue directions to the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) in public interest to revise tariff being paid to private power plants, making the faulty PPAs null and void. Further calling a 5-7 day Vidhan Sabha session to bring a new legislation for termination of faulty PPAs,” said Sidhu, while posting the video. On lines of terminating river-sharing pact He said that just as the assembly had passed the Punjab Termination of Agreements Act in 2004 on river water sharing with Haryana, the Vidhan Sabha should pass the legislation to bring down the power tariff. “We are already paying ₹10,000 crore subsidy but still have scope for reducing power prices by amending faulty PPAs. This will help the government give free units to general category consumers and also bring down the power tariff to ₹5 per unit,” he said. “This will help the Punjab government give 300 units of free power to all domestic consumers, including the general category, decrease domestic tariff to ₹3 per unit and ₹5 per unit for industry, along with the redressal of all outstanding bills, and waiving of unjustifiable and exorbitant bills,” he said. After Sidhu raised the power tariff issue and need to terminate PPAs, the chief minister asked the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and the power department to initiate the process to scrap the faulty PPAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-power-tariff-extend-special-assembly-session-to-scrap-ppas-says-sidhu-101630323283561.html
30-08-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Politics of the ‘yatra’ embedded in DNA of all parties||During July 2019, Maharashtra was witnessing a moderate monsoon, with rain taking intermittent breaks, when the state’s political atmosphere began to heat up, as the state was heading for assembly elections in the next four months. That was when Aaditya Thackeray, then just a Yuva Sena leader, decided to undertake a statewide yatra to thank the people who voted for the Shiv Sena in the recently held Lok Sabha elections, and to seek their blessings for the upcoming Assembly elections. Not to mention, that was also called a Jan Ashirwad yatra. Even as the Shiv Sena did not get the seats it targeted, the yatra brought political stature to Aaditya, who later became a cabinet minister in Maharashtra. While the latest Jan Ashirwad yatra undertaken by BJP leader and Union minister Narayan Rane had nothing in common with that of Thackeray’s, both, like many others, had strong political motives. If there’s a common thread through the political parties of India, of yatras or long journeys clubbed with rallies, speeches and a political motive. In Maharashtra, yatras have done magic, particularly for the BJP when it was not in the game in state politics. In the mid-1990s, late BJP leader Gopinath Munde had undertaken a major journey, what was then called a Sangharsh yatra (journey of struggle). If Munde, along with party colleague, the late Pramod Mahajan, was responsible for the BJP’s meteoric rise in Maharashtra, his Sangharsh Yatra is believed to have contributed significantly to the victory of the BJP-Shiv Sena alliance in the 1995 state assembly elections. Through whirlwind statewide tours, Munde addressed more than 150 meetings, exposing various scams of the Congress-led government, which went on defensive. Later in 2014, Munde’s daughter Pankaja Palve-Munde led another 14-day tour – this time called the “Punha Ekda Sangharsh Yatra (Once again, Journey of struggle) - on the lines of a similar expedition to her father’s, to evoke his memories. Her tour came days after the sudden demise of her father that shook state BJP unit. It’s not just BJP leaders who have undertaken such yatras. Parties of all hues have hit the streets with roadshows to rev up their message on topics dominating the news cycle or divert attention from issues that are problematic. Does such a yatra really help any leader to turn the tide in his favour? The answer can be mixed, even as it helps politicians to stir up the atmosphere, galvanise the cadre and create a buzz. After all, it allows politicians to come to peoples’ doorsteps instead of the other way round. This is probably the reason that the response yatras receive is often amazing and helps in political mobilisation. At the same time, the grandeur of a yatra with a focused theme also helps connect better with the target audience. Just before 2019 assembly polls, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) led by Sharad Pawar embarked on similar expedition. Called the ‘’Shivswarajya Yatra’’, the aim was to launch a mass outreach programme, starting from Shivneri Fort in Pune’s Junnar taluka, the birth place of Chhatrapati Shivaji. The mother of all yatras that gave a new lifeline to the BJP in the early 1990s was the one taken out by party patriarch LK Advani. The Rath Yatra on the Ram Mandir issue helped the BJP achieve power at the Centre later. That yatra was also identified by Advani’s rivals for arousing communal passions that led to the demolition of the Babri Masjid. Yatras existed even before that. Originally, Mahatma Gandhi popularised the concept during the freedom struggle, though later it was used as a political instrument by leaders. Accordingly, for Rane, the goal is clear - to regain his lost grip over the Konkan and also to help his party the BJP, wrest power in the upcoming Brihan Mumbai elections. However, controversy generated over Rane’s “slapping the chief minister” comments may have helped Uddhav Thackeray more, as it galvanised the Shiv Sainiks, who perform better on the streets than through any government. Yogesh Joshi can be contacted at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-politics-of-the-yatra-embedded-in-dna-of-all-parties-101630322683840.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare: Court rejects NIA custody plea for ex-Mumbai cops Waze, Mane||A special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday rejected the probe team’s application for custody of former Mumbai Police officers Sachin Waze and Sunil Mane in bomb scare case at the residence of Reliance Industries’ boss Mukesh Ambani and the subsequent murder of businessman Mansukh Hirani. The duo are currently lodged at the Taloja prison.The court also allowed Waze to receive treatment of his heart condition at a private hospital, a report in news agency ANI said. The federal agency had sought Wazi and Mane’s custody for two and five days, respectively.On Saturday, the NIA had told special judge Prashant R Sitre that it needed to interrogate the duo further, adding that its investigation in the two cases was in its last phase.It said following the arrest of former encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma and four others, the agency suspected some more persons had played a key role in the two cases.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia on Carmichael Road in south Mumbai, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a note threatening to kill members of the industrialist’s family.On March 5, the body of Hiran – the SUV’s owner who is an auto parts dealer from Thane – was found dumped in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra.NIA took over investigations in both the cases and claimed that Vaze was the main accused in the case and carried out the crimes out of purported desperation to “restore his lost glory in police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-court-rejects-nia-custody-plea-for-ex-mumbai-cops-waze-mane-101630321981147.html
30-08-2021||Patna||Bihar money lender kidnaps son of trader, who couldn’t return loan; arrested||Bihar Police on Sunday arrested a money lender and rescued a 16-year old boy he had kidnapped for the purpose of extorting three lakh rupees in ransom from his father, a small-time Rohtas trader, who had failed to return a loan of ₹60,000 taken from the accused in time. The boy, kidnapped from Tenduni Chowk in the outskirts of Bikramganj town on August 25, was rescued from an under construction building in adjacent Buxar district, while his abductor waited for payment of ransom, superintendent of police (SP) Ashish Bharti said.According to the complaint registered by the boy’s father, he had taken a loan of ₹60,000 from Raghvendra Pratap Singh alias Bambam Singh, a money lender, at 10% monthly interest, but was unable to return the amount, which had swelled to ₹80,000 with time.In retaliation, Singh on August 21 held him captive at his house and asked the trader’s wife and son to pay the dues to secure his release. The trader’s wife arranged for ₹60,000 and sent her son with the money to Bikramganj, where Singh was waiting in a SUV.Singh released the businessman but took his son with him, threatening to kill the boy if he was not paid three lakh rupees for his release.The father failed to arrange the amount and registered a kidnapping case with local police station on August 28, following which, a police team led by Khurshid Alam, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) cum station house officer (SHO) of Bikramganj, rushed to Buxar district and arrested Singh from his residence and the boy was rescued from an under construction building at the outskirts of Nawanagar market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-money-lender-kidnaps-son-of-trader-who-couldn-t-return-loan-arrested-101630322323546.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||Special court allows Sachin Vaze to undergo heart surgery at a private hospital||A special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court on Monday rejected the application filed by the agency seeking custody of dismissed Mumbai police officers Sachin Vaze and inspector Sunil Mane, arrested in the Antilia explosives scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran.Special NIA judge Prashant R Sitre rejected the NIA’s application and allowed Vaze to be admitted to a private hospital for an open heart surgery at his own expenses.Vaze had sought court permission as the state-run JJ Hospital, where he was being treated for heart related issues, had asked him to undergo open heart surgery urgently to remove three blockages.Also Read | Antilia case: NIA suspects role of more persons, seeks custody of ex- Mumbai copsMoving the plea past Saturday, the federal agency said its investigation was the last phase. It sought custody of the two accused ex-police officers, claiming that after the arrest of former encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma and four others, the agency suspected involvement of some more persons in the two crimes, and needed to question them. The duo is in judicial custody and lodged in Taloja jail.The agency said they have utilised Vaze’s 28-day custody and there are two more days of his custody left under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and 16 more days in case of Mane.“Vaze and Mane, both being (former) police officers, were aware of the tricks to evade interrogation by the investigating agency with wrong leads. However, the agency has some incriminating material that they need to be confronted with,” the agency claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-court-allows-sachin-vaze-to-undergo-heart-surgery-at-a-private-hospital-101630320103569.html
30-08-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow constable attacked while resisting molestation bid, youth held||An on-duty woman constable was hit with a rod on her face when she resisted lewd remarks from a youth in Lucknow’s Aliganj area on Sunday. The man was arrested after locals chased and nabbed him when he tried to escape.Police said the constable was patrolling the area when the man, son of an advocate, passed lewd comments on her. When confronted, he hit her with an iron rod and the constable had to be admitted to a hospital after she fell on the road with severe head injury, a report in Live Hindustan said.Assistant commissioner of police Akhilesh Kumar Singh said the constable was on pink patrolling duty, a unit set up to bring down incidents of crime against women and girls, when the incident happened.The youth, Prabhat Kumar, has been booked for murder attempt, molestation and causing grievous hurt to a government servant to deter her from duty.Attempts were reportedly being made till late in the night to save the accused, but the department has decided to frame serious charges against Kumar and ensure strict punishment. The police commissioner has also ordered stringent action against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-constable-attacked-while-resisting-molestation-bid-youth-held-101630316546723.html
30-08-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj boy’s body found four days after he was kidnapped||Uttar Pradesh Police recovered the body of 12-year-old Ankit, who was abducted from Prayagraj’s Andawa in trans-Ganga area and killed, following a four-day long search operation at Mirzapur-Koraon border. The search operation was launched on the basis of confession made by the four accused arrested earlier in the case.Ankit, 12, son of auto driver Mool Chandra, a resident of Andawa under Sarai Inayat police station in Prayagraj’s trans-Ganga area, was kidnapped on August 19, but the police’s futile search for the boy only began two days later on August 21, people aware of the developments said.On August 25, a kidnapper called Ankit’s mother and asked Moolchand to carry ₹30 lakh as ransom for Ankit’s safe return to the Naribari area in trans-Yamuna. Mool Chandra immediately informed the police, who put the mobile number on surveillance and later traced its location to the Koraon area, from where two accused Arjun and Bheem, also brothers, were arrested.The duo confessed to have killed Ankit and dumped his body at Dramanganj area of Mirzapur district, which borders Prayagraj’s Koraon area. The duo also named Pushpraj and Deepak as their accomplices in the case. Police also arrested them in separate raids.Abhishek Kumar Agarwal, superintendent of police (SP) of Trans-Ganga said the abductors first took Ankit to Deepak’s home in Pachehta village in Koraon and strangled him to death the next day in the forest area. They threw the body deep inside the forest, which could be recovered after more than four days, the SP added.Ankit, the eldest among three siblings, was a student of class five. He was targeted after the accused learnt that his father Mool Chandra had sold one of his properties in the village, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-boy-s-body-found-four-days-after-he-was-kidnapped-101630316143308.html
30-08-2021||Other||AAP leaders Sisodia, Sanjay Singh booked over Tiranga Yatra in Agra||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and Rajya Sabha member and UP in-charge Sanjay Singh have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Act for their Tiranga Yatra in Agra on Sunday.Police said while permission was granted for 50 people, the Aam Aadmi leaders had over 500 participants in the Yatra. The complaint, registered at Loha Mandi police station of Agra on Monday morning, has named 17 people while around 500 are unidentified.Also Read | AAP protesters booked as they try to gherao Punjab BJP office”The permission granted by district administration of Agra was for 50 participants in Tiranga Yatra but the 17 named and 400 to 500 unidentified participated without compliance of Covid-19 pandemic which requires wearing of mask and social distancing. The rally moved while participants raised slogans and was in violation of Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code implemented in district,” said the complainant. On Sunday, Singh said that AAP will undertake such Yatras in all 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh. The next one is to be held in Noida on September 1 and in Ayodhya on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sisodia-sanjay-singh-booked-over-tiranga-yatra-inagra-101630314883173.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt driving farmers’ agitation, says Haryana CM||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday accused the Congress government in Punjab of driving the farmers’ agitation against the BJP-led Centre’s three farm laws. “Isme Punjab government ka haath hai. I’m levelling a serious allegation here. Otherwise (farmer leader) Balbir Singh Rajewal would not have been offering sweets to the Punjab chief minister (Capt Amarinder Singh),” he said at a press conference in Chandigarh. Also read: Karnal lathi-charge: Haryana govt has no right to remain in power, says SenaKhattar said that 85% of those sitting at the Singhu and Tikri borders adjoining the national capital were from Punjab. On Capt Amarinder asking Khattar to apologise to farmers, he said: “Who is he to ask me to apologise or resign. Rather, he should resign for instigating farmers. You can count people sitting on Delhi’s borders. They are mostly from Punjab, not from Haryana. Farmers of Haryana are satisfied.” Disruptions won’t help: CM to farmers He said that the protesting farmers should adhere to norms of democracy. “This agitation is not gaining anything due to such acts of disruption. The public sentiment is turning against them. Right to expression is a fundamental right but no one has the right to disrupt. They did not allow me to land at a meeting venue on a previous occasion. I decided to avoid landing since it would have created a big problem,” the chief minister said. “I’m experienced enough to handle the farmers’ agitation. If farmers sit down and are willing to talk, a way can be found. But they actually don’t want a solution, they only want to play politics,” he said.Referring to the action of Karnal sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha, who was heard instructing police personnel to hit farmers on the head if they broke barricades to disrupt a BJP meeting on Saturday, Khattar admitted that his choice of words was not right. “He (Sinha) should not have used such language though it is the job of officials to enforce law and order. I’m not saying he should not have enforced the rule of law strictly,” he said. Mahapanchayat in Gharaunda Farmers from across Haryana gathered for a mahapanchayat convened by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha at the grain market in Gharaunda town on Monday afternoon against the police lathicharge on farm protesters in Karnal on Saturday. Senior representatives of the SKM are deliberating on intensifying the agitation against the BJP-JJP government in Haryana. They have been demanding action against the police and the Karnal SDM. Bharatiya Kisan Union state president Gurnam Singh Charuni had urged all farmer unions to attend the mahapanchayat for a unanimous decision. He alleged that the farmers were beaten up 15km from the BJP meeting. Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has also assured farmers that action will be taken against the SDM but Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav has given him a clean chit, saying that the officer was trying to prevent farmers from removing barricades and his intention was right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-driving-farmers-agitation-says-haryana-cm-101630313203690.html
30-08-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh trying everything to come back to power in UP, says BJP||The BJP on Monday attacked Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav over don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari's brother Sibghatulla Ansari joining his party and said he appears to be doing everything to come back to power in Uttar Pradesh.Sibghatullah Ansari, a former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA, joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) along with his supporters on Saturday.Also Read| Mukhtar Ansari tells UP court ₹5-lakh contract given to kill him inside jail"Akhilesh is following the line 'satta ke liye kuch bhi karega' (will do everything to come to power). What socialism are you talking about by getting the family of don Mukhtar Ansari to join the SP. People are watching everything," the BJP's Uttar Pradesh unit tweeted on its official handle with the hashtag "ShameonAkhilesh".सत्ता पाने के लिए कुछ भी करेगा की तर्ज पर चल रहे अखिलेश माफिया मुख्तार के परिवार को सपा में शामिल कर आखिर कौन से समाजवाद की बात कर रहे हैं, जनता सब देख रही है। गुंडों से गलबहियां एक बार फिर भारी पड़ने वाली हैं। #ShameOnAkhilesh pic.twitter.com/r5nym2SE6nThe BJP also attached a video on Mukhtar Ansari.Soon after the joining of Sibghatullah Ansari in former chief minister Yadav's party, the BJP had tweeted, "This is the real face of the SP. In its desire to grab power in the state, Samajwadi Party is ready to even shake hands with the family of mafia Mukhtar Ansari, but they should not forget who is the chief minister of UP."Also Read| Love for Muslim vote stopped you from paying tributes to Kalyan: BJP to AkhileshSibghatuullah Ansari had won the 2007 assembly election from Mohammadabad constituency on a SP ticket and again contested and won from the seat in 2012 on a ticket of his brother's party Quami Ekta Dal.In 2017, he joined the BSP and unsuccessfully contested the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-trying-everything-to-come-back-to-power-in-up-says-bjp-101630311335108.html
30-08-2021||Lucknow||Rajnath Singh to attend Kalyan Singh memorial meet in Lucknow, launch projects||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will participate in a memorial meeting for Kalyan Singh-- the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) first chief minister in Uttar Pradesh and a torch bearer of the Ram temple movement-- in Lucknow on Tuesday and launch and inaugurate some developmental projects in the city.Kalyan Singh died in Lucknow on August 21 at the age of 89 after ailing for some time.His memorial meeting is being held at a city school, BJP’s Lucknow unit chief Mukesh Sharma said. Sharma added that the defence minister will reach Lucknow at 11.45am on Tuesday. “Soon after reaching Lucknow, his motorcade will leave for the old city where he will inaugurate a multi-level parking,” Sharma said. The multi-level parking has been named after Dalit icon Jyotiba Phule. Though there is no official confirmation, party leaders indicated that chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, could be present during the launch of several projects in the old city. “The chief minister and defence minister could dedicate projects worth ₹300 crore to the people on the occasion,” party leaders said. “This includes dedicating the overbridge between Charak Crossing and Haiderganj to the people,” a BJP leader said. The 2.5 km long overbridge cost ₹11.80 crore to build, officials said. Rajnath’s Lucknow Lok Sabha representative Diwaker Tripathi said the overbridge was likely to make travel convenient for nearly 500,000 people.Deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were also expected to be present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rajnath-singh-to-attend-kalyan-singh-memorial-meet-in-lucknow-launch-projects-101630308643085.html
30-08-2021||Lucknow||Historian, queer rights activist Saleem Kidwai dies in Lucknow||Noted historian and queer rights activist based in Lucknow Saleem Kidwai passed away Monday morning after suffering a heart attack. He had recently turned 70.Kidwai, born in 1951, is the author of Same-Sex Love in India: Readings from Literature and History (2001) which he co-authored with Ruth Vanita, a professor at the University of Montana.A copy of this book was given to the judges of the Constitution bench of the Supreme Court while it heard a clutch of petitions against Section 377, a colonial-era law that criminalised adult consensual same-sex relationships.The law was read down in 2018 after a historic legal battle, which spanned over two decades in the Delhi high court, and later with different benches of the apex court.Mario da Penha, a queer history scholar who co-founded the Jawaharlal Nehru University’s first queer students’ collective, Anjuman in 2003, said that the book came at a time when there was little representation of queer lives in literature. “Same Sex Love in India spoke to the queer experience in India at a time when there were only a handful of books on the theme. It was the first attempt at tracing the long history of same-sex love in the subcontinent. It encompassed the academic, the activist and the literary world, and it did so with a seriousness and flair that was rare to find at the time. It was a testament to the years of research that both authors, Ruth Vanita and Saleem Kidwai, had put in,” he said.Kidwai taught Indian medieval history at the University of Delhi’s Ramjas College and was associated with the gay rights movement helping establish support spaces for the Lesbian, Bisexual, Gay and Transgender (LGBT) community in the national capital.In 1999, Chapal Mehra, a public health consultant and writer, created a queer space with Kidwai and a few others in New Delhi. Called Humraahi, it operated out of the office of the non-governmental organization Naz Foundation India Trust, which went on to file a petition against Section 377 in the Delhi high court a few years later. The group, said Mehra, benefitted greatly from Kidwai’s experience and soon started hosting films, discussions and even a helpline.“There were talks, sharing circles, movie screenings, all of which are trendy today but weren’t used in that much capacity at the time. We held discussions on a range of issues, from safer sex practices to forced marriages and arrests by the police. A lot of the affirmative narratives we see in the media today trace their genesis to the work that groups like ours were doing at the time. Of course, at the time, we never thought we were doing anything extraordinary. We were just helping ourselves and others like us. But Saleem’s role was pivotal. He suggested what events we could do, and how we could manage things,” Mehra said.Kidwai remained involved in queer activism even after the apex court overturned Section 377. He attended Pride events and marches in Lucknow, including one held earlier this year in March. He was a panellist and a mentor at the Awadh Queer Literature Festival which took place in Lucknow in 2019.While his scholarship had a deep impact on the lives of queer people, Kidwai’s contribution to Urdu literature was equally immense, as he translated into English works of key Urdu writers and added to the scholarship on the lives of “singing ladies” and courtesans in Mughal India. Among his most significant translations are Malka Pukhraj’s autobiography, Song Sung True; most recently, he translated Qurratulain Hyder’s 1952 book, Safina-e-gham-e-dil, into English titled Ship of Sorrows.“Saleem Kidwai’s work on LGBTQ lives is well known. His work emphasised the inclusive and plural customs of Indian history. He wrote on the courtesans of India and their musical and literary heritage. No work on Begum Akhtar is complete without his contribution. He is the only author to translate Qurratulain Hyder’s books apart from Hyder herself. As a historian, translator, activist and just the most wonderful person he will be missed. He was a gentleman of the old school, and they don’t make them anymore,” said Urdu scholar and author Rana Safvi. Vanita, who teaches at the University of Montana, said that her dedication to Kidwai in a book, Gandhi’s Tiger and Sita’s Smile (2005) best encapsulated how she remembered him: “They have seemed to be together, though absent; shook hands, as over a void; and embraced, as it were from the ends of opposed winds.”Kidwai was buried in his native village of Badagaon in Barabanki late Monday evening. He is survived by sisters Sufia, Uzra, and Hafsha, and nephews, Jamaal and Saif. (With inputs from Dhrubo Jyoti)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/historian-queer-rights-activist-saleem-kidwai-dies-in-lucknow-101630308463161.html
30-08-2021||Bhopal||Spurt in communal incidents in Madhya Pradesh’s Malwa region||For many years, the neighbouring villages of Chandan Khedi and Kanwasa in Madhya Pradesh’s Malwa region were known for their communal harmony. Things changed, however, last year. In Malwa, the region which includes MP cities such as Indore, and Ujjain, at least 12 incidents of communal tension have been reported since September 2020 where section 153 A (promoting enmity between different different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth etc) of the Indian Penal Code was invoked. At least 70 people have been charged, at least 70 booked, and the National Security Act has been invoked against 18 people, said the police.The December 29 chain of events only deepened the communal scars. That day, a fund-raising rally for the Ayodhya temple was allegedly attacked, and some Muslims homes torched in Kanwasa. Chandan Khedi sarpanch Ashok Parasiya said he had never seen communal tension before the December violence. “Wounds may have healed and houses are being reconstructed but what about the trauma?” he asked. Saddam Patel, 35, a resident of Chandan Khedi village, whose house was burnt down in the December violence, and suffered a gunshot wound in the leg, said, “On December 29, people held a rally to collect fund for the construction of Ram temple and shouted slogans against our religion. We objected so they burnt our houses and vehicles. Neither police nor the administration supported us. Instead, they jailed people from our community in a fake case. They also invoked NSA against four of us.”Also Read | Dindori: As district gets added to India’s Maoist map, what it means for StateFour cases have been reported this August itself in the region, with two hitting the headlines -- the assault on bangle seller Taslim Ali in Indore, where he was eventually charged with sexual harassment, and the alleged raising of anti-national slogans at a Muharram procession in Ujjain, which has seen arrests even as questions were raised on the authenticity of video proof. Both Hindu and Muslim organisations have hit the streets in protest over the past week over both the incidents. At least 2,600 people have been booked for attending events held without permission amid the Covid protocols.Muslim organisations allege that it is the BJP’s “hard Hindutva” at play, with mostly Muslims being charged with NSA. Hindu organisations, however, claim the Popular Front of India (PFI) and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) are stoking tensions.Hindu Jagran Manch, Malwa in-charge Dheeraj Yadav said, “The minority communities are being misguided by Muslim leaders, especially of PFI and SDPI. They are giving a communal angle to every incident -- whether it is sexual harassment of a minor or sedition. They are trying to create a rift between the communities.”PFI state president Kafeel Raza countered this with, “The state government introduced MP Freedom of Religion Act against Love Jihad that give a message to the society that Muslim men are targeting Hindu women.”Some political experts believe the BJP, which lost its stronghold of Malwa in the last assembly elections, is trying to win it back by following a model based on UP’s Yogi Adityanath government even as some Muslim organisations are seeking to establish themselves before the local body elections.BJP, which won 56 out of 66 seats in Malwa Nimar region in 2013 assembly elections, lost 28 seats in 2018. It salvaged its position a bit by winning six out of seven seats in 2020 by-elections, but still has only 34 seats in the region.Political expert LS Hardenia said, “BJP-led state government of MP is following the UP model. BJP leaders in state are trying to win the next assembly election by promoting hard Hindutva. Meanwhile, AIMIM is trying to contest local body election in MP and that’s why, its chief Asaduddin Owaisi tweeted about the Indore incident as he wanted to stay relevant by showing sympathy.”Senior Congress leaders said the BJP is misusing power to create tension in the area. “Taslim Ali was beaten up in the afternoon and police registered the case at night...There is no doubt that BJP leaders are trying to create disturbance in the society to rule... They are misusing power to harass people of a minor community,” said JP Dhanopia, spokesperson MP Congress Committee. The BJP, however, calls it a political conspiracy. “If we go back in 2015, a sudden spurt in communal tension was reported in Malwa ahead of the local body elections. Again, with these polls in a few months, some local parties are trying to do the same now,” he added.Home minister Narottam Mishra, who has spoken of banning PFI and SDPI, said,“Congress and some anti-national organisations are trying to create disturbance not only in Malwa but across the state.” Senior police officials in Indore said social media is being used as a tool to promote communal tension. Indore and Ujjain police departments have issued at least six warnings against spreading incorrect messages on social media in the recent past.Indore inspector general of police HN Mishra said, “The number of cases is increasing as people of both communities misuse social media to circulate videos and photos with wrong captions. A small incident is being blown up so much that people react, leading to tension. But we have been able to control the situation in Indore.”(With inputs from Neha Jain in Indore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/spurt-in-communal-incidents-in-madhya-pradesh-s-malwa-region-101630307383439.html
30-08-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 5 dead, 2 missing after cloudburst in Pithoragarh||At least five people were killed after seven houses were hit by debris and muck from a landslide triggered by a cloudburst in Jumma village, in Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand, in the wee hours of Monday, officials familiar with the development said. A search using a sniffer dog is underway for two persons who are feared buried under the debris, they added. “The disaster occurred in Jamuni and Siroudiyar hamlets (Tok) in Jumma village of Dharchula area when debris and muck damaged seven houses. So far, five bodies -- three teenage girls and two women-- have been recovered. A search is on for other two missing persons,” Pithoragarh district magistrate (DM) Ashish Chauhan said. The affected village is around 125 km from the district headquarters. The search operation was halted at around 7.30 pm and will resume on Tuesday morning. District disaster management officer Bhupender Singh Mahar said the deceased were identified as Kumari Sanjana (15), Kumari Renu (11), Kumari Shivani (9), Sunita Singh (22) and Parvati Devi, whose age is yet to ascertained. The two missing are Chander Singh and his wife Hajari Devi, he added. Two of the four injured villagers were airlifted through a chopper and rushed to a hospital in Dharchula, the officials cited above said. On receiving information about the disaster on Monday morning, several teams of police, revenue, state disaster response force (SDRF) and national disaster response force (NDRF) rushed to the area to hold rescue operations. Seema Suraksha Bal (SSB) personnel were the first ones to reach the site to begin rescue operations. SSB commandant Mahendra Pratap Singh said: “We received information from the district disaster management officer at around 9 am after which our men posted at the border outpost, 10 kms away from Jumani hamlet, reached the spot at 10 am. Meanwhile, another team reached Siroudiyar hamlet, 2 km away from Jumani hamlet, after knowing that it too was affected by the cloudburst. Our men recovered the body of a younger woman. Later SDRF and NDRF joined the search and rescue operation. So far, five bodies have been recovered.” He added: “A team of 27 men carried out search and rescue work in the affected area.” Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami spoke to the Pithoragarh DM on phone and Kumaon commissioner Sushil Kumar via video conferencing, and directed them to shift the affected residents to safer areas and make arrangements for essential food supplies and medicines. Dhami is expected to visit the area once the weather improves.The district, which has received 1,170 mm rain since June 1, has been witnessing heavy rainfall for the past few days. Rivers such as Kali, Gori and Saryu have already begun flowing near the danger level. The incessant downpour has als triggered landslides and boulder falls, halting all movement in five border roads and 10 rural roads. Meanwhile, two children were trapped after their house in Kotda village in Dehradun’s Vikas Nagar area collapsed on Monday. Only one child was rescued till the time of filing this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/cloudburst-in-uttarakhand-7-feared-dead-3-bodies-recovered-101630306662981.html
30-08-2021||Bangalore||Not the ‘city of boiled beans’: A relook at the origin of Bengaluru’s name||According to one of the most popular stories of the origin of Bengaluru city’s name, an old woman living in the forest offered boiled beans and water to the 13th century king from the Hoysala dynasty, Veera Ballala II, quenching his hunger and thirst after he was lost during a hunting expedition. To express his gratitude, he named the forest “Benda Kaalu Ooru” or “Bendakaalooru”, which translates to The City of Boiled Beans, which, over the centuries became Bengaluru as the forest was replaced by a town and then a city.This folklore has been passed on for generations and often finds its way into the speeches of politicians, or in the trivia shared with the migrants to Silicon Valley. However, researchers and historians say there’s a need to set the record straight and separate folklore from research-based theories to trace the origin of the city’s name.However, even that is not simple since there are multiple theories based on different experts’ interpretations of historical facts and most of these have no corroboration in history.Chidananda Murthy proposed one of the popular historical theories behind the name. According to the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) officials, Murthy claimed that Bengaluru’s name may have been derived from the white quartz stones found in Balepet, Nagarthpet, and Chikpet areas of the city, resulting in it being called ‘Biliya Kallina Ooru’, or a city of white quartz stones. Over the years, it became Bengaluru, as per Murthy’s theory.Another theory claims that the city name originated from ‘Bengawaluru’, which means the place of the bodyguards. Its proponents argue that the army of the Hoysala empire, especially ‘Bengawalu Pade’ or the bodyguards of the rulers, had their garrison in the city, giving it the name Bengawalu, and Ooru-- a generally used in names of villages, towns, and cities-- was added to it over the years. However, like the previous one, this theory too doesn’t have any historical corroboration.SK Aruni, director of the ICHR south regional centre and a leading scholar in the city, has a different take. He points out that Venkatanatha or Venkateshwara of Tirupati was an important deity in south India, especially in Bengaluru.“If you look at old homes in Bengaluru, several houses were named after Venkatesha. He was a local deity, and over a period of time, Venakanaooru might have become Bengaluru. This is my theory,” said Aruni.Rajesh HG, a scholar, and editor of Itihasa Darapana said there was another theory that Bengaluru’s name originated from the Benga tree, known as Pterocarpus marsupium Roxb, which was once seen widely in the city. He said that it was argued that the city was called Benganooru (land of Benga), which later became Bengaluru.While the above theories are not corroborated by any historical evidence, there is one theory that all experts believe has the strongest claim since it is backed by a historical scripture.In Begur, located around 15 km from Bengaluru city, inside a temple, researchers discovered some inscriptions, specifically a ‘Veera Kallu’ or a Heroic Stone-- a slab depicting heroic acts of people. This stone dating back to the 890 AD depicts a battle scene named ‘Bengaluru Yuddha’ or the Battle of Bengaluru.The stone tells the story of Nagattara, who pledged his allegiance to Ereyappa Arasu, the Ganga ruler at the time. According to the inscription, in the Battle of Bengaluru in 890 AD, Nagattara’s son Buttanapati and adopted son Pervonasetti died.The Begur hero stone has carvings of battle scenes and war techniques, prepared by Ereyappa Arasu, and it says that Nagattara, too, died in the battle of Tumbepadi, fought between the dynasties of Gangas and Rashtrakutas. It also mentions 10 localities in Bengaluru, which were then villages and donated to another chieftain after Nagattara’s demise.Suresh Moona, a renowned historian, said this was a research-backed theory about the city’s name. “The city called Bengaluru existed as early as 800 AD, but it was not the city we know today. It is claimed that the mother of Kempe Gowda, the founder of Bengaluru city, was from old Bengaluru and when Gowda decided to build a new city, he named it after his mother’s birthplace, Bengaluru,” said Moona.He said that the theory was closer to truth because of the historical inscriptions.“Will we ever know where the name comes from? I don’t know. But these theories backed by a study of history should be promoted more and made into modern folklore instead of the one about boiled beans,” Moona added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/not-the-city-of-boiled-beans-a-relook-at-the-origin-of-bengaluru-s-name-101630306063095.html
30-08-2021||Other||Farmers’ mahapanchayat against police lathicharge in Karnal today||Thousands of farmers from across the districts of Haryana are likely to attend Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s (SKM) mahapanchayat at Gharaunda grain market in Karnal today.The mahapanchayat has been called against the police lathicharge on farmers in Karnal on Saturday. Senior representatives of the SKM and farmer union leaders will attend the meeting and take a decision on the agitation against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Haryana.Morcha leaders have also demanded action against the police and Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha for instructing the police to use force to prevent farmers from crossing the barricades to reach the venue of a state level meeting of the ruling BJP at a private hotel in Karnal on Saturday. Also Read | Leaders slam Haryana cops for action on farmers during protestThe Karnal police have booked hundreds of farmers, including 27 by name, for attacking the police and blocking the highway. Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The police beat up farmers as the BJP government wants to take revenge for holding protests against its leaders.” He also demanded a First Information Report against some officials, including SDM Sinha, and inspector Harjinder Singh, who is also JJP leader Balbir Singh’s brother. He said there was video proof of Sinha asking cops to hit the farmers and the cops were also caught damaging farmers’ vehicles.Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has assured action against Sinha but Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav has given him a clean chit, saying the officer was trying to stop movement of farmers across the barricade and his intention was right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-mahapanchayat-against-police-lathicharge-in-karnal-today-101630305882893.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Staggered lunch breaks, quarantine room: DDMA guidelines for school reopening||The Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) on Monday issued guidelines for reopening of schools in the national capital. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has announced that schools and educational institutions can resume physical classes in a phased manner from September 1.According to the latest DDMA guidelines, maximum 50 per cent of students per classroom may be called depending upon capacity and the timetable should be prepared as per occupancy limit of classrooms. The educational institutions must follow the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) norms as specified by the government, the DDMA said.The agency has also directed schools to stagger lunch breaks to avoid crowding. These breaks should held in open areas, according to the guidelines.The schools and colleges have been asked to set up quarantine room for emergency use and discourage the routine guest visits. The DDMA has also directed the schools to not allow students and teachers living in Covid containment zones to come to educational institutions.From September 1, all government schools will open for classes 9 to 12, all private schools can also resume classes for 9 to 12 standards. Coaching centres can also start classes for students of 9 to 12 standards. No decision has been taken on reopening junior classes yet.Authorities decided to reopen the schools on account of a marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation in Delhi.Delhi added 32 fresh cases of Covid-19 and zero fatality for fourth consecutive day on Sunday. The positivity rate in the national capital in 0.04 per cent. It has stayed below 1 per cent for more than 90 days. Delhi has added a daily average of 32 cases over the past seven days.Schools in Delhi have been shut since March last year when Covid-19 cases first started rising in the country. Classes resumed for a brief period in January and February this year, but were suspended in April as a brutal second wave (fourth for Capital) of Covid-19 stretched the health care infrastructure to its limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/staggered-lunch-breaks-quarantine-room-ddma-guidelines-for-school-reopening-101630303784037.html
30-08-2021||Patna||Permission sought for Ravan Vadh at Gandhi Maidan after virtual event last year||Shree Dussehra Committee Trust has asked the Patna divisional commissioner for permission to host Ravan Vadh at Gandhi Maidan on Vijaya Dashami, October 15 this year, following the reopening of religious places and institutions to the public since August 27 as part of Unlock-6—the sixth phase of relaxations following a sharp decline in fresh Covid-19 cases in the state.In a letter sent to the commissioner on August 24 this year, the committee has explained that organising Ravan Vadh ritual needs one and a half month of preparations, therefore the district administration needs to give early permission for the venue where the event will be held.Last year, the trust was not allowed to host Durga Puja in Patna due to the Covid-19 pandemic and Ramlila and Ravan Vadh functions were held virtually.“It was for the first time that we had to hold an online Ravan Vadh. The functions were held at Vrindavan in Uttar Pradesh and those interested were requested to join it online,” Kamal Nopani, the Dussehra committee president, said.Nopani said there was still no clarity whether Ram Leela and Ravan Vadh will be allowed this year as a response to their request was awaited from the administration.“We will personally meet the official on Tuesday to request for the permission,” he added.The trust secretary Arun Kumar said the committee has been hosting Ramlila and Ravan Vadh for over 65 years in Patna and are a huge draw.“For months, people keep waiting for the shows, especially the Ravan Vadh. Many even turn up from rural areas to witness the burning of the effigies. To handle the huge crowd, we have to make elaborate and foolproof preparations. It needs time to arrange,” he said.He added that the committee was kept in suspense till the last moment last year and had to finally do a virtual show, which couldn’t match the joy of witnessing a live event in person.“This time, we want the events to be held at Gandhi Maidan and our hopes are high as all government and private organisations, schools, colleges, cinema halls, parks and temples have been allowed to reopen in Unlock-6. But the fear of the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic is also in the air,” he said.Patna divisional commissioner Sajay Kumar Agarwal could not be contacted for his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/permission-sought-for-ravan-vadh-at-gandhi-maidan-after-virtual-event-last-year-101630298682737.html
30-08-2021||Patna||Bihar SHO suspended for settling road accident death case through negotiation||Station house officer (SHO) of Malahi police station in Bihar’s East Champaran district was suspended on Sunday after he tried to settle the case of a woman’s death, caused by a road accident, through negotiation in an apparent bid to save the motorcyclist involved in it.East Champaran superintendent of police (SP) Navin Chand Jha said Rajesh Kumar showed laxity, deviating from standard operating procedure (SOP) in handling a case of death, which occurred in a road accident.“He preferred not to register the case and no post-mortem was conducted. This was clear negligence and dereliction of duty on part of the SHO and a clear deviation from the standard operating procedure (SOP),” said Jha.The action was taken after the family members of the deceased woman complained to the SP that the local police were not taking any action against the motorcyclist allegedly responsible for the accident. Dhaniya Devi received multiple injuries when she was hit by a motorcycle near Sirni Brahmasthan under Malahi police station on August 24, and died later during treatment at a hospital in Pagarpur (in East Champaran).“Instead of taking action against the bike rider in the case, the SHO started pressuring the victim’s relatives to file an FIR against unknown persons. He did not take any action and the matter was hushed up through panchayati (negotiation). At the same time, the deceased’s body was cremated by her relatives without conducting a post-mortem so that the bike rider could be saved,” said a police officer, refusing to be identified.Suspended SHO Rajesh Kumar could not be contacted for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-sho-suspended-for-settling-road-accident-death-case-through-negotiation-101630295022613.html
30-08-2021||Kolkata||Noted Bengali writer Buddhadeb Guha dies in Kolkata||Noted Bengali writer Buddhadeb Guha died in a Kolkata hospital late Sunday. He was 85. Earlier this year in April, Guha was detected with Covid-19 and was admitted to a hospital for over a month. He had to be hospitalised again recently with lung and urinary tract problems. He died around 11.30 pm on Sunday due to post-Covid complications after a massive cardiac arrest, PTI cited his family as saying.A chartered accountant by profession, Guha was one of the most popular writers who created the popular children’s character Rijuda and his sidekick Rudra, who explore jungles. Nature and forest were recurrent themes in his novels and short stories. He is best remembered for his novel Madhukori which is considered a milestone in Bengali literature. Also Read | Bengal post-poll violence: CBI meets affected families, files 7 more casesHe was married to eminent Rabindra Sangeet exponent Ritu Guha who died in 2011. He has left behind two daughters.Guha was the recipient of many awards, including Ananda Purashkar in 1976 and later Shiromani Puraskar and Sharat Puraskar. He was also an accomplished musician. “Buddhadev Guha is no more. He was blessed as to be one with the Divine on the night of Janmashtami (Lord Krishna’s birthday) 2021.Do join his family and friends in celebrating his life,” his elder daughter Maleni B Guha posted in social media. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/noted-bengali-writer-buddhadeb-guha-dies-in-kolkata-101630292502457.html
30-08-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to relax night curfew for 2 days in view of Janmashtami||The Uttar Pradesh government has allowed relaxation in the ongoing night curfew across the state on Monday and Tuesday due to Janmashtami, according to a report by HT’ sister publication, Live Hindustan. Issuing an order on late Sunday, state additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthy said that the exemption has been given in the prescribed attendance limit and Covid-19 night curfew in programmes organised on Janmashtami, which is observed to mark Lord Krishna's birthday. The night curfew has been in place from 10pm to 6am.The order also said that Janmashtami will be celebrated with full vigour across Uttar Pradesh, including in all police lines and jails. However, Awasthy pointed out that all Covid-19 protocols must be adhered to during the celebrations, adding people must wear masks and use hand sanitisers.On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh DGP Mukul Goel issued orders for tight security arrangements during Janmashtami. Goel said that along with the deployment of police personnel in all sensitive areas, arrangements should also be made for effective patrolling. Goel directed that the police should ensure social distancing and make people aware of wearing masks through loudspeakers mounted on vehicles. The police have also been asked to keep a vigil on social media handles such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter etc in order to keep a check on any rumour-mongering.Uttar Pradesh has so far recorded 1,709,248 Covid-19 cases, 22,818 deaths and 1,686,165 recoveries. On Sunday, 14 new cases were reported while two more patients succumbed and 37 recovered from the viral disease. The active cases of Covid-19 in the state stand at 265.Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath will on Monday attend the Krishnotsav in Mathura on the occasion of Janmashtami. “On Monday, CM Adityanath will arrive in Mathura at 3.30pm. He would first go to Ram Lila ground to inaugurate the Krishnotsav,” Shailjakant Mishra, the vice president of UP Vraj Tirth Vikas Parishad, told news agency PTI on Saturday.The three-day Krishnotsav will include many programmes which would showcase the birth of Lord Krishna as well as the rich culture and heritage of Mathura, according to the CEO of Uttar Pradesh Vraj Tirth Vikash Parishad Nagendra Pratap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-to-relax-night-curfew-for-2-days-in-view-of-janmashtami-101630284684492.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||18 kids contract Covid at children's home in Maharashtra's Mankhurd||As many as 18 children tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at a children's home in an eastern suburb of Maharashtra’s capital of Mumbai, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). "Eighteen children have tested positive for Covid-19 at a children's home in Mankhurd. All children have been shifted to an isolation ward at a Covid centre in Vashi Naka," BMC said, according to news agency ANI.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 4,666 new Covid-19 cases, which have taken its infection tally to 64,56,939, even as 3,301 patients were discharged. As many as 131 fatalities pushed the state's cumulative death toll to 137,157 and its active case tally rose to 52,844. Maharashtra's recovery rate is 97 per cent and the fatality rate is 2.12 per cent. There are 52,844 active cases at present.Also read | Maharashtra: Curbs likely in districts with high Covid-19 positivity rateMumbai reported 345 new Covid-19 cases and two fatalities—now the caseload in the city has gone up to 7,43,499 and the death toll to 15,974 deaths. According to the health department, Jalna, Akola, Yavatmal, Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia districts and Parbhani city did not report a single infection case on Sunday. There was no death due to Covid-19 in Nagpur and Akola divisions of the Vidarbha region during the day, the department added.Mumbai region saw 845 Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths during the day, which took its overall tally to 16,62,394 and toll to 34,976. Nashik division reported 828 cases, including 716 in Ahmednagar district, and Pune division saw 1,908 cases, including 406 in Satara, 505 in Solapur, 579 in Pune district. Kolhapur division logged 815 cases, including 419 in Sangli district, Aurangabad division 58 cases, Latur division 174 cases, Akola division 28 cases and Nagpur division reported 10 fresh cases of Covid-19.Also read | Maharashtra govt insists on Covid-appropriate behaviour as festive season nearsMeanwhile, Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said the state government plans to fully vaccinate all teaching and non-teaching staff against Covid-19 by September 5. Tope said while speaking to reporters in Jalna that a special drive was being conducted to vaccinate the teaching and non-teaching staff.The health minister also said that a state task force was of the view that schools in districts where there were no positive cases of Covid-19 can be reopened. He added that the Maharashtra government is on the alert due to the upcoming festival season after Kerala recorded 31,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day after Onam celebrations.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/18-kids-contract-covid-at-children-s-home-in-maharashtra-s-mankhurd-101630287863511.html
30-08-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru Metro's extended Purple Line to open for commuters from today||Bengaluru Metro’s extended Purple Line on Mysuru road will open for commuters from Monday, a day after the 7.53-km long stretch was inaugurated by Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai.The line under Phase II of the Namma Metro project has six stations—Nayanadahalli, RR Nagar, Jnanabharathi, Pattangere, Kengeri Bus Terminal and Kengeri. The services of the Metro will be operated between 7am and 8pm and the trains will run at a frequency of 10 minutes between Kengeri and Baiyappanahalli. The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has estimated that 75,000 people would travel on the line every day, reports news agency PTI.Speaking at the inauguration, Puri noted that Bengaluru is one of the major engines of economic growth for the entire nation, with a strong presence in information technology, biotechnology and applied sciences research. He said, "The city accounts for nearly 38 per cent of total IT exports from the country… The inauguration of the Western Extension Metro Line today is a step towards enabling faster commute and smart mobility options in the city."The Union minister also noted that the operational punctuality of Bangalore Metro is 99.8 per cent. “Since the inauguration of the first metro line in Delhi in 2002, today about 730 km of metro lines are operational in 18 different cities and about 1,049km of Metro rail / RRTS projects are under construction in various cities,” he added.He further said that Metro is not only a lifeline of Bengaluru, it should be its "future line". "The connectivity of the people and travel comfort of the people is very important for a metropolis like Bengaluru.....we need a very good public transport system like metro for this," he said, adding that he has directed the BMRCL officials to complete the metro works under Phase II by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-metro-s-extended-purple-line-to-open-for-commuters-from-today-101630280358635.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The IIC man||Some people, both living and dead, embody within themselves the spirit of a place. Late architect Joseph Stein’s presence is intensely palpable about the corridors of the India International Center (IIC), one of the many New Delhi buildings he designed. In fact, the IIC is identifiable with quite a few characters. Such as scholar Kapila Vatsyayan, who died last year. IIC’s resident matriarch, the staff addressed her fondly as mataji.Another person inexorably entwined with this members-only institution is Aslam Khan. For decades, he was the face of its Main Dining Hall. Often standing behind the host’s desk, this gracious gent greeted the who’s who of Delhi society as they would saunter in with their VVIP comrades.“IIC is the sum total of my life,” Mr Khan says this afternoon, strolling on the pavement that runs along the IIC. “I spent more than 40 years here,” he says, gesturing towards the building. “I joined as a waiter in May, 1976, and retired as assistant manager in February, 2016.” Mr Khan received post-retirement extensions but quit during the first coronavirus-triggered lockdown last year in March.The IIC’s Dining Hall has been known for its courtly long-serving staffers acquainted with the eccentricities of their regular guests. The soft-spoken Mr Khan epitomises that grace. He recalls the time he spent in his “karmabhoomi,” the IIC. “When he once came to the Dining Hall, I asked him, ‘Are you (actor) Aamir Khan?’ After he nodded, I said, ‘I am Aslam Khan. I will show you your seat.” A few months after she lost the election in 1977, Mr Khan served former prime minister Indira Gandhi an apricot-filled meringue which the chef had named in her honour. Mr Khan recalls, “Madam asked me ‘Yeh kya hai? (What is this?)’ I said, ‘This is Gateau Indira. It is just like you—tough from the outside, soft from the inside.’ Madam started laughing.”Mr Khan has a treasure trove of similar IIC stories. “I know many, many small things of many, many big people.” The other day he received a call from an IIC patron asking him to book a table for three in the Dining Hall. Mr Khan explained he was no longer with the IIC. “I anyway arranged a booking for him by calling my contacts in the Dining Hall.”Now Mr Khan turns into a lane named after Joseph Stein, the IIC architect. He stands by the signage and poses for a portrait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-iic-man-101630280503362.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||A month of weather fluctuations for Delhi||August has been a month of extremes for Delhi, said weather experts. Data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the 29 days of August so far shows that from having a monthly rain deficit of 60%, the city received 11% surplus rain before returning to an 11% deficit as on Sunday. But so far, the city has received just nine rainy days (rainfall above 0.16mm) this month, lower than usual for August, according to data from the weather office.IMD data shows the first half of August was largely dry, receiving less than half the normal rain the city usually gets during this time of the year, including a partial break phase that lasted for 10 days.The break ended with the city landing the wettest day of the season on August 21, receiving a record 138.8mm rainfall in a single day, which was the highest for the month in 14 years and the second highest since 1961. Within three days, however, the wet spell made way for another dry spell from August 25-28.On Sunday too, the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered representative of the Capital’s weather, did not receive any rain till 5.30pm despite the Met forecasting light, scattered rain.IMD scientists said that the major reason behind the dry phases was not having an intense monsoon system forming in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea.“This year, there was no support in terms of continued easterly winds and moisture from the Bay of Bengal that trigger rain. Last year, we had five such systems forming, which resulted in good rains across the country. This season, we had just two such systems, which were not intense enough to travel up to central and northwest India. This has led to the northwest region experiencing weak monsoon spells,” said RK Jenamani, senior IMD scientist.Independent weather experts shared a similar view.“One of the major reason for the weak conditions is that both the frequency and intensity of the weather systems (low-pressure systems) formed in the Bay of Bengal this monsoon has been low. Every year during this season at least four to five such systems are formed, which travel up to central and northwest parts of the country bringing rain. This time only two such weather systems were formed, causing frequent weak phases,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, Skymet, a private weather forecaster.Until August 20, having received only 63.7mm rainfall, the city stood at a rain deficit of 60%. On August 21, the city recorded 138.8mm rainfall, which pushed the cumulative rainfall count for the month to 211.2mm (on August 22) against the normal count of 190.2 mm, reaching a surplus of 11%.It was followed by light rain over the following three days, after which the city again ran into a dry spell.On August 29, the city again stood at a monthly rain deficit, this time of 11%. From August 1-29, the city received 214.5mm rainfall, as against the normal count of 241.9 mm.IMD scientists say normally August brings the maximum monsoon rain to Delhi with a total monthly count of 247.7mm.“August may end with a slight deficit, as just two more days are left for it to be over and only light rain is expected over the next couple of days. There has been rain in some parts of Delhi, but it hasn’t been observed at Safdarjung Observatory. The city is likely to get patchy rain between August 30 and September 2,” said a senior IMD official on condition of anonymity.Scientists also say that the prolonged break phases that the monsoon season saw in the whole of northwest India also contributed to Delhi’s rain imbalance.The monsoon went into a break phase from August 9-19, then revived on August 20, and again entered a weak phase from August 25-28, the third for this season.Delhi saw the first break from June 29-July 12, delaying the onset of monsoon, which finally arrived in the national capital on July 13, over two weeks behind schedule.“Even though August is supposed to be the wettest month of the monsoon season for Delhi, the unusually frequent and prolonged breaks led to its weakening, resulting in hot and dry spells and above-normal temperatures. While humidity is already present in the atmosphere, in the absence of rain, the temperatures tend to rise. The weak monsoon spells, alternatively called partial breaks, usually tend to last for 4-5 days, but the one we saw this month was quite prolonged,” the IMD official said, adding that the season may see two to three small breaks, “but this year two breaks occurred within the same month, which also led to an extended number of dry days.”The August 21 downpour was too intense for a 24-hour period, he said, adding that such short and intense spells of rain have affected the number of rainy days occurring in a month. “Ideally this amount of rain should be more uniformly distributed over the month. More than 100mm rainfall must happen for a week or 15 days,” the official said.IMD data shows that over the past 10 years, only August 2007 saw just seven rainy days while the rest of the years had at least more than 10 rainy days in the month.“There could be a number of factors behind the frequent and prolonged breaks. The warming of the Indian Ocean at a higher rate could be one. Another could be the Madden-Julian Oscillation, or MJO location being unfavourable,” the IMD official added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-month-of-weather-fluctuations-for-delhi-101630276676964.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Manish Sisodia slams UP govt at Tiranga Yatra in Agra||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Uttar Pradesh government‘s record in law-and-order, education, health care and employment, during a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ taken out by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Agra on Sunday.Interacting with reporters at the circuit house in Agra, Sisodia said, “This government is failing to provide good education to the children of the poor, employment to the youth, and good amount of crop to farmers.”In Agra, the ‘Tiranga Yatra’ started from the GIC ground around 4 pm and ended at the Shaheed Smarak in Sanjay Place.Ahead of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh next year, AAP plans to take out Tiranga Yatras in Ayodhya, Lucknow and Noida to mark the 75th year of the country’s Independence.Sisodia said his party will carry out ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in the Ayodhya on September 14, adding that similar rallies will be brought out in 403 assembly segments in UP.AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said the ‘Tiranga Yatra’ will be held in Noida on September 1.The state BJP unit however hit back at the AAP leaders’ allegations.“A party that failed the people during Covid-19 is now engaging in politics for narrow political reasons. Facts are facts. While everyone is free to try their luck in elections, AAP leaders have been thoroughly exposed now in UP where the chief minister Yogi Adityanath government has done phenomenal development,” said UP BJP spokesperson Harish Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-slams-up-govt-at-tiranga-yatra-in-agra-101630272866876.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Spice of life | For truth to dawn, detach and come to the centre||Krishna means one who attracts. He inspires people of all ages and walks, from playful children to elderly scholars. Krishna, the eighth avatar (incarnation) of Lord Vishnu, took birth to uplift and protect the good, destroy evil and re-establish dharma (righteousness). Krishna was born on a dark night when there was negativity everywhere but even 5,000 years on, his message for us serves as a guiding light to an inspired life. It is believed that the Mahabharata was composed by Rishi Ved Vyas to bring out Krishna’s greatness for its central piece is the Bhagavad Gita, the divine song. The Gita is a universal text that reminds all humans that we are born with the potential to be extraordinary. Of the 18 chapters, the second, Sankhya Yoga, is considered the summary of the Gita and its core theme is: Come to the centre. The 10th shloka (verse) of Chapter 2 is attributed to Sanjaya describing to Dhritarashtra how Lord Krishna smilingly steered the chariot of Arjuna, who represents the human race, between the armies of the Pandavas and the Kauravas in the battlefield of Kurukshetra. Tam-uvācha hṛiṣhīkeśhaḥ prahasanniva bhāratasenayorubhayor-madhye viṣhīdantam-idaṁ vachaḥIt is here that Lord Krishna delivers the sermon of the Gita to Arjuna, who is now bereft of arrogance and surrenders in devotion, so that he is able to take an objective view of the battle. Reality eludes us if we are attached to one side. Attachment leads to anger, fear and insecurity that distracts the mind from achieving its potential. For truth to dawn, we need to detach and come to the centre. We all have a different army or enemy to fight. Everyone’s battle or struggle is different. But if the mind is stithapragya or centred within, one experiences contentment and can act dispassionately and independently. Answering Arjuna’s question on how one recognises such a person, Lord Krishna describes the qualities of a leader in the last 18 shlokas of Chapter 2. He says such a person is content, level-headed and doesn’t get too attached to anyone. This enables one to be free to act without any obligation and pull in one’s limbs or senses like a tortoise to stay centred. Such a person is at peace and established in God despite the turmoil around and can maintain equanimity or regain calm faster to win the battle of life. The Gita exhorts us to assess situations objectively and act selflessly without worrying about the result over which we have no control. Every achiever, whether its javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra or weightlifter Mirabai Chanu, is focused and pours his/her heart into what he/she is doing. For such a person, life becomes a manifestation of joy. With a disciplined lifestyle, balanced mind, and spiritual connection, we discover our purpose. An illumined mind does not get bogged down with pinpricks such as other’s opinions and there is no hatred. This Shri Krishna Jayanti, may we commit to leading a life of value to others and serving divinity in everyone’s heart; may we bring joy to the community through our selfless action; and may we settle down to contemplate on the Eternal and enjoy the present. yyadav@hindustantimes.com The writer is senior news editor, Hindustan Times, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/spice-of-life-for-truth-to-dawn-detach-and-come-to-the-centre-101630270001728.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||There should not be a communication gap between Delhi and Srinagar: Lone||People’s Conference chairperson Sajad Lone on Sunday said the masses were simmering with anger over the decisions taken on August 5. However, he stressed on the need of continued communication between the Centre and the people of the valley. Speaking to reporters after vice-chairman of district development Council (DDC), Kupwara, Farooq Ahmed Mir joined the PC, Lone said the mainstream parties in the union territory are powerless as on date. Lone said that after August 5, the political mainstream in J&K was on the back foot.On the disappointment among some political parties from Jammu and Kashmir over the outcome of the June 24 meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said he did not have any expectations from it in the first place.“Things do not remain the same and situations change. After August 5 (2019), the Kashmiri society and the polity – the mainstream parties – we are on the back foot. But, history is a witness, no society remains on the back foot forever. God willing, our time to play on the front foot will come and will come soon,” Lone said.“...it is a long game. Nothing started on August 5 and nothing ended on August 5. Things will go on, politics will go on,” he said. Responding to a question, the PC chairman said there is simmering anger among people against the decisions taken by the Centre on August 5, 2019 and it is “very dangerous”.“Anger is everywhere against the leadership. There is no place in the world where there is no anger against the existing leadership. Yes, our role is there (to defuse the anger), but as on date, we are powerless, we cannot do anything,” he said.On the outcome of the June 24 meeting of J&K’s mainstream parties with Modi, Lone said, “Disappointment after August 5 has galloped. I did not have any disillusionment about the all-party meeting. It was a social interaction, a political interaction and an exchange of ideas. I did not expect anything from the meeting.” “I did not think we could get anything from the meeting and I do not hold anything against them (other political parties) for expecting something from it and believing that it has not unfolded,” he said.The PC chairman said though the scope of the meeting was limited, he hoped that the Centre would follow it up with something concrete.“The need of the hour is that there should not be a communication gap between Delhi and Srinagar. It is very imperative that communication goes on,” he added.Welcoming Mir into the party fold, Lone said he has a lot of struggle behind him and is widely respected by the people in his area.“He has a lot of goodwill and is widely respected for the work he has done for his people. He secured more than 10,000 votes, the highest by any candidate in the Kashmir valley in the DDC elections. A number of prominent political leaders are joining the caravan of change,” the PC chairman said.Lone said he is confident that his party will be able to help the people of Jammu and Kashmir navigate through these difficult and challenging times.Mir said it is a matter of satisfaction that the PC is emerging as a formidable political force in Jammu and Kashmir.He said he genuinely believes that Lone is the only leader capable of taking the people of J&K out of the current situation.“I will work alongside the party’s rank and file to ensure that the party’s flag flies high across all regions of J&K,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/there-should-not-be-a-communication-gap-between-delhi-and-srinagar-lone-101630269341578.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||MoS defence Ajay Bhatt visits forward post in Kashmir||Union minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt , who is on a two-day visit to Kashmir, visited a forward post on the Line of Control on Sunday, a day after reviewing the security situation in Kashmir. On his arrival on Saturday, Bhatt was received by GOC Chinar Corps Lt Gen DP Pandey and was briefed about the existing security situation and the measures being taken to safeguard the border and hinterland from adversaries, Col Emron Musavi, PRO (defence), Srinagar, said. The minister was briefed on the efforts of the Army to identify and target overground workers (OGWs) who are involved in radicalisation and recruitment of youths into terrorist ranks, he said.While interacting with troops, the minister expressed his appreciation towards the Indian Army. Bhatt “reinforced the need to be prepared to meet emerging security challenges effectively”, the spokesman said.The minister also laid a wreath at Chinar Corps War Memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mos-defence-ajay-bhatt-visits-forward-post-in-kashmir-101630269221478.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||J&K allows colleges to resume offline classes||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday allowed institutes of higher education to resume “limited on-site” classes provided the students and staff are fully vaccinated. The administration, however, extended the closure of schools and coaching centres till further orders. Other educational institutions can allow attendance of vaccinated staff for administrative purposes.The institutions have been asked to organise vaccination camps in consultation with district administrations. In a series of measures aimed at preventing the spread of COVID-19 infection, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on April 18 had ordered closure of all educational institutions, including universities and colleges, till further ordersThe decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by chief secretary AK Mehta. He reiterated the need to continue with Covid containment measures in all the districts “in view of the uneven trend observed in daily Covid cases.” As per the latest orders, the maximum number of people permitted to attend any indoor or outdoor gathering shall continue to be restricted to 25 and while night curfew shall continue to remain in force in all the districts between 8pm to 7am, there shall be no weekend curfew in any district. It also decided to dispense with the mandatory testing for Covid at the entry point to the Union Territory at Lakhanpur for those who have received both dosages of vaccine and allow entry of vaccinated persons into public parks.District magistrates were directed to strictly ensure that there is full compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour and defaulters are firmly dealt with under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code.Directing for ‘no drop’ in Covid-19 testing levels, Mehta said deputy commissioners would also focus on the positivity rates of the medical-blocks under their jurisdictions.The order said the DCs would keep active track of the positivity rates in blocks and consider implementing stricter control measures in closed clustered spaces like public or private offices, community halls, malls and bazaars in case weekly positivity rate goes beyond 4% in these blocks. The officials have been asked to also focus on second dose vaccination.“Intensive vaccination drives shall be taken up in all districts to ensure timely administration of second dose besides maximizing first dose to vulnerable groups,” the order stated. The department of health and medical education, J&K, has been asked to ensure adequate availability of Covid dedicated health and logistics including ambulatory infrastructure based on their assessment of the case trajectory.J&K witnesses 169 fresh cases 
30-08-2021||Other||Our take| Way out of tricity’s traffic maze together||Last week, the Chandigarh administration decided to go in for a fresh study on a mass rapid transit system (MRTS) suitable for City Beautiful. With a population of over 12 lakh and 15 lakh registered vehicles, Chandigarh has the highest density of vehicles per household in the country, leading to traffic congestion. In addition, over two lakh vehicles on inter-state routes cross the city daily. With neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula piggybacking on its transport infrastructure as residents commute to and fro daily, it is prudent to involve both satellite cities while developing a plan for the UT. Since the metro rail plan was shelved, the UT administration has not been able to opt for any alternative, including monorail, skybus or metrolite. The Rail India Technical and Economic Services (RITES) report of 2009 on the city’s mobility needs is outdated as Chandigarh’s periphery has transformed. A fresh look at the traffic congestion in the tricity is imperative in view of its contiguous border with Mohali and Panchkula. Fast on growth, slow on mobility Mohali district’s population has grown to 15 lakh in a decade. Private housing societies in Kharar, New Chandigarh, Zirakpur and Dera Bassi besides Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) have come up and it has become a BPO industry hub with a large migrant population, comprising mostly young professionals. Yet, Mohali does not have its own transport system and is entirely dependent on Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses. On the other hand, Panchkula district has also grown manifold. The town has expanded beyond the Ghaggar river. The Barwala belt is also seeing rapid development and housing societies in Pinjore that have added to the need for a fast-track transport system. Though the fleet of buses has been increased to 189, including 32 local buses, a coordinated approach to a transport solution is needed. Debate question Should UT involve Mohali and Panckhkula in its MRTS plan?A new study on Chandigarh’s mass rapid transit system has been initiated and the administration is ready to go it alone on the project. Is it a good idea or should Panchkula and Mohali be on board, too? Write to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com, latest by September 3 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/our-take-way-out-of-tricity-s-traffic-maze-together-101630267721472.html
30-08-2021||Other||Tricity Buzz| Chandigarh cop goes the extra mile to ensure poor kids don’t miss online classes||Educate to empower Empowerment comes with education. Chandigarh Police inspector Narinder Patial, the station house officer (SHO) at Sector 31, recently provided bicycles, school uniforms and stationery to two girl students from a needy family of Ram Darbar studying in Class 9. When he was posted as the SHO in Sector 26, Patial had provided books, stationery and smartphones to 20 children of Bapu Dham Colony to ensure they don’t miss out on online classes during the Covid lockdown. The inspector had been feeding stray animals as well during the lockdown. Feather in weatherman’s cap: Trip to South PoleManmohan Singh, the new Indian Meteorological Department director in Chandigarh, has served a stint in Antarctica. Singh, who was the IMD head in Shimla before landing in Chandigarh, recalled his 14-month stay at the Indian base in the ice-bound continent as part of the IMD expedition in the ’90s to study the weather there. “Just getting there took over a month by ship from Goa. The temperature can go down to -30 to -40 degrees on an average in winter and can rise up to 8 or 9 degrees on a summer day. The winds there are also very strong, and all structures have to be specially built to resist them,” he said. Now, that’s one trip of a lifetime. Communication gap at AAP press meet Last week, the Chandigarh unit of the Aam Aadmi Party called a press conference to announce “a very important decision”. Local journalists turned up at the party’s Sector 39 office in anticipation of a breaking news, but the press meet turned out to be more about the AAP’s activities in poll-bound Punjab. The Chandigarh AAP leaders looked on sheepishly. “Next time, we will hold a press conference separately from the Punjab one. There was a communication gap,” one of them shared later, requesting anonymity. ‘Efficient’ Mohali MC clears 9 agenda items in 20 minutes! During the monthly house meeting of the Municipal Corporation of Mohali on August 26, 50 councillors approved nine items on the agenda in 20 minutes flat. Not a single item was discussed. The councillors from the opposition did not raise any objection to any agenda item. The meeting began at 3pm and was over at 3.20pm. It seems the councillors had not read the items on the agenda before coming for the meeting. Baba’s fan following It’s been seven months since Baba Labh Singh has been protesting at Matka Chowk. Such has been the impact that even Google shows the chowk as Labh Singh Chowk. The elderly farm protester has been getting support from people of all ages and professions. But his fame has ruffled feathers, too. There are some who have been creating trouble for him. Last week, his tent was ransacked, and his table fan and a cooler were stolen, while his ration was destroyed. His tent was also torn. His only remorse was that he had lost the fan gifted by a group of girls with a lot of regard. PU to support start-ups Panjab University’s BioNest will soon start supporting multiple start-ups under a new special funding received recently. The registered life-science start-ups with innovative ideas, having a potential for commercialisation will be selected. Financial assistance in the form of equity investment up to ₹30 lakh can be funded per start-up for two years along with incubation support. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tricity-buzz-chandigarh-cop-goes-the-extra-mile-to-ensure-poor-kids-don-t-miss-online-classes-101630267661510.html
30-08-2021||Other||Two-hour farmers’ protest throws traffic out of gear in Ludhiana||A two-hour-long farmers’ protest and the resultant traffic jam left scores of commuters stranded on the busy national highways around the city on Sunday.Farmers had blocked the Ferozepur Road, Chandigarh Road and Ropar Road near Doraha to protest police lathicharge on protesting farmers in Karnal on Saturday.Ladhowal toll plaza was the worst hit as serpentine queues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the road. Passengers travelling in buses on GT Road also had a tough time with most seen getting off the bus and walking towards their destination, with luggage in their hands. Those in private vehicles didn’t have any option but to wait for the protest to end.Heated argument between farmers, BSP workers:A heated argument broke out between farmers and supporters of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) at the toll plaza as the latter asked for the blockade to be lifted. This irked the farmers who squatted in front of the vehicles of BSP supporters, thereby triggering a clash. However, leaders from both groups intervened and resolved the matter.Later, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said that some RSS and BJP workers were trying to sabotage the farmers’ protest by creating a ruckus. He said that no BSP worker or farmer was involved in any scuffle.Commuters on the receiving endIn the stand-off between the farmers and government, it was the common man who bore the brunt. Deepak, a commuter headed to Jalandhar, said, “The government has made no efforts to mitigate the farmers’ issue. Because of continued protests, both trade and agriculture have suffered massive losses.” Referring to a video in which the Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) was purportedly seen ordering police personnel to “break the heads” of protesting farmers, Deepak said, “While the SDM is now sitting in his air-conditioned (AC) room, it is the common man who has been left to suffer in this scorching heat.” Similarly, Gurpreet, a resident of Phagwara who was walking from Ludhiana side, said, “I was aware of the protest but I got late. The bus I was travelling in was stopped at Ladhowal Chowk. After waiting for half-an-hour, I decided to walk on the other side of the road. The volunteers at the protest site offered me refreshments while I was walking.”Among those stranded was a groom who was travelling to Nawanshahr along with his relatives. “The farm law issue has become a matter of egos. Both government and farmers are refusing to relent and it is the common man who is suffering,” said the groom.Tarsem Singh, a factory employee from Jalandhar who was stuck in Ludhiana due to the absence of transportation service, said, “I forgot that there was a farmers’ protest today. I came here for some work a few days ago and planned to return today. On reaching Jalandhar Bypass, I learnt that due to protests, the transportation services have been stalled. I don’t know what to do now.”Though roads were blocked for public movement, farmers cleared the passage for ambulances.Simmering angerSaudagar Singh Ghudani from BKU Ugrahan said, “The agitation is no longer a farmers’ protest; it has taken the shape of a non-violent civil resistance. People are reaching the protest site to show solidarity with farmers. But we regret the inconvenience caused to the public.”Women join in large numbersA huge number of women also joined the protest and raised slogans against SDM Ayush Sinha, who had purportedly instructed the police to break the head of the protestors. The protesting women demanded sacking and immediate arrest of SDM Sinha.“The protesting woman said the government should set an example so that such an incident is not repeated again,” said Parminder Kaur of Sidhwan Kalan.At 2pm, the protesting farmers decided to lift the blockade. However, it took nearly an hour for the traffic to normalise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/twohour-farmers-protest-throws-traffic-out-of-gear-in-ludhiana-101630267061554.html
30-08-2021||Other||17kg heroin seizure: Ferozepur man held for designing cavity to conceal drug||Amritsar Three days after police seized 17-kg heroin from a taxi driver Ranjit Singh, alias Sonu of the district, from Madhopur in Pathankot, investigation has shown that the accused, arrested now, had sneaked in two such contraband consignment in the state over the past few months. A Ferozepur resident has also been arrested in connection with the case. In preliminary interrogation, Sonu has confessed that he had picked up this recent consignment from the Naushera area of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on the instructions of his namesake Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, of Patti in Tarn Taran, who is in Faridkot Jail, and Malkeet Singh, alias Laddu of Patti, who is in a Muktsar jail. Police have launched raids to identify the accused and the locations where the previous two consignments were delivered. Laddu was jailed for his involvement in Patti double-murder case in which local Akali leader Amandeep Singh, alias Fauji, and his friend Prabhjit Singh, were shot dead by notorious gangster Preet Sekhon on instructions from a Canada-based gangster Lakbir Singh, alias Landa. Sonu was transporting this consignment in a specially designed cavity in his Toyota Innova Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV). Both Rana and Laddu had been brought to the district on production warrant.“We are working to identify the people to whom the previous consignments were handed over. Our probe to zero in on the source of the smuggling racket is on,” a police source said, adding they have arrested Harwinder Singh, alias Pappu of Zira area, in Ferozepur district. “Pappu is the one who used to design and fit the special cavity in vehicles for concealing and smuggling of heroin,” he said. SSP rural Gulneet Singh Khurana said, “It is rare for heroin in such huge quantity to be seized on its way from J&K to Punjab via Pathankot. This is first huge seizure of heroin smuggled from J&K in recent decades.” On August 21, the rural police had seized 41-kg heroin pushed into the Indian territory through the barbed wire fence with the help of Border Security Force (BSF) personnel near Dera Baba Nanak of Gurdaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/17kg-heroin-seizure-two-such-consignments-delivered-in-punjab-ferozepur-man-held-101630266403946.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 123 fresh infections||Himachal Pradesh recorded 123 fresh coronavirus infections on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 2,13,245, while the death toll mounted to 3,576 after one patient succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 35 were reported in Mandi, 24 in Kangra, 23 in Hamirpur, 13 in Shimla, eight in Chamba, five in Kullu, four each in Lahaul-Spiti, Solan and Una, and three in Bilaspur. No case was reported in Kinnaur and Sirmaur.The active came down to 1,750 while recoveries reached 2,07,899 after 186 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district since the virus outbreak last year as its total case tally stands at 47,578, followed by Mandi and Shimla districts with 29,736 and 26,562 cases, respectively.Solan’s case tally reached 22,547 cases, Sirmaur 15,433, Hamirpur 15,249, Una 13,544, Chamba 13,438, Bilaspur 13,391, Kullu 9,479, Kinnaur 3,397 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,890.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs123-fresh-infections-101630266103376.html
30-08-2021||Other||Zirakpur: Five men who robbed Sudan national in auto arrested||Police have arrested five members of an auto-rickshaw gang who were allegedly involved in robbing a foreign student after assaulting him in Zirakpur on August 22.The accused were identified as Biru, Bunty Kumar, Kamlesh Kumar, Lakhveer Singh, alias Billu, and Baldev Raj, alias Deba, all from Patiala. They will be produced before a court on Monday.The police said that the accused are members of a gang that move around in an auto-rickshaw, posing as passengers, and rob people.In his complaint, Sudan national Salahuddin Bashir Khair Syed had told the police that he is a BTech student in a private college in Banur. He said that on August 22, he was going to Delhi and had taken a shared auto-rickshaw from Banur to Zirakpur.When the taxi reached the Airport light-point, the occupants told him that he was dealing in drugs and they would hand him over to the police. Salahuddin realised that the men were planning to rob him and jumped out, but the robbers stopped the three-wheeler and started beating him. They later fled with his purse containing his passport, ₹10,000 cash, mobile phone, visa and other belongings, said the police. A case was registered.The police said that a stolen passport of the Republic of Sudan was recovered, along with a mobile phone and the auto-rickshaw used by the accused. The money that was snatched was spent by them, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zirakpurfive-men-who-robbed-sudan-national-in-auto-arrested-101630266101548.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Punjab gets new coach||After coaching Haryana and Maharashtra senior teams in the past, former domestic cricketer Surendra Bhave will be at the helm of Punjab senior men’s team in the upcoming season.The Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC), headed by Bhupinder Singh Senior, had interviewed multiple candidates before zeroing in on Bhave, who will take over the reins from Munish Bali, the head coach for the last two seasons.Thrilled to bag the new role, Bhave wants the team to be consistent throughout the season and take one game at a time: “In order to have a successful season, a team should have a great and positive start to the campaign. Mental preparation holds significance. If the team takes one game at a time and aims for consistency in doing well, I am sure the season will be a success.”On the team’s performance, Bhave said, “I have seen Punjab players in recent years. They are a bunch of skilful cricketers and need to play to their potential. It would be exciting to work with the team, selectors as well as the association.”Bhave was a member of the national selection panel that picked the World Cup champion squad in 2011. Now, he says he will be prepared well ahead of the season as head coach of the Punjab team, especially after taking the National Cricket Academy’s Fast-Track Hybrid Level-2 coaches course in Bengaluru.3 major tournaments to take place this seasonLast season, Ranji Trophy did not take place due to the pandemic while the Vijay Hazare Trophy and Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy were organised by the Board of Control for Cricket in India. This season, however, all three tournaments will take place.“It’s great that players are getting to play all three major tournaments this season. I have been a typical West Zone batsman and adjusted well to multi-day cricket. I would apply this West Zone attitude on the Punjab team according to which they will have to spend a lot of time on the crease and go for big runs. Punjab has talented bowlers who can set up a game,” said 55-year-old Bhave, who played for his home state Maharashtra from 1986 to 2001.A right-handed opening batsman, noted for his prolific run-scoring and ability to build large innings, Bhave played 97 first-class matches and took Maharashtra to the final of the Ranji Trophy in 1992-93, where they lost to Punjab in Ludhiana.Incidentally, Bhave is the third coach after Intikhab Alam and Ajay Ratra to be hired by PCA from outside the region. In the past, PCA has preferred to keep coaches from Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cricket-punjab-gets-new-coach-101630266041366.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||16 teams to compete in JP Atray memorial cricket meet||As many as 16 teams will compete in the 26th edition of the JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament for Trident Cup starting from September 1 at various venues in Chandigarh, Mohali and Mullanpur.The UT Cricket Association and CAG Delhi will clash with each other in the opening game at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali. This time, the final will be a day affair and will be played on September 12 in Mohali.The teams have been divided into four pools. Pool A will include Bihar XI, PCA Colts, Players XI Delhi and Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association teams. Pool B will have Chhattisgarh, Punjab Cricket Club, Uttar Pradesh, RBI Mumbai. Pool C will have UTCA, CAG Delhi, Baroda and Delhi Capital Development squad while Pool D will have teams like DDCA, Minerva Cricket Academy, Ranster Cricket Club Delhi and Madhya Pradesh.Last year due to the pandemic, the JP Atray tournament could not take place. The winning team will fetch ₹2 lakh along with the Trident Cup. According to the organisers, all Covid protocols will be followed during the tournament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16-teams-to-compete-in-jp-atray-memorial-cricket-meet-101630265922504.html
30-08-2021||Other||Haryana badminton body felicitates shuttlers, coaches||As many as 21 shuttlers from Haryana region, who won medals in national championships held at Bhubaneshwar, Bhagalpur and Rajahmundry, were honoured with cash prizes by Haryana Badminton Association (HBA) in Panchkula on Sunday. Two coaches, Pravesh and Rohit Madan were also honoured with ₹5,000 each.President of HBA Devender Singh, IAS, ACS, government of Haryana, gave away cash prizes to the victorious shuttlers. General secretary, Badminton Association of India, and general secretary of HBA Ajay Singhania was also present during the function.HBA also approved ₹15 lakh per annum for the outstanding badminton players of Haryana who will participate in the international tournaments in future.Those felicitated include Anupama Upadhyaya, Devika Sihag, Ridhi Kaur Toor, Gagan, Manav, Omkaran Sharma, Mayank Rana, Rijul Saini, Sunny Nehra, Muskan Sangwan (all from Panchkula), Ravi, Sakshi (from Sonepat), Mohit Gauri, Kartik Jindal (Sirsa), Kush Chugh, Abhin, Tanvi Thakur (from Faridabad), Bharat (Gurugram), Surinder Kumar and Varinder Singh (veteran category).CBA holds AGMThe Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) conducted its annual general body meeting on Sunday and took decisions in order to boost sports now that activities have resumed.The meeting was presided over by Col Raj Parmar, senior-vice president, CBA, and was convened by Surinder Mahajan, general secretary, CBA. It was decided that special incentives and cash prizes will be given to shuttlers, along with veterans, who secure top three positions in the national badminton championships. Also, state tournaments will be organised for all age-groups at the earliest. CBA also aims to provide support to the needy and talented players playing for Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-badminton-body-felicitates-shuttlers-coaches-101630265921515.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University senate’s key contest this week||The constituency of faculties of Panjab University (PU) senate is set to go to polls on September 1 with a contest between the candidates of Goyal group and the candidates aligned with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) group.Of the total 12 in fray, each group has fielded six candidates from the six faculties. From this constituency, which has 755 eligible voters, six members will be elected to the senate. Since all the faculties of PU campus will vote, campaigning for the elections has been going on in full swing in the last few days.Both Ashok Goyal and Navdeep Goyal, who had forged an alliance during the syndicate elections of 2018, are contesting. While all the candidates of Goyal group have remained the members of the PU senate in the past, the five BJP group candidates are contesting for the first time.There are five major faculties at PU including languages, arts, sciences, law and medical. The combined faculty includes all other minor ones.Navdeep Goyal pitted against former PUTA presidentFormer senator and syndicate member Navdeep Goyal is contesting against former president of Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) Promila Pathak from the faculty of science.From the faculty of arts, ex-senator and former dean faculty of arts Ronki Ram from the Goyal group will contest against Anju Suri, a first-timer. Ram said, “I will do my best to strengthen the social sciences stream at PU. We will make efforts to create better conditions for teaching and research in the university.”The Goyal group has fielded former PUTA president Rajesh Gill against Gurpal Singh, who is a former dean, faculty of languages. Gurpal said, “In the past years, the language faculty has remained under-represented in the senate. The focus will be on the consolidation of faculty in these departments and upliftment of infrastructure.”From combined faculty, Naval Kishore will battle it out against Keshav Malhotra of the Goyal group. From the faculty of law, Anu Chatrath of the Goyal Group has been pitted against Jagjot Singh Lalli.So far, polling has been conducted for six constituencies of the senate and 26 candidates have been declared elected.PGIMER doctor in the fray tooAshok Goyal, a powerful candidate from the Goyal group, is contesting against Dr Sarvdeep Singh Dhatt of the medical faculty. Dr Dhatt, who is contesting the senate elections for the first time, is an additional professor of orthopaedics at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-senate-s-key-contest-this-week-101630265861562.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector-39 waterworks to have floating solar power panels||The Sector-39 waterworks will soon have floating solar power panels generating electricity worth ₹1.38 crore annually. The revenues will be shared between the UT administration and municipal corporation in 70:30 ratio. Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) will implement the project. “The 2MWp floating solar photovoltaic power plant will generate 28 lakh units per annum and would be set up under the CAPEX mode where all the expenditure will be done by CREST,” stated a report submitted by the nodal agency to the MC. “As per the layout plan provided by the MC to the agency, the construction of the a few water tanks is to be finished by September or October. Then, the site will be handed over to CREST for installing the plant,” added the report.The agenda for the same will come up for decision before the MC General House on August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sector-39-waterworks-to-have-floating-solar-power-panels-101630265801377.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 76-year-old man loses ₹1.59 crore to fraudster||An elderly man lost ₹1.59 crore to a fraudster who lured him into investing his money in exchange for higher returns. A resident of Sector 34, Sadhu Singh, 76, told the police that a person identifying himself as Ravi Mishra had contacted him in 2014. Mishra had introduced himself as an employee of the money disbursal department of a bank and told Sadhu that one of his insurance policies was maturing and he could help him in getting the amount. He managed to convince Sadhu to invest his money in a new scheme of the central government which promised higher returns. Sadhu told the police that he deposited money into various bank accounts in the name of companies over years. Mishra later asked Sadhu to deposit more funds into the bank accounts of certain individuals, who he claimed were the bank employees responsible for his investment. After Sandhu realised that he had been duped, he contacted the police. An FIR under sections 419, 420 and 120B of the IPC has been registered at the Sector-34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-76-year-old-man-loses-1-59-crore-to-fraudster-101630265742707.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two men posing as passengers flee with cab||Two men have been booked for stealing the cab they had hired to travel from Delhi to Punjab and Jammu, police said on Sunday. The theft of the vehicle, a Toyota Innova, came to light when the duo met with an accident in Ambala while fleeing. In his complaint, cab owner Mukesh, who hails from Kaithal, said Mohit Kumar and Harjeet Singh had on August 26 hired his Innova bearing a Haryana registration number from Delhi to travel to Amritsar and Katra. He said on reaching Chandigarh, the accused insisted to stay here. The trio had put up at a hotel in Kajheri on the intervening night of August 27 and August 28. Mukesh said on Saturday morning, he received a call from an unidentified person informing him that his vehicle has met with an accident in Ambala. He found out that Mohit and Harjit had taken away his car keys and wallet. Mohit has sustained injuries in the accident and is undergoing treatment at a hospital, while Harjit managed to escape, the police said. A case under sections 379 and 380 of the IPC has been registered against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-men-posing-as-passengers-flee-with-cab-101630265741600.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh temples scale up Janmashtami celebrations||While Janmashtami celebrations remained a low-key affair last year as the city battled the first Covid wave, more participation is expected from people this time. Almost all temples will celebrate the festival while adhering to Covid safety norms. City president of Hindu Parv Mahasabha, BP Arora said, “All temples will hold events between 10pm and 12am and some functions will be organised in the daytime too. Footfall has started increasing and we have also begun a weekly langar.” ISKCON temple in Sector 36 will also be open for the devotees this year. Akrur Nandan Das, president of the temple, said, “We have put up barricades going up to a kilometre from the temple’s entrance to ensure that we can control the crowd. Devotees will be allowed to pay obeisance on Monday, but they’ll have to leave immediately and there will be no seating arrangement in the temple, even for langar.” Like last year, all ceremonies will be live-streamed.Though in previous years, carnivals used to be organised in various parts of the city, no such event will take place this time, said Hindu Parv Mahasabha chief Arora. However, a few ‘jhankis’ will be there outside some of the temples for children, he added. Meanwhile, Shyam Sunder, joint secretary of Sri Laxmi Narayan Temple in Sector 20, said he doesn’t expect many children to come in for the celebrations as parents are still wary of the virus as the kids haven’t been vaccinated yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-temples-scale-up-janmashtami-celebrations-101630265681449.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Father held for raping minor; mother booked too||A man was arrested for raping his 14-year-old daughter while his wife was also named in the FIR, Zirakpur police said on Sunday. The victim, who hails from Bihar, had approached the Childline after escaping from her house. She said her mother was aware of the sexual exploitation, but took no action against the accused. As per the girl, her father had raped her repeatedly and when she told her mother, she warned her against disclosing about the crime and assaulted her. The victim alleged that her parents had taken her back to their native village in Bihar, where they thrashed her and threatened to kill her. The victim approached the Childline after her family came back to Zirakpur. The first information report (FIR) has been registered under sections 376 (rape) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-father-held-for-raping-minor-mother-booked-too-101630265622991.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Beating all odds, Chandigarh lad wins gold at Asian boxing meet||Working in the kitchen of a Mohali restaurant on a busy Sunday evening, cook Jai Prakash kept waiting for a call from his 15-year-old son. Miles away, his son Rohit Chamoli was vying for a gold at the ASBC Asian Youth and Junior Boxing Championships in Dubai. Competing in the 48-kg weight category, the young boxer was pitted against Otgonbayar Tuvshinzaya of Mangolia in the final bout. When the 15-year-old finally called to inform his father that he had won the gold medal for India, Jai Prakash had tears in his eyes. He immediately called up Rohit’s coach Joginder Kumar to congratulate and thank him for his persistent training and support.“Coach ko bhadhai ho. Unki wajah se aaj Rohit gold le paya hai itne bade level pe (Kudos to the coach! It’s because of him that Rohit could win a gold in an international tournament),” said Jai Prakash. “We never had money to buy shoes or gloves for him. Coach Sir helped us, and see how Rohit has done us proud now.”Jai Prakash wanted his son to focus on education and not on the sport, but it was on the coach’s insistence that Rohit stuck to boxing. Rohit’s fascination grew for the sport when he saw his uncle’s daughter Meenakshi win a bronze in the Junior National Tournament and also fetch a job with the Indo-Tibetan Border Police later on.“Rohit has hunger in him. He won gold for Chandigarh in the Junior Nationals at Sonepat last month, and carried forward his fine form. I have been training him for four years and never saw him break down due to poverty,” said Joginder, who is a former national-level boxer and an assistant sub-inspector with Punjab Police. He has been coaching underprivileged children, including Rohit’s cousin Meenakshi, at Bouganvillea Garden in Sector 3, Chandigarh, for 12 years.‘Want to win Olympic gold for my father’In Dubai, after making a cautious start, Chamoli’s timely and precise punches gave him edge over his Mongolian opponent in a close-fought match that he managed to win 3-2. While handing India the first gold of the competition, he also won USD 4,000 (around ₹2.95 lakh) prize money. “The pandemic has affected my income. Last year, I lost my job as a cook at the place where I had worked for five years. It was tough to sustain with three kids pursuing education. I did odd jobs to earn bread and found another job in a restaurant in Mohali a few months ago. Even during this struggling phase, when at times we didn’t even have anything to eat, we encouraged Rohit to follow the sport,” said Jai Prakash, who lives in Mohali’s Nayagaon area with his family.Rohit studies in Class 11 at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16, and thus represents Chandigarh at the national level. Speaking over the phone after his win, Rohit said: “I am so thrilled to take gold. I just want to go home and show the medal to my family and coach. They have done a lot for me. I have trained in torn shoes and used old gloves in the park to learn boxing. My confidence grew when I took part in inter-school tournaments and won medals. I want to upgrade my training and one day win an Olympic medal for my father, who has sacrificed so much.” “Now that Rohit has shined at an international tournament, the Boxing Federation of India will call him for camps and provide modern training,” said coach Joginder Kumar. “He should be groomed for more international tournaments. Meanwhile, I will keep training other underprivileged children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/beating-all-odds-chandigarh-lad-wins-gold-at-asian-boxing-meet-101630265621406.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Couple goes missing after car plunges into Sutlej in Kinnaur||A couple was swept away in the strong currents of the Sutlej River after their car skidded off the road near Bhabanagar in Kinnaur district on Sunday. The missing couple was identified as Padam Singh and his wife Yogita. Kinnaur superintendent of police (SP) Ashok Rattan said accident took near Lutuksa near Bhabanagar. “There is no trace of the car and it is suspected that it was swept away in the gushing water along with occupants.”A couple of labourers had been in the car with the couple as well. However, they had alighted from the vehicle at some distance from the accident spot. A rescue team comprising police and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel are on the spot and a search operation is underway. NH-5 to remain closed at Negulsari todayMeanwhile, National Highway-5 will remain closed for traffic on Monday from 9am to 6pm. Kinnaur deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq said in wake of the continuous rockfall at Negulsari and the danger it poses to human lives and property, the district administration has decided to remove the lose boulders uphill. Twenty-eight people had died since a massive landslide hit an HRTC bus and other vehicles at Negulsari on August 11. Since then, there have been more landslides and shooting stone incidents on the 175m stretch of the NH-5 due to the loose strata uphill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/couple-goes-missing-after-car-plunges-into-sutlej-in-kinnaur-101630265501484.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: AAP protesters booked as they try to gherao Punjab BJP office||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Punjab women wing president Rajwinder Kaur and youth leader Anmol Gagan Mann were among those booked as they tried to lay siege to the Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s office in Sector 37, Chandigarh, on Sunday.Both Rajwinder and Anmol sustained injuries and were admitted to hospital after police resorted to the use of water cannons to disperse AAP women workers who were protesting against the alleged manhandling of a woman farm activist during a BJP event in Chandigarh on August 19. Meanwhile, police claimed that a few women cops were also injured in the melee and their medical examination is being conducted.A case has been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. Anmol Gagan Mann said that the BJP is abusing and physically assaulting women in Punjab and across the country, while the state governments are avoiding taking action. “Even the Chandigarh Police tried to stop women volunteers on their way to the BJP office, but they broke through all the barriers and moved on,” she said.A woman farm activist had alleged that she was manhandled, harassed, and subjected to abusive language while she was showing black flags to Union minister Anurag Thakur who was in Chandigarh to launch the BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra from Himachal Bhawan in Sector 28 on August 19. Five days after the incident, police had registered a case of wrongful restraint and criminal intimidation, but didn’t name anyone in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhaap-protesters-booked-as-they-try-to-gherao-punjab-bjp-office-101630265381382.html
30-08-2021||Other||Four snatchings reported from different parts of Ludhiana||While the police were busy gearing up to strengthen night patrolling in the city, snatchers had a free run during the day. As many as four snatching incidents were reported from different parts of the city on Saturday.The first incident took place in Salem Tabri. Victim, Puneet Sharma, a resident of Akash Nagar, said that his scooter had developed a snag and he was dragging it along the road while talking over the phone. Suddenly, a youth came on a bike and snatched his phone. Sharma tried to chase him, but the accused managed to flee. A case under Section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the unidentified accused. In another incident, a motorcyclist snatched a woman’s mobile phone while she was walking on Habra Road. The victim, Lovepreet Kaur, a resident of Haibowal Khurd, said the incident took place in the afternoon when she was returning home from her educational institute. In the third incident, motorcyclists snatched a woman’s purse, containing ₹8,000 and a mobile phone. The victim Ravinder Kaur, a resident of Panchsheel Enclave in Sarabha Nagar, said the accused was a clean-shaven youth riding a black-coloured motorcycle. In the fourth incident, a motorcycle-borne snatcher targeted a 75-year-old woman in Gurnanak Mohalla. The case has been registered on the complainant of Dharminder Verma. He stated that the incident took place last evening when his mother Shakuntla Verma was walking back home after meeting a neighbour. Dharminder said when his mother reached near Bittu Karyana store, a motorcyclist came from behind and snatched her earrings and a purse containing ₹4,000 cash and mobile phones. Investigating officer Sukhdev Singh said a case has been registered against an unidentified snatcher and efforts are on to nab the accused. Police suspect that the four snatchings to be the handiwork of one person as the description of the snatcher shared by all victims is the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-snatchings-reported-from-different-parts-of-ludhiana-101630265264290.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||With Atal Tunnel boosting tourism, nod to 407 homestays in Lahaul and Spiti||The Atal Tunnel has opened new vistas of development for Lahaul-Spiti district and as such the state government has approved 407 homestays in Lahaul valley, the chief minister said on Sunday. CM Jai Ram Thakur, who laid foundation stones and inaugurated development projects worth ₹66.5 crore at Udaipur in Lahaul-Spiti district, said the new homestay units will help cater to the increasing inflow of tourists as well as create new employment opportunities. “Budget provisions of ₹136 crore have been made for Lahaul-Spiti district under the tribal area development programme, of which ₹ 72 crore is being spent in Lahaul and ₹ 64 crore in Spiti. Around ₹ 6.72 crore has been spent on providing irrigation, flood protection, drinking water facilities and ₹ 4.61 crore under sewerage and drinking water schemes in Lahaul valley,” he said. Thakur said that under the Jal Jeevan Mission 14 residential areas have been provided drinking water and 1,470 water connections have been provided. “To provide relief to the people affected by the recent floods in Udaipur, a special ₹10 crore package has been released,” Jai Ram said. He also announced the opening of a fire substation at Udaipur, upgrade of a sub block to a developmental block at Udaipur, upgrade of middle schools in Kishori and Bhujund into high schools, and opening of a veterinary hospital at Madgran sub-tehsil, upgrade of sub-tehsil Udaipur to tehsil, opening of a HRTC sub deport at Udaipur and upgrade of the community health centre to a civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-atal-tunnel-boosting-tourism-nod-to-407-homestays-in-lahaul-and-spiti-101630265263243.html
30-08-2021||Other||Unemployed continue protest against Punjab school education minister Singla||Sangrur Unemployed men and women continued their opposition oof Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Sunday, and protested at Kakra village in Bhawanigarh town, where Singla was to inaugurate a Sports Park. Minutes before he arrived, however, police detained protesters and took them away from the venue. Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, president, Unemployed BEd Test Pass Teaches’ Union, said, “We have been sitting on dharna opposite Singla’s residence since December 31, 2020. One of our members, Munish Fazilka, even climbed atop a water tank in the town on August 21, in desperation. The minister has remained unmoved and paid no heed to our demand for jobs.”He added, “We will continue the opposition of the education minister, till the Congress government fulfils its pre-poll promise to provide employment,” added Dhilwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unemployed-continue-protest-against-punjab-education-minister-singla-101630265141705.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh logs 6 cases, Mohali reports 1 death||A resident of Lalru in Mohali died of Covid-19 on Sunday while eight new cases surfaced in the tricity, including six in Chandigarh.Behlana village in Chandigarh alone accounted for half the tally with four cases. Sectors 19 and 43 in the UT besides Mohali city and Pinjore in Panchkula recorded a case each.The tricity’s daily tally has been fluctuating and had hit this month’s peak with 20 cases on Friday before dropping to 12 on Saturday. In terms of fatalities this month, only two deaths each have been reported in Chandigarh and Mohali and one in Panchkula.The tricity’s active caseload stands at 96, with 48 patients in Mohali, 38 in Chandigarh and 10 in Panchkula.In terms of total cases and deaths, Mohali district leads with 68,602 and 1,059, respectively, followed by 65,093 and 813 in Chandigarh and 30,681 and 377 in Panchkula. While 67,495 patients have been cured in Mohali, the number stands at 64,242 and 30,294 in Chandigarh and Panchkula, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-chandigarh-logs-6-cases-mohali-reports-1-death-101630264962559.html
30-08-2021||Other||A day after 14 thefts, Ludhiana police intensify midnight patrolling||A day after 14 thefts and burglaries were reported in the city, police intensified its midnight patrolling in areas falling under the Ludhiana Police Commissionerate.High alert was sounded at midnight and PCR motorcycles, patrolling cars were deployed in each division. A similar midnight meeting was conducted at Bharat Nagar Chowk where ADCP (III) Sameer Verma and ACP, Civil Lines, Jatinder Chopra shared details of thieves and snatchers who could be active in the area.Motorcycle cops were instructed to conduct patrolling till wee hours, while police personnel attached with PCR cars were deployed at roundabouts for rapid response.“Motorcycle patrolling is a successful deterrence method and generates fear among anti-social elements, especially thieves and snatchers who strike at midnight or in early morning hours. For residents, police patrolling is reassuring and instills a sense of safety,” said ADCP Verma.He was quick to add that special emphasis will be laid on patrolling in areas which are prone to thefts and snatchings.“Besides, cops have been asked to keep tabs on theft and snatching accused who are out on bail. Cops have also been told to find out what these persons are doing to earn their living,” said ACP Chopra.Later in the early hours of Sunday, PCR cops from all divisions assembled at Vishkarma Chowk and carried out a combined patrolling in the industrial and old city areas.On August 26, Ludhiana police commissioner Naunihal Singh had called gazetted officers, SHOs and police post in-charges along with patrolling teams for a surprise late-night mock drill.The police chief also checked the weapons of all SHOs, police post in-charges and other personnel. He ordered the cops to keep their weapons well-maintained. At least 400 police personnel were asked to assemble at Dugri Phase-1 market around 10pm on Tuesday. The exercise concluded at the Ludhiana railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-day-after-14-thefts-ludhiana-police-intensify-midnight-patrolling-101630264961402.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal orchardists fear Washington, Iranian apples may steal the show||Already reeling due to a steep fall in prices, orchardists in Himachal are facing a double threat from Washington and Iranian varieties of apples, with the former being sold at a premium, and the latter, which is cheaply priced, ready to flood the markets. For the last two years, homegrown apples have been facing a stiff competition from duty-free fruits being imported from Iran under the India-Afghanistan Free Trade Agreement. Large consignments of apples are also shipped to ports in Gujarat and Maharashtra, while some are routed to markets in north India through the Wagah border. It is mostly the Red Delicious variety grown in Iran, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan that makes its way into India. Despite numerous representations to the Centre by orchardists in Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh duty-free import of fruits has not been rolled back. Impose non-tarrif barriers: Orchardists Iran had a bumper apple crop this year, due to which it is expected that the variety will flood the Indian market this year. Besides, the variety is cheaply priced due to US sanctions. Some Indian companies have signed agreements to buy Iranian apples for as low as ₹ 20/kg. “These apples will start arriving in September. The government should immediately impose non-tariff barriers to stop the import of Iranian apples. If timely measures are not taken, the apples growers of Himachal, Uttarakhand and J&K will be ruined,” said Parkash Thakur, former vice-chairperson Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation (HPMC) and former Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) director. “If the import of other goods can be stopped under the anti-dumping laws why not Iranian apples” says said. Pricing discrepancy With the apple markets crashing, the price of apples has fallen to ₹1,000- ₹1200 per box. Apples boxes weighing 22-35 kg are being sold for ₹500 to ₹1,200 in local markets, whereas consumers in cities are paying much more. On the other hand, the same strain of delicious red apples, branded as Washington Apples, are being sold for ₹4,000 per 20-kg box by the same middlemen. This because the imported apples come at a pre-determined price, which is decided and paid in advance at the time of import. Abhinav Jaggi, a Delhi-based businessman, who owns a cold storage chain, says, “This year Iran, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan had a bumper crop. Last year, Himachal saw a low yield, so Iranian apples became attractions for both wholesalers as well as retailers as the varieties are priced low.”The state government is blaming poor quality of apples for the low prices, but farmers say they are not getting their due for even premium quality apples. ‘Cartelisation to blame’ Fruit growers say cartelisation is responsible for the drop in price and have demanded that the nexus between traders and commission agents who manipulate the market be arrested. “Farmers should also try to improve the marketing setup,” said Thakur, adding that if farmers do not come together to grab the bull by the horns, their future will remain bleak. Successive governments in Himachal have made efforts to help farmers to market their produce, but unfortunately these government agencies cannot compete with the private sector because of the inherent problems in the government sector. Corporations like HPMC were set up to meet the post harvest needs of the farmers. HPMC was the first ones to set up cold stores at terminals markets such as Madras, Bombay and Delhi so that the farmers could store their produce in case they did not fetch good prices in the running market. Apple grading machines were set up in the growing regions to standardise grading and packing. The ₹60,000-crore apple economy sustains 1.75 lakh families. Of 12 districts, apple is grown in seven districts with Shimla, Kullu and Kinnaur districts being major apple producing areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-orchardists-fear-washington-iranian-apples-may-steal-the-show-101630264662053.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn links services with vax certificate or -ve report||Carrying a Covid-19 vaccination certificate of at least the first dose or a negative RT-PCR test report that is not older than 72 hours has been made mandatory to visit government offices to avail any service in Chandigarh.The order is part of several directions issued by UT adviser Dharam Pal in anticipation of a third Covid-19 wave. Addressed to all the departments, the order was issued by the personnel department on Saturday and will come into effect once government offices open on Tuesday. People visiting the estate office, Registration and Licensing Authority and municipal corporation to avail themselves of a slew of services such as registering a property, getting a driver’s licence or vehicle registration certificate or a birth or death certificate are likely to be the most affected.“It will give an added incentive to people to get vaccinated at the earliest so that they can access these offices and services provided by them. Online services will not to be affected by this order,” said a senior UT official.The adviser has also ordered that for other services, such as using Chandigarh Transport Undertaking buses on both local and long routes, strict Covid-19 protocol has to be followed. No passenger or crew will be allowed to board buses without wearing face masks.Stating that the administration doesn’t want to be caught off guard if and when the third wave hits the city, Pal said: “There are indications that a third wave is likely to hit. Internationally, like in the US, Covid-19 cases, especially of the Delta variant, are increasing. There is an uptick in the all-India figures too. So, this could be the start of a third wave, though we hope it is not. But we don’t want to take any chances.”The administration had come under severe criticism for not anticipating the second wave in the city and not preparing enough for it. “Even on the eve of the second wave, people were saying the city had very low cases. At present, the city is doing fine, but we want to be prepared for any eventuality,” said Pal.The second wave started in March this year and peaked in May with 17,399 cases and 275 deaths. There has been a consistent drop in both cases and fatalities in the following months. In August, the city has been reporting new cases in single digit and there have been just two casualties.Step up vaccination, check preparednessThe adviser has also ordered stepping up of the vaccination drive in the city. “I have told the director health services to accelerate the pace of the vaccination. I also appeal to the citizens to come forward and take both doses. This is the most important preventive step,” said Pal.While the city has already achieved its first dose target, with around 109% eligible beneficiaries (including migrants) inoculated, the second dose coverage stands at 41%. “We are doing fine in vaccination drive. Our target was to complete the second dose vaccination by December 15. However, I have told the health department to complete this process as early as possible,” said the adviser.The health department has also been directed to review their preparedness for the third wave, by taking stock of Covid beds, medicines and medical oxygen supply.“In my assessment, we are reasonably prepared for a surge this time around. Medical oxygen plants are ready. For liquid oxygen supply, contracts are in place. Covid bed capacity has been enhanced at a number of places. Separate wards for children have been created. Buffer stock of Covid medicine has also been created. But a review will ensure that there are no shortcomings,” said Pal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-links-services-with-vax-certificate-or-ve-report-101630264601256.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||Trash mountains: another type of Mumbai high rise||Mumbai, 1896: “A tide of rats overwhelmed the city following the retreat of the monsoon. They ran “about the streets… issuing from drains, gutters in a sick or dying state,” the British municipal report noted. The result was one of the deadliest pandemics to hit what was then Bombay. The dead rats were found with buboes or swellings, which doctors began noticing on fever-stricken patients. The Bubonic plague claimed more than 1,900 people each week that year. Then, as now, home isolation and quarantining was necessary medical procedure. But the colonial government undertook measures often by force, which led to a mass exodus of people from the city that had, by the turn of the century, become a centre for migrants from around the country. The British had built a fort, reclaimed land from the sea to join the islands and, on the sliver that emerged, built stately European buildings. Outside the fort, the lanes were packed with Indian migrants, drawn from around the country by the promise of work. Over time, the garbage dumping grounds at Mahalaxmi, where Mumbaiites had sent their garbage for years, swelled into the homes around it. Early in 1897, with the plague cases rising, the British officers identified a marshland in the distant seaside village of Deonar, where Bombay’s waste could be sent henceforth. The government acquired the land from its owner, Ardeshir Cursetji Cama, in May. A bund, or embankment, was built along the edges of the Deonar grounds to keep the sea from seeping into the site, and the garbage from flowing into the creek. “Cuchra” or trash trains began arriving at the Deonar grounds on June 7, 1899. “One great danger to the public health will be removed with the removal of the refuse,” official reports said. Over the century, the grounds have risen with the city’s trash making mountains of garbage nearly as tall as 18-storey buildings. Spread over 300 acres, it’s a township that houses Mumbai’s castaway belongings, diseases and people. Inhabiting the landfill From the late 1960s, the municipality began to relocate Mumbai’s pavement and slum dwellers to Deonar allotting them plots of land: those who came from Umarkhadi called their settlement, near the gate of the dumping ground, Umarkhadi. Others who were sent from Bandra called theirs Bandra Plot. The settlers began to trawl through the grounds to sort and resell cloth scraps, paper and metal as a means of earning a livelihood. As the decades passed, the city’s trash changed: cloth scraps shrank on the mountains, plastic — broken televisions, squashed bottles and plastic sheets —increased. These didn’t meld into the earth as food and cloth did, but only fed the growing mountains. Deonar is one of Asia’s largest dumping grounds and is probably its oldest too. It reflects the dizzying growth and swelling desires of a city. The landfill currently holds between 13 million to 16 million tonnes of garbage, with at least 2000 Metric Tonnes (MT) added to it daily. But the absence of a waste management system has begun to hurt the city, starting with the lives of the people living closest to the landfill. Some of the most common ailments to be found among the residents here include asthma, multiple drug resistant tuberculosis, cuts, bruises and eye disorders. Several studies have been conducted over the years to assess the impact of the landfill on the city. A 2012 study showed that benzene, a carcinogenic, festered in the mountain air, many times greater than at any of the landfills the authors looked at elsewhere in the world. Medical studies from 2009 showed the haze around the mountain was thick with the carcinogenic chemical, formaldehyde. Most recently, a paper published in the Clinical Epidemiology and Global Health journal pointed out that people staying in the vicinity of dumping ground within the radius of a kilometre (“exposed group”) had more instances of respiratory illnesses, eye disorders and gastrointestinal problems than a group from a distant community living with similar socio-economic conditions.One hundred and twenty two years since it first came as the result of a plague, a new pandemic grips the city. The grounds now house the waste of a new disease: face masks, sanitizer bottles and latex gloves; more plastic and organic waste from hospitals and homes. Around 2005, the civic body made a waste processing facility at Kanjurmarg, where more than 80% of the city’s waste is currently processed. Efforts to build such a waste-to-power plant for the Deonar landfill waste have been on for well over three decades, yet a plant is still to come up. (Saumya Roy is the author of Mountain Tales: Love and Loss in the Municipality of Castaway Belongings, a book about the waste-pickers of Deonar whose lives are caught in the crosshairs of legal, political and public health concerns. Published by Profile Books, distributed by Hachette India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trash-mountains-another-type-of-mumbai-high-rise-101630264481433.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Canada gurdwaras’ council against plan to print ‘saroops’ abroad||As many as 20 managing committees of gurdwaras in Canada have expressed their disenchantment with the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) over its plan to allow printing of holy ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib in foreign countries. In a meeting held on August 23, the SGPC executive committee had resolved to set up the presses in the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and some European countries, citing the “long-pending demand” of the Sikh diaspora. Taking exception to the plan, representatives of British Columbia Gurdwaras’ Council comprising 20 shrine bodies, has written to SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, saying the holy saroops were available as required. “Some people in Canada are misguiding the SGPC that there is dire need for printing saroops there. This is not a reality. If any devotee in Canada wants to install the saroop at home, he or she can contact us. We are able to meet this requirement. Before printing more saroops, there is need to ensure that the existing ones are being given due respect and sanctity,” said Moninder Singh, spokesperson of the council. As per an edict issued by the Akal Takht in 1998, the rights of printing the saroops are reserved with the SGPC and any other institution seeking to do so has to take permission of the apex gurdwara body. Canada-based Sikh leaders Ripudaman Singh Malik and Balwant Singh Pandher have been demanding printing of saroops there. Around a year ago, they printed the saroops without taking permission from the SGPC. The Akal Takht had taken a strong notice of this as it angered the Sikhs in Canada. On Takht’s direction, the press and saroops were confiscated from their custody and shifted to a gurdwara in Surrey. The Canadian gurdwara bodies see Malik and Pandher influence behind the SGPC plan. Malik who runs Khalsa schools in Canada and was acquitted in 1985 Air India Kanishka bombing by Canadian judiciary in 2005, has been in regular touch with some key SGPC office-bearers and officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/canada-gurdwaras-council-against-plan-to-print-saroops-abroad-101630264241222.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Post-revamp: Hi-tech galleries at Jallianwala Bagh enthral visitors||Four museum galleries are the new attractions for the visitors at Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial that was reopened after renovation for the public on Sunday. The refurbished monument was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday through video conferencing. The galleries showcase the Jallianwala massacre and other key events of India’s freedom struggle through projection mapping and 3D representation, photographs and sculptural installations. At night, a light-and-sound show is another attraction at the revamped monument. “I had visited this place three years ago. Today’s Jallianwala bagh is different. The efforts made to display the history through modern techniques is amazing,” said Najar Singh, an elderly from Ludhiana. The garden has illumination and audio notes, besides the eye-catching landscaping and hardscaping. Naresh Kumar, who along with his family came to pay obeisance at Golden Temple situated in the vicinity, made an unscheduled halt after seeing the crowd at the entrance of the Jallianwala Bagh. “I am feeling fortunate for getting the opportunity to visit this place sanctified with the blood of the patriots,” he said. Meanwhile, the activists have also been alleging that the Union government has vanished originality of the national monument in the name of its renovation. They opposed the new look given to the narrow lane through which the British troops entered the garden to shoot at thousands of Indians assembled there on April 13, 1919. The redevelopment was done to mark the centenary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. No clarity on entry ticket Even as Rajya Sabha MP and trustee of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, Shwait Malik, had assured free entryto the after reopening, four ticket counters can be seen at the entrance of the memorial. Though Malik is reiterating free entry, security guards deployed there said the entry will be free for only a week and after that tickets will be available. Families of those killed in the massacre and activists have been opposing the paid entry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/postrevamp-hi-tech-galleries-at-jallianwala-bagh-enthral-visitors-101630263883873.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: SCD college alumnus and former Pakistan MP Muhammad Hamza passes away at 92||With the death of 92- year- old economist and veteran Pakistani politician Muhammad Hamza on Sunday, SCD Government College lost its last alumni link to the country’s neighbour. He breathed his last at Gojra city in Pakistan.Hamza was born on March 20, 1929, at Habib Road near old civil hospital in Ludhiana. His early education from local Islamia School near Wait Ganj.The SCD Government College for Boys Alumni Association condoled death of Hamza, who was a student of the college before 1947 and later became a member of Parliament in Pakistan. He was a popular political figure and known for his strong views.He moved to Pakistan during his final year of bachelors to join Government College, Lahore, from Government College for Boys, Ludhiana, where he pursued BA economics.Alumni coordinators Brij Goyal and Navdeep Singh said that in 2015, Hamza came to visit his alma mater with his son from Pakistan and his grand cousins, now living in Ludhiana.According to deputy shahi imam of Punjab, Mohammad Usman Rehmani Ludhianvi, who is also Hamza’s relative, Hamza was a member of senate of Pakistan from March 2012 to March 2018 and member of the National Assembly of Pakistan between 1985 and 1999. He had been a member of the West Pakistan Legislative Assembly from 1962 to 1969. Hamza has served twice as the Chairman of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of Pakistan.“He was Punjabi first and Ludhiana lived in his heart. Belonging to the family of freedom fighters, he maintained that Partition was an unfortunate incident,” said Ludhianvi.Harblas Hira, an alumnus and teacher who authored a coffee table book on SCD college in its centenary year, included details of his revisit to the college.Dr Kamal Kishore, an alumnus and now in-charge of the college’s evening wing, recollects how Hamza expressed his love for the place where he was born. During his last visit, Hamza wrote, “ It is a privilege to be here at my alma mater. It is a place of my dreams. I pray for the well being and progress of the students of my college.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-scd-college-alumnus-and-former-pakistan-mp-muhammad-hamza-passes-away-at-92-101630263703224.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court sends actor Armaan Kohli in NCB custody for one day||Bollywood actor and former Bigg Boss contestant Armaan Kohli, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drug case, was remanded in the agency’s custody for a day by a local court on Sunday afternoon. NCB claimed that they have seized more than one gram of cocaine from the actor’s house during the raid. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede led the raid at the actor’s bungalow situated in Vikas Park society at Juhu, on Saturday. The search started around 2pm and went on for six hours, during which a small quantity of cocaine was allegedly seized from his house. The raid was part of the agency’s ‘Rolling Thunder’ operation to bust the network of drug peddlers and suppliers in Mumbai, said Wankhede.NCB said on Sunday that in accordance with its zero-tolerance policy against drug trafficking in Mumbai, one major drug peddler, Ajay Raju Singh, was intercepted near Haji Ali and 25 grams of MD (Mephedrone) was allegedly recovered from him. Singh is a history sheeter and a huge quantity of ephedrine had been recovered from him by Mumbai’s anti-narcotics cell (ANC) in 2018, an NCB officer said. Singh had been supplying drugs to high-profile people, including in Bollywood, said the NCB officer. “We have been questioning him and scrutinising his call records to get more details about his drug connection,” added the officer. Kohli was a contestant on Bigg Boss 7 and made headlines for his volatile temper. He has starred in several films such as Dushman Zamana (1992), Anaam (1993), Qahar (1997) and Jaani Dushman: Ek Anokhi Kahani (2002).The raid on Kohli was based on Singh’s statement, the officer said. Kohli was questioned and arrested under contravention of small quantity of drugs, financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders, punishment for attempts to commit offences and for abetment, and criminal conspiracy under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Under the Rolling Thunder drive, the agency has so far carried out 15 raids in the past two days and arrested eight people, including TV actor Gaurav Dixit and two Nigerian nationals. Contrabands such as MD, charas, MDMA (Methylenedioxymethamphetamine) and Ecstasy tables were seized during these raids, the NCB officer quoted above said.Dixit was arrested after his name cropped up during actor Ajaz Khan’s interrogation. MD and Charas were allegedly seized from Dixit’s house during a raid by the agency in April, after which he went absconding. Dixit was nabbed and produced in the court on Saturday and sent to NCB’s custody till Monday.Last year, several celebrities, including Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh, were questioned by NCB in connection with an investigation into the alleged drug abuse in Bollywood, following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The investigation so far has also revealed international links and NCB is probing the routes and contacts used to bring cocaine to Mumbai and the involvement of other traffickers, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-sends-actor-armaan-kohli-in-ncb-custody-for-one-day-101630263461971.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: PAU hockey stadium to finally get a facelift||Punjab Agricultural University’s hockey stadium, which has been in a shabby state for the past several years, is finally set to get a ₹83 lakh renovation under the Smart City Mission. Built in honour of Olympian Prithipal Singh, the stadium’s infrastructure had been deteriorating due to government apathy and veteran players and residents had been demanding a makeover for the past four to five years. The municipal corporation (MC) has now issued work orders for the project, which will include renovation of changing room, shed rooms and washrooms; setting up irrigation system/sprinklers; chain-linked fencing around the ground; renovation of electrical system and installation of new control panel for water-pump room; installation of new light poles and retrofitting of existing light panels etc. MC officials said the project has been prepared after consultation with hockey veterans and Ludhiana hockey association and the renovation work will begin soon.Veteran players said the decision to renovate the ground has come as a major relief as the infrastructure was deteriorating and they have been seeking renovation for the last 4-5 years. The Astro turf is in playable condition but the sprinkler system does not work properly and most of the washrooms/changing rooms are also in a bad state. The chain-linked fencing around the ground also needs to be changed as the holes in the fencing are big and the ball passes through it. Windowpanes have also been broken at different points, which are an open invitation to trespassers, they said.Ludhiana hockey association secretary Ajaypal Singh and former hockey player Mohinder Gill said veteran players had been pitching in to maintain the ground until now.Appreciating the efforts being put in by MC to renovate the ground, the veteran hockey players said the administration should now make arrangements for maintenance after renovation.Former Olympian Hardeep Singh Grewal and veteran hockey player Jagbir Grewal said that hockey has now touched new heights with the performance of men’s and women’s hockey teams in Tokyo Olympics. “The administration should improve the hockey infrastructure in the district to attract more youngsters towards the sport,” said Jagbir Grewal.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Infrastructure for different sports is being developed or upgraded under the smart city mission. The projects are being planned after conducting field visits to ensure all issues being faced by players are resolved.”TT stadium to come up at sports complex near Rakh BaghThe municipal corporation (MC) has decided to establish a table tennis court at the sports complex near Rakh Bagh. It will come up under the Smart City Mission at a cost of ₹1.81 crores and work orders to start the construction have been issued. Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said the facility will be ready in around six months.The project includes construction of new complex adjoining the shooting range, installation of sports, electrical equipment and lights and construction of a seating area. The roof of the TT court will be clubbed with the shooting range, to provide more space to the players. As per the Ludhiana District Table Tennis Association, there is currently a court on the first floor of the Shastri hall near Rakh Bagh, but the facility does match international standards. Under the new project, around a dozen tables will be provided to the players in comparison to four which are available at Shastri hall. Working secretary of the district association and international TT player Manmeet Singh, said, “The current facility is under Sports Authority of India, but it does not meet international standards. Establishment of a bigger facility will help improve our game, as the air speed in small and big facilities make a lot of difference. Also, the facility is being established as per the international standards. We have been seeking such a facility for a long time and the effort being put in by MC and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu is appreciable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pau-hockey-stadium-to-finally-get-a-facelift-101630263232584.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||UCPMA elections: Candidates organising cocktail parties, moving door-to-door to woo voters||With candidates all set to file nominations for the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) elections on Monday, members of both the Chawla and Sachdeva (United Alliance) groups have been campaigning rigorously to woo voters.Apart from moving from door-to-door to garner support and calling up voters over phone, cocktail parties are also being organised. Messages seeking support and taking digs at the opposition are also being circulated on social media platforms..On Sunday too, cocktail parties were organised by Chawla and Sachdeva groups at marriage palaces on Ferozepur Road and Dugri Road, respectively. There are 1,668 eligible voters for the elections this year and both groups say they have received overwhelming response to their campaigning efforts.Chawla group’s candidate for the post of president and current president of the association, DS Chawla said, “The other group has been promoting violence and politicising the association, which the members are against. We have been approaching all the members individually and are confident of victory.”Similarly, Sachdeva (United alliance) group’s candidate for post of President, Avtar Bhogal, said that the members want to see development, which has taken a backseat during Chawla’s tenure as president. “We will work to upgrade the bicycle industry after winning the elections.”Presiding officer for the elections, Parupkar Singh Ghumman said, “The members cannot organise a party at the UCPMA office, but the election committee has no jurisdiction outside the premises. The members will be allowed to file nominations at the office from 9am to 5pm on Monday, following which they will be scrutinised. The nominations can be withdrawn on August 31 and the elections will be held on September 3.”The current executive has been divided into two groups. While current president DS Chawla and secretary Harsimarjit Singh Lucky comprise one group, the other group consists of the rest of the six executive members of the association led by general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva. Former presidents of the association including Charanjit Vishwakarma, Inderjit Navyug and senior members of the association have also formed United Alliance group in support of Sachdeva group.Chawla group gets new candidate for V-P’s postNarinder Mahajan, who had been nominated by Chawla group for the post of vice-president, has backed out of the elections citing personal reasons. The rival group took a dig, stating that the Chawla group candidates have already started to step back before elections. Mahajan has been replaced by Gurcharan Singh Deol as candidate for the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ucpma-elections-candidates-organising-cocktail-parties-moving-door-to-door-to-woo-voters-101630263226328.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||Union minister Narayan Rane concludes yatra in Maharashtra||The face-off between Union micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) minister Narayan Rane and Shiv Sena continued on Sunday as his 10-day ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ culminated at his home turf Sindhudurg. Rane targeted Sena leader Sanjay Raut, saying if he doesn’t stop personal attacks through Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, he will let out secrets from his Marathi publication ‘Prahaar’. Rane also dismissed speculation that his mellow tone against the Sena chief was due to a meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis last Friday and said that getting soft or mellowing attacks is not in his DNA. On the other hand, Raut targeted the Centre over Rane’s ‘slap’ remark against Thackeray asking why Delhi was backing the ones who disrespect Maharashtra. The statement came in Raut’s weekly column ‘RokThok’, saying the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) leadership, including Amit Shah, JP Nadda, and Maharashtra leaders Fadnavis and state unit chief Chandrakant Patil, called action against Rane as “unconstitutional”. Raut in said that Rane’s sons were responsible for their father’s downfall. “Mr Rane’s sons have damaged his political career the most. Criticism and accepting it is a culture in parliamentary democracy, but Rane’s sons have brought up parents of leaders from Thackerays to Pawars to Rahul Gandhi and even Modi. This has damaged Rane the most. Soon such criticism will come from Fadnavis and Chandrakant Patil.” “An editorial is being printed against my sons. But he (Raut) should first understand what his children are doing. Both [my sons] are smart and educated...” Rane during his speeches in Kankavli and Dodamarg in Sindhudurg targeted Raut and said that he is leading the Sena towards a decline. “When he comes before me in Rajya Sabha, he says namaskar, and says, ‘I am with you’. He tells Uddhav Thackeray that he is a true Sainik then he quietly sneaks to Sharad Pawar’s office and tells him ‘I am with you’. Who are you with? He is a daily wager, a temporary employee,” Rane said. The union minister said that he received a rousing welcome wherever he went in his tour of Palghar, Mumbai, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts and said that Sena’s presence was hardly visible in Konkan. Referring to his arrest and subsequent bail after the ‘slap’ remark against Thackeray on Tuesday, Rane said that there was a “bad omen” when a “cat crossed his path”, the tour was a success. Rane also attacked deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar saying he was “ignorant”. Responding to Rane’s remark, Pawar told reporters, “He is a union minister, he must focus on his job, while we in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) are doing our work.” Raut also wrote in the party mouthpiece that Rane has been speaking in unparliamentary language against Sena chief and its leaders for over 20 years now. Raut said that Rane was arrested because he threatened Thackeray. Justifying the action taken by the Maharashtra government, he added that many people have been arrested for threatening Prime Minister Modi, Yogi Adityanath, and Devendra Fadnavis. As a policy of Maharashtra BJP, its spokesperson said they do not comment on Saamana editorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/union-minister-narayan-rane-concludes-yatra-in-maharashtra-101630263224903.html
30-08-2021||Chandigarh||Manual scavenging in Ludhiana continues as MC, sewermen trade charges||Amid row over manual scavenging and lack of machinery and safety kits available with the municipal corporation (MC) to ensure safety of sewermen, the practice still rampant in the city despite being banned.As per MC officials, the civic body has 16 jetting machines and 32 manhole desilting machines for 95 wards, which are divided into 16 sub-zones. On an average, 25 to 30 complaints of clogged sewer lines are received everyday from each sub-zone. Around 1,700 contractual and permanent sewermen are employed by the civic body and in absence of proper machinery, they are sometimes forced to clean manholes manually.Even though officials claim that the civic body has four shoulder mounted oxygen sets, 148 safety belts, 25 air breathing kits, 150 safety helmets and 47 gas masks among other equipment, these are not being put to use adequately. While officials claim that the sewermen do not use the equipment as it becomes difficult to work with the gear on, the sewermen allege that it is not provided to them. Most times, sewermen are seen entering manholes with only a safety belt, which is used to pull them out if lose consciousness after inhaling poisonous gases.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said that they also try to avoid manual scavenging due to the risks involved. But, in some cases, it becomes impossible to clean the sewer line without entering the manhole in absence of proper machinery. “If something solid gets stuck inside the manhole, it has to be removed manually. Even if the line can be cleaned with the help of machinery, the sewerman has to enter to plug the manhole and stop the flow of sewerage.”MC Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Strict directions have been issued to the staffers to stop manual scavenging in the city and action will be taken against officials if an incident of a sewermen entering a manhole without safety kit is reported. Even if it is necessary to manually clean a sewer line, then a safety kit will be provided and the work will be done in the presence of a junior engineer or sub-divisional officer.”Non-availability of gas detectorsEven as a large number of accidents have reported in the past wherein the sewermen have died or lost consciousness while involved in manual scavenging, the civic body does not have gas detectors to check the presence of poisonous gases before the employee enters the manhole.Sabharwal said, “Apart from the machinery and equipment already available with the civic body, we are also purchasing 33 more kits worth around ₹2.5 crore, which will include oxygen cylinders, gas detector, cover all suits and safety belts. It is being purchased under the National Clean Air Program (NCAP).”Commission recommends FIR, seek details of equipmentAfter the Chairman of Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission Geja Ram Valmiki found sewermen involved in manual scavenging in areas like Jugiana and Model Town in the last two months, the commission has recommended an FIR against MC officials concerned and sought information from the civic body regarding the machinery available and the safety equipment provided.Geja Ram said that around two weeks have elapsed after the report was sought by the commission, but the MC has failed to submit it. “A reminder will be sent and if they still fail to submit the details, action will be recommended against the officials concerned. Further, the commission will move court, if an FIR is not registered against the MC officials for forcing sewermen to enter the manhole,” said Ram.MC officials including executive engineers, sub-divisional officers and junior engineers also locked horns with Ram, after he recommended an FIR against the MC executive engineer and SDO for allegedly forcing the sewermen to enter manhole without safety kits in Jugiana area on July 16. The MC officials alleged that the chairman had forced the employees to enter the manhole, to implicate MC staffers.Councillors seek manual scavenging with safety kitsAfter the commission tightened noose around the MC over the illegal practice, civic body officials have issued strict directions to stop manual scavenging in the city. This has irked the councillors, especially those representing the outer wards of the city, as the MC is unable to clean the choked sewer lines due to lack of machinery. Now, with manual scavenging not allowed, accumulated sewage water on the streets is taking a toll on residents. Councillors including Paramjit Singh (ward number 28), Gurdeep Neetu (ward number 52) among others have been demanding manual scavenging of sewer lines after providing safety kits to sewermen. Gej Ram said that manual scavenging can be allowed, but only after providing proper safety kits including oxygen cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manual-scavenging-in-ludhiana-continues-as-mc-sewermen-trade-charges-101630263222995.html
30-08-2021||Lucknow||Women students outnumber men in Uttar Pradesh colleges, univs, says higher education directorate report||The constant efforts made over the past few decades to promote education among women and girls in Uttar Pradesh are finally starting to show results, officials have said.The latest data of the state’s higher education department shows that the girls and women enrolled in state universities and colleges affiliated to them in Uttar Pradesh far outnumber the men and boys, the officials said.In the past four years, the number of girls enrolling for higher education increased by 13%, they added.The latest report of the UP Higher Education Directorate sent to the state government said 27 state universities and 7,391 degree colleges of UP in 2020-21 session have a total of 50,21,277 students enrolled in them, out of which 62.95% are women. The count of men 18,60,220 (37%), they added. Four years ago, in the academic session 2017-18, there were a total of 55,74,638 registered students in UP’s higher educational institutions and the number included 27,77,137 women amounting to 49.81% as compared to 27,97,501 (50.18%) men, officials said.Director (higher education) Amit Bharadwaj said that a change in the social perception finally led to girls being encouraged to go for academics, making use of the various government schemes that allow free of cost education to girls right from schools to the college and university level.“Earlier, many parents were prompted to invest in boys’ education believing that they would support the home and be a pillar of strength during old age but with time and awareness, the realisation has finally sunk in that educated girls can not only be good professionals and support homes, but also lead a confident life of self-respect,” he added.Government data shows that this trend of rising number of girls in educational institutions in the state is also visible at the school level. The number of girls registering for UP Board’s class 10 exams has doubled in the past three decades.In 1991, UP Board had a total of 17,75,602 registered students for high school exams that included 14,04,519 boys (79.10%) and 3,71,083 girls (20.89%). However, in 2021, there were a total of 29,94,312 students registered for the class 10 exams that included 16,74,022 boys (55.90%) and 13,20,290 girls (44.09%). Psychologists also credit this situation to the change in the outlook of parents. “The change in the perception and outlook of parents is the main factor responsible for this welcome change over the years. Better social security being provided to girls is another reason for it. Earlier, parents residing in rural areas were especially reluctant in terms of educating girls, especially allowing them to pursue higher education. However, as the importance of education sunk in, and the various government initiatives, including free education, scholarships, systematic counselling as well as campaigns on radio, TV, all played their vital roles in bringing about this change,” said Dr Usha Chandra, director of the Bureau of Psychology, UP.This trend in UP is along the lines of the pattern being witnessed at the national level, said Prof Badri Narayan, noted social scientist and director of GB Pant Social Science Institute.He said the All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) 2019-20 released in June 2021 showed that apart from more females being enrolled in MPhil, postgraduate and certificate level courses in universities and colleges, they were also continuing to dominate in medical sciences, BA and BSc programmes.“However, the share of female students is the lowest in institutes of national importance where there has been an overall increase of over 18% in female enrolment in higher education between 2015-16 and 2019-20 as per the report,” he said.The Gross Enrolment Ratio of females stands at 27.3%, which is better in comparison to that of males at 26.9%. The survey also found a very high and sharp increase of female participation at MA, MSc and MCom courses during the last five years, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/women-students-now-far-outnumber-men-in-uttar-pradesh-colleges-universities-says-high-education-department-report-101630263161290.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||Operation Muskaan: Mumbai Police trace 12,278 of 13,005 missing kids since 2014||In 2014, Mumbai Police undertook a special drive – Operation Muskaan – to trace missing children who were found wandering in the city, and reunite them with their families. The missing children bureau traced 299 of the 346 kids reported missing in Mumbai.Since its inception till July this year, when the police conducted the 10th round of the special drive, 12,278 of the 13,005 missing children have been traced and about 4,000 of them have been reunited with their families under Operation Muskaan. Since 2014, 621 girls and 226 boys are missing.According to police officers, around 120 children – a maximum of whom are in the 10-18 age group – go missing in the city every month. In most of the cases, the police register a kidnapping case to compel investigation officers to put in more efforts to trace and/rescue the missing child.Operation Muskaan – which is being coordinated by Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Balsing Rajput, currently posted as deputy commissioner of police (preventive) in Mumbai crime branch – was launched by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).According to Rajput, there are at least 67 reasons why children go missing. These include kidnapping and abduction, which are done for various reasons such as trafficking, sexual exploitation, forced marriage and child labour. Another major reason behind children above the age of 15 years going missing is elopement. The other reasons include abusive families and unemployment within the families, owing to which children run away from their homes.Apart from the routine duties, all the 93 police stations in Mumbai have a dedicated team of a sub-inspector and four constables to trace the missing children.After tracing and rescuing the missing child, the police have to counsel and convince them to reveal their address or mobile numbers of their parents, which is the most difficult task in cases wherein a child has left home and away and does not wish to return.“We counsel the child, but when we find out that they don’t want to go home, we hand them over to the child welfare committee (CWC) to rehabilitate them,” said Rajput.If the child is ready to return to their house, it becomes the duty of the police officers to escort them to their house and reunite them with their parents or guardians.“The manpower is less but we make sure that the kid is accompanied by a police constable. If it’s a girl, a woman constable accompanies her to her house,” said Rajput.“We have an SOP (standard operating procedure) specifying the number of police officers who need to accompany the kid, depending on the distance of travel,” added Rajput.Talking about financial difficulties, Rajput said that earlier the money spent was shelled out by the police officers accompanying the child but now the police are given a budget or are refunded on their returns after the state decided to give them ‘investigation fund’ since 2015.“All the bills have to be maintained for the refund,” said Rajput.The amount spent includes train tickets of the police constables and the child along with food expanses, travel within the home town to trace or reunite the child and the staying expenses of the police officers which is about ₹5,000 per trip, according to the police.Apart from rescuing the kids and rehabilitating them, the police also follow up on their progress.“Even after rescuing them, many kids find their way back to the same streets and began begging or working. We follow up on the kids we rescue even if they are sent back to their homes in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar where parents are mostly responsible of throwing them back to the streets, especially in begging rackets,” said a police officer from the missing bureau of Mumbai Police which works along with several non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in Maharashtra and other states as well as with CWC to make sure that a missing kid is back to where they are loved and nurtured.3 boys reunited with families in UPThree months ago during a police bandobast, a 10-year-old boy was spotted roaming around without an adult in Andheri (East).On searching him, the police found a stash of cash worth ₹10,000 in his bag. The boy’s dialect was difficult for the police to understand but they gauged that it was from Uttar Pradesh (UP). However, in spite of hours of counselling, the kid refused to divulge any details on how he came to Mumbai or where his parents were. The police then contacted a man from UP who served them tea and asked him to talk to the boy to understand his language, but the tea vendor, too, could not get the boy to reveal his address.On researching on the missing cases in Maharashtra and other states of India, especially UP, the police reached a breakthrough and learnt that three boys had fled from Phulpur village in UP on June 10. Two of the missing boys were traced in Valsad on July 2 and the third was still missing.When the boy in Mumbai was told about his friends in Valsad, he revealed that his parents used to hit him over studies. So he and his friends planned to leave their homes and come to Mumbai to look out for work. The boys had stolen all the cash they found at their respective houses before leaving. The other boys traced from Valsad were brought to Mumbai and handed over to CWC. On July 10, the police officers counselled the boy. Two constables took the three boys to UP where they were reunited with their parents.Teen flees to Bihar, reunited with parentsA 16-year-old girl from Dahisar was reported missing by her parents on April 15. The police officers registered a kidnapping case.On tracking the girl’s social media account, the police learnt that she had befriended a 16-year-old boy from Bihar and had been chatting with him. On asking the girl’s friends, the police officers learnt that the two had an affair and the girl had eloped with the boy.The police tracked the girl’s mobile phone to Darbhanga in Bihar, after she had switched it on. On May 10, a police team left for Darbhanga and four days later, the officers traced the couple to the boy’s house with the help of the local police. After counselling, the girl was reunited with her parents in Mumbai on June 15.As the boy was a minor, the police had handed him over to CWC for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/operation-muskaan-mumbai-police-trace-12-278-of-13-005-missing-kids-since-2014-101630262861420.html
30-08-2021||Other||UP celebrates NationalSports Day with gusto||LUCKNOW Hockey great Major Dhyan Chand remained the centre of discussion in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Maan Ki Baat’ programme on Sunday, which coincided with the National Sports Day to mark the birth anniversary of India’s most successful hockey captain. Prime Minister Modi cited Dhyan Chand’s example on his 116th anniversary to urge youth to strive for excellence and leave a mark in all walks of life, including sports, space and start ups. “Major Dhyan Chand established India in hockey. We may win many laurels, but the nation has always craved for a win in hockey. Major Dhyan Chand showed us the way, now we must continue to progress on it,” he said. A series of activities were organized across the state to mark the National Sports Day. In Jhansi, the home town of Dhyan Chand, the Uttar Pradesh Hockey announced the conduct of the Senior National Women’s Hockey Championship in October. “It’s an attempt to give a fillip to the sport in Jhansi, which is the home town of “Dadda Dhyanchand”,” said UPH’s secretary RP Singh, who also happens to be the director, sports of UP. “India winning a bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics, first in an Olympic after 41 years, has been a big boost to the sport and it’s time for everyone to take the sport forward by conducting a big event,” he said, adding, “Uttar Pradesh has always been one of the biggest hubs of hockey players in India and the conduct of the women’s hockey in Jhansi will be a big inspiration to the hockey players as well as fans there.” On the occasion, a number of former hockey greats like Zafar Iqbal, Vineet Kumar, Romeo James, Onkar Singh, Ashok Dewan, Ashok Kumar, Tushar Khandekar, Abdul Aziz and Jalaluddin etc were felicitated. They also played an exhibition hockey match. The National Sports Day was also observed across the state. The five-a-side astro-turf stadium at the Green Park Stadium in Kanpur witnessed the conduct of the two-day hockey tournament with Green Park Green XI beating ABC XI by a solitary goal. Babu Society A beat Mohd Shahid XI by 3-0 in Lucknow. In Varanasi, the UP Soccer Foundation conducted a football tournament. Players like Saket, Mona, Nilesh, Babu and Brijesh were honoured with gold medals. The foundation also announced the adoption of young girl Khushi and promised to take care of her education and sport. The National Sports Day celebrations also took place at Agra, Prayagraj, Unnao, Barabanki, Ghaziabad, Azamgarh and Gorakhpur etc. Award announced Celebrating the 100th Foundation Day, Jhansi’s Heroz Club on Sunday announced ‘Major Dhyan Chand Sports Inspiration Award’ every year. To start with, the Heroz Club Sports Development Committee chose chairperson of Reliance Foundation, Nita Ambani and president of ‘Sports A Way of Life’ organization, Dr Kanishka Pandey for this prestigious. While announcing the names, Ashok Dhyan Chand, son of Major Dhyan Chand, said the contribution of Ambani and Pandey in sports development in this country was immense. The two would be awarded on September 30. “A seven-member committee, including Olympians and awardees would pick the awardees every year and it would be given to them on September 30 of at their residence,” said a release. Ashok Dhyan Chand also informed that deputy chief minister Keshav Maurya had approved the construction of a road in the name of Dhyan Chand under a special scheme being run for the Uttar Pradesh’s sportspersons by the public works department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-celebrates-nationalsports-day-with-gusto-101630262801450.html
30-08-2021||Bangalore||BJP Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh to visit Mysuru today||Arun Singh, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka will be visiting Mysuru on Monday as part of a tour in the region, the party said in a statement on Sunday. “BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka, Arun Singh will arrive in Bengaluru international airport at 5.30 pm on Monday and will head to Mysuru and stay in the government guest house. On August 31 at 8 am, he will visit Chamundeshwari temple and then go to Mysuru, Mysuru rural and Chamarajanagar where will have meetings district level meetings with the core committee, mandal president and general secretary,” the statement said. He will then leave for Hassan and Mandya district before returning to Bengaluru. He will then head to Hubbali, return to Bengaluru and then head back to Delhi. The tour comes at a time when the BJP is holding meetings across the state to consolidate its support base ahead of the yet-to-be announced zilla and taluka panchayat elections in Karnataka which, political leaders and observers said, would give some indications on where each of the three major outfits in Karnataka stand before the 2023 assembly polls. At least three urban local body polls in Karnataka--Hubbali-Dharwad, Kalaburagi and Belagavi will go the polls on September 3. The BJP in Karnataka has been at the receiving end of criticism over the last two years under BS Yediyurappa, the infighting and allegations of corruption against the former chief minister and his family. The crisis within the party continued with the replacement of Yediyurappa with Basavaraj Bommai who appears to have inherited the same problems with legislators openly airing voices of dissent and Cabinet colleagues trying to hold the chief minister to ransom, demanding a change in portfolios. There is also unrest among the BJP legislators for having missed the Cabinet berths and continuing to make statements that have compounded the saffron outfits troubles in the state. The recent gang-rape case in Mysuru also saw several Cabinet ministers like Araga Jnanendra, Anand Singh and Shivaram Hebbar making statements questioning the victim and adding to its troubles. Chief minister Bommai , earlier had issued a stern warning against ministers making such comments that would further embarrass the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-karnataka-in-charge-arun-singh-to-visit-mysuru-today-101630262741654.html
30-08-2021||Bangalore||B’luru Metro inauguration reignites language dispute||Bengaluru The inauguration of the metro extended line on Sunday has once again reignited the language controversy with the organisers and chief minister Basavaraj Bommai accused of sidelining the Kannada language. “It is a shame for Karnataka to ignore Kannada in our metro inauguration programme on the Kengeri purple Route. It is impossible to tolerate the sidelining of Kannada in a government programme. Our metro project is a Central and state partnership project. So why shouldn’t Kannada be a priority?” Dinesh Gundu Rao, the former Karnataka Congress president and in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Goa tweeted in Kannada on Sunday. The controversy erupted as the chief minister was heard speaking in English during much of the event and most of the posters behind were written mostly in English. Rao added that the Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has been working from the beginning to insult Kannada and the language of the state was ignored in Sunday’s inauguration. He added that even the chief minister failed to show love for the language and allowed the programme to be conducted in English to please the centre or union government. “#BJP Regional languages are being suppressed in the BJP’s one-nation one-language concept. It is from this agenda that Kannada was insulted at the inauguration of today’s metro. But the Kannadigas do not tolerate any attempt to murder Kannada. Kannada is not just language, it is the soul of Kannadiga,” Rao said. Reacting to the series of tweets by Rao, (Retd) Capt. Ganesh Karnik, ex-MLC and chief spokesperson for the BJP in Karnataka told HT on Sunday, “The series of tweets in reaction to metro inaugural functions were not in good taste. The observation on the lapse in not having the stage banner in Kannada, which is a lapse on the part of metro authorities and they will be instructed to not make such mistakes in the future.” He further added, “Our party has no second thoughts and will never compromise on any issue pertaining to our language, our water & our land.” Karnik said that the issue was being blown out of proportion by the Congress legislator and that the chief minister had to make an appeal to the central minister Puri for further assistance, expansion and speedy completion of Namma Metro and chose to convince the central minister in English keeping the state’s interest in mind. “It is very mean & unbecoming of a leader who was a cabinet minister earlier and was also the state president of Congress party to post a series of tweets, in an attempt to rake up an emotional issue for political gains which needs to be condemned,” he added. The metro had become the face of this struggle in Karnataka in 2017 as the then Siddaramaiah-led Congress government had questioned the need for putting up signboards in Hindi and English on the trains, stations and other areas. The spark from Siddaramaiah against the Centre including devolution of taxes and languages in 2017 had created a unity of sorts among the five southern states. The sentiment was such that factions that had been warring over Cauvery water in both Tamil Nadu and Karnataka came together on a single platform to take on the Centre’s imposition that was viral on social media with #StopHindiImposition. Local groups in Karnataka, have even defaced billboards, stalled movie releases and opposed politicians and personalities who it considers anti-Kannada or anti-Karnataka in the past. The state has witnessed several such bandhs and movements since the 1980’s Gokak movement, named after a committee headed by VK Gokak. The Gokak agitation, led by the late Dr Rajkumar, one of Kannada cinema’s biggest stars, was a language -rights agitation that took place in the 1980’s that fought for primacy to be given to Kannada in state schools over Sanskrit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bluru-metro-inauguration-reignites-language-dispute-101630262623363.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||Teachers raise red flag over dip in fundamental courses’ enrolments in Mumbai varsity||There is an overall declining trend in enrolment to regular courses in the University of Mumbai (MU). The enrolment data provided by the varsity in written replies to the questions by Bombay University and College Teachers Union (BUCTU) Senate members shows an overall decline of 13% from 2019-20 to 2020-21 in the entry point of regular courses in science, commerce and arts.Tapati Mukhopadhyay, president, Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO) and Madhu Paranjape, general secretary, BUCTU, tell HT what the dipping numbers mean. What do the declining numbers for enrolment at the entry point for regular courses mean? How do we put the numbers in context of the Covid-19 pandemic?In case of Mumbai and Thane districts, the decline in entry-level enrolment is 13.8 and 13.9 %, respectively. The overall decline is highest for first-year (FY) BA (Bachelors of Arts) at 17.1%. Though there are inter-district variations in the enrolment, in Mumbai district, there is a decline in enrolment in all faculties. In regular courses like BA, BCom (Bachelor of Commerce) and BSc (Bachelor of Science) enrolment has declined from those registered in 2017-18 to 2018-19 and 2019-20. In absolute figures, the decline from 2019-20 (pre-pandemic period) to 2020-21 (pandemic and lockdown period) at entry level (first year) is 18,098.The enrolment trends in the three regular courses – BA, BCom and BSc – are completely opposite for the pre-pandemic and pandemic periods. It is pertinent to note that these three courses account for the bulk of enrolment – 61% – in 2019-20.MU has been trying to increase the number of courses in Palghar and Sindhudurg. What do enrolment figures in different districts say about demand for courses?For science faculty, the overall decline in FY enrolment in BSc is 12%. However, it varies from almost nil in Palghar to 19% in Thane and 21.8% in Sindhudurg. The drop in enrolment from FY (2019-20) to second year (2020-21) is unusual since as per the state government’s decision, all students in intermediate semesters (FY to SY, SY to third year) were eligible for promotion to next class.The highest drop-out in BSc from FY to SY is in Mumbai district at 47.8%. Thus, despite 100% promotion, 3,553 FYBSc students in Mumbai did not take admission in SY in 2020-21. This drop in Raigad was at 17.1%, 15.6% in Sindhudurg, 14.2% in Ratnagiri, 11.4% in Thane and lowest in Palghar at 7.8%. Altogether, 4,944 students from FY science (27.2% ) did not take admission to SY.In the arts faculty, the district-wise decline in FYBA enrolment varies from 12.8% in Mumbai to 21.3% in Sindhudurg and 25.5% in Raigad. Further, the drop in enrolment from FY to SY is highest in arts faculty. District-wise, the proportions of this decline were 35.6% in Mumbai (3,486 dropped), 40.3% in Raigad, and varied from 24 to 29% in other districts.For commerce faculty, the FY enrolment in BCom has declined by 11.9%. However, district-wise it varies from a 2.5% increase in Ratnagiri to 14.6% decline in Mumbai. The highest enrolment of students in MU at entry point is in commerce faculty. There is a total drop of 17,236 students from FY to SY, which is 18.6 %.What do the percentages in decline mean?The average drop from SY to TY by 2.8% appears marginal. In absolute numbers it is 3,327. However, this may not reflect the actual decline. This is because the policy of unconditional promotion – necessitated by the lockdown – led to clearance of a backlog of admissions in final-year due to multiple ATKTs (allowed to keep terms) at intermediate semesters and added to the numbers admitted from SY to TY.Alarmingly, the total dip from FY to SY in BA, BCom and BSc stands at 31,021. This, coupled with the decline of 18,098 enrolments in FY, and 3,327 from SY to TY reveals that at least 49,119 students did not take admission in the colleges in MU in 2020-21.Which courses saw the least demand in 2020-21?The faculty-wise entry point data for all courses (aided and self-financing) from 2009-10 to 2017-18 shows an overall annual growth rate of 3.5%. There are faculty-wise variations.However, in the case of arts, the growth is not consistent. In fact, the pattern is that of overall decline. At the same time, in commerce, though the average growth has been of about 4%, it has not been consistent either.The enrolment in science courses, after a decline in 2010-12, has shown a consistent growth. This is to some extent connected with the oscillating enrolment in technology.What are your suggestions to the university?The critical situation of admissions in various colleges necessitated an analysis of the enrolment data. The drop of more than 50,000 students in BA/BCom/BSc, mostly from FY to SY, is an extremely disturbing trend and requires urgent steps by the university and government.However, the picture is incomplete. The current year’s enrolment data is crucial. If the above trend continues, many fundamental courses will lose the threshold of entry point and face closure. Ironically, it is at this juncture that MU has proposed a Perspective Plan to start 45 new arts, science and commerce colleges from 2022-23. In the present crisis, this will accelerate the closure of many subjects and then of existing aided colleges.While students will be deprived of higher education, several teachers will become surplus. It is imperative that the government takes new policy measures in consultation with all stakeholders to save institutions, subjects, students and staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/teachers-raise-red-flag-over-dip-in-fundamental-courses-enrolments-in-mumbai-varsity-101630262621163.html
30-08-2021||Bangalore||K’taka CM: Will personally take stock of mega projects in capital||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that he will personally monitor all ongoing mega projects in Bengaluru and even dedicate his first working hour of the day to supervise them.Speaking after the inauguration of the 7.5kms extended line of the Bengaluru metro, he said, “The first decision that I have taken, as far as Bengaluru is concerned, is that I will personally supervise the progress of all mega projects in Bengaluru, from (the) CMO (Chief Minister’s office). Within next 20 days my dashboard will be ready, day-to-day updates will be there and I will dedicate my first working hour of the day for supervising the progress of mega projects in Bengaluru.”“We have got a very big vision for Bengaluru, the greatest challenge is whether we will be capable of keeping up the timeline in implementing the projects. Therefore early planning, perfect planning, as well as perfect implementation of the plan is very important,” Bommai further said.Bengaluru’s administrators thrive on its monickers like IT and startup capital and others to appropriate ambitions of wanting it to be recognized as global city. But its poor infrastructure has been the cause for most of its problems with poor quality of roads, lack of basic civic amenities, mismanaged garbage, long-delays in completion of infrastructure projects, unplanned and rapid growth and several others that has brought down the overall quality of life in one of India’s most industrious urban centres.The IT/BT department of Karnataka had even sent out an advisory to technology and other corporations that have offices on outer ring road (ORR) to extend work from home policies to their employees till the end of December 2022 to help reduce imminent congestion due to the metro project on that road.Bommai had said that he will personally supervise projects like the metro, ORR, high speed train from international airport to the city and other infrastructure undertakings.“We will have special authority for health infrastructure in the city, and regarding traffic we have decided to work on 12 high-density roads for seamless traffic movement, also seamless signaling with artificial intelligence.” The government has plans for all-round development of the city that include core areas under the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), about 110 villages that were added to it, and also ‘showcasing’ the Central Business District (CBD).He also said that the city had potential to create 3-4 additional CBD’s in all directions of Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-cm-will-personally-take-stock-of-mega-projects-in-capital-101630262501166.html
30-08-2021||Other||Arjuna awardee wrestler DSP Geetika Jakhar, brother accused of assaulting uncle’s family||Fatehabad DSP and Arjuna awardee wrestler Geetika Jakhar has landed in a controversy after she allegedly went to her uncle’s house in a police vehicle and got into a quarrel with the inmates over some property dispute in Agroha town of Hisar.Interacting with the media in Hisar, her uncle Prakash Veer Singh released the CCTV footage of the incident in which she can be seen entering the house in a police vehicle.“We had lodged a complaint before the Agroha police against Geetika and others but police are yet to register a case. Geetika, her brother Balram Jakhar (who is also a naib tehsildar posted at Bhattu in Fatehabad), and others came to our residence on the night of August 26 and assaulted the family members,” Singh added.He has written to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, state home minister Anil Vij, the Haryana DGP and other senior cops but no action has been taken so far against Geetika and her brother.However, Balram Jakhar said he had gone to the ancestral house in Agroha for some domestic work and Prakash Veer’s family assaulted him. “Police have lodged an FIR against them after I lodged a complaint before them,” he added.And DSP Geetika said she had gone to resolve the issue of ownership of the ancestral house.Agroha police station SHO Priyansu Divan said both sides have lodged complaints against each other.“We have registered an FIR against Geetika’s uncle Prakash Veer, his wife Savita, son Dhrambir, Nisha and Preeti under Sections 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 448 (punishment for house-trespass) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on complaint of Balram.On a complaint filed by Prakash Veer against Geetika and Balram, we have referred the complaint to the Fatehabad DC and SP under Section 197of the CrPC to initiate action.As per government norms, since the complaint has been filed against class-one officials, the FIR will be registered after due permission from higher authorities, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/arjuna-awardee-wrestler-dsp-geetika-jakhar-brother-accused-of-assaulting-uncle-s-family-101630262383468.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||Stakeholders question University of Mumbai’s nod for 74 new colleges||University of Mumbai’s recent announcement of having approved 74 new colleges to its already large brood of affiliated colleges has attracted dissent and arguments from several stakeholders. While varsity officials have pointed that the plan for new colleges – for the 2022-23 academic year – have been approved after taking into consideration the demand, teacher representatives and several senate members have highlighted how this move has been made without following basic statutory laws as prescribed in the Maharashtra State Public University’s Act.“The university statues specifically mention that a special committee should conduct a survey of the location and understand from stakeholders the need for colleges before approving a new college in their perspective plan. However, no such physical survey was conducted. Approving colleges in a city that already is overflowing with colleges, especially for traditional arts, science and commerce, shows zero research by the varsity,” said Tapati Mukhopadhyay, president, Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO).The perspective plan is an annual exercise to chart out MU’s future growth. It provides details about prospective colleges for different regions under the university’s jurisdiction. The plan needs the state government’s nod before it is finalised.Last year, MU had proposed 36 new colleges for academic year 2021-22 in its perspective plan. Later, the state government added 18 more to the list. Eventually, managements of only 24 colleges showed interest and applied, and got the final approval from the state government. This year, more than double the number of colleges has been proposed by the university, and, if approved, the total number of affiliated colleges under MU will cross 900.“Instead of focussing on giving autonomy to colleges, the university is busy adding to its burden by adding new institutes, especially in cities like Mumbai, where there’s already an overflow of colleges. Time and again, we have highlighted the problem of vacant teacher posts, which has left many colleges at the mercy of ad-hoc or visiting faculties. MU should focus on maintaining the existing infrastructure and save the dying colleges,” said a former senior official from the varsity on condition of anonymity. At present, only 42 MU colleges have been awarded the autonomous status while several others are still waiting for approval.The university controls over 840 affiliated colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (NMR), including Thane and Palghar as well as Raigad, Sindhudurg, Daman and Goa. The large area and huge number of colleges, coupled with an acute shortage of staff, often creates administrative problems for the varsity, affecting the overall quality of education imparted.According to the new perspective plan, MU has recommended to start 46 new arts, science and commerce colleges, 15 law colleges, eight night colleges and three women’s colleges. While 12 locations have been identified in suburban Mumbai, five are in the city. Once the locations are finalised, applications will be invited from parties interested in setting up the college. Principals, however, feel adding new colleges with traditional courses will be of no help.“A basic demographic survey of the city and state will show the varsity exactly what areas need colleges. Similarly, a visit to the area will give them (university) an idea on what courses are in demand among the youth. Figures show that enrolment numbers for the university dipped in 2020-21 to 190,000 from 220,000 the year before. Yet the university only focusses on new colleges instead of maintaining the existing institutes,” said the principal of a city college. He added that instead of new traditional colleges, MU should focus on adding divisions for self-financed courses in the existing colleges to accommodate the growing demand.An official from MU, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The university is not an approving body for opening colleges. As per the guidelines of the state government, the university can only recommend new colleges for approval to the government, which we have done. The basis is to address the demand for courses in different areas and to ensure that not a single student is deprived of admission due to lack of availability of a college nearby.”However, the official said that opening a new college would address demand better than providing autonomy to more existing colleges. “When a new college is approved, it means that the institute has adequate infrastructure to handle footfall of students. To get autonomy, colleges must have a National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation of A and adequate infrastructure. This becomes difficult for colleges in the city that have limited space at their disposal. Also, opening new colleges will prevent the monopoly of certain colleges and give students options between more colleges,” said the official.Despite repeated attempts, university pro vice-chancellor Ravindra Kulkarni did not respond to calls or messages.For years, law colleges have been mushrooming all over the city, and with every passing year, while the number of colleges increases, students feel the infrastructure is not equipped to support the growing strength. “Most law colleges depend heavily on visiting faculty because the university doesn’t even approve vacant teaching posts. While the university only wants to show growing numbers on paper, the need of the hour is for the university to tackle existing problems first, and then opt for setting up of new institutes,” said Vaibhav Ekde, president, Maharashtra Students Welfare Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stakeholders-question-university-of-mumbai-s-nod-for-74-new-colleges-101630262382416.html
30-08-2021||Other||Karnal rice millers booked for not returning rice worth ₹12 crore||On complaint of the officials of the food and supplies department, the Karnal police have booked the owners of a rice mill for not returning rice of around ₹12.44 crore.As per the complaint, the accused did not return the rice as per the quality fixed under the custom milled rice policy of the Haryana government and tried to mislead the officials by filling damaged and broken rice and husk in the stock.The matter came to light during physical verification as officials found that owners of the rice mill filled rice husk, broken and damaged rice in bags.In the complaint, DFSC inspector Ashok Kumar alleged that Evergreen Overseas Silky Sortex, Sandhir road Nilokheri, was allotted 8,197 MT paddy for milling in 2020-21.It had to deliver 54,922.50 (67% of the paddy) quintal of the CMR policy to the government but it delivered only 25,810 quintal.On August 24, a physical verification was conducted by officials of the DFSC department in which the stock was found to be zero.Police said on complaint of DFSC inspector Ashok Kumar, a case was registered against owners of the rice mill Surender Prakash Narang, Inderjit Narang, Ankit Goel and guarantors Gagandeep Gupta and Jyoti Rani under Sections 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and probe is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-rice-millers-booked-for-not-returning-rice-worth-12-crore-101630262261217.html
30-08-2021||Other||Charuni group farmers attack another group during rally, 15 booked||The Ambala Police have booked Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) national president Gurnam Singh Charuni, the union’s district president Malkit Singh, 13 farmers and commission agents for allegedly assaulting and injuring five men from another farm union, police said on Sunday.The incident took place during a rally in Shahazadpur grain market that was being addressed by Charuni, where union members from the Narpat Rana group showed him black flags.Rana, in his complaint, said they were protesting against Charuni with black flags when he asked his men to beat them up.“Soon, many attendees of the rally started attacking us. Many of us received injuries. During the assault, my gold chain was also grabbed,” he said.A video of the incident is being circulated on the social media. Rana is currently the state president of BKU (Bhaichara) and was earlier associated with different farm group including Charuni’s and Tikait’s.During his association with the Mann group till a few months ago, Rana has expressed his support to the Centre’s three farm laws.Speaking to HT, he said, “We were around 20 men, who had gone to ask Charuni to either talk about farmers or join politics and around 100 men attacked us. Through his provocative speeches, he wants to spread anarchy in the state.”An FIR was lodged under Sections 120-B, 148, 149, 323 and 506 of the IPC at Shahazadpur police station on Saturday.Sub-inspector Ram Bhaj said five men received injuries in the assault and no arrest was made yet.Another FIR was lodged at the same police station against Charuni on complaint of head constable Baljit Singh, for allegedly provoking farmers to block highways after the Karnal lathi-charge incident.At least four other cases were registered against hundreds of farmers for blocking highways in Ambala and Yamunanagar, following a call by Charuni on Saturday.The union’s national spokesperson Rakesh Bains said, “These cases are like medals for us. We are not fighting just for our cause, the agitation is for the society and we are ready to face any consequences.”Meanwhile, the BJP called-off a meeting at Maya Palace in Yamunanagar due to constant opposition by farm unions.BKU (Charuni) district president Sanju Gudiana said the meeting was cancelled and BJP workers inside the palace were “rescued”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charuni-group-farmers-attack-another-group-during-rally-15-booked-101630262201123.html
30-08-2021||Other||Delhi govt kicks off 10-week-long anti-dengue campaign||New Delhi: The Delhi government’s 10-week-long campaign which seeks to build greater awareness in the national capital about prevention of dengue and other vector-borne diseases kicked-off on Sunday, officials said.Last year, the ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ campaign had garnered the support of many celebrities as well as officials of government and other autonomous bodies.The campaign will held every Sunday. Under the campaign, people are urged to spend 10 minutes every Sunday to make sure there is no stagnant water at their homes and surroundings.The campaign also seeks to engage the residents and urge them to call their friends and relatives and advise them on the good practices of preventing dengue.Last year, 489 dengue cases and zero fatalities were recorded in Delhi till October 24, according to official data.In 2017, 4,726 cases of dengue and 10 fatalities were recorded. In 2018, 2,798 cases with four deaths were reported, while in 2019, as many as 2,036 cases with two deaths were reported due to the vector-borne disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-kicks-off-10-week-long-anti-dengue-campaign-101630262141041.html
30-08-2021||Lucknow||Rajnath Singh to attend Kalyan memorial meeting, launch projects in Lucknow on Tuesday||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will participate in a memorial meeting for Kalyan Singh, BJP’s first chief minister in Uttar Pradesh and torch bearer of the Ram temple movement, in the state capital on Tuesday. Kalyan Singh died in Lucknow on August 21 at the age of 89 after ailing for some time.Rajnath Singh, the Lucknow MP, would launch some development projects in the old city on that day. The memorial meeting would be held at a city school, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Lucknow unit chief Mukesh Sharma said. Sharma confirmed Rajnath’s programme and said the defence minister would reach Lucknow at 11.45am on Tuesday. “Soon after reaching Lucknow, his motorcade would leave for the old city where he would inaugurate a multi-level parking,” Sharma said. The multi-level parking has been named after Dalit icon Jyotiba Phule. The defence minister is also expected to launch/dedicate various other development projects in the old city. Though there is no official confirmation of the same, party leaders indicated that chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, could be present during the launch of several projects in the old city. “This includes the overbridge between Charak Crossing till Haiderganj being dedicated to the people,” a BJP leader said. The overbridge between Charak crossing till Haiderganj is about 2.5 kilometres long and an estimated ₹11.80 crore has been spent on its construction, officials said. Rajnath’s Lucknow Lok Sabha representative Diwaker Tripathi said that the overbridge would give relief to nearly five lakh people.“The chief minister and defence minister could also dedicate projects worth ₹300 crore to the people on the occasion,” party leaders said. Deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma are also expected to be present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rajnath-singh-to-attend-kalyan-memorial-meet-launch-projects-in-lucknow-on-tuesday-101630262087547.html
30-08-2021||Other||Karnal SP says death of farmer not linked to lathi-charge||At least 40 farmers, who had reportedly sustained injuries in the repeated lathi-charge by police in Karnal on Saturday, have got their medico-legal reports (MLR) prepared from the civil hospital.Farm leaders associated with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had asked all injured to get their MLRs from the government hospital so that they can file complaints against the police officials and duty magistrate responsible.On the other hand, 13 police officials also got their MLRs and Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said the cops had sustained injuries in action.He said only one farmer Gurjant Singh is admitted with an injury on his nose.Two FIRs registeredThe SP said two FIRs have been registered against the protesting farmers in Karnal.He said an FIR was registered at the Madhuban police station against 27 farmers by name for unlawful assembly, attacking police officials, and blocking national highway.Later, another FIR was registered for blocking the NH-44 in the evening.Farm union leaders are claiming that 45-year-old farmer Sushil Kumar, of Karnal’s Raipur Jattan village, had died after being beaten up by the cops.However, the Karnal SP denied the allegations and said there were official reports that the farmer sustained injuries in a lathi-charge.The SP said there was no MLR on the name of Sushil and he had gone home after the protest and had died while sleeping at night.“Also, the family did not conduct postmortem and cremated the body,” he added.Farmers protest at houses of copsFarmers held protests at the residences of two police officials who were caught on camera beating a farmer.The farmers reached the residence of inspector Harjinder Khaira in Kurukshetra and slammed him for beating up the farmers despite coming from an agricultural background.A similar protest was seen at the residence of a constable at Assandh in Karnal.The Karnal SP said strict action will be taken against people who tried to cause any harm to the cops who were doing their duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-sp-says-death-of-farmer-not-linked-to-lathicharge-101630262082140.html
30-08-2021||Other||Karnal DC comes in support of SDM Ayush Sinha||Even as Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha is facing severe criticism for his video in which he asks cops “to crack open the heads of farmers”, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav has come in support of the SDM.Yadav said the SDM’s intent was right and the directions were issued as per the ground situation.“I condemn some words heard in the video but the SDM is a sincere and upright officer and had said some words in the heat of the moment while briefing the cops,” the DC said in an interaction with the media a day after lathi-charge on farmers in Karnal.He said this was the last checkpoint where the SDM was briefing the cops. Had the farmers crossed this checkpoint, it would have created a law and order situation, he said.“This is not the complete video. He had told the cops to ensure that farmers don’t cross the checkpost,” he added. The DC said there was minimum use of force to maintain law and order.However, the DC skipped questions related to the blockade on most city roads by the police for a meeting of the ruling political party.On the other hand, farmers of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had demanded strict action against the SDM.The farmers’ front is demanding that the SDM be terminated from service.“The duty magistrate should be terminated for torture and lathi-charge on farmers. Action should be taken against other police officers. The government should compensate the injured farmers,” SKM leader Darshan Pal said in a video message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-dc-comes-in-support-of-sdm-ayush-sinha-101630262021716.html
30-08-2021||Other||JJP leader quits in protest of police action on farmers in Karnal||Expressing her anguish over the “silence” of the Jannayak Janta Party leadership on the lathicharge on farmers in Karnal on Saturday, JJP leader from Kurukshetra, Santosh Dahiya, has quit the party.“I’m hurt with the police action on farmers. Being a part of the coalition government, the JJP had a responsibility to speak up against it. I have decided to quit the party,” said Dahiya.“Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had assured that he will take up the issue of farmers’ protest with the Prime Minister but Saturday’s incident has shaken me as police thrashed farmers,” she added. She said she has not talked to any senior party leader yet.“I just want to ask people in government don’t farmers have a right to raise their voice? This is murder of the democracy,” she added.Earlier, she was associated with the Indian National Lok Dal but after rift in the Chautala family, she joined the JJP and was given party ticket from Ladwa assembly seat.On her decision, JJP spokesperson Deepkamal Saharan said Dahiya was not active for past one-and-a-half year and she did not have any official post in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jjp-leader-quits-in-protest-of-police-action-on-farmers-in-karnal-101630261902558.html
30-08-2021||Other||New list of district heads fans discontent in Kerala Congress||The faction-ridden Congress unit in Kerala plunged into a crisis on Sunday after the release of the list of district Congress committee (DCC) presidents. Two senior leaders were suspended from the party for airing their grievances in public, HT has learnt.Party state president K Sudhakaran MP suspended former MLA K Sivadasan Nair and PCC general secretary K P Anil Kumar for criticising the reshuffle in channel discussion. Both leaders alleged the action was taken against them without a show-cause notice or explanation.Former CM Oommen and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala also came out against the new list and questioned action against two leaders.But Sudhakaran and opposition leader VD Satheesan said all leaders were consulted before naming the DCC chiefs and group equations were not applied this time. He said the list was a mix of the youth and the experienced leaders.“Both Chandy and Chennithala were consulted and some of their recommendations were included. It is not fair for both to criticise the list now. The party is supreme not factions,” said Sudhakaran in Delhi. He even showed a diary in which he noted down names recommended by Chandy to buttress his claim. He said it was sad to hear such a claim from a senior leader like Chandy. “Our only intention is to reinvigorate the party in the state. It is an attempt towards this,” he said.Chandy, however, reiterated his claim. “Proper consultations were not held. And disciplinary action against two leaders was not in good taste,” he said. Party MP Benny Behnan and former minister KC Joseph also criticised the list and action against leaders.The simmering dissension in the party with the elevation of the new party president and opposition leader came out in the open with the release of the DCC list.The party was in the grip of two senior leaders - Chandy and Chennithala - for a long time and they decided everything. The latest move is an attempt to come out of group equations and an opportunity to instil fresh blood but some of the selected, including Wayanad president ND Appachan, are old, critics point out. Struggling with Punjab and Chattisgarh infighting, the party high command has expressed serious concern over the latest revolt in the state unit.In Pathanamthitta, black flags were hoisted at the DCC office against the elevation of new DCC president Satheesh Kochuparambhil. Strong protests surfaced in Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram also but the KPCC president said the ongoing protest was on small scale and will die down soon. But many political observers said the new list will trigger more fissures in the party. “Though it was stated a generational change, many veterans are back and the new list will create more fissures than solving any,” said political observer A Jayashankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-list-of-district-heads-fans-discontent-in-kerala-congress-101630261901572.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||‘Fake call centre’ scams spread web in Delhi-NCR||Back in 2016, when the world was talking about the massive ‘Thane call centre scam’ in which an organised gang of crooks posing as American Internal Revenue Service officials defrauded over 15,000 Americans of over ₹2,040 crore over two years, people in Delhi-NCR only started waking up to a new threat.At that time, similar scammers in the Capital and around it ran fake call centres to dupe gullible people by promising lucrative jobs or lottery sweepstakes. But when the true extent of the Thane scam became known, especially after the extradition from Dubai and later arrest of the 24-year-old mastermind, Sagar Thakkar alias Shaggy, by Mumbai Police, crooks here had a unique crime model to learn from.The stakes were high. Thakkar accumulated a lot of wealth in a very short time and others wanted to be like him, said senior Delhi and Gurugram police officers who have been involved in various crackdowns on fake call centres.But since then, such operations have become increasingly prevalent. Over the last seven to eight months, several fake call centres have been busted in Delhi-NCR and hundreds of scammers have been put behind bars for targeting gullible Americans and extorting money by posing as US law enforcement officials or as executives of private companies like Amazon and Microsoft.In Delhi alone, over 300 people have been arrested in the last two months for running at least 10 bogus BPOs in south, west, outer and eastern parts of the city — all swindling US citizens of millions of dollars.The modus operandiAs a first step, the scammers take on rent space in any residential or commercial neighbourhood. They then arrange for computers having fast internet connections and encrypted internet voice calling applications installed in them and some gadgets for internet calling that bypass international long-distance calling gateways. After that, a mix of experienced and untrained tele-callers fluent in English are hired and a database of Americans is procured through data thieves over the internet. That’s all that is needed to set up a fake call centre.“The kingpins of all these BPOs are mainly people who have earlier worked in call centres (usually the bogus ones) and earned expertise in how to run the illegal business of cheating and extorting unsuspecting foreigners,” said deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell, CyPAD) Anyesh Roy.Chandan Kumar, who was arrested by Gurugram Police for allegedly running some unauthorised call centres but is presently out on bail, said that one can start the illegal operation with just ₹2 lakh as an investment.“I took a small office on rent in an industrial area, arranged two laptops and two workstations and started making calls. After earning some money by conning three targets, I changed the office and hired six employees,” Kumar said.Nexus of realtors, crooks“We have learnt that many property dealers have also joined hands with these scammers. Their role is to provide an ideal property where police visits are least expected... The realtors get hefty commission money from the scammers, who rent these properties on double or triple the actual monthly rent,” said a police inspector whose team busted at least three such call centres between June and July.Staffers are then hired from social networking sites or placement agencies.“Fluency in speaking English with a foreign accent and having basic knowledge in using computers or laptops are the only criteria that they look for in the applicants. It is the reason that scammers mostly look for men and women from northeastern states for hiring them as tele-callers,” said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.After obtaining lists of job-seekers interested in working in call centres from the placement agencies, the scammers invite them for job interviews held online and offline. During the interview, the applicants are tested for their English speaking fluency and computer knowledge.Sumit Sharma from Haryana’s Rohtak, who was arrested in 2019, said that setting up a call centre is still easy but training freshers and convincing them for participating in the scam is a tough task.“We pay huge amounts to voice and accent trainers to set up the operations. To operate illegal processes we need untrained people. Young staff take at least six months to understand the illegalities and by then we change the team to evade police action,” said Sharma.The training ranges from three days for experienced tele-callers and one week for freshers.The real dealAfter the training comes the most important chapter of the operation — calling up targets in countries like the United States.The scam typically begins with a pre-recorded threatening robocall claiming to be from the US law enforcement and telling the US citizen that his social security number (SSN) will be suspended soon because of some illegal money transactions or activities detected by the government. To avoid any legal action, the citizen is persuaded to connect with the department concerned by pressing 1 on the interactive voice response (IVR). As the victim presses 1, the call gets connected to one of the tele-callers sitting in India.“The tele-caller impersonates an official of the social security department, intimidates the person further, and tricks him/her into buying e-gift cards of various companies such as Target, Nike, Walmart, Gpay, Macy’s, Best Buy, etc. Thereafter, the person is asked to share the gift card’s number and its PIN as a security deposit and payment for not pursuing legal action. As the gift card’s details are obtained, the tele-caller disconnects the call. As the number used by the tele-caller is a spoofed VoIP number, the victim cannot call back,” said Gurugram’s assistant commissioner of police (cyber cell) Karan Goel.The gift card details are shared with the blockers who redeem them and send the payment in cash through hawala channels after deducting their commission amounts. On average, two to three US citizens are duped every day by each call centre, said many police officers who have been part of the operations against fake call centres in Delhi-NCR.“We bust call centres, arrest scammers and register cases mainly on suo-motu cognisance. As the victims are foreigners, it becomes difficult to bring them on board for filing their complaints or help us in our investigation. This makes our cases weak. The scammers are aware of these hurdles the police face and take advantage of the situation,” said a Delhi Police cyber cell officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-call-centre-scams-spread-web-in-delhincr-101630261841411.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||'Limit Janmashtami festivities to homes, don’t visit temples', say Delhi police||The Delhi Police on Sunday urged people in Delhi to celebrate Janmashtami on Monday in their houses and avoid gatherings at temples across the city to prevent the spread of Covid-19.“As per the DDMA’s guidelines that prohibit religious gatherings, temples such as ISKCON will remain shut for devotees and no outsiders will be permitted to visit them for Janmashtami celebrations. We urge people to celebrate the festival at their homes and not to gather at temples. Action as per law will be taken against those violating guidelines,” said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena.The senior police officer also said that they have also held talks with the management of the ISKCON temple in south Delhi’s East of Kailash which usually witnesses a huge gathering of devotees during Janmashtami.“The gates of the temples will remain closed for outsiders and an adequate number of security personnel have been deployed for handling law and order and ensuring security of the famous religious establishment,” he said.Similar security arrangements are also in place at other famous temples across the city, especially those visited by devotees during Janmashtami, senior police officers said.While religious places were permitted to reopen in the city, no visitors were allowed in the premises, according to the last order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).“All social/political/sports/entertainment/cultural/religious/festival related gatherings and congregations” remains prohibited throughout Delhi till at least August 31.The Delhi police announcement comes a day after the Union ministry of home affairs wrote to all states and Union Territories to remain cautious during the upcoming festive season.In a letter to all chief secretaries on Saturday, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said, “State governments/UT administrations are further advised to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during the coming [festive] season and if required, impose local restrictions with a view to curb such large gatherings.”The letter succeeded the ministry’s order to extend all Covid-19 related containment measures until September 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/limit-janmashtami-festivities-to-homes-don-t-visit-temples-say-delhi-police-101630261720586.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Out for a swim, 3 minors drown in Yamuna, 1 saved||Three minor boys, aged between 15 and 16, who had gone for a swim in the Yamuna, drowned in the river near Sur Ghat at Wazirabad on Sunday morning, even as local divers managed to rescue another boy who was part of the group. Police said all four were residents of Brijpuri in northeast Delhi.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said a caller informed the police control room (PCR) at around 7.30am that four children were drowning in the river near Sur Ghat at Wazirabad.A police team reached there and found that divers from the Boat Club had rescued one of the boys, Bunty (14).The bodies of three other boys -- identified as Somveer (16), Pankaj (15) and Sumit (15) -- were fished out from the river by the rescue team members and taken to a nearby hospital, where they were declared brought dead. A police officer said Bunty is Somveer’s brother.The officer said that all the four boys had left their homes around 5am for a morning walk in a nearby park, from where they went to Sur Ghat to swim in the Yamuna river. Since some construction related to the Delhi Metro was going on at their usual spot, the boys decided to take a dip at a spot further away.Harish Kumar, who is the in-charge of the Boat Club at Civil Lines that comes under the office of the district magistrate (east), said that he received information about the drowning around 7.45 am, following which a rescue team on a motor boat, which was patrolling the river nearby, rushed to the area.“Nine divers and a motor boat were involved in an hour-long rescue operation. While one boy was saved, the bodies of the other three were fished out from the river,” said Kumar.Police said that the family members of the deceased were informed and the bodies were sent to a nearby government hospital for autopsy. The families did not allege foul play or file any complaint.Pankaj is survived by his parents and three sisters while Sumit left behind his parents and two brothers, police said, adding that Somveer lived with his parents and two siblings, including Bunty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiout-for-a-swim-3-minors-drown-in-the-yamuna-1-rescued-101630261600618.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi: AAP MLA Raghav Chadha inaugurates two RO plants||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Raghav Chadha on Sunday inaugurated two reverse osmosis (RO) plants, which he said will benefit thousands of residents in Inderpuri and Naraina — both located in his assembly constituency Rajendra Nagar.Chadha, who is also the vice chairperson of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), said in a statement: “The plants at GGSSS Inderpuri and Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya Nairana Vihar will be used to dispense potable water to around 11,000 individuals every day. These RO plants have a capacity to purify and dispense 500 litres of water every hour; will bring new hope for the students, teachers and staff in both the schools.”“Ensuring the health and hygiene of young children will be of prime importance when the schools reopen post-pandemic. Implementation of RO water plants is a small but a significant step... to help students, teachers and other staff get access to clean and safe drinking water,” said the AAP legislator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiaap-mla-raghav-chadha-inaugurates-two-ro-plants-101630261420743.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Khari Baoli dry fruit market has centuries-old ties with Kabul||Surjeet Singh, a wholesale dry fruits trader, is watching the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan with great concern.“My business is completely dependent on Afghanistan; almost everything here is imported from there, ” says Singh, pointing to a range of dry fruits -- pistachio, walnuts, raisins, figs and almonds -- neatly displayed in small containers inside his shop in Katra Ishwar Bhawan, a maze of narrow, dimly lit pathways with hundreds of dry fruit wholesalers, in Khari Baoli in old Delhi. “No market in the country has deeper and older ties with Afghanistan than this market.”Afghanistan has been driving the dry fruit business in Khari Baoli, which is India’s biggest dry fruit market and home to some of the oldest dry fruit importers in the country. India’s imports from Afghanistan were pegged at about ₹3,700 crore in 2020-21, with fruits and nuts accounting for more than ₹2,300 crore, according to the Union ministry of commerce’s trade database. Some estimates suggest that up to 85% of India’s dry fruits come from Afghanistan, and the hundreds of traders and importers in Khari Baoli, like Singh, import the bulk of it.Since the Mughal period, Khari Baoli in Chandni Chowk has been a key commercial centre, attracting dry fruit traders and merchants from all corners of the country and abroad. The Pathan traders, who travelled in caravans, carrying carpets and dry fruit, formed trade networks in the 18th century that spanned from Afghanistan to Delhi and beyond. “They sold their goods in Chandni Chowk at the open adat shops (commission shops) of local traders,” says Lalit Kumar Gupta, former general secretary, Kirana Committee Delhi, an association of dry fruit and spice traders in Khari Baoli. An engraved stone on the wall of its first-floor office in the crowded market says it was formed in 1906, which makes it the oldest traders association in Chandni Chowk. The Pathans, who have historically been engaged in the dry fruit business in Afghanistan, continues to rule the dry fruit trade with India.After Partition, many big dry fruit traders in Peshawar and Quetta — the other two major centres of the dry fruit business in undivided India — who had been doing business with traders in Afghanistan, shifted to Khari Baoli, deepening and widening the walled city market’s business ties with Afghanistan.In 1952, these traders from Peshawar formed the Indo-Afghan Chambers of Commerce, which today has over 250 members, including some of the oldest and biggest dry fruit importers in the market. “The idea behind it was to promote business between the two countries. When it was formed, it had traders from both India and Afghanistan, ” says Kanwarjit Bajaj , 79, president, Indo- Afghan Chambers of Commerce and owner of Tulsi Nuts and Dry Fruits brand, one of India’s biggest dry fruit importers and exporters.A first-of-its-kind business body aimed at furthering trade ties between the two countries, the Indo- Afghan Chambers of Commerce was registered in Katra Ishwar Bhawan, in Khari Baoli, where it continues to have its office.“Many dry fruit traders here had their office in Kabul. Like most others we shut our office in the early 1990s because of the worsening security situation in that country,” says SM Wadhwa, who runs Hind International Company, another major dry fruit importer in the market.The dry fruit trade with Afghanistan was disrupted during the previous Taliban regime between 1996 to 2001. In 2003, India and Afghanistan signed a Preferential Trade Agreement (PTA) under which India allowed substantial duty concessions, ranging from 50% to 100%, to certain categories of Afghan dry fruits. Trade picked up again in 2005 and has since been growing steadily.Many Khari Baoli traders again began to travel to Afghanistan, and about 10 years ago, more and more Afghan traders began coming to Khari Baoli, with some even renting houses in nearby areas for a long stay. “They started coming because many of them felt they were not getting a good deal here in terms of prices, and receiving timely payments,” says a local trader, who does not wish to be named.“Many Afghan traders want to set up their own shops and offices, but as of now, they bring the dry fruit samples and fix the price, following which local traders import their dry fruit. The Afghan traders stay in the market till the consignment is sold and they receive the payment,” says Kapil Gulati, who runs a firm called Kandhar Trading.It is afternoon and he is busy taking stock of a consignment of figs that has just arrived from Afghanistan. All the shops in the street as elsewhere in the market are lit by LED lights as the market’s congested streets hardly receive any sunlight.“This is peak season, the time when we receive the fresh crop of dry fruits from Afghanistan. After the current crisis in the country, the biggest problem is the collapse of banking services due to which we can’t do the financial transactions with traders there. Also we are unable to carry out the necessary paperwork as many officials in the Afghan government are still not working,” says Gulati. “Some traders from Afghanistan, who were in the market for business, have got stuck in Delhi after the Taliban took over the country.”Gulati says his father named the firm Kandhar Trading, a tribute to Afghanistan’s Kandahar, because of his close business ties in the city.In fact, Gulati’s is not the only firm named after Afghanistan or an Afghan city, there are several others with names like Afghan Store, Kabul di Hatti, among others. “We named it Kabul di Hatti as my family has roots in that city, ” says Pawandeep Singh, who runs a dry fruit retail shop Khari Baoli.Interestingly, many local traders in the market, having worked with Afghan traders for decades, can speak Pashto.Most local traders say one of the reasons why the crisis in Afghanistan has not had an impact on business, except for a slight rise of prices on some dry fruits, so far is that now, a lot of dry fruits is coming from countries such as the US, Chile and Peru, among others. Today, Indian dry fruits imports from Afghanistan include Mamra and Gurbandi almonds, black raisins, apricots, pistachio, and piquant spices such as asafoetida.“The US has overtaken Afghanistan as far as almonds are concerned, but for everything else, the market is still dependent on Afghanistan. No country can match the wide dry fruit variety it offers. So Afghanistan continues to be as important to our market as ever,” says Wadhwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/khari-baoli-dry-fruit-market-has-centuries-old-ties-with-kabul-101630261181356.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||18 children from Mankhurd Children’s Home test positive for Covid-19||Eighteen children from Mankhurd Children’s Home have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past three days between August 25 and 27. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has confirmed the development. A total of 102 children were tested for Covid-19 after one of the children, who came in contact with one of the infected staff members, tested positive on August 25.Mankhurd Children’s Home, which houses orphans, is run by the state government. A BMC official said, “We cannot conclude any source, but it is assumed that one of the staff members who came in contact with one of the children passed on the infection. We later tested more children to ensure timely treatment.”After the first case was reported on August 25, two more children were tested and were found to be positive. After this, another 15 samples came out to be positive.BMC officials said all children are admitted at Videocon Atithi Covid-19 centre and are said to be stable. Of the Covid positive children, one is aged nine, four are between the age of 12 and 13, five are in the age group of 14 to 15 years and six are in the age group of 16 to 17 years. Age-wise data was available of only 16 patients.“We will conduct more tests in the coming days, if required,” said a ward official.The incident comes two days after 26 persons, including children and staff members, tested positive for Covid at St Joseph Orphanage in Agripada area of south Mumbai. BMC has plans to conduct a second fever camp at St Joseph orphanage this week. Meanwhile, there are predictions that more children are likely to be infected in the anticipated third wave. In view of this, BMC had in June conducted a sero survey among the 1-18 years age group to gauge the prevalence of the virus among the young population. The overall seropositivity rate was found to be 51.18%. The sero survey was conducted in association with BYL Nair Hospital and civic-run Kasturba Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/18-children-from-mankhurd-children-s-home-test-positive-for-covid19-101630260761244.html
30-08-2021||Mumbai||ED summons Sena minister who ordered Narayan Rane’s arrest||Shiv Sena minister and a close aide of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Anil Parab, received a notice from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Sunday in connection with the money laundering case registered against former state minister Anil Deshmukh.The ED notice came days after a viral video showed Parab purportedly asking the Ratnagiri police to arrest Union minister Narayan Rane without waiting for an arrest warrant. The ED has asked Parab to depose before the investigating officer of the case at the agency’s office in south Mumbai on Tuesday.Reacting to the summon, Shiv Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut said the ED notice to Mr Parab was “expected” and the party would fight it legally.“Well done. As soon as the Jan Ashirwad Yatra concluded, Anil Parab has been served ED notice as expected. The central government has begun its work. The epicentre of the earthquake was Ratnagiri. (Mr) Parab is the district guardian minister. Understand the chronology. Will fight legal battle legally. Jai Maharashtra,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-after-narayan-rane-remark-ed-issues-notice-to-cm-aide-anil-parab-101630260461165.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||AAP alleges BJP trying to ‘sell civic hospitals’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of trying to sell off hospitals and medical institutes which come under the domain of the municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD). The BJP said the charge was a ploy to “mislead” people.“After pushing the MCDs to bankruptcy, the BJP-led north MCD now plans to sell 10 hospitals and medical colleges. The BJP is preparing to sell all of MCD’s assets at throwaway prices...,” said AAP’s spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj during a press conference at the party office in Delhi.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said: “The political leadership of North MCD has no intent to handover municipal health services to the Centre or Delhi government... The standing committee agenda referred to by Bhardwaj has been prepared by the bureaucratic wing of North MCD on the commissioner’s direction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-alleges-bjp-trying-to-sell-civic-hospitals-in-delhi-101630260100454.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Transport of food grains in Delhi now an essential service||The Delhi government has notified the movement of food grains for the public distribution system (PDS) – largely transport of wheat and rice from other states to the Capital and from godowns to fair price shops within the city – as an essential service till at least February next year.The move, said senior government officials, is aimed at reducing delays in delivery of monthly rations caused by lockdowns, curfews, strikes and other potential interruptions.“The government of NCT of Delhi, in order to ensure maintenance of the essential and uninterrupted services, declared movement of the food grains up to Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns in Delhi, loading unloading of the food grains at the godowns,... further transportation of food grains from these godowns to fair price shops/designated locations, their loading/unloading of the food grains at these locations, as essential services for a period of six months…,” said the order issued by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal’s office on August 19, a copy of which HT has seen.Two senior officials in the Delhi government’s home and civil supplies departments said the notification will help resolve frequent delays in ration distribution even if there are lockdowns due to a potential third wave of the pandemic.Ration distribution in the city usually starts in the first week of every month but since April this year, when several states imposed local lockdowns in the light of severe surges in Covid cases, Delhi has faced severe delays every month. According to documents seen by HT, ration for April and May were disbursed together at the end of May; in June, ration distribution started on the 21st; July saw a delay of 20 days; and in August, it started on the 25th.During the first nationwide lockdown imposed in March 2020, the central government issued directions to all states, asking them to keep movement of food grains meant for ration distribution as an essential service till the time the restrictions were in place.“But when the second wave of the pandemic hit India in March 2021, states went for individual lockdowns and several of them, including Delhi, did not separately notify movement of food grains that is meant for ration distribution as an essential service, thinking it won’t be a problem as ration shops and offices engaged in the public distribution system were already notified as essential services,” said an official in the Delhi home department who did not wish to be identified.An official in the civil supplies department, who too did not wish to be identified, said, “Transport of food grains faced issues in some state or the other, eventually affecting supply and distribution in Delhi. Fuel price strikes by transporters in the subsequent months made the situation worse. Now that it is covered under essential services, any obstruction to transport of food grains will be a punishable offence with a jail term up to six months.”Many beneficiaries welcomed the intervention. “Delays in ration distribution in the last few months has been a major problem. If the government is working on it, it is a big relief,” said Rakesh Kumar, a factory worker who lives with his family in the slums along the rail tracks in west Delhi’s Mayapuri industrial area.Shailendra Kumar, president of Delhi Public Distribution System Welfare Association, said, “This initiative will help ensure ration supplies are not delayed under any circumstances... To further ease the system, the government should consider entrusting individual fair price shop owners to take charge of transport of food grains between godowns and shops.”Naveen Kumar Gupta, secretary general of All India Motor Transport Congress, too supported the move. “But the new rule should not be used to force transporters into ferrying goods by incurring losses. The government should immediately implement policies to waive off loans of transporters, reduce certain taxes and check corruption. Also, truckers should be categorised as frontline workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/transport-of-food-grains-in-delhi-now-an-essential-service-101630259927860.html
30-08-2021||Noida||G Noida: Over ₹90,000 penalty against three firms for violating waste rules||The Greater Noida authority on Sunday said that it has imposed a penalty of over ₹90,000 against three industrial units/private agencies for violating the waste management rules.“We have imposed ₹93,000 penalty against three companies for violating the rules. These violators were not treating their waste as per rules and were dumping it outside their premises. The drive against such offenders will continue,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The authority imposed a ₹51,000 penalty against a packaging company that was found dumping the waste outside its premises without any treatment, the officials said. Similarly, ₹21,000 penalty each was imposed against two other agencies, which were also found dumping waste outside the premises. All the three agencies are located in Sector Ecotech 2 in the Udyog Vihar area, the officials said.Meanwhile, the authority has launched an awareness campaign on the importance of following waste management rules.“We recently organised a camp at a South Korean firm’s office to inform them about the waste management rules. We have roped in some private firms for organising seminars in all kinds of areas, such as commercial, industrial and residential, to spread awareness about the sanitation issues and rules to be followed,” said Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-over-90-000-penalty-against-three-firms-for-violating-waste-rules-101630259440536.html
30-08-2021||Noida||Two arrested for kidnapping newborn in Ghaziabad||A day after a newborn boy was kidnapped from a community health centre (CHC) in Muradnagar, Ghaziabad police on Sunday arrested a 26-year-old man and 25-year-old transperson for the crime and rescued the infant from them.Police said the suspects –Prince Kumar from Hapur, and Vijay from Muradnagar – were in a relationship and stayed in Hapur’s Badnoli.Superintendent of police (rural) Iraj Raja said they allegedly kidnapped the infant in an effort to hide Vijay’s identity as a transperson by claiming that she had conceived a child.Police zeroed in on the two suspects after going through the CCTV footage from near the community health centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-transgender-person-arrested-for-kidnapping-newborn-from-muradnagar-chc-101630258420539.html
30-08-2021||Pune||State panel to be formed to help Afghan students: Uday Samant||PUNE The Maharashtra government announced on Sunday that it will form a committee to address issues faced by Afghan students currently in the state, especially with respect to fees at private colleges,” said Uday Samant, Maharashtra’s minister of higher and technical education. He was speaking during an interaction with Afghan students in Pune on Sunday. He also assured the students that the state government would write to the Centre regarding students who’s visas are expiring.Maharashtra has the second largest number of students from Afghanistan, after New Delhi. “We will hold a state-level meeting about the problems faced by Afghan students. We will also reach out to the central government regarding the visa expiry of a few students. We will address the fee issues and visa issues. We will need the next seven or eight days to devise a formula to help Afghan students in Maharashtra and Pune,” said Samant.Wali Rahman Rahmani, president of the Afghan students association, said that the situation in Afghanistan is known to everyone. “Students are facing larger problems physically, psychologically and financially. We need the Indian government to support us the most. There are students who are in need of extending their scholarships for the next year. Many families are not able to extend financial help. There are self-financed students who are in dire need of financial help,” said Rahmani.Many students whose visas are about to expire need immediate assistance from the Indian government, Rahmani added.Rasheeda Shahbadi, studying for her Master’s in Arts (MA) in Politics, said that she now wants to pursue her PhD.“I need a visa extension for the same. Many Afghan students need help financially and emotionally,” she said. Samant said that the government of Maharashtra stands with the Afghan students. He urged private universities to help students from Afghanistan in every way possible.Speaking about the Common Entrance Test (CET), Samant said that dates for the same will be released soon.“I had released tentative dates for the CET, but those were tentative. The new dates will be released in the next few days,” added Samant.He added that there are rising cases of Covid in some areas. “In such a scenario, reopening of colleges is not safe for students and hence, the decision is on hold,” said Samant.He also added that everyone should follow Covid norms to avoid the onset of the third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-committee-will-be-formed-to-help-afghan-students-uday-samant-101630256320344.html
30-08-2021||Pune||PMPML surveys 1,500 bus stops in Pune to establish safety||PUNE The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), is currently surveying 1,500 bus stops in the city to establish if the structures are dangerous in any mannerLast week, two people got injured when a bus stand collapsed in the Camp area.The stand was 23-years old and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) claimed that it was handed over to the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) for maintenance.“There are 1,500 PMPML bus stops where we are conducting surveys and prima facie, action will be taken to replace unsafe structures. This will be decided by a PMC auditor once the survey is completed,” said Chetna Kerure, joint managing director, PMPML.Once a bus stop is built it is the responsibility of civic bodies and respective cantonment boards to maintain it.There are mainly four types of PMPML shelters. One type of structure, called the “Pune pattern” has a life span of seven years; a stainless steel bus stop has a life span of 12 years and then there is the BRT complaint, “smart” bus-stop.Across the city there are still many “Pune pattern” bus stops which have become unsafe as their structure is damaged, as per commuters.“There are few old bus stops at Swargate which don’t have a proper base to sit as it has been damaged. The condition has been the same for many days and no action has been taken,” said Kinjal Shah, a regular commuter.One of the PMPML officials requesting anonymity said, “PMPML is already facing a cash crunch so it cannot handle the complete budget of bringing in new structures. Once the survey is done, the PMC auditor will finalise the further procedure.”Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) under whose limit 20 bus stops exist will also be audited. However, work has not started yet.“We have written to the contractor regarding the audit work, however, there is a dispute between the contractor and PCB as the contractor wants to discontinue the work. According to a clause, the current contractor cannot be relieved until the new contractor is finalised. We are yet to get a response from the contractor, if we do not receive it in a few days then we will take different action on the whole issue,” said Amit Kumar, chief executive officer (CEO) of PCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-surveying-1-500-bus-stops-to-establish-if-structures-are-safe-101630255780291.html
30-08-2021||Pune||Aug 19-25: 354 “breakthrough” Covid cases in Pune district||PUNE Pune district has reported a total of 3,436 “breakthrough” Covid-19 cases – that is people who have got both shots of the vaccine contracting the virus.Of these, 354 were reported in the past one week. This constitutes 0.17% of cases of the 1.97 million second doses administered in the district. The district also reported a total of 85 deaths among those who got at least one shot of the vaccine. Of these, 31 were reported in the past one week alone between August 19 and August 25. Of a total of 7.33 million people who have got the jab in the district, only 0.16% reported the Covid-19 infections after taking one shot of the vaccine.As per the district health office, as of August 25, Pune district reported a total of 3,436 breakthrough cases, of which 2,051 were reported from Pune city, 422 from PCMC and 963 from Pune rural. The district also saw 8,499 Covid-19 cases reported after the first shot of the vaccine, of which 3,093 are from Pune city, 1,638 are from PCMC and 3,748 are from Pune rural. This takes the total number of cases reported post vaccination to 11, 935 cases which account for only 0.16% of total cases post vaccination - 0.15% after the first dose and 0.17% after the second dose. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer from PMC said, “The deaths reported among those who got the jab and got infected with Covid-19 are those who also had serious comorbidities. The vaccine makes your immunity stronger to fight the virus even if you do get infected with the virus again. However, in case of other serious comorbidities like uncontrolled diabetes, hypertension and also cancer, then there could be deaths in a nominal number of cases.”PMC to organise 195 sessions to administer 44K dosesThe PMC will organise one of its biggest Covid-19 vaccination drives in the city, by planning vaccination sessions at 188 sites, each with 220 Covishield doses and at seven centres with 500 Covaxin doses each. A total of 44,860 doses would be administered in a single day, on Monday. The specially abled and pregnant women in the city can opt for walk-in registration and vaccination at all of these centres. Dr Suryakant Devkar, PMC immunisation officer said, “This is one of our biggest vaccination drives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aug-19-25-354-breakthrough-covid-cases-in-pune-district-101630255120283.html
30-08-2021||Kolkata||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI meets affected families, files 7 more cases||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday recorded the complaints of several families in five districts of West Bengal while carrying out probe into post-poll violence and registered seven more cases, said officials aware of the development. With this, the agency has registered 28 cases so far.On Sunday, the CBI officers visited South 24 Parganas, East Burdwan, Howrah and Birbhum districts in south Bengal, and Cooch Behar in north Bengal.The Calcutta high court had on August 19 ordered a court-monitored CBI probe into the allegations of murder and crime against women – rape and attempt to rape – that were reported after the assembly poll results were announced on May 2. The central agency which began the probe on Monday made its first arrest in connection with the post-poll violence on Saturday. Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh were arrested from Chapra in Nadia district in connection with the murder of a BJP worker Dharma Mondol on May 14, the officials confirmed.. The accused were produced in court on Sunday and remanded in police custody.Each of the four CBI teams - which comprise deputy inspector generals and superintendents from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka and other states – is being headed by a joint director. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is providing security to the visiting teams.After studying the NHRC’s final report filed on July 13, the high court last week ordered separate probes by the CBI and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged violence. The NHRC recommended a CBI probe and said cases should be heard outside Bengal. Neither the TMC nor the state government have made any statement on the CBI probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-files-7-cases-of-post-poll-violence-in-5-bengal-districts-101630253142148.html
30-08-2021||Other||For second consecutive day, no new Covid case in Ludhiana||In a major relief, no new Covid-19 case was reported in Ludhiana for the second consecutive day on Sunday. Further, no casualty has been reported in the last three days.The number of active cases also dropped to 22, an all-time low since last year. The recovery rate of the district, as on Sunday, was 97.6%.Since the pandemic outbreak in 2020, Ludhiana has recorded 87,461 Covid-19 cases, of which 2,097 patients succumbed. Authorities, however, cautioned the residents against dropping their guard at this crucial juncture. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that residents should adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently to avoid contracting the virus. He said that 8,644 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-second-consecutive-day-no-new-covid-case-in-ludhiana-101630251340141.html
30-08-2021||Lucknow||Ramayan relevant for all, offers code of conduct: President||Stating that Ayodhya is not Ayodhya without Lord Ram, President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday said, “Ayodhya exists where there is Ram. Lord Ram resides permanently in this city and, therefore, in the true sense this place is Ayodhya.”Inaugurating a four-day Ramayan conclave in Ayodhya, he also lauded the Uttar Pradesh government for its efforts to take the Ramayan to the common people through art and culture. Sharing his views on Ayodhya, the relevance and importance of Ramayan on the occasion, he asserted that the teachings of the Ramayan were relevant for all.Addressing the gathering, the President explained the meaning of the word Ayodhya and said: “The literal meaning of Ayodhya is the one who is impossible to wage a war against.”“Due to Raghuvanshi rulers like Raghu, Dileep, Aja, Dashrath and Ram, their capital could never be conquered. Therefore, the name of this city Ayodhya will always be relevant,” the President said. Explaining the importance of the Ramayan, the President also said: “The Ramayan will always be relevant as it offers inherent values of life that are relevant for humanity. Ramayan also offers a model code of conduct that guides us in all aspects of life.” Explaining other aspects of the Ramayan as well, the President said: “Ramayan also tells us what the behaviour of a child with his parents should be, brother with brother, husband with wife, teacher with his disciple, friend with a friend, ruler with the public and human being with nature. On all dimensions, code of conduct is available in the Ramayan.”Referring to the word Ram in his name, the President said: “I feel that when my family members named me (Ram Nath Kovind), they were possibly having the feeling of respect and affection towards Ram Katha and Lord Ram, which is seen in the common public.” Quoting a popular verse of the Ramcharitmanas, the President said: “The meaning of this line is that knowing the whole world as God, we should accept everyone with respect.”“Let us all see Goddess Sita and Lord Ram in every person. Lord Ram is for everyone, and Lord Ram is in everyone. Let us all fulfil our obligations with warm thought,” said the President. Lauding the Uttar Pradesh government, he said, “I applaud chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his team for the campaign to take the Ramayan to the common people through art and culture by organising the Ramayan Conclave.”“To prove the significance of the Ramayan Conclave, it is necessary that the basic ideals of Ram Katha should be propagated everywhere, and everyone should adopt those ideals. I wish that just like all people in Ram Rajya were free from physical, divine and material sufferings, similarly all our countrymen would lead a happy life,” Kovind said.On the occasion, the President also recalled Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals. The President said: “Gandhiji has given the name Ram Rajya for an ideal India. Mahatma Gandhi imbibed the ideals of Lord Ram in public life. In fact, the ‘Maryada-Purshottam’ form of Lord Ram described in the Ramayan is ideal for everyone.” Sharing his views on the Ramayan, the President said: “The Ramayan is such a unique book which presents high ideals and limits of human life in front of the world through Ram Katha.” “I am sure that this effort of the Uttar Pradesh government for promotion of the Ramayan will prove to be important in the interest of Indian culture and the entire humanity,” he said.The President is on a four-day visit to Uttar Pradesh from August 26. He arrived in Ayodhya onboard the special presidential train on Sunday morning. He was received by governor Anandiben Patel and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/president-lauds-up-govt-for-taking-ramayan-to-common-people-through-art-and-culture-101630251221128.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Transpersons get separate toilets at Delhi metro stations||To ensure that transgender passengers commuting via the Delhi Metro get unhindered access to toilets across its stations, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has introduced separate toilets for them, which were so far meant only for the specially-abled, said officials.The Delhi Metro has 347 such separate toilets across the network of its stations, dedicated for persons with disabilities, which will now be available for the transgender community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-rail-corporation-introduces-separate-toilets-for-transgenders-101630225720911.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC to issue ex-parte order in defamation case||The Delhi high court on Friday said it will pronounce ex-parte (n the application of one party alone) interim order on state transport minister Kailash Gahlot’s civil defamation plea against BJP MLA Vijender Gupta for the latter’s social media posts, alleging irregularities in procurement of 1,000 low-floor buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation.“None appear for the defendants. We will pass order in this,” said Justice Asha Menon after hearing the arguments by Gahlot’s counsel. In his petition, Gahlot has sought ₹5 crore as damages from the BJP MLA for allegedly making scandalous statements relating to irregularities in buses deal.Senior counsel Rajiv Nayar, who represented Gahlot, said Gupta, a political rival, has posted “unabated tweets” doubting the integrity of the minister in relation to the purchase of the low-floor buses, despite a clean-chit by a high-powered committee.“Delhi government floated a tender for buses. After due process, it was awarded to Tata (but) all sorts of allegations were made. A high-powered committee gave a report that everything was in order,” Nayar submitted.“Despite the report, we have unabated tweets (calling) me to be a person of doubtful integrity,” he said on behalf of Gahlot.The court was informed that although the issue was discussed in the Delhi assembly, and Gahlot replied to the debate in the House, Gupta continued to make wrong statements.“You are a responsible MLA. (it was) raised on the floor of the House and I answered it. I beseech my lady to pass an interim order of protection,” said the senior counsel.In his civil defamation suit, Gahlot has also sought removal of the alleged defamatory content from social media.The Union government has recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the purchase of 1,000 air-conditioned low-floor buses by the Delhi government, and a maintenance contract for them. On August 16, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) informed Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev about the CBI probe. The ministry’s note, said the MHA, after examining the report submitted by a three-member panel appointed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, has asked CBI to look into the matter.On August 20, Gupta tweeted about the CBI inquiry. “CBI investigation started in DTC bus purchase scam. Dismiss transport minister Kailash Gahlot and arrest him. The Kejriwal government has tried its best to suppress the corruption of ₹5000 crore. Why did the Aam Aadmi Party leaders remain silent in the bus purchase scam?”, he tweeted. He posted the same on his Facebook account.Over the next three days, his social media timeline shows, he posted similar allegations naming CM Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia.Responding to Gahlot’s petition, Gupta on Thursday said he was talking about the findings of an LG-appointed panel on the bus purchase controversy. “It is clear that Gahlot and the Aam Aadmi Party government is not being able to handle the pressure after their scam got exposed. The LG set up a fact-finding committee on the matter and I have only posted about findings of the committee. There is nothing slanderous or malicious in it.”The LG-appointed panel gave a clean chit to the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) in the tendering and procurement of the buses, although it found some “procedural lapses” arising out of “a bona fide decision making”.“The tendering process of purchase of buses warrants no interference and suffers from no major infirmity... The committee, prima facie, did not come across any material to impute criminal misconduct attributable to any public official,” the report said.It further said, “There were only procedural lapses apparently arising out of a bona fide decision-making process. However, a greater effort for understanding the market and a higher degree of due diligence in assessing reasonableness of bids was required compared to what seems to have been demonstrated.”Editor’s Note: In a previous version of this article, Gupta was inadvertently quoted as citing a BJP panel while he was citing the findings of a panel appointed by the LG. The error is regretted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-says-will-pronounce-ex-parte-order-in-kailash-gahlot-s-defamation-suit-against-bjp-mla-vijender-gupta-101630088369882.html
30-08-2021||Delhi||Delhi minister Gahlot filed defamation suits against BJP MLA Vijender Gupta||State transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Thursday filed civil and criminal defamation suits in the Delhi high court against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Vijender Gupta, seeking ₹5 crore in damages and sought removal of media posts by the BJP legislator regarding alleged irregularities in procurement of public buses.Gupta dismissed the allegations as baseless and hit back at Gahlot, saying that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government is trying to mislead people.The Union government has recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the purchase of 1,000 air-conditioned low-floor buses by the Delhi government, and a maintenance contract for them, both of which have been a sticking point between the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and the state unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).On August 16, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) informed Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev about the CBI probe. The ministry’s note, a copy of which HT has seen, said the ministry of home affairs (MHA), after examining the report submitted by a three-member panel appointed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has asked CBI to look into the matter.On August 20, Gupta tweeted about the CBI inquiry. “CBI investigation started in DTC bus purchase scam. Dismiss transport minister Kailash Gahlot and arrest him. The Kejriwal government has tried its best to suppress the corruption of ₹5000 crore. Why did the Aam Aadmi Party leaders remain silent in the bus purchase scam?”, he tweeted. He posted the same on his Facebook account.Over the next three days, his social media timeline shows, he posted similar allegations naming CM Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia.A statement by Gahlot’s office on Thursday said: “Transport minister Kailash Gahlot files criminal, civil defamation suits against BJP MLA Vijender Gupta for making scandalous allegations in the purchase of low-floor buses. Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot seeks Rs. 5 crore as damages in the civil defamation suit from BJP MLA Vijender Gupta for making reckless and malafide remarks against him. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot seeks action under sections 499, 501 against Vijender Gupta in the criminal defamation suit after he made scandalous allegations to gain political mileage.”It further said, “Transport minister Kailash Gahlot pleas for an injunction order against Vijender Gupta seeking removal of defamatory content posted by him on Twitter & Facebook. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot moves to the high court to get Facebook, Twitter to remove scandalous content posted by Vijender Gupta against him.”Dismissing the allegations as “baseless”, Gupta said he was talking about the findings of a panel appointed by the LG on the bus purchase controversy. “It is clear that Gahlot and the Aam Aadmi Party government is not being able to handle the pressure after their scam got exposed. The LG set up a fact-finding committee on the matter and I have only posted about findings of the committee. There is nothing slanderous or malicious in it. Let the investigation take place. The Delhi government is just trying to mislead people and trying to divert attention by filing such frivolous cases.”HT reported on July 11 that the LG-appointed panel gave a clean chit to the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) in the tendering and procurement of the buses, although it found some “procedural lapses” arising out of “a bona fide decision making”.“The tendering process of purchase of buses warrants no interference and suffers from no major infirmity... The committee, prima facie, did not come across any material to impute criminal misconduct attributable to any public official,” the report said.It further said, “There were only procedural lapses apparently arising out of a bona fide decision-making process. However, a greater effort for understanding the market and a higher degree of due diligence in assessing reasonableness of bids was required compared to what seems to have been demonstrated.”Editor’s Note: In a previous version of this article, Gupta was inadvertently quoted as citing a BJP panel while he was citing the findings of a panel appointed by the LG. The error is regretted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-minister-gahlot-filed-defamation-suits-against-bjp-mla-vijender-gupta-101630000767223.html
