01-02-2021||Opinion||Eerie silence: undeclared emergency||Is India in a state of ‘undeclared emergency’? Several media organizations — the Press Club of India, Editors Guild of India, Indian Women’s Press Corps, Indian Journalists Union are among them — think this is, indeed, the case. Their concerns cannot be brushed away. ‘Democratic’ India has developed a new brash rash of intimidating members of the fourth estate who still have the spine left to be objective and critical. Legal provisions, some of which are legacies of colonial law, are being blatantly used to impose a culture of silence. Consider the latest transgression — the media bodies were protesting against this — of the slew of sedition cases filed against several senior journalists as well as a prominent member of the Opposition across five states for their alleged ‘misleading’ tweets on the violence and the death of a farmer during the disturbances on Republic Day. This particular incident reveals the dual nature of the challenge that confronts Indian media today. First, a partisan, competitive ecosystem and commercial imperatives are forcing journalists to express opinions that do not, on some occasions, reflect ground realities. The faulty interpretation of the death of the farmer — one of the accused acknowledged the credibility of the police version quickly — is a case in point. The occasional slip of veracity — this cannot be ruled out, as the Editors Guild rightly pointed out, during a fluid situation — has been exploited by a cynical administration to slap serious charges, ranging from sedition to the endorsement of communal tensions, against the accused. Yet, the twisting of facts by a media fraternity perceived to be the cheerleaders of the present dispensation is seldom scrutinized. This is unmitigated hypocrisy and intimidation. Worse, it has acquired a pattern. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau in 2019 indicated that there had been an astonishing 165 per cent rise in cases of sedition, many of which targeted journalists. The weaponization of sedition — a point that the Editors Guild has drawn attention to — as well as of other draconian legislations can have only one intent: the stifling of expression of independent, critical opinion not just by journalists but also comedians and citizens. This warrants serious reflection on the part of institutions that claim to be the custodians of democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
01-02-2021||Opinion||Not enough: deficits in justice system||In 2016, the Supreme Court had ruled that access to justice is a fundamental right. But the universality of justice does not necessarily translate to its even dispensation. This inference can be drawn from the findings of the India Justice Report 2020, a comprehensive study of the prevalent nature and reach of the legal system. The report’s examination of seven small and 18 major states has not yielded heartening results. Not even the best-performing states — Maharashtra tops the list while Telangana has climbed eight spots to the third place — scored above 60 per cent in terms of justice delivery across four crucial institutions — the police, the judiciary, prisons and legal aid — that were assessed on parameters such as human resources, budgets, personnel workload, infrastructure and representation. That glaring lacunae in these critical spheres exist even in the best-performing state indicates the challenges that confront India’s justice delivery mechanism. The reasons behind the bottlenecks are manifold. One is the appalling number of vacancies in judges’ posts. India has one judge for every 50,000 citizens; Bengal’s lower courts have the highest number of pending cases for over a five-year period. In spite of the presence of undertrial review committees, India’s prison occupancy rate stood at a shocking 119 per cent at the end of 2019; two-thirds of the inmates are undertrial detainees. Although 80 per cent of the Indian population is entitled to legal aid, a paltry 1.5 crore people have received it in the last 25 years. Some of the other contradictions are illustrative of several deepening chasms. Maharashtra topped states in providing legal aid, but witnessed a decline in the already-meagre number of women police officers. Indeed, the representation of women across institutions has not been proportionate to scale — women comprise only 29 per cent of India’s judges — and often registers a growth in the lower ranks only. The dispensing of justice is not merely about verdicts: it must also take into consideration what constitutes the idea of justice. Problematic readings of the law and perceived governmental overreach are setting worrying precedents. The recent controversial judgments by a bench of the Bombay High Court on sexual offences against minors as well as the incident of cases of communal violence being dropped by Karnataka’s courts last year may lead to public confusion and even disenchantment. The institutional deficits prevailing within the justice delivery system must be addressed. But that will not be all. It is crucial for its stakeholders — the police, judges and the State — to reinstate citizens’ faith in the pledge to uphold justice fairly and quickly for all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
01-02-2021||Opinion||One Donald, many Trumps||Donald Trump is gone, marking the end of one of the lowest points in American democracy. In this heady moment, there will be a temptation to believe that his presidency was an aberration, and that with the man gone it will be happy days once again. The truth, however, is that Trump represents a far more common phenomenon in liberal democracy than is generally acknowledged. The difference is that he stretched it to an extreme whereas the other Trumpians of the world have taken care not to cross the line. Liberal democracies are facing a wider crisis. Trump’s exit doesn’t mean that the profound issues of democratic governance thrown up by his presidency will go away. What is known as Trumpism — crude populism, demagoguery, personality cult, the undermining of democratic institutions, racial and religious prejudice — was not invented by Trump. It already existed across Europe, Asia, and large parts of the Muslim world when he burst on the scene. Indeed, elements of it were minted nearer home — in India — first, by Indira Gandhi back in the 1970s, and then it was revamped and rebranded in a more divisive form by Narendra Modi who rode to power on the back of a polarizing, majoritarian, populist agenda two years before Trump came on the scene. Likewise, Boris Johnson and his Brexiteers were already riding a wave of divisive populism when Trump made his political debut. They won the June 2016 referendum to leave the European Union on a xenophobic, anti-globalization and isolationist agenda similar to one that was to define Trump’s victory five months later. Trump, who was in Britain when the referendum result came, did a victory lap and said he saw “a big parallel” between the Brexit vote and the broader populist, anti-establishment sentiment he was banking on to win him the presidency. Remember that by the time Trump became president, much of Europe and Asia — France, Germany, Austria, Poland, Hungary, Turkey, Thailand, Philippines, India — was already in the grip of an anti-liberal-establishment backlash, which the Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orbán, proudly hailed as the rise of “illiberal” democracy. It was against this backdrop that Trump ran for election using the prevailing anti-liberal backlash to his own advantage. Far from being an American aberration, Trump was very much the product of a wider trend. Trumpism had its origins in the exclusivist nationalism of Boris Johnson, Marine Le Pen, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Narendra Modi, Viktor Orbán et al. In his book, How Democracy Ends, the British academic, David Runciman, identifies them as original cheerleaders of a tendency that gave us Trump. The moral outrage we have heard from these leaders after the Capitol Hill incident and the scramble to denounce Trump would have carried greater conviction had they not been complicit in emboldening his excesses over the past four years. They continued to indulge and court him long after he made known his contempt for any notion of civilized conduct of international relations, let alone for democratic practices and institutions. His support for far-right white supremacists and his abuse of people of colour barely caused a ripple at the high table of international diplomacy. Modi left no stones unturned to play to his ego — inviting him to grace the Republic Day celebrations of 2019, hailing him as “my friend, India’s friend” at the ‘Namaste Trump’ event at the Motera stadium in Ahmedabad, and declaring, “There is so much that we share: Values and ideals, spirit of enterprise and innovation, opportunities and challenges, hopes and aspirations.” Likewise, Theresa May was so keen to please Trump that during the three years of her prime-ministership she invited him to visit Britain twice within a gap of a few months — a “working visit” in July 2018 and a full-blown all-singing, all-dancing three-day state visit that included an audience with the Queen and a Buckingham Palace banquet despite widespread public opposition. Johnson is on record saying that Trump was as worthy of the Nobel Peace Prize as Barack Obama, describing him as a standard New York liberal. Another prominent Brexiteer and, effectively, Britain’s deputy-prime minister, Michael Gove, had himself photographed with Trump giving a thumbs-up to the president. Emmanuel Macron’s famous ‘bromance’ with Trump was much debated. He was the first European leader to be invited by Trump on a state visit after becoming president. Soon after, Macron reciprocated the gesture by offering him a lavish welcome to France. The BBC reported that their “rapport has pushed France ahead of Germany and the UK, to become America’s primary European contact”. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, is the only European leader who kept Trump at arm’s length. It is argued that their attempts to please Trump were prompted by pragmatism and their country’s national interests. The real explanation is that broadly they shared Trump’s ‘strong man’ vision of leadership, his impatience with constitutional constraints, and his protectionist “America First” worldview reflected in Johnson’s exhortation to ‘Take Back Control’ and Modi’s passion for “Make in India”. They saw in him a kindred spirit and fed on each other. Trump’s exit may have ended the immediate crisis in American politics but the larger threat to liberal democracy would remain as long as the other Trumps of the world are allowed to flourish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
01-02-2021||Opinion||Unquiet waters||China has launched a concerted charm offensive aimed at shoring up its influence in Southeast Asia amid fears that India and Japan are making significant inroads into the region, especially in Myanmar. It is also part of a pre-emptive strike in readiness for expected changes in US policy towards Asia by the Joe Biden administration as well as for the changed regional environment and economic recovery needs in a post-Covid era. The Chinese diplomatic assault not only poses problems for the three informal allies — Japan, India and the United States of America — but also creates tensions within the regional bloc, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, over bilateral and multilateral relations with Beijing on a number of fronts: strategic, economic and cultural. Much of China’s strategy centres around what diplomats are describing as Covid or vaccine diplomacy. But it is also concerned with Chinese and regional security, stability and interconnectivity. Beijing has a proprietorial attitude towards this since it regards Southeast Asia to be its backyard. Although it may not want to exert direct control over the region, it does not welcome foreign influence or interference — it deems Indian, Japanese and especially American involvement as such — in these countries. So Beijing has reacted strongly to what it perceives to be trespassing in its domain. One of China’s biggest concerns is the control of maritime cooperation and shipping lanes from the Indian Ocean around the Asian archipelago to Shanghai and China’s eastern sea border. Myanmar, which straddles South Asia to the west and Southeast Asia to the east, is central to this diplomatic drive to strengthen Beijing’s influence. China’s foreign minister, Wang Yi, is heading Beijing’s blitz in the region: he recently made a critical visit sometime ago to key parts of Asean — Myanmar, Indonesia, Brunei and the Philippines — on his way back from an important tour of Africa. This trip follows his visit three months ago to the other countries in the regional bloc: Cambodia, Laos, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand. Noticeably, he is yet to visit Vietnam as part of this surge. But Beijing’s biggest concern is its position in Myanmar, and Wang Yi started his most recent thrust into Asean with an important two-day trip to Myanmar’s capital Naypyidaw. It was intended to further consolidate Chinese influence in the country, which has become increasingly dependent on China since Aung San Suu Kyi was swept to power in the 2015 elections. However, Beijing has increasingly become alarmed at the changing international dynamics in the region: principally the deterioration in relations with Delhi since the middle of last year and Tokyo’s aggressive and concerted push into the region, especially in Myanmar over the last 12 months. And now, there is the prospect of Washington re-engaging with Asia after four years of neglect during Donald Trump’s insular and idiosyncratic approach. Officially, Wang Yi’s primary purpose on this Myanmar visit was to show China’s unswerving support for the country and its civilian leader, the State Counsellor, Aung San Suu Kyi. But foreign diplomats believe that Naypyidaw was extremely reticent about the timing and the purpose of the visit, which was seen to be part of ‘vaccine diplomacy’. Wang Yi promised a gift of 300,000 doses of China’s CoronaVac vaccine, which is expected to be delivered within the next few months. China’s donation came on the heels of Myanmar’s deal with India to buy some 30 million doses of an Indian-produced vaccine, according to the president’s spokesman, Zaw Htay. The government has already paid US $75 million upfront or half the amount as a deposit. Covishield is produced by the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, and developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca. The first batch of 1.5 million doses arrived in Myanmar recently. Indian officials say that this consignment is, in fact, a donation in the spirit of mutual cooperation under the Indian government’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ and ‘Act East’ policies. This vying for influence using the Covid vaccines represents a microcosm of the competition between the two regional rivals. Western diplomats believe Beijing may be upset that Myanmar has turned to India first for the vaccine instead of China. This has put a significant dint in China’s planned diplomatic offensive. On his recent foray abroad, Wang Yi has been promising support to combat the countries’ fight against the pandemic and in their post-Covid recovery. Almost all countries in the region have accepted Beijing’s offer of vaccines, to a greater or lesser extent, albeit with increasing reticence amongst most government’s in Asean. Myanmar, for example, is planning to get the supplies of the vaccine from several sources, including India, Russia, the United Kingdom and China. On his most recent visit, the Chinese foreign minister met President Win Myint, the State Counsellor and the Commander-in-Chief, as is his usual protocol. But the latter meeting was perhaps the most critical for there are growing concerns in Beijing that Myanmar’s military is veering away from their previous cozy relationship and leaning towards Russia and India. There is also concern that the Biden administration may resume US-Myanmar military cooperation. While the recent acquisition by the Myanmar military of a submarine of Indo-Russian make may not pose too many problems, it is seen as a significant reflection of Myanmar’s military’s pronounced tilt towards the West in general and a preference for Indian and Russian equipment in particular. The symbolism of these submarines has also alarmed Beijing whose overall strategic objective in the region is to ‘command’ the shipping lanes and develop transport and communications interconnectivity throughout the region to access sentinel points. China has already built or is in the process of building ports and naval bases in the Philippines and Cambodia which are part of the planned network. The key concern is Myanmar. Beijing has already secured the most important shipping base in Western Myanmar — Kyaukphyu in northern Rakhine — which would give China unfettered access to the Indian Ocean besides offering a significant trading route linking it to South Asia and the Middle East. China also has a strong foothold in the Yangon port, and there are tentative plans to rebuild the port at Mawlamyine, south of Myanmar’s commercial capital. The possibility of building a port in Myeik, further south on the Andaman Sea, is being explored. This would provide an access point to southern Thailand. But Japan and India have frustrated Beijing’s hopes of securing the full-maritime encirclement of Myanmar. India and Myanmar are working on opening the Sittwe port in the Rakhine, north of Kyaukphyu, in the next few months. The port is part of the Kaladan multi-modal transit transport project, which Delhi hopes will function as India’s gateway to Southeast Asia. Further south and adjacent to Thailand, the Japanese have beaten off Chinese interests in the Dawei special economic zone and its planned port, much to Beijing’s chagrin. In Bangladesh, Japan is building the Matarbari deep-sea port, close to Cox’s Bazar, to complement Bangladesh’s main trading port and entrepôt at Chittagong after the plans for a Chinese-backed port at Sonadia were cancelled late last year. There is a battle brewing over patrols and safeguarding shipping lanes in the Andaman Sea and the Indian Ocean. China fears that Myanmar has opted for an Indo-Russian option for sea security. Indian and Chinese submarines need qualitatively different naval base facilities for docking, refuelling and repairs. So Myanmar’s acquisition of a second-hand Indian submarine and the Tatmadaw’s pending order for more Russian vessels mean that its strategic choice is incompatible with Chinese equipment. More ominously, it points to a possible naval arms race around the Indian Ocean as Delhi must prepare to confront China in its own backyard. The author is a former BBC World Service news editor for Asia and is based in Myanmar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
