02-02-2021||Opinion||Treasured souls: World Day for Grandparents and the Elderly||Sir — It was wonderful to learn that Pope Francis has announced a Church-wide institution of a ‘World Day for Grandparents and the Elderly’ in a bid honour the aged and emphasize their importance in society. The Covid-19 pandemic — the disease puts the elderly disproportionately at risk — has led to a renewed realization about the vulnerability of this constituency. We increasingly live in a world that only recognizes an individual in terms of their productivity. Institutional recognition coupled with family values can go a long way in ensuring the welfare of the elderly.Sanav C. Chakraborty,Calcutta Alarming truth Sir — It was disheartening to read that according to Oxfam International’s latest report, The Inequality Virus, the Covid-19 pandemic has brought about a further increase in economic inequality across the world. The global survey of 295 economists — this includes Jeffrey Sachs, Jayati Ghosh and Gabriel Zucman — from 79 countries shows that they expect a ‘major increase’ in income inequality in their country. According to the report, India’s richest 1 per cent hold more than four times the wealth held by the bottom 70 per cent of the country’s population. These numbers are alarming. It is our flawed economic system that is responsible for this imbalance. The economic divide is gendered as well; women and girls are systematically exploited for their labour. As India slowly tries to recover from the onslaught of Covid-19, the Centre must rebuild the economy in such a way that it works for the benefit of all citizens, and not just the privileged few. It must invest in the publicsector, create new jobs, tax fairly and ensure that everyone has access to quality education, health and food. It is only then that we can build a fair society. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The old adage that the rich are getting richer and the poor even poorer rings especially true now, during the pandemic. It seems that Covid-19 has exacerbated the existing inequalities in Indian society. There are few countriesin which economic inequality is as stark as it is in India, as shown by the findings of the Oxfam report. At a time when most people in the country were struggling to make ends meet, Indian billionaires increased their wealth by 35 per cent. The economic policies of India are such that they facilitate the amassing of wealth by big corporations. Radical changes must be brought about in our economic system to bridge the gap between the rich and the poor. It remains to be seen whether the provisions in the new budget are at all effective in addressing the concerns raised by Oxfam. It is of utmost importance that we work towards creating an equitable India. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil NaduShameful act Sir — It was shocking to learn that a team of the Indore Municipal Corporation recently attempted to dump a group of homeless elderly people outside the city limits (“Indore bid to dump homeless”, Jan 31). They were presumably gathered from within the city and were about to be left on the highway in the freezing cold when villagers from the nearby Kshipra area intervened. It was only after their vehement protests that the elders were taken back. Is this what is meant by ‘cleanliness’ in Indore, which has won the tag of the “cleanest city” in the country four times in a row? The chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has since condemned the incident and suspended a municipal deputy commissioner and sacked two other employees. Nonetheless, it is evident that something like this could not have occurred without the knowledge of senior bureaucrats. The shock from the news was amplified when I learnt on the very same day that Karnataka, another state ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, plans to set up two cow shelters in every taluk for cattle in need of care. The difference in the authorities’ concern about cows and the elderly speaks volumes about the government in this country. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
02-02-2021||Opinion||No surprises: Union Budget 2021-22||The Union budget for 2021-22 has delivered no surprises. The government has utilized fiscal policy as the last resort to stimulate economic recovery. As a result, the revised estimate for the current year’s fiscal deficit is 9.5 per cent of the gross domestic product and the budget estimate for 2021-22 is 6.8 per cent. These numbers are far away from the conservative target of 4.5 per cent. The finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, has not changed direct tax rates and tinkered with only a few customs duties. On this count though, Ms Sitharaman has kept open the possibility of introducing new customs duties in October 2021 when she finishes reviewing 400-old exemptions that are on the books. On the expenditure front, the finance minister has focused on the capital account, which has been raised from the revised estimate of Rs 4.39 lakh crore for the current year to Rs 5.54 lakh crore as the budget estimate for 2021-22. This will be financed, along with a revenue expenditure of Rs 2.92 lakh crore budgeted for the coming year, by borrowing Rs 1.50 lakh crore. This will constitute 36 per cent of the total spending. With the Central government claiming that it will take a couple of years more for the economy to surpass pre-Covid-19 levels, tax revenues available for the Centre are budgeted to be a little less than the budget estimates made a year ago. In 2020-21, the budget estimate was Rs 1.63 lakh crore against the budget estimate of Rs 1.54 lakh crore for 2021-22. The government’s strategy, at least what is evident from the numbers, is to focus on capital expenditure projects, especially in infrastructure. Hopefully, this will create new employment and, hence, current demand for consumption goods. Since most of the consumer goods sector is experiencing excess capacity, the extra demand can be met and new incomes generated. The financial sector will benefit from new foreign funds coming into the insurance companies. Banks will also benefit from the proposed Asset Management Company and Asset Reconstruction Company. One revealing issue was the finance minister’s emphasis on declaring the numbers for agricultural subsidies and the growing amounts distributed in terms of minimum support prices for various crops. It is precisely for this reason any real or even perceived threats to take away that support would create enormous anxiety in the minds of the beneficiaries. However, the government has been sensible and not tried to shock and awe the economy by unusual policies. Two things, however, remain to be seen. The first is the trust deficit with macroeconomic numbers. India’s lost credibility on this count is yet to be fully reversed. For instance, even in this budget, the announced amounts of expenditures were often for the next five years; the annual allocation being only a fifth of the declared amount. The other is the well-known and common issue of implementation delays. It must have been an exceptionally challenging situation for the finance ministry. Under the circumstances, the budget is as good as it can be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
02-02-2021||Opinion||Chinks in the fiscal armour||The Union budget is a many-splendoured thing. So is a state budget, but it is the Union budget that enjoys the lion’s share in the splendour. The one that was presented yesterday has, in fact, been titled the ‘budget of the century’ on account of the fact that the world as a whole has been writhing under a pandemic for more than a year now. That the pandemic has dealt a hard blow to our economy is obvious from the published figures. Around this time a year ago, the Union budget had predicted a fiscal deficit (the government’s outgoings minus incomings) of 3.5 per cent of GDP for the year April, 2020 through March 2021 (FY2021). The pandemic ensured that the government’s outgoings far exceeded its planned incomings. As a result, the revised fiscal deficit stands out to be around 2.72 times higher at 9.5 per cent. The enormous gap has forced the government to borrow from the market. In fact, according to the budget figures, 36 per cent of expenditure will be met from borrowing and 27 per cent from direct taxes. The Economic Survey merrily suggests that this is no cause for worry, since loan repayment will be ensured through higher economic growth in the future. Leave alone growth, India’s real GDP has fallen over the past year by 7.7 per cent. However, in the year starting April 2021, the economy is projected to register a positive growth rate of 11 per cent. This implies a net positive growth of 3.3 per cent, taking into account the 7.7 per cent growth that will be needed to simply break even. Viewed from the point of view of employment-generation, the 7.7 per cent positive GDP growth will merely re-employ those who lost their jobs due to the contraction and new jobs will be created on the basis of the net positive growth of 3.3 per cent alone. The government has announced a slew of infrastructure projects to revive employment. If these succeed, they will probably re-employ the job losers. What will happen to the new entrants in the job market is not clear. Going back to expenditures, the finance minister started off her speech emphasizing the succour to be received by the health sector. The budget outlay for “Health and Wellbeing”, she said, is Rs 2,23,846 crore in the current budget as against the previous year’s Rs 94,452 crore. This being a 137 percentage increase is a heart-warming assurance for India where health is one of the most neglected sectors. The budget calculations, though, are based on an estimated GDP of Rs 22,287,379 crore for the coming year. It is easy to see that the much advertised ‘Health and Wellbeing’ figure of Rs 2,23,846 crore is only 1.004 per cent of the estimated GDP. The euphoric figure of 137 per cent increase needs to be analysed a little more carefully. Similar questions may come up in connection with education and other major generators of economic growth. A budget document contains too many details, and it is not possible to address each one of them in a short span of time. Let us, however, take up one more issue that concerns the tax-paying public. Tax-paying senior citizens above the age of 75 will not need to file income tax returns as long as they depend on pension and interest incomes. “The paying bank will deduct the necessary tax on their income.” This is wonderful news, especially since the lay public has been subjected to enormous tax harassment over the years. Aged people may rest at ease now, except for the fact that a reasonably large subset of them earns incomes from other sources as well. For example, not all senior citizens are pensioners. They may be freelancers and not regular employees of any organization. Tracking such incomes may not be straightforward. Hence, the simplification of ‘no return submission’ may well be balanced off by compulsory declarations unless all earnings, however small, find their way into banks, or are declared by income payers in the 26AS form. Similarly, as in Hong Kong or Singapore, pre-filled income tax returns will be supplied to other classes of income earners, thereby simplifying their tax filing task. Once again, this could raise questions about possible incomes not reflected in the 26AS form. Nonetheless, this is a welcome move and one that may gradually generate smoothness of economic activity. In this connection, yet another helpful aspect of the budget this year is that it has not introduced any changes in either the income tax rates or the income slabs. Frequent changes of tax rates or slabs cause uncertainty and, as the Nobel laureate, Robert E. Lucas, pointed out, they often cause economic agents to behave in a manner that runs contrary to the interest of the economy. The demonetization exercise of 2016 was an instance of government-induced uncertainty that ran against the interests of the economy. In fact, the Indian economy’s rate of growth began to fall over successive quarters following that much-criticized policy. Our slowdown, as is well known, began well before the arrival of the pandemic. Finally, it is best to remember that the budget is a short-term exercise. A single budget will never tell us what is to be expected over the next few years. Unfortunately though, commentators, including economists, often do not appreciate this point. The author is former Professor of Economics, Indian Statistical Institute, Delhi and Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
02-02-2021||Opinion||Bag of tricks||There is one central message of the Narendra Modi government to the people of India from Budget 2021-22: you will have to be ‘atmanirbhar’ because you’re on your own. The Central government does not have your back. In the midst of the worst health and economic crisis the country has faced since Independence, it will not protect you. It will not spend more to enable food security and employment security, even though its own laws promise that. It will not provide sufficient resources to state governments for them to meet their obligations on health, education and all other essential services that affect your lives. It will not ensure your rights and dignity vis-à-vis large private players whose power will grow. But it will tell you that it is doing all these things through repeated chest-beating about its own successes and smoke-and-mirror exercises with numbers that obscure the reality. And it will hope that public memory is short, so that you will not remember how often and how frequently it has short-changed you, fed you lies and misled you. And it will expect that you will get swayed by the next piece of propaganda that it chooses to highlight, as you have fallen for this so many times already. There is another unfortunate message from this year’s budget and, again, it is one that should have been evident for a while: the budget documents constitute an extended piece of fiction. Forget the budget speech, which, after all, has always been a vehicle for the government of the day to present itself in the best light possible. That’s to be expected and people have learnt to take that into account. Rather, it’s the numbers in the budget that are made up and, increasingly, bear little relation to the reality. This is a bigger concern, because the finance bill is the big bill that Parliament has to pass to allow the Central government to function every year. Yet, for several years now, the numbers that are presented, debated, and then legislated have not been the true numbers. How can that be, you will ask? The government may get it wrong about future revenue and spending plans, and that’s only to be expected because no one can know the future and the unforeseen events (like the pandemic) that could affect those. But surely the numbers for the past year are accurate and should be accepted as such? Sadly, that is not the case either. There is the fact the government seeks to shove many items of expenditure ‘off-Budget’ so that it can keep its declared fiscal deficit within what it sees as acceptable bounds. But also some part of the previous year’s numbers cannot be known because they have not yet occurred. ‘Revised estimates’ for the current year, which are supposed to reflect what the government actually received and spent, have always been based on projection for the final two months of the year. But ever since the presentation of the Union budget got shifted forward to the beginning of February (for reasons that are still not sufficiently clear), matters got worse: the actual receipts and expenditure data are available only for the first nine months of the financial year. That means a full quarter’s information is simply not known and, so, the government can really put in any values to suit its own purposes. The Modi government has been particularly adept at using this strategy so that the final numbers for the year look very different from what the budget claims. So here is an important warning to all journalists, commentators and others who will pore over the details of the revised estimates of receipts and spending for 2020-21 and debate the choices made in the budgetary allocations for the coming year: don’t waste your time. These are not the true numbers of either current reality or future intent. Of course, what that means for the parliamentary process of approval of the numbers with all seriousness is another matter. Let’s just take the overall numbers for the current fiscal year (2020-21). Total receipts of the government in the revised estimates (minus borrowing) are shown as Rs 16,01,650 crore. But the official account of the Controller General of Accounts shows that total receipts until the end of December 2020 were only Rs 11,21,678 crore. Are we to believe that an additional Rs 4,79,972 crore (fully 42 per cent of the revised estimate) will suddenly materialize in the final three months? What exactly are the government’s plans to make this happen — and shouldn’t it tell us about them? Similarly, the revised estimates claim that total spending for the current year will be Rs 34,50,305 crore. But once again, the government’s very own accountant tells us that until December 2020 only Rs 22,80,147 crore had been spent. So anotherRs 11,70,158 crore — 34 per cent of the budget estimate — will supposedly be spent in the final quarter of the year. So what exactly are we to make of these numbers? Obviously the final (‘Actual’) numbers are going to be different and, probably, significantly lower than those presented. It is clear that ‘Budget Estimates’ do not get translated into ‘Revised Estimates’ and those Revised Estimates, in turn, do not get reflected in the true ‘Actuals’. In all these discussions on the budget, we are beating our heads over false numbers. Nevertheless, we cannot ignore these numbers altogether, because they do give an indication of the government’s intent on macroeconomic stance and on other economic policies. This suggests several things, all of them of great concern for ordinary citizens. First, the government is in denial about the extent of the livelihoods crisis facing the bulk of the population, and does not intend to take any special measures to resolve it. Instead, it’s going to be business as usual, pretending as if the crisis is over, and those without jobs or dealing with falling wage incomes would simply have to fend for themselves. Second, the fiscal conservatism of the government will continue. It will be obsessed with reining in the fiscal deficit through a combination of less spending, subterfuge in the accounts and denying state governments and public sector enterprises what it owes them. Third, the neoliberal thrust of economic policy will also continue: the focus will continue to be on providing even greater incentives for large corporates, selling off profitable State assets, deregulating as many markets as possible regardless of human rights and environmental concerns. Finally, despite the stated celebration of “health and wellness”, there’s no significant increase in health spending, which will still be hugely underfunded. The apparent increase is part of the Modi government’s usual bag of tricks: it does not really increase budgetary outlays directly, but simply includes much already committed spending and clubs it together to generate what looks like a large amount. Of course, governments get away with strategies like this because we let them. Here, the media, economic commentators and representatives of corporate businesses, who are routinely trotted out to sing paeans to the budget every year, are also culpable. They choose to ignore the obvious points just mentioned here; they pretend that the statements in the budget speech must be taken at face value; and they passively accept as true the numbers presented in the budget. As long as that continues, don’t expect any accountability. The author is a professor of Economics at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
