03-02-2021||Opinion||Boots return: Myanmar military seizes power||History has repeated itself both as farce and tragedy in Myanmar. In 1990, the military junta had refused to recognize the electoral triumph of the National League for Democracy, preferring to hold on to the sceptre through a proxy. Three decades later, after yet another electoral landslide in favour of Aung San Suu Kyi’s NLD — the party won close to 400 seats in the last elections in November — the Tatmadaw has stepped in with another coup against Ms Suu Kyi’s government, detaining the top leadership of the NLD as well as the president of the nation. On this occasion, alleged poll irregularities have been cited as an excuse by the military to quash democracy under its boots. There is speculation that the real reasons behind this military insurrection lie elsewhere. The word is that Min Aung Hlaing, the commander-in-chief of the armed forces, took this extreme measure having been rebuffed as a potential candidate for the presidency. The general’s political ambitions are not benign. A seal on the presidency could act as a significant deterrent against any push by the NLD and the broad national coalition it sought to forge to amend the Constitution in order to reduce the military’s imprint on the political landscape of the nation. After 1990, the military’s intervention had plunged democracy into darkness for a while. There is a possibility that the script would unfold differently now. Myanmar occupies a critical geo-strategic niche, being the gateway to the restive Indo-Pacific stretch that is witnessing the Great Game at play. It is, therefore, unlikely that the global powers would remain passive about these developments. The president of the United States of America has already threatened sanctions; China, which was attempting to deepen its engagement with Ms Suu Kyi’s government, would not be pleased by this sudden turn, especially since Beijing was eyeing the Tatmadaw’s tilt towards other partnerships with concern. The coup has thrown the rehabilitation process of the Rohingyas into jeopardy, causing further consternation in the international community. The challenges before New Delhi are equally stark. Given India’s deepening military and strategic involvement with Naypyidaw, New Delhi cannot afford to be atop the moral high horse. It must explore ways of testing the deep waters with the new leadership while, simultaneously, pressing for democracy’s revival at the earliest. It is going to be a tricky balancing act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
03-02-2021||Opinion||Speak freely: FIRs against journos||Sir — The Editors Guild of India, as well as citizens, has rightly condemned the filing of first information reports against senior editors and journalists for reporting on the tractor parade undertaken by protesting farmers and the ensuing violence in Delhi on Republic Day, calling it an attempt to “intimidate, harass and stifle” the media (“Eerie silence”, Feb 1). The Guild has demanded that such FIRs be withdrawn immediately and the media be allowed to report freely, without fear. It has been claimed that the journalists have been specifically targeted for reporting about the death of a protester on their personal social media handles as well as on those of the publications they lead and represent. The intimidating tactics used by the police in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh must be strongly criticized. Besides the Congress member of parliament, Shashi Tharoor, six journalists have been booked by Noida police for sedition, among other charges. The FIR was lodged following a complaint by a resident who alleged that ‘digital broadcast’ and ‘social media posts’ by these people were responsible for the violence during the rally. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The FIRs lodged in Noida and Bhopal against six senior journalists and the Congress MP, Shashi Tharoor, accusing them of several offences ranging from sedition to harming national integrity and promoting communal disharmony smacks of intimidation rather than any real concern for the rule of law. Along with police personnel, journalists were also at the front lines of the chaotic tractor rally on Republic Day. At the time, some accounts of a protester’s death did the rounds claiming that he died of a bullet injury. But when the Delhi police released the video of his tractor overturning, those like the journalist, Rajdeep Sardesai, promptly switched to the official version. As the Editors Guild of India has emphasized, it is common in journalism for fresh information to contradict earlier accounts, especially when there is action on multiple fronts. To construe these accounts as malicious, with the intent to destroy communal harmony and incite violence, is like shooting the messenger. The fact that the police in two states lodged similar FIRs prodded by private complainants highlights how accusing journalists of sedition is becoming a fairly common tack. A few weeks ago, three journalists in Manipur became victims of a similar chain of events. It is ironical that the provision of sedition, which used to be invoked by the British against Indian nationalists, accusing them of traitorous behaviour, is now being invoked against the country’s own citizens. Repurposing sedition against journalists negates the founding tenets of the Indian democracy, recognizing the rights of news media to report without fear or favour. The press has stood tall alongside the other organs of the Indian State in discharging its duties. Private complainants are entitled to their opinion. But the police is expected to understand the critical role of the free press in protecting democratic institutions. These cases may therefore be immediately withdrawn. The Supreme Court, too, must take note of how its guidelines on narrowing the application of the sedition law have fallen on deaf ears. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — It is shocking how biased governments and the police can be when it comes to the freedom of the press. While officials go out of their way to defend certain journalists who openly support the ruling dispensation, the freedom of some others is encroached upon by using any possible excuse. The press is the fourth pillar of democracy, and must be allowed to function freely. Sambit Sharma,New Delhi Better path Sir — Artisans of Calcutta are constructing one of the tallest statues of a reclining Buddha in India to be transported to Gaya, the birthplace of the spiritual leader. Almost every year, hundreds of tourists visit Gaya to pay their respects to the Buddha. This project is good news for the artisans of Bengal whose livelihood had suffered last year owing to the pandemic. It is also expected to boost tourism in Bihar. Yet, one cannot help but wonder if the amount of money allocated for this project could not be used to build educational institutions or hospitals given the trying times we are living in. Aratrika Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
03-02-2021||Opinion||New heights: tricolour tribulations||Anything goes. If the prime minister of India declares with calculated vagueness that the nation has been pained by an insult to the national flag, the nation immediately feels pained. Vagueness helped the prime minister avoid a direct reference to the protesting farmers towards whom the Union government has been rather less than friendly. One of the first labels for the protesters, led by farmers from Punjab and Haryana, was ‘Khalistani’, a condemnatory appellation they have not forgotten. This time, however, there was no direct hit; the prime minister just omitted certain facts from his comment. The situation was certainly undesirable. Some protesting groups — it is not known where their allegiance lies — had deviated from the agreed routes of the protest on Republic Day and had hoisted a Sikh religious flag on a mast in Red Fort. While violence and indiscipline should be penalized, the emphasis of the prime minister on the insult to the national flag made the protesters out to be disrespectful to the nation. This strategy to alienate people’s sympathy for the farmers relied on the transmission of some falsehoods, although the prime minister never uttered them. As usual, it was social media’s duty to spread these: the protesters put up the Khalistani flag; the Indian flag was taken down; the protesters’ flag was higher than the tricolour. Lies masquerade as facts in these hyper-patriotic times. Protesters hoisted the Khalsa flag — nothing to do with Khalistan — on an empty mast; no national flag was lowered. The form of the protest may be questioned, but there was no insult to the national flag. It is more than a little funny that the prime minister, who is reported to have autographed a national flag to give to Barack Obama and used another as a wipe-cloth during a yoga session, should be so pained by the non-existent insult. What is funnier is that his apprenticeship in the Hindutva brand of nationalism began with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, which openly rejected the tricolour as the national flag until recently. At the time of Independence, for example, the RSS had felt that the tricolour would never be “respected and owned by the Hindus”, and that sentiment persisted for years. So an excess of patriotism via the national flag might even erase that history while portraying the protesting farmers in a negative light.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
03-02-2021||Opinion||Safai karamcharis: Listen to the voices from below||Last year, in November, the Centre proposed a landmark amendment to the existing manual scavenging legislation, aiming to mechanize sewer cleaning across urban India. It announced that 243 cities are eligible to participate in the initiative to mechanize sewers and, pending inspection in 2021, could receive prizes of Rs 8-12 crore. This is certainly a welcome step. Yet, caution is warranted because we know that similar initiatives to ban forms of manual scavenging are hardly new. From the Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955 to various state and regional committees in the 1960s and 1970s, multiple efforts have involved banning the casteist practice of manual scavenging and outlining rights for those engaged in it. More recently, a sweeping 1993 Act outlawed the hiring of manual scavengers and the construction of new dry latrines over water-sealed ones. The 2013 Act, which the current proposal seeks to amend, updates the 1993 laws to focus on sewage workers and guarantee certain entitlements to cleaners and their families. Despite such measures, at least 39,000 manual scavengers were counted across 18 states in a 2018 study by the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis. Why do these numbers persist? The implementation of laws enacted in Parliament is ultimately left to the discretion of state governments that are frequently in denial. For example, in 2005, in response to a public interest litigation from the Safai Karamchari Andolan, the Supreme Court directed all state governments and Central corporations to report on the prevalence of manual scavenging. In response, nearly all states claimed that there was no evidence of manual scavenging. This is not new. Even prior to Independence, colonial authorities exploited and benefited from the entrenched caste system that placed Dalits in an intergenerational cycle of sanitation occupations without rights, even as other processes became mechanized. In a culture of nonchalance towards caste-based occupations, repeatedly banning a practice without meaningful change is unlikely to work. We should not presume that by merely existing, laws would serve as a mediating force by themselves. The proposed amendment also fails to clarify who counts as a manual scavenger. While the 2013 Act mentions sewage workers, it also holds that any person who handles excreta with “protective gear” is no longer a manual scavenger. This confers weighty implications on protective gear, which is — conveniently — not defined. Is a single glove ‘protective’? Moreover, gear that is improperly designed means that cleaners may not move or see well and are likely to forgo them. Similarly, the emphasis on eliminating dry toilets ignores the manual work that persists in processing water-based sewage. Even with appropriate gear, physically entering a sewer hardly constitutes something other than manual scavenging, but this is exactly what the law implies. This seems to support the assertion of the SKA’s convenor, Bezwada Wilson, that such measures prioritize “toilet users, not toilet cleaners”. These ambiguities are reflected in the data — or lack thereof. The 2011 census counts 2.6 million “dry” toilets that are serviced manually, but it does not count those who clean sewers or septic tanks. The Socio Economic Caste Census, 2011 reports over 1,82,505 manual scavengers nationally — but only in rural areas, leaving out urban sewer workers. The SKA estimates 7,70,000 people entering sewers. A recent survey on sewer deaths across several states found that not a single family member of workers who died received due rights accorded in the Rehabilitation of Manual Scavengers Scheme. Again, we are left with a puzzle: manual sewer cleaning is (sort of) outlawed, so supposedly it does not occur. How do you implement measures to eliminate something that doesn’t officially exist? Several other changes are needed for this amendment, or any other, to work. For one, a better definition of the labour is needed. The Dahlberg Advisers outline no less than nine types of manual scavenging, categorizing factors such as urban/rural, level of frequency, and type of exposure. Based on this, they estimate five million sanitation workers nationally, with two million in high-risk sanitation work. This offers a clearer way to identify those in this occupation and to meaningfully incorporate protective solutions into each type. Second, agencies like the NCSK should be better supported to guide cities to comply with the law. Of particular importance is contract labour — it is largely unregulated — that offers few protections on working conditions and often serves as an easy way for ULB’s to outsource responsibility. Rehabilitation — connecting workers to other trades without fear of stigma — will be a major concern as mechanization could lead to a need for fewer workers and, thus, result in layoffs. Movements with a track record of advocacy and mobilization, such as the SKA, Rashtriya Garima Abhiyan and others should be consulted on these processes. Finally, social sensitization could go a long way. Instead of a mass campaign to ‘beautify’ the city, how about a mass campaign educating the public about how improper waste disposal affects sanitation workers? The Red Dot campaign by the Pune wastepicker union, SwaCH, is a good example. Much more is involved than just mechanization in stopping manual entry of sewers and septic tanks. While some areas have piloted technologies to clean sewers, let’s be clear: changes are needed at every level of society. The Centre has taken a step forward with this amendment, but the transformational work is yet to be done.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
03-02-2021||Opinion||Viral entity||On January 3, 2020, a YouTube video had gone viral showing an aggrieved, middle-aged, stocky Imran Chishti screaming on his smartphone, asking his friends to use social media platforms to mobilize a crowd outside Nankana Sahib, a site near Lahore, Pakistan, where Guru Nanak was born. The message spread like wildfire and a mob gathered as a consequence of incitement by Chishti in the name of religion. Chishti had tried to provoke the majority community against the Sikhs, a minority community, because of a family dispute. The mob was dispersed after a few hours by the police. From the micro to the macro level, social media platforms have often been instrumentalized to mobilize violent mobs against ethnic, religious and racial minorities. However, after the attack on Capitol Hill in Washington DC on January 6 — the president of the United States of America, Joseph R. Biden, called it an “insurrection” — the issue of regulating social media content has acquired urgency. Global social media giants such as Twitter and Facebook suspended the accounts of the former president, Donald Trump, who had infamously spouted online canards against ethnic and racial minorities for almost a decade, apart from being a source and amplifier of hate speech and fake news. Apple, Google and Amazon acted against Parler, a micro-blogging website widely popular among right-wing extremists and conservatives in the US, by withdrawing their digital operational support, thereby practically paralyzing the site. Some viewed the actions of social media companies as opportunistic as they coincided with the new, post-electoral reality in theUS. The Democratic Party has gained control of the executive and both Houses of the legislature. President Biden is seen to be more sensitive to the argument that unfiltered social media messaging is exacerbating social and racial tensions and had reportedly called for revoking Section 230. (In the past, Trump and some Republicans had also expressed concerns about Section 230 since they viewed the moderating practices of social media companies to be discriminatory.) Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, 1996 of the US Congress grants them immunity from liabilities related to third-party-hosted content while allowing them flexibility to moderate content. The evidence of social media platforms such as Facebook being used in large-scale killings by inflaming passions against vulnerable minorities is well-documented. The Myanmar military’s disproportionate response to the attacks by militants of the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army on more than 30 police posts in 2017 is a classic example of Facebook being weaponized by the Tatmadaw to wage an anti-Rohingya propaganda. At least 6,700 Rohingyas, including an estimated 730 children under the age of five, were killed in the violence, according to Médecins Sans Frontières. A total of over 700,000 Rohingyas had to flee Rakhine in Myanmar to neighbouring Bangladesh as the military, in the backdrop of a nationwide frenzy against the Rohingyas, went on a rampage and attacked Rohingya-inhabited villages. In 2018, a fact-finding mission set up by the Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council found that in Myanmar “Facebook has been a useful instrument for those seeking to spread hate, in a context where for most users Facebook is the Internet.” The 440-page report compiled after 15 months of examination gave detailed examples of how the Rohingya community was demonized and recorded many cases “where individuals, usually human rights defenders or journalists, become the target of an online hate campaign that incites or threatens violence”. In its response, Facebook acknowledged the problem and noted that it was focused on overcoming technical challenges that could target hate speech. Forewarnings about social media’s potential to inflict greater social harm in Myanmar were repeatedly made, including by leaders of the tech industry. In 2013, in their book, The New Digital Age: Reshaping the Future of People, Nations and Business, Eric Schmidt, the former CEO of Google, and Jared Cohen, a policy wonk, had already shone a light within the industry on the role of social media in exacerbating tensions in the communal violence in Rakhine in May 2012. The social media and technology companies were never short of resources in exploring ways to meet the multi-dimensional challenges. The only plausible explanation is the profit motive, which means that these companies have consistently ignored the catastrophic potentiality of online malfeasance in the interest of scaling up their online client base to garner more and more digital advertising revenue. The regulation debate is likely to acquire greater urgency in the mainstream, including Biden’s team and the legislative branches in the US, because of the incident on January 6 that has shaken the political and security establishment. Those in favour of a greater government role in regulation point out that giving censorship and gatekeeping powers to a young tech workforce is inherently anti-democratic. It can lead to arbitrary decisions that could also curb legitimate democratic dissent, particularly in an authoritarian political context where other sources are unavailable. There is also the argument that social and political problems cannot be fixed by technological and legal means. Based on researching historical patterns of similar debates around the regulation of content on television, movies and video games, a recent Harvard Business Review article, “Social Media Companies Should Self-Regulate. Now.”, argued that companies have often risked creating a “tragedy of the commons” when they put their short-term, individual self-interests ahead of the good of the consuming public or the industry and, in the long term, destroyed the environment that made them successful in the first place. The article, co-authored by three academics, concluded that, “going forward, governments and digital platforms will also need to work together more closely. Since more government oversight over Twitter, Facebook, Google, Amazon, and other platforms seems inevitable, new institutional mechanisms for more participative forms of regulation may be critical to their long-term survival and success.” One cannot adopt a one-size-fits-all approach as the challenges in developing countries are multi-layered compared to those in advanced countries. Mass-scale educational and economic deprivation with deep-seated ethnic, religious, economic and social fault lines abound in a toxic ecosystem that can be exploited easily. This is coupled with the lack of institutional autonomy of civil servants compared to countries like the US. Poorly trained in digital forensics and, sometimes, compromised, law-enforcement authorities have been complicit in the lack of action on a number of reported social media threats, particularly against women. What compound these deficiencies are the ideological biases and proclivities of the decision-making staff of social media companies in the developing world. The practical realities of the Global South, particularly in multi-religious, multi-ethnic set-ups, underscore the need for rigorous artificial intelligence filters, protocols and the scaling-up of more knowledgeable, efficient and context-sensitive content moderators. One of the many solutions can be that senior staff members responsible for supervising social media content moderation come from neutral countries to avoid perceived or real conflict of interests. The lessons of the last decade that have coincided with the stupendous global growth in social media users indicate that the status quo is unsustainable and one needs to find creative, participatory, bottom-up, customized and grounded solutions to evolve a democratic, fair and efficient social media regulatory framework. Meanwhile, a year after the incitement and the international outcry over the attempted attack on the Sikh temple, Pakistan’s anti-terrorism court reportedly awarded up to two years’ imprisonment to the three accused, including Imran Chishti, after they were tried under terrorism and blasphemy charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
