04-02-2021||Opinion||In Myanmar, Suu Kyi still a force to reckon with||Could it be Myanmar Army chief General Min Aung Hlaing just didn’t like the idea of retirement and decided to stage a coup instead? Back in 2016, he’d given himself a five-year extension which ends next month when he turns 65. Or, more seriously, did the Myanmar Army oust the civilian government Monday because General Min wanted to strike before the newly elected parliament was due to sit for the first time later that day? One way or another, Indian analysts reckon the coup writing was on the wall after national elections swept Aung San Suu Kyi’s party back to power in November with a massive majority. “In December, there were signs of unhappiness in the top military leadership. In January, there was an attempt in the lame-duck parliament to discuss the so-called ‘electoral fraud’ (allegations by the military). That didn’t go through,” says Pratap Heblikar, former special secretary, Government of India. Heblikar reckons Suu Kyi, who was Myanmar’s state counsellor -- effectively the prime minister -- should have called in the military leaders for talks at that point when it was clear they were unhappy and looking to have the election annulled because of what they charged was massive voter fraud. Both sides held high cards but Heblikar believes they could have concluded a deal. In any event, the military never really relinquished full power in Myanmar, even after its 2010 civilian handover as it remained in charge of the home ministry, defence and immigration.
But Suu Kyi held trump cards of her own. Her National League for Democracy (NLD) won an overwhelming 396 out of 476 seats in the elections. Even if she’d agreed to the military’s demand for a recount – not fresh elections -- she could still almost certainly have formed a government. Also, she could rightly have noted that as the army headed the home ministry, it should have been able to ensure free and fair elections. (Independent election observers reported no signs of voting irregularities). However, relations between Suu Kyi and the military have been icy for a long time and it’s reported that she and Senior Gen Min Aung Hlaing hadn’t been on speaking terms since 2018. On Monday, it became evident the coup rumours were right all along when army tanks rolled onto on the streets of Yangon (earlier called Rangoon) and the new capital, Naypyidaw. This was just two days after Min Aung had flatly denied any coup plans and said comments to officers that the constitution might be revoked had been misinterpreted. General Min Aung’s mollifying statements led analysts to downplay coup talk with Myanmar-based independent analyst Richard Horsey tweeting it appeared the military “will follow the constitution” and “any imminent putsch seems unlikely.” After the coup, everyone realised General Min Aung had just been economical with the truth in promising to abide by the constitution and that he planned to invoke the constitution’s Article 417 which gives the military the right to seize power in the case of “emergency.” Widespread arrests have already taken place including of Nobel winner Suu Kyi who the Financial Times reported was back under house arrest as she was on and off for 20 years between 1989 and 2010 when she led the pro-democracy opposition to the generals’ rule. Others arrested include Myanmar President Win Myint, state and regional prime ministers and workers from Suu Kyi’s NLD party. After the army took over, former lieutenant general Myint Swe was appointed acting president and he’s transferred formally power to the military. Myint Swe has always close to Myanmar’s powers-that-be and former dictator Than Shwe. As the leader of Yangon. he suppressed what was called the Saffron Revolution in 2007 during which scores are said to have died and hundreds were arrested. Why did the military, which already held most of the power, suddenly decide to remove the fig leaf of civilian rule? It’s reckoned the plans of General Min Aung, who’s rumoured to have desired a political role post-army retirement, went badly awry. The military nominates 25 per cent of the MPs in the legislature. Min Aung had hoped to tie up with the opposition United Solidarity and Development Party and become president. However, this plan collapsed in the election when the NLD trounced the military-backed opposition and raked in 83 per cent of the vote, even more than in the 2015 election. Isolated, poverty-stricken Myanmar’s strategically squeezed between India and China. The Ministry of External Affairs reacted cautiously to the coup news, saying: “India has always been steadfast in its support to the process of democratic transition in Myanmar. We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld. We are monitoring the situation closely.” The response from China, which has huge infrastructure projects in Myanmar (Huawei’s building the 5G network) and which had established strong ties with the civilian government, was even blander. Beijing, which had drawn closer to Myanmar’s civilian government when it came under Western criticism over its handling of the Rohingya Muslim crisis, voiced hope “all sides in Myanmar can handle their differences under the constitution.” The reality is that India is back to walking a tightrope between Suu Kyi and the military. India had won favour with the military by gifting a submarine to the Myanmar Navy (the former INS Sindhuvir) last year. India and China have long been jostling to win influence in Myanmar. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi was in Myanmar a few days ago before the coup. (Incidentally, the Myanmar military believes the Chinese are also supplying arms to the Rohingyas as part of a drive to expand its influence toward the India-Myanmar border). Unsurprisingly, the West has come out swinging with US President Joe Biden threatening to restore sanctions against Myanmar’s military and saying force should never be used to “attempt to erase the outcome of a credible election.” British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: “I condemn the coup and the unlawful imprisonment of civilians, including Aung San Suu Kyi.” But the army’s aware it may not be able to hold onto power for a very long time. For hours Tuesday night, people in Yangon banged on pots and pans and honked their car horns, creating noise heard across the city, to protest against the coup. Earlier Tuesday, Myawaddy TV, which is controlled by the military, promised elections in the next 12 months. Says Heblikar: “It appears there is a way forward. The military has a roadmap. We will need to see how the roadmap will be progressed.” The military realises there’s a deep desire for democracy in Myanmar and it will not be able to quell that permanently. Even many soldiers must almost certainly be for democracy. Says Heblikar: “If you look at the three parliamentary exercises held in 1990, 2015, 2020 83 per cent to 84 per cent of the voters have voted in favour of the NLD. Even the armed forces vote for her. Myanmar has around 500,000 people in the armed forces. If many of them hadn’t also voted for her, she couldn’t have got such a huge majority.” Suu Kyi’s reputation has gone down globally ever since the brutal suppression of the Rohingya Muslims that she described as an “internal armed conflict” when appearing before the International Court of Justice at the Hague. At home, though, she’s still retains her huge popularity as the leader for democracy. Right now, she’s issued a call to her supporters to protest against the coup. Whatever moves the military makes in the coming months, it’s clear Suu Kyi remains a force to be reckoned with.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
04-02-2021||Opinion||Cuts deep: Union Budget 2021-22||This year’s budget has been lauded for its bold steps in boosting expenditures to stimulate economic recovery from the shock of the pandemic. The effectiveness of the stimulus is determined by the composition of the additional budgetary spending. At a granular level, this budget falls short in two key areas of spending. The first is the agricultural sector. The allocation under agricultural research and education has increased only marginally from the budget estimate of 2020-21 by Rs 151 crore while the allocation for agriculture, cooperation and farmers’ welfare has fallen by Rs 10,000 crore from last year’s budget estimate. As far as rural employment is concerned, there has been a cut in the budget allocation for 2021-22 from the revised estimate for 2020-21 by Rs 38,500 crore. Another area where the axe has fallen heavily is education. On the revenue expenditure side, the total allocation for general and technical education has fallen by Rs 36 crore compared to the budget estimate of 2020-21. In the capital account, the allocation under education, arts, sports and culture has fallen by Rs 2,217 crore compared to the budget estimate of 2020-21. The allocation for health research has been pruned by 34.4 per cent compared to the revised estimate for 2020-21. The total budgetary allocation for the ministry of education has fallen by 6.13 per cent of the budgetary allocation made during 2020-21. Agriculture has the potential to generate incomes and livelihoods, which help in the recovery process. Rural employment generation is of critical significance at the current moment. Food and fertilizer subsidies have gone up though. However, these do not directly contribute to employment and income generation. On the other hand, the implications for education and research are entirely different. These affect the quality of life and the productivity of the labour force in years to come. The results of what is being done now will only be felt a decade later. Education and employment form two important pillars of a nation. Any neglect can be costly in more senses than one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
04-02-2021||Opinion||One step backward: Polish abortion ban||Sir — Last week the Polish government put into effect a constitutional court decision leading to a near-total ban on pregnancy terminations. The decision — Poland has now banned abortion in case of foetal defects — permits terminations only in cases of rape, incest or danger to a woman’s life. This has rightly sparked massive protests in the country. The law is an assault on women’s reproductive rights and substantially sets back the gender rights movement. The international community must condemn this policy and do all it can to extend support to the protesters in Poland. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta Much awaited Sir — The Union budget for 2021-22, like every budget, has its fair share of hits and misses (“Bluff nailed”, Feb 2). Considering the tough circumstances that we are living in, it is good news that fiscal conservatism has been kept aside and growth has been given top priority. The budget proposes to add two public sector banks to the list of entities being considered for disinvestment that includes Air India, Container Corporation of India and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited. But will the government be able to properly handle the systemic challenges posed by various committees and the lengthy process of making disinvestment a reality in a buoyant stock market? While it is good that Rs 1.18 lakh crore has been set aside for roads and highways, these are long gestation projects and take more than four to five years to complete. As a result there is a lack of clarity about implementation. Out of a total budget outlay of Rs 2,23,846 crore, a substantial amount of Rs 35,000 crore has been earmarked for the Covid-19 vaccination drive. But for a comprehensive vaccination programme to succeed in India, it is critical that the private sector is also roped in. Even in this case, successful implementation continues to be a key concern. Nonetheless, it is hoped that a bigger health budget will provide much-needed relief to the healthcare sector workers who have been toiling with limited resources since the outbreak of the pandemic. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The people of India were waiting for the Union budget with bated breath, and the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, has put some of the concerns to rest by announcing a well-considered outlay. Hearteningly, the health sector gets a much needed boost with a whopping 137 per cent increase in the budget. The government has set aside Rs 35,000 crore just for the Covid-19 vaccination drive which is, undoubtedly, going to be the Centre’s focus this year. Sitharaman has also announced the introduction of a new Centrally sponsored scheme, PM Aatma Nirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, which has been provided an outlay of Rs 64,180 crore over six years to develop primary, secondary and tertiary health systems, and create new institutions along with strengthening existing ones. The budget also shows an increased focus on clean water, sanitation and clean environment as a prerequisite to achieving universal health. There is no doubt that creating a robust healthcare system during the onslaught of the coronavirus will be a great challenge, but it seems that the finance ministry is off to a great start. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — It is unfortunate that the Union budget failed to hit the mark. Although the government announced that it will set aside substantial funds for micro, small and medium-scale industries, many are doubtful of its ability to implement policies to improve the condition of these sectors which have borne the brunt of the pandemic. The government must also focus on utilizing the funds set aside for the healthcare sector properly — the budget proposes a 137 per cent hike in healthcare — so that the country can be better prepared for similar situations in the future. Moreover, the figures highlighted by the finance minister to portray the government as farmer-friendly are clearly an attempt to gain validation for the three contentious farm laws. It is also surprising that the government has not made any revisions in income tax slabs. In a word, from a tax-payer’s point of view, this was a lacklustre budget. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — While the Union budget focuses on fiscal expansion, it has avoided addressing several problems plaguing the economy. The lack of any major effort by the government to redistribute income by increasing taxation on higher tax groups is alarming. Anurag Ganguly,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
04-02-2021||Opinion||Rather remote: online education in India||The Covid-19 pandemic sparked monumental changes in the social, cultural and practical functioning of society. Of particular importance was the shifting of education to a predominantly digital realm since the contagion ruled out the possibility of public gatherings, including those in schools and institutes of higher education. Is this model of education now set to gain a degree of permanence? The Union government has said that it intends to establish ‘virtual’ universities which will ostensibly help in achieving the desired gross enrolment ratio in higher education as envisaged in the National Education Policy. However, the rush towards ‘remote learning’ has exposed the limitations of online education in many ways. Inequality and poverty — both have been exacerbated by the pandemic — have given rise to the spectre of exclusion; internet connectivity, access to digital video devices and affiliated infrastructure are still either threadbare or non-existent in vast swathes of the country, leaving many students, especially those from vulnerable constituencies, excluded from online classrooms. Students are also plagued by structural challenges; even though India is home to the world’s second-largest internet user base, the quality of digital connectivity is uneven, with metropolitan India faring better than the hinterland. And what would a virtual university mean for students in restive zones — Jammu and Kashmir is a case in point — where internet services are frequently disrupted by the powers that be? Even without such glitches, online education has proved to be taxing for both teachers and their wards. For the former, formulating methods and material for online communication remains a challenge; students are also finding this shift to an unfamiliar way of learning difficult. Other facets of learning — practical work and laboratory experiments — face roadblocks. There is also concern about whether the experience of digital education complements existing pedagogical techniques. These are, however, not the only challenges. The institutional eagerness for the digital medium has coincided with rising unemployment for teachers and tertiary staff. In Telangana last year, many teachers lost their jobs as private schools tied up with online learning platforms to deliver virtual classes to students. This is not to suggest that online education is devoid of benefits. Problems arise when a mode of learning that is still inaccessible to large constituencies is foregrounded as the “future of education” — the prime minister’s definition of virtual universities — instead of being a means to facilitate the traditional model of teaching and learning. Inclusion and critical thinking fostered by a thriving, collaborative learning environment are the hallmarks of a productive education system. These elements must not be sacrificed at the altar of virtual learning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
04-02-2021||Opinion||Gun over ballot in Myanmar||Myanmar’s all-powerful military, the Tatmadaw, has imposed an Emergency and taken control of the country. Aung San Suu Kyi, who led her party, the National League for Democracy, back to power with a landslide victory — the NLD won 396 out of 476 seats — has been put under house arrest. Other NLD leaders have been imprisoned too. Although the army was threatening a takeover for the last one month, not many were expecting it to happen. The Tatmadaw is not calling it a ‘coup’ in the hope that this would address the allegations of voter. But its real intent is clear because it has put a time frame of one year on the Emergency. Since it has taken over power a day before the newly-elected Parliament was expected to convene on February 1, one can expect three possible situations — the military will keep Parliament in suspension for a year and, then, hand over power to those elected in the November 2020 polls after arm-twisting the NLD into conceding that no attempt would be made to change the 2008 Constitution that gives the military 25 per cent of seats in Parliament and the control over the three key ministries of defence, home and border affairs; the military would attempt to anoint one of its candidates as the next president and only then would the NLD be allowed to take control of Parliament because it is the president who can exercise Emergency powers; the army may order fresh elections and try and rig it so that the pro-military Union Solidarity and Development Party, which was routed in the last elections — it won only 33 seats — is back in power. The declaration of the Emergency follows many veiled and some fairly direct threats of a coup by the military, including the army chief, Min Aung Hlaing. On January 25, the Burmese military spokesman, Zaw Min Tun, put pressure on the National Election Commission to provide the final electoral roll for cross-checking. This was the first open challenge to the November polls’ verdict after the USDP had joined the Tatmadaw in alleging widespread irregularities. The immediate cause for the military takeover appears to be personal. Min Aung Hlaing is due to retire in 2021. Reliable Burmese sources confirm that he has been trying to lobby hard to get the NLD’s support to become the next president. The NLD did not budge and insisted on retaining the current president, leading the military and its chief to suspect that Win Myint, the current incumbent, was keeping the seat warm for Suu Kyi until an amendment made it possible for the Nobel Laureate to contest for presidency. According to Chapter 3, no 59(f) of the 2008 Constitution, the president must be someone who “... himself, one of the parents, the spouse, one of the legitimate children or their spouses [can]not owe allegiance to a foreign power”. Suu Kyi’s late husband was the British professor, Michael Aris. Both her sons are British citizens. She could contest for the top job only if this provision is scrapped. After November’s triumph, the army fears that the NLD may bring about amendments to change the 2008 military-drafted Constitution and challenge the military’s outsized role in running the country. Suu Kyi’s post-poll announcement of trying to create a ‘national government’ with the ethnic parties, which won more than 40 seats, was seen as an attempt to work up a big enough majority that was necessary for the smooth sailing of key constitutional amendments. The four key amendments sought by the NLD are the scrapping the following Articles — Article 14 that enables the military to hold 25 per cent of seats in Parliaments; Article 17(b) that reserves the nomination of ministers of defence, internal security and border affairs with the army; Article 40(c) that gives the army the right to take over power in a state of Emergency; and Article 201 that enables the army to set up the National Defence and Security Council as the most powerful body during a crisis with military representatives enjoying the upper hand. The army is also upset with the NLD government for agreeing to take back Rohingya Muslim refugees in phases after a Chinese-mediated dialogue. Nearly 40,000 Rohingyas are expected to return in the first phase. The Tatmadaw is said to be uncomfortable with the prospective resumption of the repatriation process. The process may now be put on hold because of the Emergency. Finally, Suu Kyi and the NLD seem to have concluded that any genuine change in the Constitution concerning federalism would be incomplete without finding a political solution to the ethnic insurgencies ravaging Myanmar. The constitutional amendment to bring about a ‘true federal union’ was part of the Union Peace Conference-21st Century Panglong initiated by the NLD government in 2016. That was meant to take forward the peace process. The army, although keen on an enduring ceasefire to avoid too much operational commitment, is not too keen on the Panglong process because a political settlement of the ethnic conflicts would reduce the need for an ever-expanding army and lead to lesser budgetary allocations for military modernization. In 1990, the Myanmar army overturned the Parliament poll verdict that had gone in favour of the NLD in the nation’s first free and fair elections in three decades. Now it has used the allegations of electoral fraud as an excuse to overturn another electoral verdict, driving home the point that the Tatmadaw will only accept a Suharto-style ‘limited democracy’ and nothing more than that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
04-02-2021||Opinion||Winning hearts||In theory, a parliamentary system is also a cabinet-led way of government. In India, however, this has, except on rare occasions when a weak coalition is at the helm, invariably translated into a prime minister-dominated system. The Union budget is one of those rare occasions in the life of governments when the spotlight shifts from the prime minister to the finance minister. This is not so much because the decision-making is vested solely in the finance ministry, but because, apart from the overall political direction, the detailed choreography is left to the minister flaunting the red briefcase — in this case, the tablet with the attractive red cover with the official seal. Apart perhaps from the prime minister, other ministers are not privy to the budget before it is presented. I recall how furious L.K. Advani was after one budget presented by the then finance minister, Yashwant Sinha, during the term of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. And Advani was the unquestioned number two in the government. The problem that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman faced — at least until she completed her two hour-long budget address on February 1 — was that she was viewed as a lightweight. This was partly because she had stepped into the shoes of Arun Jaitley who, until he stepped aside on account of ill health just prior to the 2019 general election, was much more than just the finance minister. Her lack of a significant profile owed to two factors. First, before her elevation to the senior ranks of the government in 2014, Sitharaman was merely one of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s spokespersons and easily overshadowed by the likes of Jaitley, Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, Sushma Swaraj and Amit Shah. Even after assuming a ministerial role she quite consciously kept a very low profile. For many, she was a surprise choice as defence minister and, subsequently, finance minister. Secondly, the perquisites of a finance minister include rubbing shoulders with the captains of industry and finance, making mandatory trips to Davos and being regarded as the resident pundit. Certainly, that was the status of Manmohan Singh in the P.V. Narasimha Rao government and P. Chidambaram in the United Front regime and the Manmohan Singh government. If Manmohan Singh was viewed in the outside world as the last word in economics — even if that meant, quite mistakenly, underestimating his skills as a politician and overestimating his ability to translate his academic wisdom into real-life situations — his successor was, frankly, as much feared as respected. The media in particular were very hesitant to be critical of Chidambaram, a courtesy that was rarely extended to Pranab Mukherjee who carried more political heft. Since she was elevated to her present position in North Block, Sitharaman has worked diligently but kept an extraordinarily low-key public profile. She hasn’t been seen summoning the captains of industry to her office, nor has she been known to have special lines of communication with any corporate house. She has done her work quietly and without any fuss, aided by equally low-profile advisers who haven’t taken a sabbatical from American universities. Likewise, her personal and family life has been a complete blank in the public imagination. This quiet approach has often been misinterpreted in the media imagination — which in turn has shaped business perceptions — into a belief that she is a cut below many of her predecessors. What was particularly singled out for criticism was her multi-part presentation of the stimulus package that also sought to link past initiatives with present sops and incentives. It was seen to be lacking in slick presentation. It is worth keeping this background in mind to understand the extraordinary elation that has greeted the Union budget of 2021. Maybe India has stopped the practice of describing the finance bill it likes as a Super Budget, keeping in mind the disappointments that often come mid-course. However, it would be fair to say that when Sitharaman rose to speak in the Lok Sabha on Monday, the expectation was of either bad news or very bad news. The reasons for this gloominess were understandable. Like the rest of the world, India too had borne a large share of the devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The extended lockdown that made a mockery of normal life in the first and second quarters of the ongoing financial year, the human tragedies that accompanied the deadly virus and the global economic tremors made it seem unlikely that there would be anything other than a bitter pill to swallow from the budget. To cap it all, the budget was preceded by the anger of the economists at the Narendra Modi government over its handling of the economic consequences of the pandemic. As a rule, economists — particularly those who like to view India as an enthralling case study — like to hunt in packs. The prevailing wisdom among economists, which included those who had once served the Government of India in different capacities, was that India needed a stimulus package along the lines of the cash handouts offered by the United Kingdom’s chancellor of the exchequer, Rishi Sunak. The Modi government had other ideas. The Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package focused on three things. First, in line with its principle of very targeted relief to the most vulnerable sections, it offered cash handouts through direct benefit transfers to women, migrant labour and farmers and undertook a massive campaign to ensure food security for all. For the vocal middle classes, it offered some non-cash relief such as extension of tax deadlines and reduction in the tax deducted at source rates. Secondly, it used the pandemic to enhance capacity-building in the crucial health sector, creating the necessary infrastructure that has been so useful in rolling out the gigantic anti-Covid vaccine programme across the country with a measure of spectacular efficiency. Finally, it used the pandemic and the lockdown to foster the notion of self-reliance (not to be mistaken for self-sufficiency) in Atmanirbhar Bharat. In effect, what the Modi government successfully did was hold its nerve and not be bamboozled into short-term remedies that would make the long-term recovery less enduring and unsustainable. The political test of this approach was the Bihar assembly election that was narrowly won, defeating a sustained populist challenge. Sitharaman’s budget has, in effect, enlarged the approach spelt out last year to a larger sphere. The massive increase in expenditure on health was quite easily digested by public opinion, not least on account of the encouraging progress of the vaccine programme. The programme to upgrade India’s infrastructure, particularly in roads and railways, always had a ready audience since such investments always had a big multiplier effect. Finally, the sops to farmers in the form of enhanced procurement prices and relief to plantation workers were a response to the agitation in northern India which will pay political dividends. However, public perceptions of the budget are also disproportionately shaped by the middle classes. Sitharaman won the hearts of this section by avoiding any extra tax burden and, indeed, making tax compliance that much easier for corporates. Like Manmohan Singh in 1991, Sitharaman used an acknowledged crisis to push through changes that in more normal times would have invited fierce criticism from the remnants of India’s socialist bloc — a bloc that exists in all parties. For daring to persist with an approach that the pundits had dismissed as too little and too late and garnishing it with the promise of double-digit growth, Sitharaman has come into her own. She is unlikely to be the target of gratuitous condescension any longer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-78
