05-02-2021||Opinion||Silver sale: Policy of strategic disinvestment ||The Narendra Modi government has set its sights on an aggressive plan to sell its equity holdings in State-owned enterprises from which it hopes to rake in Rs 1.75 trillion. Last year, the Centre had hoped to raise even more — Rs 2.1 trillion — but found itself blind-sided by a pandemic. The setback scuppered the elaborate plans to deliver on a massive privatization drive that had been unleashed in November 2019 when the Centre crossed the Rubicon by deciding in principle to lower its stake in public sector enterprises below 51 per cent. The Centre has significantly widened the scope of its privatization plan by unveiling a new policy for strategic disinvestment — a promise that the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, had made when she announced the Atmanirbhar package of reforms last year. Only four areas are considered to be of strategic importance: atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecommunications; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking, insurance and financial services. The government has said that public sector enterprises will have a “bare minimum presence” in the strategic sector. State-owned units that do not fall into any of the four strategic sectors will be privatized. And if there are no takers, they will be closed down. This is a stark decision and casts a shadow of uncertainty over the 264 Central public sector enterprises that are clubbed together under 38 ministries or departments of the government. The government does not stop there: it has also announced an ambitious asset monetization plan under which toll roads, railway freight corridors, airports, gas pipelines, warehouses, sports stadia and surplus land with government entities will be farmed out to the private sector. The privatization plan includes the outright sale of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited, Air India, Concor, and Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited — all of which were pencilled in for this fiscal but will now spill over to the next. But the one to watch will be the sale of a significant stake in Life Insurance Corporation. Back of the envelope calculations suggest that the insurance behemoth is valued anywhere between Rs 9 to 11 trillion, and a 10 per cent dilution will yield at least Rs 900 billion.  The government also hopes to sell two out of the 12 public sector banks, sparking feverish speculation over which ones will be placed on the block. The declaration is short on specifics but it indicates that the government may trim its stake in the others to below 51 per cent — a move that will entail amendments in the legislations under which the Centre took over a clutch of banks in 1970 and 1980. Mr Modi‘s government has already been accused of selling the family silver assiduously built up over the past seven decades. But the process could be bedevilled by massive protests over job losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
05-02-2021||Opinion||Prickly pears: Govt pushback on celeb tweets||The powers that be protest too much. This is an apt description of the pushback orchestrated by the external affairs ministry in response to a tweet by a popular international singer on the ongoing farmers’ protest. In an unprecedented step, the ministry of external affairs responded to the growing international scrutiny in a lengthy statement that urged celebrities to ascertain facts before rushing to make critical comments. This is welcome advice, but the dictum should be applicable to all. The ministry itself, it appears, has taken certain licences with facts, stating that Parliament had passed the contentious farm laws after “full debate and discussion”. India and perhaps the world know that the legislations were steamrolled ignoring the reservations of the Opposition. What is equally illustrative about the indignation of the ministry and its admirers — celebrities all — was their comprehension of sovereignty. The sovereignty of a robust democracy cannot be so brittle as to crumble in the face of a single tweet. This prickliness, a dangerous kind of intolerance for criticism, has become a signature of New India and its administration. The allergy is inimical to the health of this democracy. What strengthens democracy is — not unilateral opinion but — a nation’s ability to accommodate divergent, competing views. There may be other reasons that explain the paranoid rebuttal. Could it be that the Centre is no longer certain that its carefully curated narrative on the farmers’ protest is having its desired effect? If that is the case, then the Narendra Modi government has itself to blame. The sustained demonization of farmers, the periodic use of force and provocation at the sites of protest and, above all, the insensitivity shown from the highest echelons of power — the Union agriculture minister said that the government will not pay any compensation to the families of those farmers who have lost their lives during the agitation — have bared the ugly truths that no amount of cheerleading on television or on social media can conceal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
05-02-2021||Opinion||Dressed in chains||The pillars of government have never been on such wanton pillage as now. But we should not be shocked. Seldom have we so fervently persuaded ourselves that this daily plucking and plunder of who we are, this diminution from citizen to subject, is for our own great good; that somehow, complaining or protesting about it, demanding our rights and our rightful place, is an act of sedition. It is as if we have been guilt-tripped into unqualified obeisance of a Lord we have long sinned against by shunning; now must follow the penance of prostration. Day after day, knot upon rigid knot, we get looped tighter in the coils of what would be deemed shocking in any civil society. But we aren’t a civil society; civil society is what we heckle along barricades and gas and shoot, it is what we pick names for from the thesaurus of profanities, civil society is what we lock behind bars and toss the keys beyond the reach of appeal or reason or law or justice, or, very often, all of them combined. Our civilities we pawned off to purchase the secure servility of hectored propaganda hashtags. We should not be shocked at how we have come to be led. We should not be shocked that we have come under the antediluvian arrangements of deranged despots who we would read about in the comfort that it all happened somewhere far away, not here, no way. We should not be shocked that it is happening here, brought to us live on the hyper-cacophony of our television screens, our shackles presented to us as the armour of democracy. We are being dressed in chains but they are for our own good, prescribed protection. Because all that iron-plating is so much pretence, it can begin to shiver and shake at the distant twittering of birds. It is possible we feel hobbled and helpless, but we should not be shocked. We put men in charge with hearts of molten concrete and souls full of spikes, they are casting us in their own likeness, we have become a realm of timid ferocities, we bark at our own. We should not be shocked. Many of the things happening around us are beyond shocking. You may have seen images of vistas approaching the national capital embedded with battle-grade rods of chiselled steel. You may have watched those barriers acquire layer upon layer of concrete and churning mortar pour into the spaces betwixt. You may also have wondered what era you’ve been transported to when you saw formations kitted out like medieval jousting squads. But you shouldn’t be shocked. We shouldn’t be shocked. Being shocked is an indulgence we stopped deserving a while back. We killed a man on the suspicion of what he may have stored in his refrigerator as prospective meal. We were not shocked. We draped his alleged killer in national colours and gave him a hero’s send-off. We were not shocked. We killed a boy, lynched him on a public platform, for his festive headgear. We were not shocked. We made a social media festival of gory lynching. We feted the killers with garlands. We were not shocked; we were indifferent, or we were proud. We cheered the disgrace of a young man hog-tied to the bonnet of an army vehicle and used as human shield. We were not shocked; we commended the architect of dishonourable ways. We were stripped to our skins by a maverick bolt of financial disorder but we deemed it our national duty to clap and comply. We stood in queues to be handed driblets of our hard-earned money, as if it were the gift of holy benediction, a necessary cleansing which will require of us some collective pain. We were willing to be laughed at and mocked for the summary reduction of our circumstances, all for the greater good. It was to render a body-blow to terror outfits, it was to disable Maoist militias, it was to scrub off black money. None of that happened. We were not shocked. We bore the curse of demonetization like karma’s chosen beasts of burden. We heaped the most sordid curtailments on those we still call our own. We quartered our crown and converted Kashmir into the largest prison house of the living, a whole people muffled and manacled, summarily bundled and divested. We weren’t shocked; we hailed it as the high hour of democracy. We have suffered, under the booming surround-sound of ultra-nationalism, some of the most audacious violations of national integrity — our garrisons invaded, our soldiers ripped, our pride defiled. We aren’t shocked. A formidable neighbour whose name the nation’s leader is terrified to bring to his lips has come to brashly alter our shape on the map and squat on our territory, claiming many of our brave lives in the process. We aren’t shocked; we’ve been told a lie and we live with that lie. We lay smitten with the folksy mumbo-jumbo of how smart we were to chance upon cloud-cover to neutralize radar-detection and conduct a daring air-raid across enemy lines. We have ridiculed ourselves to lies; we shouldn’t be shocked. We can rot in jail, and be denied bail, because of a joke we may never have cracked. We probably were born wrong and bear the wrong name, that’s why. Must we be shocked at such unabashed singling out and Othering? We have been told the name for it from high quarters — termites. Why must we be shocked that termites require extermination? Must we be shocked that the gowned eminences of justice blithely pronounce that a dying person will die anyhow, bail or no bail. Must we be shocked that an ailing, ageing undertrial is denied a sipper to drink from? Must we be shocked that we can be hustled into a police van for carrying a notebook and a pen? Must we be shocked that calling out a meagre mid-day meal for school kids is tantamount to crime against the State? Must we be shocked that the evidence of a young girl repeatedly raped and murdered is coldly set afire under uniformed guard? Must we be shocked if Hathras no longer reminds us? We should not be shocked; we travelled past the use-before date. And so what if we arrived at Singhu and Tikri and Ghazipur? They too shall pass our station. From where we stand, we watched just this week a man saunter up the steps of Parliament as junior act to the ceremonies of our annual budget. Around this time last year, that man was making garrulous exhorts to murder from a stage as Delhi flamed on its fringes. Look up the headlines from then, if you will, and look around and wonder if the world around us got grimmer this sorry past year. But be not shocked. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
05-02-2021||Opinion||Do not come, do not go||Sun Zheng laughed, recalling the time he had to stop his practice of giving ‘Red Envelopes’ to officials whose approval was essential for the smooth running of his cosmetics unit. Decorative red envelopes containing cash are traditional Chinese New Year gifts, normally exchanged among families. The practice of giving them to government officials had, some years ago, reached such a pitch that the Communist Party had to warn the officials. What amuses Sun no end is that this New Year, he has received a Red Envelope from the government. As coronavirus cases — including some involving the mutant strain from the United Kingdom — rise in China, affected cities are desperate to prevent the annual mass migration of people to their hometowns to celebrate New Year with their families. A cash subsidy for those staying back is one such ‘red envelope’ being offered across the country. The lake city of Hangzhou is offering as much as 1000 yuan, while Yiwu, known as the ‘world’s supermarket’, is not just offering a 500-yuan shopping coupon, but has also requested landlords to halve rent for workers who stay back. It has also offered subsidies to restaurants, salons, and car wash/repair stores that work through the holiday. Moreover, it is making its tourist sites free. In Beijing, the three State-owned telecom giants are offering free data of 20 gigabytes for the holiday.Effective steps Airlines, already bleeding since last year, have been told to refund tickets without any charge for the period between January 28 and March 8, and for those who want to travel, fares are at a five-year-low. A four-hour flight from Beijing in the north to the popular island destination of Sanya in the south now costs just 700 yuan as against the normal fare of 2,000 yuan. Then there are the stringent and expensive health measures that travellers must follow: Covid-19 tests — the price has been reduced from 120 to 80 yuan — followed by quarantine on arrival and return, leaves hardly any days for a satisfactory family reunion. The measures are working: an online poll showed that more than 60 per cent of the respondents decided against travel. Accordingly, restaurants, which used to be booked by families for the New Year, have switched to preparing traditional meals for homedelivery/takeout, focusing on couples and singles. A 25-year-old teacher, Fu Xue, has already decided her New Year schedule: binge watching serials, ordering in special meals and then burning calories walking around her city which she has never had time to explore. Her family reunion on February 12 — New Year’s Day — will be online.Bitter tinge However, not everyone is happy with this year’s New Year motto: ‘Don’t go, don’t come’. A gas deliveryman, Liu Yang, couldn’t go home last year because of the sudden lockdown imposed in Wuhan that soon extended to the rest of the country. Like other workers, he had put off travel even after the lockdown was lifted, making do with video chats with his parents and daughter back in their village, confident that he would be able to take an extended break in the New Year. Now his hopes have been dashed. But Liu is lucky: his gas company pays him on time, unlike the thousands of migrant workers for whom New Year has always been tinged with the bitterness of having to head home without having been paid for months. This year, with the pandemic having already hit them hard, workers have struck work almost 100 times, and posted more than 35 calls for help on the social media platform, Weibo, for wage arrears. Gong xi fa cai (Happy New Year)!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
05-02-2021||Opinion||A decade of valuable lessons||The death of a disease. That is what ‘eradication’ is all about — the permanent, worldwide elimination of disease transmission caused by a particular pathogen so that no one suffers from that ailment ever again. Of the myriad pathogens that can cause human disease, only one, smallpox, has been eradicated so far. That is why we no longer see the dreaded illness that was prevalent in the world until the late 1970s, and we no longer need to routinely vaccinate against it anymore. Poliomyelitis — a disease that primarily affects young children and causes paralysis that is typically permanent and, in severe cases, can result in death — is now set to be the second disease affecting humans to be eradicated. In 1988, the Global Polio Eradication Initiative was formed with the aim to eradicate the disease. It was spearheaded by Rotary International, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the World Health Organization and Unicef. Back then, on a daily basis, approximately 1,000 children were permanently affected by the disease. This was a staggering and depressing number, particularly in the light of the fact that the illness was preventable with the vaccines that were available, such as the inactivated poliovirus vaccine or oral poliovirus vaccine, both first licenced more than 60 years ago in the United States of America. Over the past several decades, the GPEI has evolved to become one of the largest public-private partnerships with more than 50 donor organizations, 20 million volunteers, several national governments and philanthropic organizations, such as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and agencies such as Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance joining forces to wipe out polio from the world. The GPEI and its partners, with the help of countless local health workers and vaccinators, has made it possible to take the vaccine to households in the remotest corners of the world, from flood-prone northern Bihar in India to hard-to-access Borno in Nigeria. The eradication programme has made a valiant attempt to deliver the vaccine to any place there could be a vulnerable child. At present, only two countries, Pakistan and Afghanistan, continue to have ongoing wild polio circulation. This not only results in children in both nations getting infected with the virus but also puts other polio-free regions at risk of getting re-infected. Civil unrest and insurgency, which prevent vaccinators from reaching children, have been among the key bottlenecks in these remaining pockets of polio transmission. This January marked 10 years of India being free of wild poliovirus transmission. The last child ever to suffer paralysis with the wild poliovirus in the country was a little girl from West Bengal, living not too far away from Calcutta. It took an unprecedented and concerted effort on the part of the Central and state governments, global partners and donor agencies, health care professionals and, most important, the frontline vaccinators, to come together to rid all corners of the country of the poliovirus, in spite of significant challenges such as overcrowding, poor sanitation, low accessibility and population movement. Community leaders also set examples by joining hands to educate families on vaccine acceptance, and national icons such as Amitabh Bachchan and A.R. Rahman made the vaccination campaigns a point of national pride. With this remarkable scale and intensity, polio campaigns came to be viewed as celebrations in a nation known for its year-round festivities. Today, India’s triumph against polio is not only the harbinger of hope for the world to eradicate the disease, but also lays out a possible framework for large-scale pandemic response strategies — critically relevant for the Covid-19 era. The poliovirus affects one and all, irrespective of caste, creed, race, and religion. Thus, a unified effort from the global community could help us gain the final edge over the virus for a decisive win in this epic battle. The impact of ending polio forever will be an enduring gift for generations to come. As we celebrate India’s remarkable 10-year anniversary of achieving and sustaining its polio-free status, and as we battle through the Covid-19 pandemic with the promise of new vaccines and healthcare interventions ahead of us, we should be united in our resolve to protect everyone against polio and other diseases that are preventable by vaccines. This can be done by ensuring complete and timely vaccinations for all our loved ones — in our households, families, communities and beyond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
