06-02-2021||Opinion||They are not amused: comics under attack||Laughter, a medicine that should lighten the heart, can taste bitter to some. Responding to the Supreme Court’s notice on petitions for contempt proceedings on the charge of ridiculing the court in tweets, the comedian, Kunal Kamra, did not apologize, since jokes need not be defended. Instead, his affidavit addressed the role of comedy and satire in a democracy, claiming that to place any institution of power in a democracy above criticism was like asking migrant workers to find their way home during an ill-planned lockdown. Mr Kamra also laid emphasis on the stature of the Supreme Court. The complaint that Mr Kamra’s tweets would diminish people’s faith in the court was mistaken, because public respect for the court came from the court’s actions and not from criticism and commentary. Although this could be a veiled glance at the court’s sensitiveness, Mr Kamra said with impeccable humility that to think his tweets could shake the foundations of the greatest court in the world was an overestimation of his abilities. Irreverence and hyperbole are intrinsic to the comedic project which, while comforting the afflicted and afflicting the comfortable — presumably by exposing the clay feet of power — brings attention to bear on thorny issues with brevity, wit, laughter and satire. This is the comedian’s unique method of pointing to problems of public relevance. Mr Kamra’s response was a reminder of comedy’s function in repressive regimes through history. Stand-up comedy, parodic plays, rip-roaring farce and even cabaret — all have at different times shown up the emperor’s lack of clothes. No constitutional authority can be protected from jokes, said Mr Kamra, just as no one was prevented from discharging their duty, not even judges, by being targets of comedy and satire. But at a time when intolerance of criticism had turned taking offence into a national sport, laughter, the best medicine, was bound to taste bitter. By alluding to the fundamental values of a democracy, Mr Kamra’s affidavit showed up the conditions behind this distortion. Freedom of speech and expression, a constitutional right, held the possibility of offence — a comment that implied the inclusive, tolerant, accommodating spirit of democracy. Restraining this freedom would result in “incarcerated artists” and “flourishing lapdogs”, according to Mr Kamra, whose examples of such restraining — one was Kashmir — were as withering as his phrases. These proceedings go beyond one particular case of contempt. Laughter criticizes and cures by exposure and inversion; it fights excess. Over-sensitiveness to criticism, and hence the stifling of humour, is a sign of insecurity and brittleness, characteristics of those who aspire to create total compliance and rule with unquestioned power. Even the suspicion of laughter is stifled: a detained comedian, Munawar Faruqui, had to go to the Supreme Court just for interim bail. Humour, being the manifestation of a sense of proportion, is an attack on unreason. Muzzling laughter would be to let unreason win.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
06-02-2021||Opinion||Powerful blow: Rihanna tweets in support of farmers||Sir — It was greatly amusing to witness how hot and bothered the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre and its supporters got over a tweet by the renowned Barbadian pop singer, Rihanna, over the ongoing farmers’ agitation within the country (“Inaccurate tag on govt statement”, Feb 4). The tweet highlighted the internet blockades around the protest sites and led to more international personalities like Meena Harris — she is the niece of the vice-president of the United States of America, Kamala Harris — and the young climate change activist, Greta Thunberg, drawing attention to the issue. The external affairs ministry embarrassed itself further by putting out a statement accusing “foreign individuals” and celebrities of “sensationalism”. It is interesting that the government claimed that internet services were suspended to “maintain public safety” after it defended the Delhi Police’s use of violence and tear gas against protesting farmers. The Centre is clearly squirming over the unexpected attention that its objectionable actions are receiving in the international arena, and is doing whatever it can in a desperate attempt to discredit those who are questioning it. The global community must come together to continue mounting pressure on the Indian government. Debalina Roy,Calcutta Sir — Rihanna’s tweet regarding the farmers’ protest in India shows that the world can no longer be kept ignorant about the human rights violations in the presence of a free global media, and no government can push undemocratic agendas in their country without making ripples across the world. Be it China’s repression of Uighur Muslims and protesters in Hong Kong, the family separation policy followed by the administration of the former US president, Donald Trump, or the plight of the Rohingya community in Myanmar, the international community has always voiced its concern. No national government can escape global scrutiny by trying to pass off its oppressive actions as “internal matters” of the country in question. Moreover, while Rihanna’s tweet has not gone down well with the Indian government, attempting to discredit her words on the grounds that she is a foreign national is egregious. In the age of social media, it is foolish to assume that the world will merely remain a spectator to an important event and not become a participant. Indranil Barat,Dhanbad, JharkhandBig relief Sir — It was heartening to read that the Centre has agreed to offer an extra chance to people who had missed their last attempt at sitting for the Union Public Service Commission examinations in 2020 on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. The contagion and the subsequent lockdown threw the professional and academic plans of thousands of Indians into a disarray. For many citizens, sitting for and cracking the civil services exams is a lifelong dream; it would have been greatly unfair to them if their final chance at fulfilling their ambitions were thwarted for no fault of their own. Anirban Ganguly,Calcutta Still alive Sir — In what is being touted as a miracle, a stray dog in Karnataka’s Bilinele village escaped unharmed after being trapped in a toilet with a leopard for hours. Few would have expected the dog to emerge alive — especially since the leopard was reportedly chasing the dog before they got locked into the toilet — but footage revealed that both creatures kept to themselves during the hours that they were trapped together. Mercifully, the leopard, too, escaped unhurt after forest department officials got involved. While it is a stroke of luck that the dog emerged in one piece, the incident shows that it is possible to free wild animals from sticky situations without injuring them. Nidhi Rai,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
06-02-2021||Opinion||Cricket: How Britain's imperialist tool unified India||Now that England are touring India, I have gone back to re-read what I think is the best book on Indian cricket: Andy Carter’s Beyond The Pale: Early Black and Asian Cricketers in Britain 1868-1945. Carter began the project as a series of weekly podcasts for his Master’s dissertation in public history at Royal Holloway, University of London. The book looks at some influencers of Indian cricket: most notably Prince Ranjitsinhji, an inspirational and generous man but a flawed ruler; Vizzy (Maharajkumar of Vizianagram), “a man with a nasty streak who put Indian cricket back 20 years”; Lord Harris, one time governor of Bombay and “one of the villains of the book” who used the game to encourage animosity between Hindus, Muslims and Parsis in India and later tried, unsuccessfully, to keep Ranji out of the England side; Maharajah Bhupinder Singh of Patiala; and the Nawabs of Pataudi. This is an absolute gem of a book which looks at cricket in the context of class, race and ethnicity in Britain. The British in Britain “had a far more open mind compared with British people (like Harris) who had been in India”. Carter tells me that “sometimes the class angle would trump the race angle. Since Ranjitsinhji was a prince, his glamour carried him over any doubts the public might have had over his ethnicity.” The English upper classes assumed they could never be beaten by “lesser folk”, including Indians, Australians and, at home, the working class. In India, cricket was used to try and “turn princes into English aristocrats” and later in a policy of “divide and rule”. Joe Root’s side happily reflects all that is best about multicultural Britain but Carter writes about another world. He notes that cricket today unites India: “Despite British efforts to use cricket as a tool of imperialism it actually became a vehicle for identity and ultimately self-determination.” Dangerous plot The British apparently had a plan to assassinate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose during World War II, according to his daughter, Anita Bose, who gave a Zoom interview to mark her father’s 124th birth anniversary on January 23. In a conversation with London-based Lalit Mohan Joshi, director of the South Asian Cinema Foundation, she revealed the alleged plot. “They [the British] had thought he would be passing through Turkey and wanted to have him assassinated there. He was probably one of the best [most] hated people for the British rulers. It’s not surprising that they were not very fond of him because he was a very uncompromising opponent to His Majesty.” In 1943, when Adolf Hitler agreed to provide Bose with safe passage to the Far East, the Germans chose a submarine because they thought a plane carrying Bose might be shot down by the British. “In fact, first they [the Germans] thought of getting him to South-East Asia by plane. But then somehow there was concern that this plan had been leaked to the British.” Anita said she would have been happier if Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee joined forces to honour her father’s memory, but she recognized this as unlikely with assembly elections due in West Bengal soon. She hoped, however, for the return of her father’s ashes from the Renko-ji Temple in Tokyo. “It would be very nice if we could bring the remains back to India in the course of this coming year. I personally would welcome closure on the issue.”An old connection Family treasures belonging to Patricia Mountbatten, the elder daughter of Lord Louis Mountbatten, the last Viceroy of India, are to be auctioned by Sotheby’s in London on March 24. Over 350 lots “spanning jewellery, furniture, paintings, sculpture, books, silver, ceramics & objets d’art” reflect the Mountbatten family’s close links with India. Patricia died in 2017 and her film producer husband, John Knatchbull, the 7th Baron of Brabourne, in 2005. He produced such movies as the David Lean-directed A Passage to India. If there is one item I would like Mamata Banerjee to buy for Bengal, it is the portrait of Patricia’s father-in-law, Michael Herbert Rudolf Knatchbull, the 5th Baron of Brabourne, who died in 1939 and is buried in St. John’s Churchyard in Calcutta. He was briefly acting viceroy of India and, as governor of Bombay, laid the foundation stone of Brabourne Stadium. My cousins will know their alma mater, Lady Brabourne College in Calcutta, was named after Doreen, wife of the 5th Baron when he was governor of Bengal.Pay attention During an informal conversation between Cambridge academics on Zoom earlier this week “Partha” got an honourable mention. “Don’t forget he is Meade’s son-in-law”, gossiped one old-timer, referring to the fact that the economist, Professor Sir Partha Dasgupta, is married to Carol, whose late father, James Meade, won the 1977 Nobel Prize for Economics. Partha’s landmark report on biodiversity, published recently, calls for governments to obsess less about GDP and concern themselves more with the damaging environmental costs of development. His findings have been welcomed by everyone from Prime Minister Boris Johnson to Sir David Attenborough, who praised “this comprehensive and immensely important report”.Footnote The author and chef, Asma Khan, who grew up in Calcutta and now runs the Darjeeling Express restaurant in London, picked out “macher jhol” for an article in The Observer from the many recipes in her book, Asma’s Indian Kitchen. In the absence of rui, she has suggested using either cod or halibut. I have found salmon works better. I am delighted Bengali cuisine, which is missing from the Punjabi-dominated Indian food scene in Britain, gets a mention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
06-02-2021||Opinion||The Plandemic||A health official telephoned within hours of my first anti-Covid-19 jab and asked if everything was alright. One reason could have been the controversy over the German and French insistence — which Britain rejects — that the AstraZeneca vaccine should not be given to anyone over 65. It may also have been because black and minority ethnic (Bame) people, comprising 35 per cent of London’s population and 14 per cent of the nation’s, are lagging behind in being vaccinated. Boris Johnson’s ambitious programme to vaccinate 15 million of the most vulnerable by the middle of this month and millions of others immediately afterwards so that nearly 99 per cent of those who are most at risk of dying from Covid-19 are covered by spring faces huge challenges. Money, the highly competitive international demand for scarce vaccines, rigorous safety checks and deep-freeze storage all present daunting problems. The campaign depends on mass vaccination centres with armies of trained and dedicated vaccinators. It must also counter the whispers and rumours seething below the surface. The task has fallen on the National Health Service, which was ceaselessly reviled only a few years ago for mismanagement, waste and corruption. Now, it is clear people should be eternally grateful for Clement Attlee’s vision of post-war reconstruction. Vaccination centres all over London, including the Shri Swaminarayan Mandir in Neasden, the ‘biggest Hindu temple outside India’, are managed with smooth and silent efficiency. The health official who telephoned me seemed pleasantly surprised when I told her I was particularly impressed by the courtesy and the competence of the half-a-dozen volunteers — actuaries, accountants and teachers in everyday life — at the Earl’s Court Health and Wellbeing Centre. I was surprised when she asked my reason for taking the injection until I remembered last month’s survey attributing “vaccine hesitancy/resistance” to 31 per cent of Britain’s population and 35 per cent of Ireland’s. While 80 per cent of the overall target has been vaccinated, the Filipino share is only 25 per cent. An ethnic Bangladeshi professional, born and brought up in Britain, made things clearer by inadvertently reminding me of the Calcutta to which I returned in 1970 after a three-year stint abroad. Street corners bustled with makeshift altars, coins were heaped on trays draped in red cloth, and alms were sought and given from door to door. A radical friend who dismissed all this as superstitious nonsense to placate the malefic Shani — Saturn — overlooked the profound insecurity that underlies all propitiatory ritual. My British-Bangladeshi friend’s sinister tale suggested even more dangerous nervousness. He had heard that hospital wards reserved for coronavirus victims were lying empty. Doctors were being urged, he said, to certify that patients who had succumbed to other diseases had died of Covid-19. “I don’t know if the government gets a subsidy or something from outside for the number of coronavirus deaths,” he murmured darkly. The data show that black people are four times more likely to die from coronavirus than whites especially in areas like Tottenham with high unemployment and probably more blacks than whites. People of African descent nurse atavistic fears of being exploited for laboratory experiments. But the second wave of coronavirus attacks has hit Asians the hardest, says Kevin Fenton, the Glasgow-born, Jamaican-origin London director at Public Health England. He attributes this to economic deprivation, which doesn’t allow Asians to work from home, and crowded living conditions. The Evening Standard quoted two respected senior doctors, Harmandeep Singh and Gurjinder Sandhu, condemning residents of immigrant-dominated areas for treating the virus as a hoax. Some are in Southall where shopkeepers are most comfortable in Hindi; some in Ealing where a Liverpudlian friend used to joke he had enough Indian and Pakistani neighbours to get a small Kashmir war going. Many don’t wear masks. Social distancing is ignored. People “walk around as if everything was fine and normal”. Some send subversive messages which sound credible being in an Asian language. Another ploy is to attribute Covid-19 deaths in India to heart attacks. The pandemic has given us the word, ‘Covidiot’, for a stupid person who ignores precautions. It has also given us ‘Plandemic’. A video titled, Plandemic: The Hidden Agenda Behind Covid-19, promoted the myth that vaccines are “a money-making enterprise that causes medical harm”. Its sequel, Plandemic: Indoctornation (“doctor” being highlighted in the logo to suggest indoctrination) also “taps into people’s uncertainty, anxiety and need for answers”. Shades of 1975, some fear the impact on fertility. Shades of 1857, others believe vaccines contain forbidden animal products despite the announcement by Magda Smith, an NHS director, “I can absolutely assure you there is no animal product, no human product, no eggs, no gelatine, no alcohol” in the vaccines. An anonymous blog in France linking 5G technology to a mysterious coronavirus strain soon went viral on this side of the Channel. Immigrants may be victims but are not the only culprits. Sir Desmond Swayne, a Tory grandee formerly attached to David Cameron’s government and still a member of parliament, told the Save Our Rights UK group, which has more than 60,000 followers, that the NHS had manipulated statistics to exaggerate the crisis.  Thousands of people marched during the Save Our Rights UK rally at the end of October to protest against the lockdown. According to the group’s founder, the coronavirus regulations “are not proportionate and appropriate, and are causing more harm than good”. They are said to violate human rights, especially the rights to privacy, family life, bodily autonomy and medical freedoms. Across the political divide, Piers Corbyn, brother of the former Labour party leader, Jeremy, designed a leaflet likening vaccination — a confidence trick “just to make money and to control you” — to the Nazi death camp at Auschwitz. Friction with the European Union aggravates difficulties. Although Britain’s exit was finalized on December 31, the 159-page export rules are not easily interpreted or implemented. Recent weeks have seen dramatic developments like the EU trying to prevent vaccines reaching British Northern Ireland, Belgians raiding AstraZeneca’s production site near Brussels, and Dutch officials seizing ham sandwiches (unauthorized meat exports!) from British truck drivers. No doubt these difficulties will be resolved as Europe settles down to a new political equation but the grim spectre of the mysterious QAnon, with its image of a coiled serpent viciously poised to strike and the caption, “Where we go one we go all”, looms over all controversies. The story goes back to October 2017 when a series of posts appeared on 4chan, an anonymous English-language imageboard website, with the user signing off as “Q” and claiming to enjoy a level of American security approval called “Q clearance”. Known as “Q drops” or “breadcrumbs”, these messages were often written in cryptic language peppered with slogans, pledges and pro-Donald Trump themes. QAnon rests on the belief that the world is secretly run by a satanic cult of paedophiles and liberal elites and that Covid-19 was planned to shut down the global economy for resetting. According to this version, Trump was the superhero sent to vanquish the cult and usher in utopia. Another variant includes Hillary Clinton’s arrest and execution. Trump reportedly called QAnon activists “people who love our country”. Although he stopped short of endorsing the movement which viewed him as a hero, Trump apparently preened, “They do like me.” No wonder his parting shot as his plane took off for Florida was to vow to “be back in some form”. Bame and white would be equally affected if that happens for as Britain’s vaccine minister, Nadhim Zahawi, puts it, the pandemic is “a race against death”. Death can come in many forms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-77
