07-02-2021||Opinion||Before the rah rah about RiRi||The fault, dear farmers, is not in the stars but in ourselves that we are such undiscerning beings. The disappointment at celebrities in India who appear to support the government stance against the continuing farmer protests is quite misplaced. It is not in the primary job description of cricketers, actors and nightingales to lend voice, ear and heart to people’s movements. So what if we the people contributed to their celebrity? So what if we the people applauded, adored and eventually deified them? And so what if all of it earns them dividends, intangible and tangible? They didn’t beg to endorse your dandruff shampoo. You did. They don't care about what hair oil you choose or toothpaste or what cooking oil for weak hearts. No Sir. The cricketers played well and that lent taste to your bucket of Sunday chicken wings. That’s on you. Did Kohli not give a cramp stricken Joe Root a physio on field last week? He was being a sport in and on his chosen field. He was leading by example where he has been chosen to lead. Can you say as much about your choices? But to sigh like the Nor'wester and discuss and feel let down when he tweets truisms --- “Farmers are an integral part of our country” --- and talks about being sure of an “amicable solution” is unfair. That’s way off-field. The singers sang with feeling and you chose to romance on those numbers. That's on you too. And did Lataji not sing an ode to jawans once; it is said to have moved Nehru to tears. And now the elder has chosen to sing for India and Indians in general, instead of the kisan in particular. All the actors did was get into the skin of the characters they played --- Akshay Kumar played Krishna Vasudev Yadav in OMG, Ajay Devgn played Bhagat Singh in Bhagat Singh --- and you believed that was them. Kumar had reportedly dedicated Singh is Kinng 2 to Manmohan Singh. And so what if Devgn played the lead in Son of Sardaar and also tweeted equivocally last week --- "It's important to stand united at this hour w/o any infighting (sic)"? Kangana played Rani of Jhansi and you forgot that she commands an army of trolls when you settled down with strawberry popcorn? Your fault. That’s all on you, you and you.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
07-02-2021||Opinion||Right decision||Sir — Canada has now officially labelled the Proud Boys, a far-right, all-male, white supremacist outfit in the United States of America, a terrorist group. One of its top leaders has also been arrested in the US over the Capitol Hill violence that took place earlier this year. It is important to note that the former president of the US, Donald Trump, had avoided condemning this group in strict terms. But outfits like Proud Boys, which are inimical to social harmony, exist in different forms in different countries. Respective governments must take steps to curb their violent activities. Suranjana Dey, Calcutta Sir — The seizure of power in Myanmar by the military in a coup and its declaration of a one-year emergency period, overturning the landslide win by the Aung San Suu Kyi-led National League for Democracy in the recently held election, has provoked widespread condemnation (“Boots return”, Feb 3). This is an assault on democracy. The military takeover of power reveals the vulnerability of a fledgling democracy. The military junta held power in the country from 1962 to 2011. The transition to democracy was rather short-lived; it could not last even a full decade. Perhaps circumstances have not been congenial in Myanmar for democracy to take deep root. The recent pogrom of the Rohingya Muslims by the Myanmarese military in Rakhine State while Suu Kyi was tenuously in power projected Myanmar as a country with scant respect for basic human rights. Suu Kyi came in for a lot of flak for her defence of the military crackdown on the Rohingya and her callous disregard for the lakhs of people who had to flee to neighbouring Bangladesh to escape torture and killing. Undoubtedly she lowered her stature as the icon of democracy as she was earlier perceived. The NLD’s demand to release Suu Kyi and other civilian leaders and restore democratic rule is unlikely to be productive in the immediate future. Powerful military and economic interests are entrenched and ordinary people disempowered in Myanmar. To add to that, the country is torn by strife. As such, there appears to be no real possibility of a popular uprising to force the military to hand over power to elected leaders. The threat by the United States of America to impose sanctions could push the military to move closer to China, which seems to be a byword for self-interest. Whatever the strategic compulsions, India, too, must speak up for a return to the path of democracy. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It is unfortunate that democratic rule has been stifled by the military through a coup in Myanmar, although the democratic process never truly attained a complete form in the country. The NLD, which got over 80 per cent votes at the hustings, has been denied its chance to rule. In other words, the voice of the people has been ignored to upkeep the interests of the junta. The junta’s stated excuse of electoral fraud as the reason for seizing power holds no water. It must accept that the party that it supported fared poorly in the elections. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — All through Myanmar’s post-colonial history, democratic rule has taken a back seat as it was primarily the military that ruled the country. As such, the recent developments are not so surprising. But India needs to tread carefully as it is an open secret that Myanmar’s army will have close relations with China and this will likely have serious ramifications for the peace process in the region. Recently, in a goodwill gesture, India supplied 1.5 million anti-Covid-19 vaccines to Myanmar. One hopes that democracy is restored at the earliest in the country for the larger interest of the region. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The state of affairs in Myanmar is worrying. All nations must condemn this undemocratic seizure of power. International sanctions might help pressurize the junta to cede power to the democratically elected government. Pradeep Sinha,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
07-02-2021||Opinion||Cricket nationalism||To watch Test cricketers being conscripted into a Twitter chorus aimed at foreign critics of the Indian government, in the name of the Nation, is embarrassing and strange. But nationalism isn’t something that has been injected into cricket by politically connected administrators or drum-beating media men; it is native to modern sport, a part of its historical evolution. It isn’t a coincidence that the period between 1870 and 1914, when the balance of power between empires and nations began to shift, when Germany, Italy and Japan began to reorganize themselves as nations, was the era when modern sports formalized their rules, set up regulatory associations and established international competitions, which cast athletes and sportsmen primarily as representatives of their nations. The first international Test match was played in 1877. This wasn’t a match played between two nations as much as an intra-Imperial competition between the Mother Country and a Dominion, but being represented at cricket in a match ‘against’ England helped Australians imagine Australia as a nation. Prashant Kidambi has shown us that in exactly this way did the ‘All-India’ cricket team that toured England in 1911 prefigure and embody the idea of an Indian nation in the making. FIFA, football’s governing association, was founded in 1904 to oversee international competition among the national associations of Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany and Switzerland. The governing bodies for football, cricket and tennis were set up in the decade between 1904 and the outbreak of WWI. Even a sport as individualistic as tennis was nudged into national competition in 1900 with the Davis Cup, which started life as a transatlantic tournament between Great Britain and the United States of America. Even more central to the developing relationship between nationalism and sport than these tournaments organized by brand new sporting bodies was the nationalization of the Olympic Games. The revived games were imagined by Pierre de Coubertin as a festival of fraternal brotherhood where the best athletes in the world would compete against each other in a sporting lull, rather like the ancient games at Olympia where warring kingdoms observed a truce for the duration of the Olympics. The way the Olympics evolved was rather different. Till the 1908 Games, entry was not restricted to teams nominated by National Olympic Committees. Mixed teams participated in some team events. But from 1908 onwards, the IOC consisted entirely of representatives of sovereign nation states. The Olympics always begin with a march past of nations, each under its own placard. Alan Bairner wrote that “sport, arguably more than any other form of social activity in the modern world, facilitates flag waving and the playing of national anthems...” The Olympics, more than any other sporting event, pioneered this non-stop identification of sport and the nation. Despite this identification, there was a contradiction at the heart of the Olympian vision of sporting competition that complicated the relationship between sport and politics. This complication shaped all sport because all modern sport took its cue from Coubertin’s ideals. On the one hand, the Olympics hardwired the nation state into modern competition. On the other, the IOC insisted that it would brook no interference from national politicians in the autonomy of National Olympic Committees. “Members of the IOC will not accept from governments... any mandate or instructions liable to interfere with the freedom of their action and vote.” The IOC’s position on this issue was copied by sports federations like FIFA and the FIH. The BCCI fought a rearguard action for nearly a decade to stay out of the purview of the Right to Information Act on the ground that it was a private body. The Indian State periodically tried to regulate it as a public body precisely because it selected teams that represented India. This Olympian ideal of autonomy grew out of the liberal idea that the nation state had a demarcated sphere that didn’t extend to the freedom of action of civil society organizations. The regulatory bodies for sport were implicitly saying that they wanted to harness the cachet of the nation state to magnify the significance of sport, but they wouldn’t allow the functionaries of the nation state to intervene in their affairs. When anti-apartheid protesters mobilized against the South African cricket team’s 1970 tour of England, Harold Wilson’s government hesitated to ban the tour precisely because of this principle of autonomy, this polite fiction that the nation state should not formally interfere in sport. Sport was the domain of civil society organizations like the Test and County Cricket Board. The Marylebone Cricket Club and the TCCB were adamant that the South African tour should go ahead on the principle that sport and politics ought to be kept apart. The protesters won a famous victory when this principle was breached. The TCCB cancelled the tour after a strong ‘request’ from the home secretary, James Callaghan, asking it to do so. This was the right thing to do because South Africa’s Whites-only cricket team was constituted by the politics of apartheid, so the argument that a sporting tour of England ought not to be disrupted by politics was self-serving and incoherent. If the cancellation of the South African tour taught the lesson that the principle of autonomy could not insulate sporting bodies from huge shifts in political opinion, the on-demand nationalism of India’s best cricketers shows us the consequences of abandoning the principle of sporting autonomy altogether. When sports organizations are captured by politicians, the players regulated by them run the risk of becoming clients of the netas who happen to run the nation state at the time. The principle of sporting autonomy, the idea of a necessary distance between the State and its sportsmen, might have been a liberal conceit but it was an enabling fiction. In its absence, we had Dhoni and Kohli wooing the nation in military fatigue caps, performing patriotism. Once cricketers cross that line, once they go from playing for the country to role-playing for the Nation, there is no going back. They will be asked to reprise those roles. Having played at being soldiers, they will, for instance, be conscripted by their political patrons to defend the nation against Rihanna, to man Twitter’s trenches against the Barbadians at our gates. The next time politicians decide to use India’s cricketers as extras in some nationalist drama, the Nation won’t ask which of them tweeted; It will ask which of them didn’t.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
07-02-2021||Opinion||Cops and robbers||Nearly five decades after one of Bengal’s beloved fictional characters — Lalmohan Ganguly alias Jatayu — uttered those immortal lines in the film, Sonar Kella, not one but several dacoits of this once dacoit-infested land are likely to enter the proverbial hall of fame. The credit, ironically, goes to the daku’s great adversary: the police. State police personnel in Madhya Pradesh are apparently donating money so that India’s first ever Museum for Dacoits can see the light of day in Bhind. Of course, there is always a thin line separating the police from the philanthropist. Altruism may not be the only motivation here for the men in uniform. The museum, cops say, is necessary to tilt the scales. Popular culture has often embellished the lives of the outlaw, edging out the keeper of the law in the process. Bhind’s museum is expected to preserve not just larger-than-life dacoits but also the sacrifices made by their nemesis — the policemen. The law and the lawless have clashed in the form of fierce contests; but, occasionally, their intersection has also resulted in a pursuit that was purely intellectual. India, once again, is a case in point. William Henry Sleeman’s success in hunting down the dreaded thuggee has, unfortunately, eclipsed his substantial literary output on the tribe of outlaws; many of Sleeman’s books can be read as sociological, albeit problematic, accounts of the gang. This cerebral engagement with the underbelly of society has been weakened by the depredations of ‘entertainment’. Museums dedicated to those who lived and died without doffing their hat to the law are not uncommon. But their claims as sites of pedagogical engagement can be specious. Historians, for instance, were up in arms when a proposed museum on Jack the Ripper and women’s history sought to cash in — the pun is intended — on the misogyny of the serial killer; the Mob Museum in Las Vegas — where else? — allows visitors to get married. Bhind’s Dacoit Museum should remain immune to such theatrics. If its architects are serious about challenging the gratuitous glorification of the outlaw in cinema and politics and conserve the rich, layered legacy of the cop-and-robber story, they should think of inviting scholars, conservators, historians and investors et al to be a part of this welcome project. For the story of crime and punishment is never complete without an investigation of the social and historical conditions that produce both. Chambal and the Aravallis — Jatayu’s dacoit-infested country — are fecund territories for the sprouting of the outlaw precisely because of the convergence of such diverse factors as feudalism, economic penury, political patronage and an inhospitable terrain. The stories, each a unique blend of all or some of these causal histories, would deepen public awareness of the symbiotic relationship between delinquency and deprivation. Yet another consequence of the endeavour could be the dissemination of the knowledge concerning the futility of violence. Dead men and women bearing arms teaching the living to lay down weapons could be the ideal tribute to dacoits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
07-02-2021||Opinion||How we came to claim lunacy||Always told you things will happen after NothingHappened. After that long gaping hiatus pervaded by normality, the utter boredom of it. Always told you I would shake things up. That is why you embraced me, that is why I am here: doing things that never happened in NeverHappened. Don’t be alarmed, you’ll survive. Though only if I will. That’s the plan, you see, what happens now is boobytrapped for my survival, but you could be collateral beneficiaries. Depends on which side of things you are. Choose your side. In this age, you are either what happened, or you are nothing. We broke the age of NothingHappened, we broke it at least in two. And the debris of that breakage you can see. It is visible from the moon, you know, that breakage. Or wreckage. Better word, I am told. I have friends who tell me. Better words from not so good ones. I will tell you his name, but only if you promise to be good. Deal? Deal. Be good. Here’s the name: The Saurus. Fellow knows his stuff, has his uses. He can give me the right words at the right time for the wrong kind of things. Like he says I should always say, Oh, Duck! when I feel like saying Oh, Duck! and not to bother with how others say it or hear it. When they say what I am doing is tantamount to ducking disaster, he says, well — and he bats his hooded eyelids in that most endearing fashion, like you know they are false because they are so long but they don’t even fall, you know, like real-real false ones — so he says well, as a matter of fact, this is exactly what — ducking disaster! Anyway. I am at ease now, relieved by the real meaning of this and that, what the duck! Folks see ducks and start ducking all over the place and crying fowl and pheasant and what the duck else! I am a builder and some folks think I am bulldozing. What the duck! Can’t you see? The Saurus, look at it, what would you call this? All these arrangements I have marshalled? Give me a word for it. In fact give me several words, as many as the number of times I change clothes so that with every change I have a changed word. Behold tonnage of cement and sand. The galactic lengths of iron and steel. The scores and scores of armoured ranks. Whatever for? To build, you stupid, not to bulldoze. Don’t you know what this is all about? I am building. A Wall. Not a loser Wall. A winner Wall. It’s my revenge for the revenge I have no gut for. I changed the field of play, I shifted goalposts. They think they can come and become visible on my soil? Well, theek hai, bataata hoon. Not batata, not potato. Bataaataaa. Like, I shall tell you, I shall show you. I shall show you from the moon. You think you have the only Wall that can be seen from down there? Just you wait. I am building one too, and it will spear into you and fill your lungs with so much molten concrete and mortar you will choke on it till you have become incapable of remembering what the meaning of a Wall is. You invade me on Earth, I shall diminish you in the Cosmos; this, here, is the Wall of all walls, layers and layers of it, and I just started building. I will build and build till there is no place to build anymore and the Cosmos begins to gape in awe. And you think this is about you, you puny creatures who brought me where I am, from where I command you to retreat because I wish to vacate this place because I need it to accord you pride of place in the eyes of the Cosmos? You fools, you think this is about you? This Wall? Go on, delude yourselves, cry yourselves till my kingdom comes again. You are not the intended ones, you are merely collateral damage of my grand design. Mere debris. Go have a look from the moon, you loons. Chalo dildaar chalo Chaand ke paar chalo Jeet yaa haar chalo Hum hain taiyaar chalo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
07-02-2021||Opinion||BJP on the offensive in Bengal, Assam; but misfires on celeb tweets ||While the Bharatiya Janata Party’s overdrive to wrest West Bengal from Mamata Banerjee is frequently making the headlines, the ruling party is not taking it easy in poll-bound Assam either. This in spite of the fact that it is much stronger in terms of organization and winnability than in 2016 when it unseated the well-entrenched Congress. With anti-BJP forces closing ranks, the ruling party, too, has unleashed a publicity, development and largesse blitzkrieg to neutralize the Opposition’s narrative of the BJP being a threat to Assamese identity. Every other day something or the other is launched or inaugurated at massive rallies; every 10 days or so a senior leader visits and attends well-staged rallies to fan the buzz around the party which has set a target to win more than 100 of the 126 seats. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, the home minister, Amit Shah, the national party president, JP Nadda, and the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, have all visited the state since January and more such visits are lined up. The BJP has also toned up its monitoring team by assigning the agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, as election committee in-charge with the minister of development of north eastern region, Jitendra Singh, as in-charge. The national vice-president, Baijayant Panda, is the Assam in-charge. The top three state leaders — the chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, the senior minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, and the state president, Ranjeet Kumar Dass — are almost everywhere, everyday, attending huge rallies and roadshows to occupy the media space. The Opposition surely has a lot of catching up to do, and fast, if it sincerely wants to stop the BJP from retaining the Dispur crown, said a Congress insider. It was considered the perfect plan in the saffron circles. The BJP would demand the home department in the Bihar cabinet from its smaller ally, the Janata Dal (United), and its leader and the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, would reject it. Then it would gun for the education department and Kumar would not be able to deny it. A senior BJP leader said that his party really wanted it so that it could provide better, nationalistic education loaded with dollops of Indian culture in schools and colleges, as designed by various organizations affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. But suddenly the party backtracked and there were no takers for one of the biggest departments in Bihar. “Actually... education, more so school education, in the state is in a shambles. Lakhs of schoolteachers are constantly on the warpath against the government for better salary, perks, facilities and service conditions. The state coffers are virtually empty. Nitish bore the brunt of their agitation for the last several years. It dawned upon us that by taking the education department, we would become the target of teachers,” a senior BJP leader said, explaining why his party dropped the idea. Meanwhile, the JD(U), which is happy with not having to part with the home department, is wondering whether to laugh or be sad at having retained the education department. The current regime takes pride in the fact that it now has a strong ‘intellectual force’ to counter the Left-Congress combine. The saffron brigade for long suffered from an inferiority complex, vis-à-vis Leftists in particular. These days, one can hear BJP leaders boasting that they virtually command an army of backers to propagate their Hindutva ideology and counter the Leftists. “You can see now that on all important issues, if they have 100 prominent people backing them, then there is almost double that number pushing our line,” one RSS leader claimed. A sense of overconfidence and an offence-is-the-best-defence mindset has gripped the regime. This overconfidence, many within the BJP believe, was behind the angry pushback over the tweets by the pop star, Rihanna, and the climate activist, Greta Thunberg. Privately, some BJP leaders acknowledge that the government should not have reacted to the tweets, but publicly they justify the government. There is increasing realization in sections of the regime that all this betrays frustration over its political failure on the farmers’ protests. All of the BJP in Bihar, barring a few senior leaders, is terrified of a certain ‘heavyweight’ politician. Educated at one of the most famous universities in the country, he came back to his native state at the behest of the late Arun Jaitley, and has now become close to the party’s Bihar in-charge and Rajya Sabha member, Bhupender Yadav. He keeps throwing his weight around, browbeating all and sundry, and shouting at almost everybody in an attempt to establish himself as an important leader managing the day-to-day affairs of the party in the state. “This man keeps picking up fights with everybody and keeps flaunting his closeness to Bhupender Yadav. It seems that with the passage of time he is becoming more and more frustrated on not getting anything significant. We really hope that he gets something this time, else he will keep making our lives miserable,” a senior BJP leader confided. Amen, chorused the others present at the scene. Anyone who has something to do with Karnataka politics is waiting for the ‘tell-all’ biographic account of the turncoat BJP leader, AH Vishwanath. A former state president of Janata Dal (Secular) who was among the 17 Congress-JD(S) lawmakers who brought down the HD Kumaraswamy government in 2019, Vishwanath recently declared that his book, titled Bombay Days, would recount the operation engineered by the BJP. Many in the party feel that he plans to use the book to rattle the BJP, especially the chief minister, BS Yediyurappa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
