08-02-2021||Opinion||Cuts deep: Union Budget 2021-22||The Union budget is not merely a dossier of government income and expenditure. Its importance lies in it being a concrete representation of a government’s vision for the growth of the nation and the welfare of its citizens. This year’s budget has left a lot to be desired with regard to the latter. Education has been dealt a severe blow; even with the pandemic posing several hurdles in the path to formal education, budgetary allocation has been cut by Rs 6,088 crore. A closer look at the health sector paints a grim picture too. Paeans are being sung to the finance minister’s announcement of a 137 per cent increase in funds for health but data reveal that health services have been given a paltry share of 2.21 per cent of the total Central budget — less than their allocation last year. Given the government’s indifference to key parameters of social welfare, the budget’s curtailing of the monetary allocation — by over Rs 5,000 crore — for the Integrated Child Development Services, India’s flagship nutrition programme for children up till the age of six years and their mothers, does not come as a surprise. The National Family Health Survey 2019-20 showed a frightening increase in the number of Indian children below five suffering from stunting, wasting and chronic malnutrition. The ICDS’s role in combating malnutrition is crucial; for one, it runs the anganwadi programme which, in spite of several weaknesses in terms of infrastructure and expansion, has been known to be successful in reducing infant mortality rates and combating early malnutrition. In 2017, it provided regular food rations to almost 95 million young children and lactating and pregnant women. A well-considered strategy had been expected in the budget in light of the pandemic-induced disruptions in the delivery of meal programmes and other nutrition-related public services. But the funds allotted to the women and child development ministry, which houses the anganwadi programme, have shrunk to 0.7 per cent of the budget, bearing further evidence of the Centre’s growing indifference to the health and nutrition demands of those on the margins. It remains to be seen how the government intends to fulfil its promise of ‘improving’ the nutritional status of the country given its monumental apathy to programmes designed to battle malnourishment. A sustained public campaign is necessary to expose the Centre’s hypocrisy on poshan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
08-02-2021||Opinion||Powerful symbol: what about Greta Thunberg inspire confidence||Sir — A new study has found that those who know about the teenage climate activist, Greta Thunberg, are more likely to take affirmative climate action than others. What is it about this young Swedish schoolgirl that inspires such confidence? It could be argued that her lonely stand outside her country’s Parliament made people believe that everyone can make a difference, no matter where they are placed in life. Aditya Banerjee,Gurgaon Kind souls Sir — It was interesting to learn that the first ever museum for dacoits of our country is going to be inaugurated in Bhind, Madhya Pradesh (“Cops and robbers”, Feb 7). The editorial in The Telegraph instantly reminded me of the renowned dacoits of Bengal, who were often loved by the common people for their humanitarian activities. They were very different from the thuggee and did not torture innocent people. Among the most famous of these dacoits was Raghu Dakat. He always helped out the needy, the poverty stricken and the weak. Whenever he got news of zamindars, the British or Indigo planters torturing people, he would reach that place with his troops and teach the oppressors a lesson. In fact, he was much like Bengal’s own Robin Hood. This is perhaps the reason the general populace protected Raghu from the authorities. Many decades have passed since then, but Bengalis have not forgotten dacoits like Raghu Dakat. One hopes one day a museum would also be opened in Bengal which will be dedicated to those helpful Bengali dacoits of the past, without whom the history of Bengal is incomplete. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Memorable roles Sir — With the demise of Christopher Plummer, the world has lost a consummate actor (“Sound of Music’s Captain is dead”, Feb 6). In his more than 50 years in the film industry, Plummer enjoyed playing a variety of roles in movies and Broadway productions like The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, Up and Inherit the Wind. In 2019, he starred as a mystery novelist in Rian Johnson’s Knives Out and in the TV suspense drama series, Departure. The Canadian actor had also played a host of major Shakespeare characters, including Hamlet, Iago, Othello, Prospero, Henry V and King Lear at Lincoln Center. He was fearless, energetic, courageous, knowledgeable, professional and a monument to what an actor can be. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — For those of us who grew up watching reruns of The Sound of Music — it is a videocassette that middle class Bengalis thought worth buying — Christopher Plummer’s demise is saddening. Interestingly, the actor himself hated the film, finding it gooey and corny and worked hard to inject some humour into it. His success in doing so adds depth to an otherwise flat plot. Barnali Sircar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
08-02-2021||Opinion||New state: police verification||A drop in the pond causes widening ripples. What begins in one state is taken up by others, such as laws regarding interfaith marriage. Now the focus is on boxes to be ticked for police verification. This time it was not state legislators but the police of two Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled and led states who emerged as quasi-lawmakers at the Police Officers’ Conference in Dehradun. The director-general of police of Uttarakhand said that the police will form a database of social media activity to keep an eye on “anti-national” and “anti-social” posts that would become relevant when a person applied for a passport or arms licence. For passport applications so far, police verification had required details of first information reports against the applicant and of other legal proceedings, if any. But scrutiny of social media posts crosses over from official to social terrains, breaching the rights to freedom of expression and privacy. That the police feel free to make this change is a comment on the ominously changing nature of the Indian State. The Uttarakhand DGP said that only those who made “anti-national” posts threatening the country’s sovereignty and security would be affected. Apparently the police are allowed to appropriate the roles of judge and executioner; their subjective assessment will determine the lives of citizens who had thought they were living in a free, secular country. The Uttarakhand DGP said, in effect, that he was expanding the scope of vigilance implied by the demands of police verification regarding activities prejudicial to the nation’s security as they already exist, not taking a new step. This cannily forged grey area — the change is qualitative, not quantitative — had already been utilized the day before by the DGP of Bihar, who had decided to record participation in ‘unlawful’ protests, “law and order” situations, road blockages and so on for character verification not just for passports and arms licences but also for seven other services including government jobs. This decision was just a reiteration of practice, according to the Bihar police; it was not an infringement on the right to protest. It was merely being said that any protest against the government may prevent a citizen from going abroad or getting a government job, even a government project. The police will decide. Are Indians ready for this?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
08-02-2021||Opinion||Promises to keep: right to education||India, one of the largest democracies of the world, is trying to live up to its promise of delivering justice, liberty, equality and fraternity to its citizens. The Right to Education Act, 2009 completed its decadal anniversary in 2019. Rooted in the principle of equality and non-discrimination, the landmark RTE Act went on to make education a fundamental right by ensuring free and compulsory schooling for children from the age of six to 14. I recently conducted a survey among women-headed households and primary school teachers based out of rural Lucknow to understand the demand and supply of education. The findings are quite illustrative. Each of the 60 women-headed households that I studied was of the opinion that seeking education is important to bring about inter-generational shifts. The primary driving force was to make their children — especially daughters — independent so that they did not share the same ‘fate’ as them. Most of them tried to meet the educational requirements in spite of their minimal resources. However, their experience of government-run schools was not positive: they were quite vocal about the lack of a competitive environment, basic amenities and quality education. There were some participants who said that daughters should be married off early so that their future could be secured. These participants lack economic and socio-cultural capital. They were driven by the deep-rooted belief of controlling and protecting women and girls. Further enquiries revealed that the absence of the guarantee of a job immediately after the completion of school made education a less lucrative investment. Conversely, marriage was seen to hold greater prospects in terms of social security. While assessing the supply side of the education system, I looked at teachers and school principals in rural settings. What I found was that on account of their economic, social and political marginalization, the educators remained trapped in the struggle to balance the demands of their vocation and subsistence. Some participants stated that education is a privilege in their villages where the focus remains on earning a livelihood. These challenges have been shared in the public domain. Presumably, policymakers and governments are aware of them. Yet, the concerns remain unaddressed. The Annual Status of Education Report 2020 found that 5.5 per cent of rural children had not been enrolled for the 2020 school year. There was also a shift in enrolment from private schools to government schools. The unprecedented economic hardship brought about by the pandemic has had a domino effect on children’s education and health. It is apparent that India, which is aiming to become a five trillion dollar economy, is yet to build a robust education system. Inadequate investment and research and poor learning outcomes in schools are some of its manifestations. Apart from its gendered impact on differential access to resources, the pandemic has also increased the socio-economic burden on vulnerable groups. Therefore, the broadening of employment opportunities, capacity-building and new welfare schemes must be accompanied by the creation of an equitable education system. The renowned educationalist, Paulo Freire, had pointed out that education can be used for domination or liberation. Skewed resources have meant that in India, the privileged continue to dominate the populous underprivileged segment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
08-02-2021||Opinion||History recited as a poem||While Joe Biden was eager to offer a hopeful vision for a deeply divided America, there is little doubt that his inauguration was won by the 22-year-old poet, Amanda Gorman. In no time, she became the voice of a new era, calling for “unity and togetherness” through her five-minute poem which began with “When day comes, we ask ourselves where can we find light in this never-ending shade?” The young black poet perfectly symbolizes Biden’s bid to put the ‘united’ back in a divided United States of America. Gorman became America’s first national youth poet laureate in 2017; subsequently Jill Biden was impressed by her reading of a self-penned poem at a public event, which prompted the first lady to suggest Gorman’s name for the inauguration. Not every US presidential inauguration is graced by the presence of a poet — they were present on only six out of 59 such occasions in a 232-year history. Only four out of 46 US presidents so far — Kennedy, Clinton, Obama, and Biden — have had poets reading at their inaugurations. But this trend is gaining popularity: five out of the last eight presidential inaugurations featured some sort of poetic light. “Summoning artists to participate/ In the august occasions of the state/ Seems something artists ought to celebrate.” These were the initial lines of the undelivered inaugural poem “Dedication” by Robert Frost, which he wrote for John F. Kennedy’s inauguration in 1961. Interestingly, except Frost, less known poets have always been chosen, if at all, for a presidential inauguration. In 1993, the poet and civil rights activist, Maya Angelou, recited her poem “On the Pulse of Morning”, at the first inauguration of Bill Clinton. Incidentally, Gorman, who was born five years later, found a role model in Angelou, whose autobiography, I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, reminded her of her own life. Then, in 1997, poet and translator, Miller Williams, read his poem “Of History and Hope” at Clinton’s second inauguration. In 2009, Barack Obama’s inauguration was graced by Harlem-born poet, Elizabeth Alexander, a personal friend of Obama himself. However, the actual poem was criticised to be “too much like prose” and the delivery was “insufficiently dramatic”. The Minneapolis Star-Tribune remarked that “she should speak not for the people but to them.” Four years later, Richard Blanco — the first immigrant, first Latino, and first gay person to be an inaugural poet — read his poem, “One Today”, at the second inauguration of Obama: “One sun rose on us today, kindled over our shores”. At 43 years and 236 days on the day of his inauguration, Kennedy is  still the youngest to become president by election in America. When Kennedy invited the 86-year-old poet from New England, Kennedy’s home state, to become the first poet to read at a presidential inauguration, Frost replied: “If you can bear at your age the honor of being made president of the United States, I ought to be able at my age to bear the honor of taking some part in your inauguration. I may not be equal to it but I can accept it for my cause — the arts, poetry, now for the first time taken into the affairs of statesmen.” Because of the sun’s glare, reflecting off the snowy ground, Frost could not read his new poem, “Dedication”, and he, instead, reverted to his classic poem, “The Gift Outright”, which maybe a history of the United States in 16 lines of blank verse, published in 1942, which he knew by heart. By contrast, the 22-year-old Gorman is the youngest poet to grace the inauguration of the oldest American president to take oath yet. Through her fluid, emotional recital, Gorman celebrated the theme of unity through the message: “The new dawn blooms as we free it.” From Walt Whitman to Robert Frost to Amanda Gorman, poetic lights continue to pour out the nation’s heart throughout its history. It is well known that Kennedy adopted the final stanza of Robert Frost’s iconic poem “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening” to conclude his stump speech: “But I have promises to keep,/ And miles to go before I sleep.” This was written almost a century ago. However, it is no less relevant today. Just as relevant are the words Amanda Gorman recited at the Capitol Hill: “while democracy can be periodically delayed, it can never be permanently defeated.” In her inaugural poem, “The Hill We Climb”, the young poet portrayed a vision of a nation that “isn’t broken, but simply unfinished.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
08-02-2021||Opinion||Dream collaborators||The Indian National Movement had some unique aspects, which were driven by its leaders. One way of understanding the movement is through individualism — examining its leaders as individuals. However, this paradigm fails to capture some features that were crucial to the making of the movement. I would like to present a relationship, which fell outside the paradigm of individualism — the one between Rabindranath Tagore and M.K. Gandhi. This relationship could be best characterized as that of a teacher and a student. Tagore, a poet par excellence, became popularly known as ‘Gurudev’ or teacher. Let us explore the context of this designation bestowed on the great poet of modern India. The national movement saw a vacuum after the withdrawal of some of its prominent leaders such as Aurobindo Ghosh and Bal Gangadhar Tilak. While Ghosh withdrew from active politics after the Alipore bomb blast trials and took to spiritual practice, Tilak passed away not long after launching his rousing call for swaraj. This led to a gloomy and pessimistic time, a “dark period of confusion” and "frustration”, in the words of Kakasaheb Kalelkar. Therefore, it is important to remember that while Tagore chose Gandhi to lead the movement, he was also perhaps the only remaining choice to salvage what was looking like an almost lost cause. It is Tagore who used the title, ‘Mahatma’, for Gandhi. ‘Mahatma’, Tagore clarified, refers to an emancipated soul no longer confined within the individual self. It is a self that includes everyone. But when Tagore called Gandhi ‘Mahatma’, he was not yet a liberated soul. So ‘Mahatma’ was not a description of Gandhi as he was at that point, but more a projection of his capacities and potentialities. Quickly realizing the wide gap between what he was and what he was expected to be to live up to this designation, Gandhi seems to have sought the help of Tagore. He called Tagore ‘Gurudev’, apparently, suggesting to him that if he wanted Gandhi to be a ‘Mahatma’, he should be Gandhi’s ‘Guru’. The making of the Mahatma would thus be a joint effort involving both Gandhi and Tagore. Therefore, the inherent nature of this teacher-student relationship was relation-centredness rather than individual-centredness. Relationships were at the heart of the national movement, an integral part of its nature and functioning. Convergence and divergence of views, contesting existing ideas and contributing new ones, deletions and additions, together formed the rhizome-like structure of the movement. To train athletes to face tough competition, a sports coach exposes them to different adversaries. The training has to be more intense if the opponent is significantly more robust — as was the case with the indomitable British entrenched in India. Effective training sometimes demands that the teacher play the role of adversary. However, unlike in actual combat, this mock conflict or role-play has to be founded on mutual trust. If the teacher is hard on the student, it is only with the intention of training him/her. I will use this format to understand some of the disagreements between Tagore and Gandhi. One of the significant public differences between them was regarding Gandhi’s call for non-cooperation. Tagore termed it as a doctrine of negation and despair. Gandhi replied to this by distinguishing between negative and positive liberation. While conceding the notion of mukti to be positive, he reminded his teacher about another equally important idea of liberation in Buddhism — namely, nirvana — which alludes to the negative side of truth. This second kind of liberation, according to Gandhi, had escaped the attention of Tagore. Instead of treating Gandhi’s response as a challenge to his teacher, I take it as a gesture of acknowledgement to his mentor. The other difference between them was about Gandhi’s call to boycott foreign clothes. Tagore opposed this call too. Almost sounding like a politician, he asserted that burning foreign clothes is not a suitable form of protest in a country where millions did not have access to proper clothing. Gandhi responded rather poetically, saying, “In burning my foreign clothes I burn my shame.” Tagore also opposed spinning, which he felt was a move against technological advancement and would cause India to regress to primitive times. These differences, when seen outside the format of the teacher-student relationship, looked like acrimonious disputes between Tagore and Gandhi and created an uneasiness in Kalelkar, Jawaharlal Nehru and others. Nehru stated that “no two persons could probably differ so much” but, at the same time, they also had much in common. It is for this reason I have used the format of teacher and student to understand these differences. The underlying bond between Tagore and Gandhi is evident in the following incident. When Gandhi’s health condition deteriorated during the controversial fast unto death at Poona, Tagore rushed all the way from Santiniketan to meet him. When Gandhi broke the fast, his secretary, Mahadev Desai, requested  Tagore to recite a poem from Gitanjali, which was close to Gandhi’s heart. Tagore later reported that in Gandhi’s presence, he forgot the meter he had originally composed the poem in, but he sang it nonetheless. The underlying strain of love towards his student legitimizes their differences as part of Gandhi’s ‘training’. This highlights the seminal, irreplaceable contribution of Gurudev to the national movement. We cannot obtain a clear picture of Gandhi as the Mahatma without considering the contribution of others such as Gurudev Tagore. It is, therefore, necessary to set aside the liberal notion of enclosed individualism and study these leaders of the national movement within the format of relationships. Especially in the context of the Indian National Movement, most of the proper names of the leaders refer more to the relations with others rather than to the self. The dynamic nature of this relationship reveals the strength of the movement. So we will be able to understand the nature of the movement better through relations between individual leaders rather than as autonomous individuals, thus retrieving its unique nature. The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-76
