09-02-2021||Opinion||Steady fall: India slips further down on Democracy Index||The slip is showing. India has slipped further to rank 53 out of 167 nations in the Democracy Index 2020, earning itself, once again, the stripes of a ‘flawed democracy’. Curiously, India’s slide has coincided with the political ascendancy of Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party: the nation’s score has fallen from a peak of 7.92 in 2014 — the year democratic India gave Mr Modi his first term in power — to an alarming 6.61 in 2020. The prime minister and his legion of admirers may scoff at these findings: after all, Mr Modi has claimed that there is an international conspiracy — a ‘Foreign Destructive Ideology’ — at work to defame the nation. But the inferences cited by the Democracy Index as causal factors for India’s precipitous decline cannot be dismissed easily. Civil liberties, one of the hallmarks of democracy, are facing an unprecedented crackdown from the authorities, pulling India down the ranking. Significantly, this deterioration intersected with the pandemic that gave some governments the opportunity to turn even more authoritarian. There are other concerns. The sustained assault on dissent, the introduction of a religious test for citizenship, the emergence of a pliant media and, allegedly, a passive judiciary, the Centre’s discernible apathy towards parliamentary deliberations and collective consent — the passage of the controversial farm laws are one example — prolonged periods of internet shutdown and so on may have all contributed to what the Index says is ‘democratic backsliding’ in the Indian context. Global concerns with India’s warts are growing, and it would be unwise to be condescending towards these reservations in the light of the contours of the foreign policy unveiled by the president of the United States of America. Joseph Biden stated that defending core democratic values as well as a pushback against the excesses of authoritarian regimes would be at the core of the US’s vision under his stewardship. India’s otherwise smooth ties with the US could encounter hurdles if Mr Biden decides to put word to action. Two reasons — one ethical, the other pragmatic — must compel New Delhi to contemplate. First, consistent deterioration on the markers of assessment of democracy does not sit well with India’s claim of being a robust democracy. Second, given the churn in geo-strategic imperatives, India cannot afford to suffer unexpected hiccups in its ties with the US with a marauding China at its door.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
09-02-2021||Opinion||False hope: Union Budget 2021-22||Sir — The article, “Winning hearts” (Feb 4), by Swapan Dasgupta essentially hails the bluffs by the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, in the Union budget for 2021-22 as revolutionary. At the same time, he is critical of all economists who do not blindly support the policies of the Narendra Modi government. This is not expected of a learned man. The claim that there is a 137 per cent increase in the health budget this year is untrue. While Sitharaman announced a total outlay of Rs 2,23,846 crore in the health budget — it was only Rs 67,112 crore last year — this was a result of clubbing several allocations together. This outlay includes Rs 35,000 crore for the Covid-19 vaccine drive, Rs 60,030 crore for drinking water and sanitation, and an allocation of Rs 2,970 crore for the Ayush ministry, among others. The finance minister also introduced a new scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, and announced that Rs 64,180 crore will be spent over the next six years. This means that only Rs 10,696 crore will be spent on the implementation of the scheme per year. When it comes down to numbers, there has been little increase in the amount being allocated to the health ministry. It is unfortunate that India continues to rank abysmally low — the country ranked 145th out of 180 countries in the Global Burden of Disease Study 2016 — when it comes to public health expenditure. Dasgupta has praised the government for keeping the post-Covid economic situation under control. But the last few months have been devastating for the common people. The economy was already in tatters pre-Covid as a result of demonetization and other ill-thought-out economic policies. While Dasgupta is upbeat in his observations about the budget and its potential to bring relief to the people of the country, the reality could not be further from the truth. Somak Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — The year 2020 was undoubtedly one of the most difficult for millions of people around the world. As the Covid-19 pandemic brought everything to a halt, many lost their jobs and struggled to make ends meet. The Indian government stepped in at a crucial juncture and dealt with the pandemic well. To boost the economy, the government had to be bold and come up with an efficient and generous budget.Its plans of raising Rs 1.75 lakh crore from disinvestment in public sector companies is going to be closely monitored, especially the disinvestment in the Life Insurance Corporation, the largest financial institution in the country. It is hoped that this move will financially benefit the nation both in the short as well as the long term. It seems to be the best budget presented by Nirmala Sitharaman so far. Now hopefully proper execution will follow suit. Rahul Chouhan,Ujjain Sir — Swapan Dasgupta’s blanket adoration of the Union budget for 2021-22 is unfortunate. The budget leaves much to be desired. Moreover, if economists also gloss over the inadequacies of the budget, there will be no hope for any improvement. Sounita Ghosh,Siliguri Inspirational figure Sir — It was wonderful to read about Pabitra Sarkar, the 43-year-old athlete representing India in international meets for veterans. Sarkar, who was a footballer in his youth, had to give up sports to meet the financial needs of his family. He worked for years in a Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages factory in Siliguri before he got the opportunity to relive his dreams. Since then, he has received many accolades. Sarkar’s pursuance of a career in sports later in life proves that it is never too late to achieve your dreams. Ronit Sinha, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
09-02-2021||Opinion||Hands off: interfaith marriage law||Some images endure, like that of Pontius Pilate washing his hands of guilt before the trial of Jesus Christ. Nothing so world-changing was taking place in the Lok Sabha, however, when the minister of state for home, G. Kishan Reddy, informed the Opposition that the Union government was not planning a Central law against religious conversion for interfaith marriages. So members of the Central government were not seen washing their hands with regard to such laws targeted against interfaith marriages that some Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states have passed. The government had been asked whether it believed that interfaith marriages were leading to forced conversions, if it had evidence of this, and whether it planned a law against it. Exactly a year ago, the government had told Parliament that ‘love jihad’, the conversion of Hindu women ‘lured’ or ‘deceived’ into marriage by men of India’s largest minority community, was not defined by law and no Central agency had found evidence of it. This was much after the BJP, its Hindutva-propagating siblings and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had drummed up the love jihad myth and interfaith couples were being harassed and punished. So the genie had already been let out of the bottle: this year’s questions came in the context of the ordinance and law against conversion and interfaith marriage recently promulgated in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh respectively — Himachal Pradesh has one too — which are being applied with a distinct bias. Mr Reddy reiterated the Centre’s declared position, as though legislations violating basic rights of freedom of religion and privacy, together with women’s autonomy, were not being formulated in state after state in spite of absence of evidence. Instead — and here comes the hand-washing — he pointed out that ‘public order’ and ‘police’ were state subjects, hence ‘offences’ related to religious conversion were the business of states and would be addressed by their existent laws. The smooth answer evaded the fact that in the context of UP’s new anti-conversion ordinance, the Allahabad High Court had provided shelter to 125 interfaith couples and said that no one can interfere in the decision of two adults. By appearing faultless in this situation, the Centre is recreating federalism in a new image, in which other BJP-ruled states such as Assam and Haryana can go ahead with anti-interfaith marriage laws too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
09-02-2021||Opinion||Workers in a war of vaccination||India is witnessing one of the largest public vaccination initiatives, that of the two drugs against Covid-19. The responsibility to make sure that nobody is left behind will be borne by the bureaucracy and local health workers. The government has also relied on them for Covid-19 containment: their tasks ranged from contact tracing and assisting patients to monitoring the contagion’s spread. Yet not much is known about the experiences and the costs that have been borne by them. As per government estimates, over 1.6 crore panchayat functionaries, community workers and other volunteers have been involved in various pandemic-related duties. Since April 2020, the Accountability Initiative at the Centre for Policy Research has been documenting pandemic response in five states — Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. It has also focused on the roles of Anganwadi Workers, Accredited Social Health Activists and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives. Even before the pandemic, AWWs, ASHAs and ANMs had assisted in a number of public campaigns to combat diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis. Collectively, their responsibilities have spanned nutrition-counselling, first-aid disposal, awareness generation and the provision of community-level care. There are reports that these community workers are now feeling stretched while carrying out their regular duties assigned under the government’s health and nutrition schemes as well as pandemic-related tasks. ASHAs and AWWS, for example, have been delivering rations to beneficiaries since the centres were closed. The resultant disruptions in nutrition and health-related services provided by anganwadis can lead to “several maternal and child deaths”, cautions a policy note on the pandemic’s impact on nutrition published by the Accountability Initiative. Reaching out to the most vulnerable as the local bureaucracy is doing through the home delivery of rations may prove to be a step in the right direction. This repivoting of administrative tactics is vastly different from the public perception of an unresponsive bureaucracy. There are other challenges. ASHAs and AWWs are considered to be volunteers or honorary workers and are not classified as government employees. This means that they are ineligible for decent wage rates and other social security benefits. The average monthly monetary incentive that ASHAs receive is around Rs 3,000-4,000; the figure is similar to the honorariums given to AWWs. An insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per person had been extended during the pandemic. The lack of incentives and the humongous workload have often led to strikes; in August 2020, over six lakh workers took to the streets to demand better work conditions. ASHAs and AWWs also experienced difficulties within their homes and at work. The supply of protective gear, such as sanitizers, masks and gloves, was slow in the initial months. Community workers were thus scared of getting infected and infecting their families. Their job was made difficult by the stigma attached to the contagion. As the first point of contact for the majority of the population, they were also subjected to discrimination and public ire. Many community workers also complained of the lack of cooperation, saying people hid information from them. Strikingly, Covid-19 has not merely been a part of their job; it has also become a part of their identity. An ANM in Bihar talked about being called ‘Coronadidi’ in her community. In spite of the difficult working conditions and other challenges, these workers have repeatedly expressed their pride in being able to serve the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
09-02-2021||Opinion||Lessons from Champaran||Mahatma Gandhi’s first satyagraha in India was launched in Champaran in 1917 to save farmers from the exploitation of British indigo planters — the corporates of that era engaged in contract farming. The protest bears close resemblance to the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws that were framed without consulting farmers or other stakeholders and passed by dispensing with parliamentary scrutiny. Sensing that the laws would cause incalculable harm to them, the protesting farmers marched to Delhi. But they were prevented from entering Delhi. The British, too, had prevented Gandhi from investigating the plight of farmers in Champaran.  He was asked to leave, subjected to coercive measures, even arrested for violating the law. Gandhi willingly submitted himself to the penalty for disobedience to resist injustice truthfully. The farmers have also submitted themselves to sufferings for the sake of their peaceful agitation. Gandhi’s admission before Champaran’s magistrate that he violated the law because he was tuned in to the higher law of conscience disarmed the British. He was allowed to identify the causes of the sufferings of farmers. After holding consultations with farmers, British planters, the colonial bureaucracy and the police, Gandhi submitted a report portraying farmers’ exploitation. The British authorities instituted a committee — Gandhi was a member — to address their grievances. The British regime responded by framing the Champaran Agrarian Bill, 1918 and referred it to the Select Committee of the Bihar-Odisha assembly for scrutiny. Even Gandhi was requested to examine it. The committee established by the British recommended the framing of a law to put an end to farmers’ sufferings. The Supreme Court, too, has appointed a committee to be a mediator between the farmers and the government. Gandhi’s presence as a committee member had made the farmers of Champaran confident that their representative would safeguard their interests. However, the members of the committee instituted by the Supreme Court are known advocates of the farm laws. The farmers have, therefore, refused to depose before it. One member recused himself from the committee and declared his support for the agitating farmers. Unlike the British government, the Government of India refused to refer the controversial legislations to a Select Committee in spite of several members of the House moving motions to do so. The demand for the division of votes was not granted by the Chair. Gandhi’s first satyagraha for the cause of farmers stands in sharp contrast to the passage of the three farm laws today. Pushing through legislative bills without factoring in the opinion of stakeholders as well as refusals to submit them to scrutiny on account of brute executive dominance in Parliament has become the new normal. Gandhi had told the peasant leader, N.G. Ranga — presciently — on October 29, 1944, “If the legislature proves itself to be incapable of safeguarding kisans’ interests they will of course always have the sovereign remedy of civil disobedience and non-co-operation.” The farmers’ agitation captures the vision of Gandhi as well as the spirit of his satyagraha in Champaran. What Gandhi did in 1917 for the cause of farmers, Indian farmers are now doing for themselves. The author served as OSD to President K.R. Narayanan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
09-02-2021||Opinion||Rising chorus||In June 1975, I was on my first trip to the West with my parents when we got the news that Indira Gandhi had declared an Emergency and put several Opposition leaders in jail. Our holiday still had a few weeks to go, but from then on the trip was darkened by news of the events unfolding back home. My father, a well-known Gujarati writer and columnist, was constantly in touch with other politically engaged friends in the United States of America by phone; my parents and I hungrily monitored whatever news was coming in, although there didn’t seem to be that much — a crackdown in distant India wasn’t about to dent the headlines generated by the recent fall of Saigon to the North Vietnamese and other events of real concern to the American public. Whatever we did see in the Western media, however, made it clear that Indira’s move was being perceived as shockingly anti-democratic by commentators as well as by most world leaders, save for the Russians. The words, ‘draconian’ and ‘dictatorship’, were being frequently used to describe what was happening back home. When I got back to India, I landed in a different reality. Except for the few people who listened to BBC Radio, no one was aware of what the world was saying about the Emergency; it seemed as though we were on a sealed-off planet. Things seemed to be normal in big city Calcutta, as they did when I shortly rejoined my school in small town Ajmer. Among schoolmates, I was among the minority who were interested in politics and world news but I was hardly an extreme exception. When I suggested to fellow students that what was happening in the country was extraordinary and very wrong, I was met with some derision — ‘Arrey yeh sab kuch nahi hai. Some anti-national elements have to be brought under control. Also, all these workers can’t just strike whenever they want to, selfishly holding the country hostage, you know? We need a strong leader like Indira!’ If I was dismayed or angry, that was due to naiveté. Most of the students in my ‘elite’ school came from some sector of the ruling class or the other: business, corporate, higher army or higher civil service, local royalty, NRI — before the term had been invented. For most of them and their parents, Indira was bringing order to a chaotic country, chaos that was interfering with their legitimate exercise of power and privilege; the continued exercise of that power was, obviously, in the best interests of the country; quaint notions of democracy, equality of citizenship, human rights, workers’ rights, the right to peaceful protest, freedom of speech, a free press and so on were best consigned to the garbage bin if the nation — meaning they themselves — were to progress. One great contradiction was that it was this very class that had the greatest interface with the rest of the world. In their understanding and in actual fact, they were the Indians who had access to ‘abroad’, ‘foreigners’, international economy and politics, all of which were distant to the vast majority of Indians. They were the ones who wanted to be accepted as equals on the world stage, who wanted India to be far more like the much-admired developed countries such as the US, Germany and Japan. Unsurprisingly, this was the class most sensitive to the opinions and attitudes that developed countries had towards India; an adverse editorial in The New York Times could bring misery; a pat on the back from The Daily Telegraph say, with India being compared favourably to Pakistan, would bring smugly self-satisfied smirks; Indira speaking in eloquent English or fluent French to a TV interviewer was a triumph. And yet, there was no question of our country or society putting in any of the hard yards covered by these admired nations. There was no acknowledgement among the wider Indian elite of the workers’ movements that had won such important rights for the labour unions in America and Europe; there was no recognition of the need on a ‘war-footing’ (a favourite phrase of the desi crème de la crème) to bring decent public healthcare or education to the vast population; any whisker of a suggestion that all this might need some sacrifice from the wealthy and powerful was instantly labelled ‘communism’. Across the time I was growing up, the educated, wealthier Indian classes craved for India to be more like the great foreign countries, but they wanted to get there via painless shortcuts, on a magic carpet that overflew and bypassed any requirements of self-denial on their part. Across the 80s, 90s and the 2000s, several things changed. For one, the spread of TV networks and then the internet meant that very few places in the world now remain off the global radar. India, certainly, can no longer hide behind convenient topical bushes of obscurity — it doesn’t matter if, currently, Hong Kong is exploding or a US presidency is imploding; if some notable outrage or upheaval unfolds in India the world has the bandwidth to see it and pay attention. The second crucial thing that has changed is that India is now very much a part of the global market; not only that, our oligarchical class is now obsessed about playing in that market; so how the international community sees us and acts towards us matter in a way that was unimaginable when Indira clamped down on the country for a year and a half. Also, in a hyper-connected world, changes elsewhere have a direct and immediate impact on us over here. So critical Twitter comments from a West Indian-American pop star, a young Swedish activist, a Hollywood actor or a young American lawyer may have had one magnitude of effect, say, halfway through Donald Trump’s disastrous, solipsistic presidency; today it matters hugely what Rihanna, Greta Thunberg, Susan Sarandon or Meena Harris tweet about the farmers’ protests. In a hyper-connected world, it also shows up our ‘culture’ when a huge number of Hindutva males respond to these women with the same barrage of grotesque and violently misogynistic threats and epithets they habitually throw at Indian women whose politics they don’t like. That the MEA — now dubbed the Ministry of Embarrassing Arguments — allies itself with these trolls, albeit in a more polite language, is a matter of both humiliation and shame for us as a nation. Back in 1975-76, Indira Gandhi had one thuggish toady of a media enforcer by the name of Yashpal Kapoor, but this national disgrace in human form only operated domestically. The regime in Delhi has set loose thousands of Yashpal Kapoors upon the world. The bill for that, when it finally comes, will be proportionately higher than the one Indira Gandhi had to pay in 1977.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
