10-02-2021||Opinion||Stand still: policy rates unchanged||The latest bimonthly policy announcement by the Reserve Bank of India has kept all policy rates unchanged for the fourth consecutive time since May 2020. The repo rate stays at 4 per cent and the reverse repo at 3.35 per cent. The cash reserve ratio will be normalized from March 2021. Hence, the monetary policy stance continues to remain accommodative, supporting economic growth. This represents a cautious approach by the central bank. It has not cut rates further in apprehension of inflation going beyond the tolerance limit of 6 per cent. It has not raised rates in fear of restricting the demand for credit. According to the finance ministry as well as the RBI, the growth prospects for 2021-22 appear to be positive in the given circumstances. The RBI has estimated the growth rate to be 10.5 per cent, a little lower than the government estimate of 11 per cent for 2021-22. According to the central bank, the CPI inflation is expected to be 5.2 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020-21. The targeted long-term repo operation has been extended to non-banking financial companies. This is supposed to provide more liquidity to the economy. This will allow NBFCs to access three-year credit from the RBI to buy investment grade corporate bonds. The RBI is also getting ready for the massive borrowing programme of the Government of India to finance huge fiscal deficits during 2020-21 as well as in 2021-22. It has decided to allow retail investments in government bonds that are usually bought by banks and corporates. Extending the sales to reach retail investors will help channel a chunk of household savings directly to the government as well as broaden the bond market. However, as the supply of government bonds mount, market interests rates will go up confronting private borrowers with a higher cost of credit. This is the classic case of government borrowing ‘crowding out’ private investments. In the current situation, it is absolutely necessary to stimulate aggregate demand, output and employment in the economy. The RBI’s standstill policy and the government’s aggressive spending programme appear to be the right combination. A major worry though is what happens when the Supreme Court comes out with its final verdict about what needs to be done with the non-performing assets that will emerge from under the carpet of the forbearance moratorium extended by the RBI. The RBI has to manage the inevitable spike in NPAs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
10-02-2021||Opinion||Noxious: denigrating protesters ||The history of many a nation is a testament to the transformative power of protest. India is not an exception. Some of the monumental changes experienced by India were the result of sustained public mobilizations. The national movement that delivered India its independence from the yoke of colonialism is but one example. It must take a peculiar — regressive — understanding of the organic relationship between protest and democracy for the Indian prime minister to denigrate protesters as a breed of ‘parasites’ — the noxious bacillus that had, years ago, also unnerved Nazi Germany’s totemic leader. Denigrating protesters — not just the thousands of farmers protesting against three contentious legislations for months but also, presumably, lawyers, students, workers and other such constituencies critical of this regime — as “Andolan Jeevi”, Narendra Modi has asked the nation to be wary of the species. The call by a prime minister to identify those opposed to the policies of his government lowers the dignity of this august office. That is, however, the lesser problem. This kind of wilful demonization by a democratically-elected leader can seriously impair the architecture of the ‘mother of democracy’ itself. Targeted smear campaigns, unfortunately, are no longer novel in New India. Earlier, during the nationwide protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the prime minister stated that the protesters could be identified by their clothes. Mr Modi’s government has responded unfailingly to his cues. Minorities have been discriminated against, activists and dissenters sent to rot in jail, first information reports piled against journalists, internet services disrupted — all of which have contributed to India’s precipitous slide on the Democracy Index. There is a method to the madness though. Sustained vilification of protest — the kernel of democracy — would fragment public opinion, or so Mr Modi hopes. But the growing protests against a myriad policies and their international exposure could end up having the opposite effect. It could energize a dispirited Opposition. More worryingly for Mr Modi, it could reconfirm the prime minister’s deficits as a democratic leader to India and the world. Principal among these limitations is Mr Modi’s inability — indeed averseness — to engage in meaningful dialogue with opponents. The government’s failure to resolve the farmers’ agitation after several rounds of deliberation along with the prime minister’s canards could only mean that India should prepare itself for a long summer of protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
10-02-2021||Opinion||Search for a sense of stability||I have deliberately not used the accurate but clichéd word “unprecedented”, to describe the school year that will end in March. My intention in choosing to write about the past year, aptly labelled annus horribilis, is not to serve up memories of misery and isolation but to reflect on some of the lessons we may have learned from our experiences. Indeed, the year has shown that most adults and children have the character, drive and ability to adapt to drastically changed circumstances. There has been considerable discussion about the way schools learned and developed technological skills in order to continue the teaching-learning process efficiently. Irrespective of the level of competence achieved, the tremendous effort that was expended to remain relevant and useful was impressive. Moreover, the way in which technology itself was enhanced to facilitate teaching and learning was quite phenomenal. But all this has been said many times over so I will focus on other matters. We certainly learned the tremendous importance of mental stability to be able to function in an alien environment. It was easy to feel lost in a world where nothing was certain or predictable. As one child exclaimed, “Earlier we went to adults for answers but now nobody is sure about anything!” Parents, teachers and counsellors found it difficult to keep the children in their care worry-free and happy. While attempting to keep them cheerful, adults had to be careful about “toxic positivity” as the repeated prescription to look at the “bright side of things” didn’t impress children one bit. They merely wished to be told exactly when they would be able to go back to school, meet their friends or visit their grandparents. One of my colleagues helped her students to form a peer support group — a forum run by young people through which their peers could express their feelings and thoughts freely. Working with senior students on various projects was always stimulating as young minds are refreshing to engage with. But the most mood-elevating experience was spending time with little children who went about living life without a care in the world. At all other times, we battled with anxieties over illness, death or financial troubles.  Empathetic feelings for other people’s distress were painfully accentuated and many learned to share and give. Nature in all its beauty and glory uplifted the spirit. The ordinary bright blue unpolluted sky seemed breathtakingly beautiful while the celestial spectacles of the Pink Supermoon and the Great Conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn left us spellbound. But then we had also seen the fury of Amphan at close quarters. The devastation brought home Michio Kaku’s proclamation, “It’s almost a law of physics that one day Mother Nature will destroy Earth.” For good reason, we found ourselves taking a sudden and deep interest in the pronouncements of futurists and virologists and we concluded that a philosophical bent of mind was needed, just to stay sane. Life had been upended for most of us. We teachers were working round the clock and I noticed that emails and messages were coming in at odd times of the night. Night was the time when the mind became vulnerable. When we compared notes, we discovered that most of our sleep-cycles had been disrupted. When sleep eluded us and the demons of our minds had to be kept at bay, books and music along with Kindle, Netflix and YouTube came to the rescue. Breathing techniques, meditation, listening to recorded talks of monks and spiritual gurus were resorted to, as were tranquilizers and sedatives. But most of us agreed that work was the best therapy. Even virtual meetings acted like a magical potion to drive away the blues. While we were immersed in our schoolwork, it seemed as if nothing had changed though we worked in the shadowy virtual world. Time passed by in a flash while we discussed syllabuses, online assessment, on-screen programmes and webinars — life felt deceptively yet comfortingly normal. Someone observed that it was the little-known Zoom which had become the place “where life was happening” surpassing the twin giants Google and Microsoft. People met on Zoom to gossip, party or just get together. Personally, I derived great joy from my friends. One, shared his splendidly written essays and reviews of books which motivated me to acquire and read them. A musician friend sent me his compositions and recital pieces. Once on my request, he sent me a Tagore song which he had brilliantly arranged for the piano. A gifted young friend’s delightful YouTube videos, titled “The English Nut” made me instantly happy, besides educating me. Writing, including for this paper, kept me happily occupied for long periods while jigsaw and crossword puzzles, adult colouring books, sewing and cooking were therapeutic for many. Meanwhile, the American presidential elections provided an all-consuming diversion. Many of us found genuine pleasure in the creative work of our students and colleagues. But it was not only creativity and resourcefulness that was in demand, it was the ability to reinvent oneself that was needed. According to Yuval Harari, people will have to do this on a regular basis in the future on account of the radical changes that will keep happening in the world at frequent intervals. To prepare for this likely scenario, we must encourage children to think differently. They should not be just expected to solve problems of which answers are already there. Young people must learn to contemplate deeply and think metaphysically. Perhaps they should be asked more open-ended questions at all levels. It is disturbingly clear that future generations will have to live amidst accelerated change and uncertainty, hence there will be a stronger need for the old and familiar. One of the reasons why age-old landmarks and tangible remnants of history must be preserved is because they provide humans a sense of stability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
10-02-2021||Opinion||The real patriots||It is difficult to say when in history but a piece of cloth came to be seen as the most important insignia of the honour of people. The Homo sapiens have been in existence for millions of years and have been using clothes made of leaves or animal skin. They fought wars and used colourful objects as war totems during prehistoric times. The ancient Indian word, ‘dhwaj’, and the Old Norse, ‘flaka’ (meaning to flicker or to flutter), have been in circulation for long. The Danish ‘Dannebrog’ is fabled to have fallen from the skies and has been in use for the last eight centuries. Yet, the national flag as a semiotic signature of a people is decidedly related to the idea of ‘a community of nations’, within which each nation is represented by a proudly fluttering piece of cloth — its national flag. Over the last two centuries, as nation after modern nation took birth, it was immediately draped in a national flag symbolizing its being. The Indian tricolour evolved during the freedom struggle and was formally adopted by the Constituent Assembly on July 22, 1947. One of the versions of the Indian tricolour had the charkha in the middle. That was the time when charkha and khadi were the main weapons of our freedom struggle. In fidelity to this historic origin of the tricolour, the official flags continue to be made of khadi. The Indian Bureau of Standards continues to regulate its precise dimensions, weave and the folding and stitching for its borders. Most Indians may not know this, but all of these are produced in north Karnataka. The khadi spun on thousands of hand-run charkhas at Tulasigeri village in Bagalkot is used by the Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha in Hubballi for making India’s flag. This flag production centre supplies flags in various specified sizes, ranging from the largest — 21 x 14 feet — to the smallest — 6 x 4 inches. The one that we see fluttering proudly at the Red Fort is made at Hubballi. The flag-making centre is a microcosm of the spirit of free India in many ways. Its founder, Venkatesh Magadi, was born on January 26, 1903, 47 years before India became a republic. The oldest among the workers at the centre, Nooranna, was born in 1947. He is one of the few men who work there. The workforce there is almost entirely made up of women, the real makers of India. All of us who are proud of India for its composite social weave will be happy to know that the women come from all communities: Muslims, Jains, Christians, Dalits, adivasis, Lingayats, Buddhist and Hindus. A Muslim, Noorjahan, working with a scheduled caste, Nayana, and a Christian, Janet, working with a Lingayat, Akkamma, mark the ethnography of the makers of India’s flag. The idea of India as envisioned by the makers of India can be seen nowhere else in such graphic reality as at this centre. As I conversed with these women, the famous line from a W.B. Yeats poem came to my mind: “How can you tell the dancer from the dance?” Speaking to them I said, “We all salute the national flag, the salute is also for you.” But, as I was saying this, I must confess, I could not hold my head high, for the plight of the flag-makers is worse than that of the most afflicted, most deprived of India. As they spoke about their life, many just could not hold back the tears in their eyes.  They told me that when they work for eight to ten hours a day, they manage to earn about one hundred and fifty rupees. After producing flags for the country for decades, their monthly earnings have stayed the same — in most cases, a little under three thousand a month. They get neither the annual increments in wages nor have the possibility of pension. Paid maternity leave and LTA are words foreign to them. The centre normally produces flags worth three to four crore rupees in a year. Covid-19 has brought down the sales to 30 per cent. The result is that the women have less work and their earnings have sunk. No pandemic-special relief has reached them. The coordinator of the centre told me that the government has not yet settled the payments it owes to the centre. The amount is in a mind-boggling multiple crores. I asked the women workers why they do not find another occupation? Their response would have left anyone humbled. “We love India. It is our service to the nation. And Gandhi had used khadi as a weapon against oppression. We are keeping it alive. Besides, Sir, tell us where are the jobs for us?” The flag that went up high in the sky on January 26 this year was made by them — the Noorjahans, the Janets and the Akkammas of our land, working together for weeks at paltry wages a day. Some of them had their brothers and sons participating in a tractor march in Dharwad on that day in support of the farmers protesting outside Delhi. On the evening of January 26, so many television channels were busy informing the nation on how the national flag was dishonoured at the Red Fort. The veracity of those TV-tales is another matter. But, indeed, none of them had a thought to spare for the real makers of the flag. The shrill public proclamation of nationalism sounds so hollow when one notices how completely neglected the labourers that make India a nation are. The brand of nationalism that is currently on the block needs to know that a nation is primarily its people, its composite society, its vast population capable of love and sacrifice and not just a few mighty or super-rich individuals. The tricolour is our most sacred symbol. Every time I salute it, pride for India wells up in my heart. Yet, is that pride enough to conceal the pathos, suffering, agony, hunger and pain of those who toil in order to keep symbolism for the rest of India alive? In less than a week after January 26 came the national budget. It brought neither relief nor hope for the long-forgotten working hands. Long live India, the Mother India, whose fingers never tire of sewing, whose sight never fails while working at the bobbins and whose hands are not yet fatigued by folding and ironing the flags they make. Let us salute them, for the flag is theirs even if the budget is not. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-75
