11-02-2021||Opinion||Second warning: U'khand glacier burst||The full extent of the damage in Uttarakhand — flash floods washed away at least two hydroelectric power projects and killed many people — is yet to be ascertained. But the losses are expected to be extensive. The disaster has been attributed to several causes, including a landslide and a glacial lake burst. However, there is likely to be a general consensus regarding the role of climate change as a catalyst in an ecologically fragile zone. The latest assessment of the United Nations’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change found that glacier retreat and the thawing of permafrost are projected to decrease the stability of mountain slopes; the Global Climate Risk Index 2020 also found India to be the fifth most vulnerable country to the effects of climate change out of 181 nations. But natural disasters are often the result of a complex amalgamation of factors. It would, therefore, be foolhardy to view climate change as the sole contributor to the tragedy in Chamoli which, ironically, was the seat of the Chipko movement. This destruction comes less than a decade after the Kedarnath flash flood of 2013, which claimed more than 5,000 lives. Where these two events intersect could well be unregulated construction, myopic promotion of tourism and intensive mining. Successive state governments have displayed a flagrant disregard for the delicate ecosystems of the Himalayas in their bid to sustain a lucrative, but ecologically damaging, tourism industry. In spite of the terrain being difficult and inaccessible, tourism figures neared 25 million in 2015 and are expected to touch 67 million by 2025. What has aggravated the threat is a faulty template of development. In 2015, a report by the environment ministry had unambiguously linked power projects to the 2013 deluge. The urgent need to rethink the current development model for the Himalayan region cannot be overstated. This should involve a serious scrutiny of such activities as the damming of Himalayan rivers, construction of hydel projects and other investments in infrastructure. But can this kind of contemplation be expected from elected governments whose disregard for the environment — reflected in industrial depredations on ecologically sensitive zones, the watering down of protective regulations and the pursuit of an anti-ecological model of progress — is well known? Not unless the environment and its destruction become electoral issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
11-02-2021||Opinion||Just move: Trump second impeachment||Sir — With the second impeachment trial of the former president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, having begun, people are waiting with bated breath to see its outcome. On January 6, Trump supporters stormed the Capitol, forcing senators to evacuate in the middle of counting the Electoral College votes ratifying President Joe Biden’s victory. Trump has since been accused of “inciting insurrection” with Democrats as well as several Republicans demanding that he be held accountable for his actions. It remains to be seen whether Trump is convicted of his crimes. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta Harsh words Sir — The prime minister of India, Narendra Modi, recently made a statement in Parliament in defence of the three controversial agricultural reform laws passed by his government, and requested the protesting farmers to end their agitation and engage in discussions with the authorities (“Noxious”, Feb 10). It must be noted that in the same address he called protesters “Andolan Jeevi” and “parasites”, warning the people of India to beware of them. Modi assured the farmers that the minimum support price will remain, but the farmers’ unions naturally do not trust the prime minister. So far 11 rounds of talks have been held, but to no avail. The prime minister’s conviction that there is a ‘foreign conspiracy’ at play in these protests — he remarked in Parliament that ‘FDI’ might as well be termed “Foreign Destructive Ideology” — and that the country should be aware of this development is nothing but a diversionary tactic. It is quite obvious that the criticism faced by the Modi government regarding the farmers’ protests in the international arena has struck a nerve. It was good to see the Opposition stand up to the prime minister’s assertion with the senior Congress leader, Mallikarjun Kharge, terming it as “misleading”. It is time to defuse the violent situation surrounding the three bills. They must be repealed in the interest of the farmers and the progress of the nation. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The phrases, “Andolan Jeevi” and “Foreign Destructive Ideology”, coined by Narendra Modi in Parliament to describe the farmers protesting against the three new farm laws and the tweets by foreign nationals and global celebrities who support the agitation are linguistic innovations typical of him. In spite of his empty and inflammatory rhetoric, he did not actually address the core issue of the farm laws and their unacceptability to the farmers. It is unfortunate that the prime minister demonized dissent when peaceful protests have formed the backbone of the freedom struggle in India and continue to shape our lives and politics. The farmers of our country have been protesting against the contentious laws for months on end and over 160 people have lost their lives. This cannot be trivialized, scoffed at or brushed aside. Demeaning them, as well as other civil rights activists and protesters, as “parasites” is unacceptable. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It is quite ironic to hear Narendra Modi label protesters as “Andolan Jeevi” when he owes his political career to student protests. The Navnirman Movement of 1974 was a turning point in Modi’s political career. In 1975, he was elected the general secretary of the Lok Sangharsh Samiti in Gujarat. The prime minister would do well to reflect on his past before denigrating his critics.N. Nagarajan,Secunderabad Sir — There is nothing more unfortunate than the prime minister of India using sinister words such as “Andolan Jeevi” and “parasites” to refer to the protesting farmers. The government, riding on sheer jingoism, is trying to demoralize the protesters and turn public opinion against them. Would Modi have the temerity to label the Jewish people’s protests against the Nuremberg laws or M.K. Gandhi’s dissent against the British raj as the acts of “parasites”? He should be much more careful in choosing his words.Subhadeep Ganguly,Silda, Jhargram Sir — Narendra Modi’s words in Parliament while talking about the farmers’ protests eerily remind one of the Third Reich. Unless we are very careful, India might just go down the same path. Nabanita Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
11-02-2021||Opinion||Holy touch: Sabarimala law||When the traditions of a temple feature large in an election campaign, it exposes the distortions afflicting politics in India. The Congress in Kerala has promised that if it comes to power after the forthcoming assembly elections it will enact a law to bar women of reproductive age from the temple at Sabarimala as has been the tradition. A draft law to this effect has been released, threatening a penalty of up to two years of imprisonment for anyone who violates this or any other tradition relating to the temple. The party’s anxiety for votes seems to have overcome, in the first place, technical propriety — the Supreme Court is yet to review its earlier judgment that had found the temple’s ban on women’s entry unconstitutional. As noticeable is the Congress’s desire to seize what would be a typical promise of the Bharatiya Janata Party in order to gain leverage and, with the same stroke, push aside the Communist Party of India (Marxist) that heads the ruling Left Democratic Front. The CPI(M) had welcomed the 2018 Supreme Court ruling in favour of the entry of women of all ages into the temple. The scale of protests that followed damped its enthusiasm somewhat. That the Congress won 19 of the 20 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections was perceived to be the result of the Left’s support to the change in traditional temple practice. In 2018, while Sonia Gandhi and Congress leaders in Delhi said they did not support anti-women traditions, the state party unit had baulked at change. It is the state Congress’s canniness that is now being used as a strategy to win the assembly elections, throwing overboard propriety, fairness, secular distance, interest in governance or any enlightened approach towards tradition, ritual and gender bias. It is a surrender of principles and defined political values for a populist cause. But it is not just the Congress’s decision that is the problem. Using religion in the service of politics is always poisonous: India should have learnt that by now. No party that claims to be secular can dabble in that brew without damaging itself and also giving right of way to religion-driven divisiveness. By helping to valorize superstitious, oppressive and unscientific attitudes, such distortions end up hurting people the most.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
11-02-2021||Opinion||Faith and great crossings||My newly-wed grandmother was about my age when she crossed a river of blood, the deepest gash on the nation’s body politic, to start her life over in a new land. In my handed-down consciousness, I try and step into the worn-out shoes strapped loosely over her rose-dyed feet. I surreptitiously enter her mind to play out the exact thoughts that arose as she stood in a room full of belongings, suffering the malady of unprecedented indecision: what to take, what to leave behind. In a different world, my eyes gloss over the room I come back to at the end of every day, the cupboard that holds my clothes, the table on which my laptop sits, the books on the shelf, a vanity full of objects I bought on a whim, and then I imagine them catch fire. On such an occasion, what would I save? Of all the devastating stories that constitute Partition history, the one that stands out in my memory is of the moment my grandmother turned around to scan her home for the last time, hurriedly picked up the idol of the god she worshipped, and walked towards a future of uncertainty. For me, that final glance at the present helplessly dissolving into the past encapsulates the tragedy of migration. In an environment of communal tension that prompted the migration of Partition victims like my ancestors, the singular act of reaching out for a god was, at once, a complex attempt to save one’s religion while also expecting to be saved by it. It is, in a sense, both a leap of and towards faith that, to an adolescent girl, was embodied in a brass idol. But how stable are the guard rails of faith when religion itself is affronted? How does faith then root the uprooted? On December 11, 2019, as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act was passed, religion was invoked in India’s corridors of power, anticipating a similar fate of displacement for those unfavoured by authority. The voices that swelled in protest at Shaheen Bagh formed the node of a new faith. Although the fault lines of conflict had not changed since 1947, faith, as conceived in the nation’s collective imagination, had outgrown the individual’s prayer to become an insubstantial figure often misappropriated by demagogues. Faith at Shaheen Bagh was placed in a more accessible value of democracy, which the onslaught of strongman politics had seemingly threatened. When faith contained by an institution has to endure the harshest of blows, a fortress is erected around it by its believers. Since it is difficult to articulate the essence of faith, the grip of its persuasion, or the verity of its claim, one can only perceive it as a force of humanity. Like energy, it is neither created nor destroyed, but it flows from one body to another through a network of shared experiences. Several strands of the strongest human subjectivities intersect at the experience of migration — the loss of identity, the reconstruction of memory, the re-evaluation of selfhood — all of which gain new meaning as one traverses the line between belonging and unbelonging. Herein, faith totalizes the dissociation from the trepidation of migration. The rejection of one’s person from the womb of the land that had nurtured him/her can only be mitigated by an embrace of acceptance. The displaced open their arms to the world; faith is what receives them — not a crutch, but a refuge. In this context, one need not go too far back in time to recall the plight of migrant workers of India in the wake of the pandemic. As the government declared a lockdown without prior notice, little thought was spared for the daily wage earners working in different states left without the means to return to their villages. As the migrants embarked on a journey whose end seemed unreachable, what fuelled their spirit? When democracy seemingly abandoned them, faith manifested in the memory of their homes. Some might have imagined it as the warmth of domestic bliss, others as the touch of the familiar ground under their feet: the soil that had birthed them and they wished their remains to return to. With ideas of religion and the State being dangerously superimposed on each other, the definition of faith in one’s nation runs the risk of becoming amorphous. Curiously, in several regional languages of India, the word, ‘country’, translates to ‘des’. But ‘des’ by itself could mean one’s village or the nation at large. Therefore, unlike nationalism, faith betrays the limitation of borders. Hence, faith is also solidarity. Like kinship, it is forged in a common furnace that feeds and sustains its believers. At the Singhu border where farmers have mobilized to protest against the three farm laws passed in Parliament without consultation, the protesters have come equipped with fragments of their hearth and homes to see them through their fight. I think of the langar that the farmers set up every day and the food that fills the stomachs of those who fill ours. Such an image takes me back to my first visit to the Golden Temple at Amritsar where an old lady had placed on my palm a generous dollop of ghee-soaked, sweet halwa. Her head covered in a soft cotton cloth, grey strands of hair peeking from underneath, she reminded me of my grandmother. She could just as well be one of the women of Shaheen Bagh or a migrant mother waiting to be reunited with a child — each a victim of displacement, each a supplicant of faith.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
11-02-2021||Opinion||Dark before dawn||When the National Democratic Alliance government under Narendra Modi came to power in 2014, several liberal intellectuals simply pooh-poohed the fears of many that we would face an assault on democracy in the country. Our democratic institutions, they argued, were strong enough to tame an RSS-dominated administration if it ever tried to violate them. This argument did appear to have some plausibility. After all, the earlier NDA government of Atal Bihari Vajpayee had not resorted to any drastic measure to curb the civil liberties and the democratic rights of the people. It was no doubt a government in which the Hindutva elements lacked the numerical strength to take any such measure even if they wanted to; but the long, post-Independence years of democratic functioning, other than the brief Emergency period, lent credence to the idea of the durability of democracy in the country. Today, when the government tramples on civil liberties and democratic rights of the people with complete impunity; when draconian anti-terrorist and anti-sedition laws are systematically used against social activists and critics of the government; when an atmosphere of fear pervades the entire country; when educational institutions are overrun by hoodlums; when the media and, allegedly, even the judiciary bow to the dictates of the executive; when well-known public figures like Mrinal Pande, Rajdeep Sardesai and Shashi Tharoor face legal harassment if not worse; when the Bhima-Koregaon accused are left to rot in jail for years without trial on trumped-up charges — the earlier faith in the strength of India’s democratic institutions appears, in retrospect, to have been touchingly naïve. Why, one may legitimately wonder, did the institutions of democracy prove to be so weak? Why have the media that played such a stellar role in fighting Indira Gandhi’s Emergency become so supine today? Why have some judicial judgments — the judiciary had generally been independent of the executive during much of the post-Independence period and boasted of luminaries like Justice H.R. Khanna during the Emergency — been so controversial today? Of course, the judiciary cannot single-handedly prevent the rise of fascism, but the fact remains that the judiciary in the United States of America played an important role in preventing Donald Trump’s usurpation of power. In Germany, the time span between the introduction of democracy (whatever one may think of Weimar democracy) and its subversion by the fascists was a bare decade and a half, between 1918 and 1933; in India, however, we are talking about a democracy that has lived for seven decades, excluding the Emergency period. Why did such a long period of democracy not create institutions more resilient and durable than we have seen in India? The reason, I believe, lies in the fracturing of social unity that has occurred of late in the country that provides not only transient support for fascist politics but also a more durable and substantial support. This fracturing is due to the pursuit of neoliberal economic policies that have dramatically widened wealth and income inequalities in the country. The beneficiaries of this widening have been not just the top 1 per cent of the population, which got the lion’s share of the gains, but also a substantial segment of the middle class that has gained from the pursuit of neoliberalism. The extent of increase in inequality has been truly dramatic during the neoliberal period: according to Thomas Piketty and Lucas  Chancel, the share of the top 1 per cent of the population that was 13 per cent of the national income in 1922-23 and 20.7 per cent in 1939-40 dropped, thereafter, to reach a low of 6.2 per cent in 1982-83, and then climbed to 21.3 per cent by 2014-15. Further, it was not just the top 1 per cent; a much larger proportion benefited from neoliberalism. The top 10 per cent, which obtained 40 per cent of the national income at the beginning of the millennium, increased its share to 55.9 per cent by 2014-15. Considering the fact that national income rose much faster in the neoliberal era than earlier, a major increase in the incomes of the upper 10 percent of the population must have occurred under neoliberalism compared to earlier. The beneficiaries of neoliberalism belong not only to the higher income group; they also belong in social terms to the group of Hindu upper caste males. They are strongly opposed to any egalitarian economic measures, and feel drawn towards a political party that, while garnering votes through communal polarization along religious lines, eschews any egalitarian measures. The argument that they advance, whether implicitly or explicitly, is that their improved economic status is because of their abilities and talent rather than them being already well-positioned in society to take advantage of the opportunities that open up through neoliberalism; if the lower castes, the minorities and other disadvantaged segments of the population are excluded from the benefits of economic growth, then the reason for it lies in their lack of ability and talent rather than in their disadvantaged social status. They see egalitarian measures as pandering to ‘populism’, to demands from people of little worth; such pandering, they believe, comes in the way of economic growth. Big business, especially the nouveau element in it, naturally feels drawn towards a political party that ruthlessly protects and promotes its interest, that doles out concessions to it on the grounds that it consists of ‘wealth creators’, that abridges workers’ rights to struggle for better living conditions, and that expands the scope for its encroachment into the agricultural sector to ensure that the composition of its output conforms to the demands of the advanced countries. In a period of crisis of neoliberal capitalism, a government formed by such a party protects and increases the profits of big business at the expense of petty production and opens up for it new avenues of accumulation. A formidable alliance thus comes up that includes big business, especially its nouveau element, the feudal landed interests, the newly affluent segment of the middle class, and the lumpenproletariat. This alliance appeals even to the classes it suppresses — the workers, peasants and petty producers — by invoking communal passions. And it gets generously funded by big business to capture and hold on to power. This alliance, although it invokes an ultra-nationalism, is the ultimate negation of the nationalism advanced by the anti-colonial struggle. Anti-colonial nationalism had visualized a nation where there was a degree of social, economic and political equality among all segments of the population. In a society characterized by millennia of institutionalized inequality in the form of the caste-system, this conception was truly revolutionary. And notwithstanding its incomplete realization, it continued to guide the nation in the period before neoliberalism. Indeed, anti-colonial nationalism can be legitimately said to have ushered in a veritable social revolution. What is happening now is a counter-revolution against that social revolution, with a social base that includes big business and a middle class whose motivations are economic as well as social. The fragility of our democratic institutions arises from the fact that those manning these institutions are recruited from this social base. However, this counter-revolution is bound to fail. It has no economic agenda for bringing succour to the people against the economic crisis, not even to the till-now affluent middle class. The farmers’ challenge to this regime constitutes the first step towards its unravelling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
