12-02-2021||Opinion||Shared warmth: Modi and the judiciary||Mutual admiration is often stimulating. But when members of the higher judiciary wax eloquent over the excellences of the prime minister while he expresses approval of the judiciary’s dutifulness, the exchange of compliments appears somewhat iffy. While releasing a commemorative stamp on the occasion of the Gujarat High Court’s diamond jubilee, the prime minister expatiated on the theme of the judiciary’s dedication, by which it upholds the Constitution and also strengthens it by constructive and creative interpretation. The judiciary has safeguarded the rights of the people and their personal freedoms, while responding in the right way whenever national interests are prioritized. Were courts supposed to do anything else? However, the prime minister’s approbation is understandable, since Indian prisons now hold numbers of people who have gone against the prime minister’s notion of ‘national interest’. He referred to India’s belief from scriptural times that good governance is rooted in law. His compliment to the judiciary seemed to assume his own good governance. Although public appreciation of the judiciary’s uprightness is welcome from a prime minister, it could be asked whether a tone of patronage is quite fitting. But such proprieties are obsolete in Narendra Modi’s India, because the Supreme Court judge, M.R. Shah, reportedly said on the same occasion that he was honoured to be in the presence of the most “popular, loved, vibrant and visionary” leader. In a similar vein, the chief justice of the Gujarat High Court found the cause of Mr Modi’s popularity to lie in his sense of fairness and devotion to duty, while there was a general chorus from senior lawmen about his vibrant leadership and success in making India notable in the world. But effusive praise of a ruling political personage from members of the senior judiciary cannot be desirable: it undermines the separation of powers and dents the perception of the judiciary’s independence. This last is a fundamental requirement; if judges — as happened in the case of the retired judge, Arun Mishra — are overcome with admiration for political leaders in power there may arise doubts about their dedication to Constitutional, democratic values and rights. The people’s trust in the judiciary should not be shaken. The law must be seen to remain in its own place: neither to need nor to give bouquets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
12-02-2021||Opinion||Big Brothers: cyber vigilantes||Is Narendra Modi’s government keen to mould Indian citizens after its own image? The query is being raised in response to the home ministry’s initiative to raise a corps of citizen-volunteers who would be responsible for identifying and reporting, among other transgressions, ‘anti-national’ activity. It has been reported that the programme would be piloted in Jammu and Kashmir and Tripura but its deleterious impact would be similar irrespective of geography. This is because the intent of this intervention is to facilitate a culture of public vigilantism. And if the history of investing segments of the population with unprecedented powers is anything to go by — the notorious legacies of the Salwa Judum in Chhattisgarh, Bihar’s caste militias or the outfit that swears its allegiance to the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh may be instructive in this context — it does not take long for such forces to mutate into agencies of intimidation. Given the extraordinary strain on India’s social fabric and the resultant erosion that has coincided with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political ascendancy, the citizen-watchdog could lead to a further spurt in spurious allegations against critics of the regime. Such an outcome cannot be ruled out especially since the rhetoric of the ‘anti-national’ — it eludes legal definition — has been used by the BJP and its Hindutva fraternity to curb dissent, criticism and, most worryingly, free speech. The absence of a statute for the creation of such a batch of volunteers who may turn rogue is unlikely to bother the powers that be. Radical experiments, the BJP’s minders believe, are necessary to neutralize Old India. This proposal also brings to light the need to assess India’s existing cyber security network. Are the bona fide cyber security institutions proving to be inept in tackling the wide array of ‘crimes’ that the new Big Brothers are meant to monitor? What is equally worrying is the continuous weaponization of social media platforms by the Centre and state governments. The cyber-volunteer idea has coincided with the Centre’s browbeating of Twitter into submission. Several states — Uttarakhand, Bihar, even Kerala — have attempted to turn their hawk-eyed gaze on critical posts on social media. Social media’s extraordinary power to mobilize people must be the principal cause for the anxiety of the powers that be. Ironically, the collateral damage — the choking of freedom and rights — is deemed secondary by the custodians of democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
12-02-2021||Opinion||Notes on change in India||In spite of the dread of a tiny virus, 2020 ended on notes of celebration. A large and significant section celebrated the iron fist that did away with an autonomous Kashmir, corrected the imbalance in citizenship, countered the Chinese, resurrected a glorious Ram mandir, destroyed liberal thought, promised to double farmers’ incomes and is crusading against the anti-national, the undisciplined Dalit, women and Muslims. Another section celebrated the resistance to all these. This was reflected in small and large gatherings of students, workers, farmers, women, nurses, doctors, teachers, lawyers, engineers and the displaced, the disabled and the unemployed. The smallest but most significant section celebrated their net worth zooming up by 35 per cent at a time the national GDP contracted by 23 per cent. All the celebrations were about ‘change’, but what was the change? The change sought by the iron-fisted and the tight-fisted is explicit enough: the former moving towards an international market with a domestic Brahminical order; the latter seeks to acquire wealth. But what change did the resisters imagine? The protests in Jammu and Kashmir that lingered on from 2019 demanded the restoration of Article 370 and 35(A) and the rights that the citizens of Jammu, Kashmir, and Ladakh possessed before the state was split into two. The other protest that spilled over into 2020 demanded the scrapping of the CAA and the NRC. Early in 2020, protests erupted in university campuses against fee hikes, the New Education Policy, repression and, later, against the UGC guidelines. The lockdown put an end to demonstrations but it could not stop the migrant workers from registering their dissent. The year triggered off three different movements that are likely to set the agenda for 2021. Firstly, changes in labour laws spurred protests, culminating in a general strike in November demanding cash transfers, rations, employment, tenure, pensions, and withdrawal of the laws. Then the farmers began their agitation; they remain outside Delhi demanding the repealing of three farm laws. Thirdly, anti-rape, anti-molestation, and anti-patriarchy stirrings have grown in spite of the ‘love jihad’ laws. All these resistances as well as the stirrings of the subaltern castes have a common theme: returning to an earlier state of affairs. Perhaps we need to go back to earlier ideologies and rework an imagination of a better society. If we accept that we live in a rampaging capitalist society, then we may also see that the three forces that drive capitalism are the perpetual search for profit, an antagonism towards productive and reproductive labour and ceaseless extraction of nature. Resistance, therefore, may reflect on Gandhi’s talisman to understand how these forces can be countered. Protecting the Constitution is admirable; but would not rooting citizenship in work and advocating for the Directive Principles of State Policy to become rights be worthier contributions? If a living wage — proposed in 1948, agreed to in 1957, and legally affirmed in 1961 and 1991 — were fought for with determination, would it not signal a huge step for all labour — including women’s hidden labour — against capital while challenging profit? If living wage and environmental costs were introduced into the MSP calculations, could it spur the imagination of agricultural workers to reclaim the value of their labour while also steering the way towards crops that restore nature’s health? Where does the counter to hate lie except in the affection for and passion of collective work and living that Tagore celebrated?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
12-02-2021||Opinion||A tale of two health schemes||As always, the battle over healthcare schemes has begun before elections. However, political parties tend to forget or intentionally ignore the importance of universal healthcare coverage. A year before the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the Bharatiya Janata Party announced the PMJAY-Ayushman Bharat scheme, an insurance scheme that provides coverage of five lakh rupees per year for secondary and tertiary care with numerous riders for the selection of target populations in rural and urban areas. The National Health Authority came up with a circular, which fixed parameters as per the Socio-Economic and Caste Census, 2011. This led to the imposition of severe restrictions on universal access to healthcare. Households possessing automobiles, members with a government job or monthly incomes above Rs 10,000 or non-agricultural enterprises registered with the government are excluded from the scheme. These conditions have led to the exclusion of a vast section of the population. The West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, had announced the Swasthya Sathi scheme ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. Now, before this year’s assembly election, she has extended its scope to include all citizens of the state. Initially, SS was an insurance-based scheme. But recently, the government made it clear that it will not involve any third party and that it would transfer the amount directly to the insured. The transition from insurance to assurance may have been necessitated by the changing electoral atmosphere. The basic difference between PMJAY and SS is in the coverage of the population. The latter seeks to cover the entire population of Bengal, whereas PMJAY only covers 50 crore people in India. In SS, the state government will bear the entire expenses whereas in PMJAY the costs are split in a 60-40 ratio between the Centre and the state with some exceptions. While SS is an assurance-based model, PMJAY is insurance-based. In SS, a single card suffices for every member of the family while in the case of PMJAY each family member would have an individual card (chargeable at Rs 30 per printout). The Bengal government has also empowered women of each household by issuing the SS card in the name of the female head of the family, but PMJAY has no such provision. Another important feature of the SS card is that it can be used in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, where a significant number of Bengalis go for secondary and tertiary care. The SS’s fortune will now depend on how Banerjee’s government manages the private sector. Already, there have been several incidents of private hospitals rejecting SS card-holder patients, saying that the rate of several treatments under the SS scheme was too low. In a public meeting in Ranaghat, Nadia, the chief minister had warned private hospitals that refusal of treatment could lead to the cancellation of their licences. But given their impudence, controlling private sector hospitals could pose a challenge for Banerjee’s government. The history of such insurance-based schemes has been rather chequered in India. For example, Andhra Pradesh’s Rajiv Aarogyasri Community Health Insurance scheme, which sought to provide quality healthcare to the poor, failed because insurance companies and private hospitals ripped off the government by allegedly faking bills and performing unnecessary operations. Bengal’s private hospitals cannot claim to have a pristine record either. However, the question is this. If governments are ready to spend huge sums to fund secondary and tertiary care, why cannot they spend the same amount to create the infrastructure necessary for universal healthcare? The latter can help families reduce their out-of-pocket expenditure on OPD care — excluded in both PMJAY and SS — which is the most common reason for visiting a hospital. The Covid-19 pandemic has also exposed the cracks in our healthcare infrastructure: neither insurance nor assurance model is in a position to repair them. Over the years, public healthcare and its inherent values have been systematically dismantled by corporations. The State, for the most part, has been an apathetic bystander, if not an accomplice. Health is primarily the responsibility of the State. It must be noted that every time an individual avails of the benefits of these schemes, taxpayers’ money goes into private hands. Governments as well as citizens would be better served by channelling funds into improving the healthcare system in a meaningful way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
12-02-2021||Opinion||Against thinking||The freedom of thought and the associated freedom of expressing one’s ideas together form a fundamental bulwark of democracy, arguably as important as the freedom to live. The freedom of thought is best enshrined in academia. Institutes of higher learning like universities and colleges are, in every society, the nurseries where such intellectual freedoms flourish. Up to the level of secondary education, young people are taught the value of thinking by and for themselves, while being exposed to ideas that are well known and well established. Hence, academic freedom can be thought of as constituting an essential feature of democracy. This is not to argue that anything can be accepted as representing freedom of thought and expression. For instance, if someone or some group propagates that the Holocaust did not happen, it represents a patent falsehood. There are enough facts and figures that give compelling and unambiguous evidence of it happening, with its inhuman consequences. This propagation of proven lies does not represent freedom. On the other hand, some individual or a group might argue that genocide is good and even justified in certain cases. Here it is obvious that the freedom of expressing this is in direct conflict with the freedom to live. Hence, the expression of supporting genocide is never acceptable. The reason for bringing this up is because there are forces today that are weakening the freedom to think and express original ideas; ideas that could be socially debated. Potentially these debates and their outcomes could make the world a better place to live in. The world of ideas and opinions in academics is under threat. One talks of institutions at the macro level being stripped of their social role to provide justice and to nurture new ideas: political institutions, the judiciary, the bureaucracy, and institutions of higher learning to name just a few. One complains about their erosion. When it comes to concrete instances, however, one feels scared to talk about a particular politician, a specific judgment, a corrupt civil servant or an authoritarian leader of an academic institute. Yet, the rot does start from the micro level of particular organizations and institutions. What has been happening, mostly unnoticed and hidden from the public gaze, is the systematic erosion of learning and freedom of expression in institutions of higher learning. There is a concerted effort to meddle in academia: the syllabi, content, who teaches, what is allowed to be discussed, who regulates and, above all, who must be obeyed beyond any question. What is being demanded is absolute loyalty to one particular way of thinking and believing. Debates and discussions are not encouraged and, in certain cases, simply not permitted. Creating anxiety is the key instrument used in achieving this. One can lose one’s job, be humiliated, punished, and even be identified as a crook with dishonest dealings, or a tax evader, or an anti-national terrorist. Even one’s citizenship can be questioned. Either one dissents and is punished, or one conforms and receives rewards. It is hard to be neutral. The dominant way of thinking implies that if one is not in support of the official position, then one is against the nation. Those who remain quiet implicitly signal their conformity. How does a ‘good’ academic institution get eroded and ultimately ruined? The crux of the matter lies in exercising total control. People close to the political party in power are put in charge of an institution. The person in charge then changes processes, conventions and rules, such that all decisions become as centralized as possible. Once this is done, the exertion of control is easier because desired results can be achieved without explicit violation of due process. This control is most commonly manifested in the denial of institutional resources in many kinds of ways. Promotions become more difficult and everybody in the faculty is given the impression that they are not quite up to the required intellectual mark. Criticism is not used as an enabler for improvement but as a humiliating and demeaning threat. The non-academic staff members are easier to control. They can be transferred across departments, or they can be asked to ‘voluntarily resign’. Unions are broken up. Anyway, the non-academic staff members do not contribute directly to the freedom of expression, but enable the physical and procedural conditions within which such freedoms can be exercised. This enabling environment is gradually vitiated. Students, on the other hand, comprise stakeholders who are articulate and have the capacity to express themselves in terms of new ideas and thoughts. They have energy and a basic sense of fairness that can trigger protests and dissent whenever they see injustice, even if it does not affect them directly. Students are natural allies for protesting against institutional as well as larger social ills. Students are, therefore, a potential threat to the system of total control and absolute loyalty. They can be threatened with physical violence if the need arises, and the overall system of criminal justice is brought to play its part: the police, trumped-up charges, short incarcerations without being produced in courts of law, and of course the pursuance of false and lengthy cases. The social sciences and humanities as disciplines pursued in institutions of higher learning constitute a natural space where new ideas and social critiques are likely to emerge. These disciplines are carefully monitored — what is actually taught, and who teaches the subjects. In an institution, in the selection committee constituted for hiring a professor of ancient Indian history, the expert picked was a professor of life sciences and known to be close to the ruling political party. In another instance the head of the institution asked a member of the faculty directly whether he was now suitably afraid of authority. It would be difficult for such situations to arise in organizations where there is more participation by faculty members and students in decision making. Checks and balances are more likely to be better designed. In the sciences, control has to be more subtle. Modern science thrives on questioning existing theories as well as raising doubts. The nuanced attack lies in the political promotion of myths and superstitions where falsehoods, repeated many times over, become part of an altered belief system of ordinary people who then begin to suspect science and scientists. The availability of the internet in the times of the Kurukshetra, gold in gau mata’s milk, plastic surgery performed on Lord Ganesha’s head and the miraculous power of cows’ excreta are recent instances of demeaning science at the highest political levels. Here again, ultimate control is important even if a few scientists continue to do their own intellectual work. The lies and alternative narratives begin to be believed because someone propagated them as uncontested truths. The question marks that remained on issues such as whether an election was really stolen or whether sophisticated plastic surgery was practised in ancient India gradually become replaced by full stops. Power inevitably engenders the need for control. The control of thoughts and feelings is likely to get more sophisticated and easier with the development of emerging technologies. Ideological intolerance is germane to political establishments. Every political party has been guilty of this to some extent in the past. What is happening now is much more systematic and subtle. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-74
