13-02-2021||Opinion||Waiting in the wings||Three subjects dominated the headlines in the calendar year, 2020. These were the threat posed by the pandemic, the perilous state of the economy, and the border conflict with China. The media in India, and Indians in general, are obsessed with politics, but in 2020, politics mostly took a back seat to health, economics, and defence. Nonetheless, there was one major development in Indian politics last year, a development that might have profound — and disturbing — consequences for the future of our Republic. This was the emergence of the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh as the coming man in India’s most important political party. At the endof 2019, it seemed that the Union home minister, Amit Shah, was the most likely person to succeed Narendra Modi as prime minister were the Bharatiya Janata Party to win a third general election in a row in 2024. Shah had been Modi’s fixer and enforcer for almost two decades; by piloting both the abrogation of Article 370 and the passing of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, he appeared to be positioning himself as his boss’s successor — apparently with the boss’s approval. The conventional wisdom when 2020 began was that Amit Shah was in pole position to succeed Narendra Modi. A year later, that seems much less likely. Yogi Adityanath is the person to look out for and look up to in the party as the BJP’s senior-most leaders themselves recognize. Consider the alacrity with which Shivraj Singh Chouhan and B.S. Yediyurappa have rushed to mimic the UP chief minister in seeking to have laws against Hindu-Muslim marriages passed in their own states. Chouhan and Yediyurappa were once a throwback to the Vajpayee years, seen as soft and accommodating compared to hardliners like Shah or Modi. Now, they have hitched their future to Adityanath’s wagon in the belief that political survival lies in abandoning uncertain moderation for outright bigotry. When, back in 2012-13, Narendra Modi made his prime ministerial ambitions known, he spoke of a ‘Gujarat Model’, which he wished to implement all over the country. Modi claimed that this Gujarat Model represented a progressive, outward-looking economic and social vision, although his critics pointed to a darker side to his record as chief minister with regard to the marginalization of Muslims and the intolerance of dissent. Adityanath has not, so far, made similarly explicit claims on behalf of a ‘UP Model’ that he shall take across India. However, on the basis of what he has done in his state thus far, we can get a fair sense of what it might represent. There are, of course, notable similarities between Modi and Adityanath. Both are textbook examples of the authoritarian personality. Both seek to impose their will on all those around them, whether cabinet colleagues, the legislature, bureaucrats, scientific experts, the press, or the public at large. Both are also imbued with a certain megalomania — all credit for achievements, real and imaginary, must accrue to them alone. Nonetheless, there are also important differences. Compared to Modi, Adityanath is openly and nakedly majoritarian. Modi will sometimes speak of being on the side of everyone regardless of religious affiliation (‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’). He will occasionally seek a photo-op by travelling with Muslims in a Metro. Adityanath will have no part in such equivocation. In his words and through his actions, he makes it clear that he believes that Hindus are superior to Indians of other faiths, particularly to Muslims. As chief minister, Modi used the police and the instruments of the law to suppress and silence critics within Gujarat. Adityanath does that in his own state too, as manifested in his savage repression of the peaceful protests in UP against the CAA. However, he goes even further than Modi did as chief minister, by using his police to attack critics anywhere in India. The spate of first information reports filed in Uttar Pradesh against journalists and satirists working in other states demonstrate that Adityanath is a more thoroughgoing authoritarian than Modi. To be sure, it is the people of his own state who have borne the brunt of Adityanath’s policies of repression and coercion. Thus, as an essay in the excellent website, Article 14, noted, the choice of Adityanath as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh “marked a significant watershed moment in the advance of the BJP in the Indian republic, as it signaled an endorsement of a model of governance that openly and unapologetically targeted Muslim citizens and political dissidents as public enemies.” “From his first days in office,” the article continued, “the chief minister has not hesitated to use the instruments of governance to create and consolidate a state that draws on the concerns of vigilante groups and puts Hindus, especially the advantaged “upper” castes, first, and uses the law and the police to target, punish, defame, imprison and in some cases even kill Muslims and dissenters...” After providing an array of examples of extra-judicial killings and of the targeting of Muslims and activists by the State, the article concluded that “the Adityanath government has unleashed a model of vindictive, majoritarian and repressive governance that crosses boundaries even earlier BJP regimes have hesitated to violate.” Long before he became chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Adityanath had founded a group called the Hindu Yuva Vahini, which describes itself as “a fierce cultural and social organization dedicated to Hindutva and nationalism”. Militant, organized, willing to use violence, this group has faced charges of “inciting riots, murder, and arson” and has been accused “of burning mosques, homes, buses and trains”. The Vahini’s members are utterly loyal to their leader, always ready to follow his command. Adityanath is thus unique in being the only politician in the history of independent India to have founded and run a vigilante group for many years before he assumed office as chief minister of his state. When Modi became chief minister of Gujarat in 2001, the state already had a robust industrial base and a thriving entrepreneurial culture. Before Adityanath became chief minister of Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the state had neither. India’s most populous state was, in economic and social terms, a byword for backwardness, and Adityanath’s policies have done nothing to dispel that image. This, in brief, is the personal and political record of the man being spoken of as a likely successor to Narendra Modi as the top leader of the BJP. If Adityanath does indeed lead his party’s campaign in the next general elections, what sort of ‘Achche Din’ will he promise voters? Back in 2013-14, Modi claimed he would bring young Indians jobs, prosperity, and security. Can the founder of the Hindu Yuva Vahini promise young Indians anything other than the satisfaction of harassing and persecuting people of other faiths? As prime minister, Modi has travelled all over the world, wooing the leaders of other countries (albeit with mixed success). If he ever becomes prime minister, Adityanath is unlikely to care at all about what the world thinks of him or his country. His chief focus will be on consolidating his power in India, especially over those Indians dissimilar to him in their political, philosophical, or spiritual beliefs. Some months ago, in a column on the political styles of prime ministers past and present, I argued that in his instinct for centralization and control, Narendra Modi was “Indira Gandhi on steroids”. Were Adityanath to ever become prime minister, he would most likely be Narendra Modi on steroids. Seven years of the Gujarat Model implemented countrywide have deeply damaged the social and institutional fabric of the Republic. A single term of the UP Model might destroy it altogether.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
13-02-2021||Opinion||Tell the world: Farmers' protest on Trevor Noah show||Sir — It is a relief that the popular television chat show host, Trevor Noah, dedicated a lengthy segment on his show to the farmers’ protests in India. Noah’s show garners high viewership around the world; it is one of the best ways to increase global awareness about the atrocities inflicted by the Indian government on the protesting farmers and all dissenters. The Narendra Modi-led dispensation at the Centre cares greatly about its image, which is why it fears international scrutiny. Public figures around the world must keep amplifying the farmers’ voices. Radhika Mohanty,Bhubaneswar Right time Sir — Given that the West Bengal assembly elections are around the corner, this is indeed the best time for Calcuttans who care about the environment to demand that the government make arrangements for the creation of dedicated cycle bays so that people can use bicycles to safely travel long distances, thereby lowering carbon emission (“Cyclists set up pre-poll test”, Feb 12). Calcutta is a busy city; millions of people travel within it, as well as visit it from other places. As such, thousands of vehicles are plying on different roads throughout the city every day, causing the pollution levels to reach dangerous proportions. The advent of the novel coronavirus made the use of public transport risky, as vehicles such as buses and trains tend to get crowded. As a result, Calcuttans were compelled to ride bicycles in order to commute instead of using motor vehicles. This is a healthy habit to inculcate; not only does cycling make for excellent physical exercise, but it also contributes towards lowering air pollution levels. The demands of the people of the city for cycle bays are justified; they should be heeded by the government for the good of everyone. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — Calcuttans are doing the right thing by demanding that all political parties make the environment a priority in their election manifestos. Successive state governments in Bengal have done little by way of protecting the city’s green cover; the Bharatiya Janata Party, which hopes to win the polls, will do even less, given its damning record on environmental protection at the national level. The people of the city must keep mounting pressure on every political party to make concrete promises about what it intends to do with regard to waste management, segregation and preserving urban green cover; if the next government does not make good on its promises, it must be held accountable. As for now, though, the state dispensation must respond to the calls for creating cycle bays in the city, as that would not only enable more cyclists to come out onto the roads without having to fear accidents, but would also go a long way in bringing down air pollution levels. Sneha Das,Calcutta Wrong call Sir — Like many other states in India — Odisha, Kerala and Maharashtra are a few examples — West Bengal also decided to reopen schools for Classes IX to XII, with classes having resumed yesterday. This is a foolhardy move, as it involves risking the health of teachers and pupils during a pandemic. Merely taking ‘precautions’ will not be enough to fend off a contagion. While other parts of the world continue to strictly restrict student and faculty presence on campus, India has not shown the same wisdom; various state governments have taken the dubious decision to expose students and their teachers to Covid-19 citing reasons such as a learning gap or the impact of a wasted academic year. The inoculation drive among front-line health workers is moving at a snail’s pace as it is; moreover, it seems that educators and officials related to the academic sphere are not a priority in the vaccination drive, although they are now set to be exposed to crowded situations on school campuses. This decision might bring about a deluge of infections in the coming days as people congregate on campus. Satabdi Dutta,Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
13-02-2021||Opinion||As tears go by: a lachrymal Modi||In a nation where judges believe in the existence of tearful peacocks, a land that has had a fair share of the proverbial crocodiles in public life armed with leaking tear ducts, why should the prime minister not have the right to shed a tear or two? Moved by the imminent departure of a member of the Congress from the upper House, Narendra Modi’s eyes were reported to have welled up, setting tongues wagging. The chatter, however, is not unwarranted. Mr Modi has repeatedly endorsed India to rid itself of the Congress; yet, the Rajya Sabha’s mukti from a Congressman caused him to turn uncharacteristically sentimental. Then there is the bit about Mr Modi’s ability to choke up — but only during his hour of triumph or while recounting sacrifices. India had seen Mr Modi’s tears when the former lauh purush, L.K. Advani, attributed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s electoral triumph in 2014 to the prime minister; his eyes had turned misty, again, while being described as a divine entity. However, a scrutiny of the global history of the politics of tears would provide a more likely explanation of all the excitement. Iron men — Mr Modi and his admirers believe that he is of the ilk — are not known for having misty eyes. In fact, tears can extract a political cost: Britain’s ‘Iron Lady’, Margaret Thatcher, was once roasted for admitting that a bad day at the office would make her cry at home. Conversely, Angela Merkel has been glorified for her stoicity. This denouncement of a perfectly natural response is linked to popular culture’s fallacy of perceiving emotion — the element that separates Man from Beast — as a sign of weakness, a testament to the loss of control over the self, a challenge to android masculinity. Yet, politics remains flooded with Weepy Iron Men. Oliver Cromwell — he had asked for the King’s head — was known for his watery eyes; Winston Churchill was successful in keeping the dreaded Nazis at bay but not his tears; Vladimir Putin has been caught sniffling; Barack Obama was quite a cry-baby. Politicians’ willingness to turn into pulp in public must be read as proof of their ability to understand the shift in society’s relationship with tears. In this Age of Technology, where efficiency is prioritized over emotions, the ability to forge a solidarity with the people is increasingly being determined by sentimentality and compassion. A smile, a tear, a hug have thus been transformed into acts invested with political capital. But there is also a related ethical question. Sentimentality can have a desirable effect when it is accompanied by sincerity. In its absence, a politician wearing his/her heart on the sleeve could be criticized for being a performer, the possessor of — much like Cromwell — a ‘supple conscience’. It is for India to decide whether its prime minister has a conscience of a different constitution. A man unmoved by the deaths of protesting farmers is also the man who weeps on other, sundry matters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
13-02-2021||Opinion||Different celebration: 55th Super Bowl kicks off in Florida||In the strangest of times, marked by a pandemic, the 55th Super Bowl kicked off in Florida, with Tom Brady taking the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to victory against the Kansas City Chiefs. The Super Bowl is one of the most widely viewed televised events and marks the second highest consumption of food in the United States of America after Thanksgiving. Advertisers spend around $5 million to bag a 30-second spot for their commercials. This year, both brands and the National Football League tried to strike the right tone given the country’s current climate — a result of the political divide, racial tensions and Covid-19-induced economic disparity. The NFL, accused of racist practices in the past, made an announcement before the game about its financial commitment towards ending systemic racism. However, many pointed out the NFL’s continued lack of acknowledgement of Colin Kaepernick, who was kicked out of the league for kneeling during the US national anthem as a mark of protest against police brutality. CBS also hosted a video about black players in the NFL. But the real moment came when the game host, James Brown, called the track record of team owners on hiring African-American coaches and front-office management “pitiful”. For the first time in 37 years, Budweiser did not advertise, but said in a statement that it was going to use its $5.5 million to support “critical Covid-19 vaccine awareness” with donations and future ad campaigns. Coca Cola and Pepsi also did not buy any ad space this year. The NFL was also criticized for allowing 25,000 people to attend, who sat alongside 30,000 cardboard cutouts of people in the stadium. Drink up As the US grappled with the coronavirus, items like toilet paper and hand sanitizer flew off the shelves. Another set of items that was scarcely known in early 2020 but has now gained popularity — with an almost 500 per cent rise in sales — is oat milk and its products. We think of oats as a breakfast item, to be used in porridge, but probably not as something that can be made into a milk. According to data from Tastewise this February, consumers showed around 146 per cent more interest in oat milk products in the past year. It is known for its more durable shelf life, milder taste (compared to soy or almond milk) and sustainable methods of production. Oat milk was first introduced to the US by the Swedish company, Oatly, in 2016. It rose to stardom when Starbucks, Dunkin’ Donuts and Trader Joe’s started selling it as well. In fact, celebrities like Natalie Portman, Oprah Winfrey and Jay Z have invested in Oatly. It is now likely to shape up to a $10 billion evaluation and could have its initial public offering this May. This Super Bowl, Oatly put on a $5 million, 30-second commercial with its chief executive officer playing a keyboard and singing about oat milk in an oat field. It got laughed at for just being awful, but Oatly capitalized on the moment by selling t-shirts that read “I totally hated that Oatly commercial”. According to the company, the shirts are now sold out.Love for all This Valentine’s Day people will have to learn to date with a distance of six feet maintained. But while Covid-19 may have hampered many plans, some traditions are still intact. In New York, the Bronx Zoo is again offering its ‘Name a Roach’ programme, where you get to name a hissing Madagascar cockroach after your loved one for a $15 donation and a certificate. This year the zoo has introduced a plushie roach, a scented roach candle and a special Valentine virtual Bronx Zoo Animal Encounter with a live Madagascar hissing cockroach. The El Paso Zoo in Texas is promoting its event, ‘Quit Bugging Me’. Here too, you can also name a Madagascar cockroach, but this one will be named after your former partner because you can then proceed to watch an iguana or a meerkat chomp up the bug. Valentine’s Day is also an occasion for high spending . According to the National Federation Foundation, spending this year is supposed to be $21.8 billion. Many stores are offering fun deals. At Hooters, you can have a picture of your ex shredded to bits by a shredder.  Important lesson Two weeks ago, cable TV and the internet were focused on the stock saga of Gamestop, a dying Fortune 500 company that saw a 1,500 per cent rise in its stock price because of a few amateur investors online who wanted to teach Wall Street a lesson. The video game retail store had been struggling as a business both because game purchases have largely gone digital now, and also because of the pandemic. Institutional hedge funds shorted their Gamestop stock — that is, betted against the company — as a result. To send a message to these short-sellers, a bunch of users on Reddit’s sub-group ‘WallStreetBets’, banded together and started buying Gamestop shares, causing the price to soar. Many Redditors said it was to teach Wall Street a lesson for betting against businesses going through tough times. Others jumped on to the subreddit bandwagon to make money. While the US Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating this matter, it is hard to prosecute. It is examining the Reddit post to sniff out intentional market manipulation as laws bar the dissemination of false or misleading information aimed at manipulating investors into buying or selling securities. The hedge funds who had shorted the stock reported a $19 billion loss. The popular trading app, Robinhood, was criticized for preventing anyone from trading on Gamestop on that day. As many pointed out, the market is only free until rich people lose money. Footnote February 12 was Lunar New Year. The Smithsonian American Art Museum offered a free virtual celebration in partnership with the Chinese Cultural Institute and the Chinese embassy. McDonald’s hosted a virtual mini-concert with the Chinese hip-hop artist, Masiwei. It also created the custom red envelopes traditionally filled with money and given to friends and family for luck and prosperity; the first 888 people who bought from the 88 Rising Night Market that started on February 8 received one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
