14-02-2021||Opinion||Stop the damage||Sir — The Uttarakhand tragedy is yet another reminder for mankind to take climate change seriously. But it is also a reminder that it is high time we reconsider the indiscriminate erection of dams across rivers. The argument for dams — that they provide drinking water and water for agriculture — has been scientifically discredited. For independent geologists and hydrologists, dams represent a nightmare, a triumph of engineering over common sense and the natural sciences. Increasingly, it is evident that proponents of dams ignore crucial decision-making data now available on patterns of rainfall, geology and climate change. Dams store millions of tonnes of fresh water in large reservoirs, submerging prime forests, villages, farms and livelihoods. Solving the drinking water crisis does not require giant storage structures; these dams take decades to come up and only a fraction of their output is for the household sector. Instead the water is used to grow crops like sugar cane which are the bane of the agricultural economy as well as harmful to the environment. What is worse, according to the India Water Portal, over 100 dams in India are over a century old, and more than 500 large dams are 50-100 years old, many of which have major defects and need urgent repair. There has never been a greater urgency to review India’s policy on dams and to act on decentralized alternatives that involve water recycling and reuse. The immediate task is to critically review every dam in the country, decommission those that are at end-of-life, stop building new ones and establish sound safety protocols. If this is not done, the time bomb will tick on. Aditya Banerjee, Gurgaon Sir — In these rather grim times, reading about the trials and tribulations of people trying to adapt to technology has become the only source of entertainment. If a Republican Congressman in the United States of America floated upside down during a Zoom meeting, a lawyer appeared before a judge as a distressed kitten owing to a filter which he could not turn off. Instead of taking umbrage at slippages — some organizations have punished employees for such mishaps — these should be taken in one’s stride. They add much levity to life at a time when little good news is forthcoming. S. Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — It is worrying that in a competition between man and machine in China, data scientists managed to produce 196 per cent more strawberries by weight on average compared to traditional farmers. Farmers are already beleaguered owing to a variety of factors such as climate change and associated conditions like water shortage, droughts and so on. To make matters worse, governments are either insensitive to the plight of farmers or wilfully ignore their problems and sacrifice their livelihoods at the altar of large corporates — this is evident in India. If machines now enter the farmers’ domain, then the small and medium farm-holders will be obliterated. But that is not the only worry. With mechanization and the elimination of the human element, the delicate ecological chains that bind agriculture will be destroyed. Nature has already taken a back seat in agricultural production owing to changing consumption patterns. The intrusion of machines will only make a bad situation worse. Moreover, as has happened with mechanization in any field, this is likely to feed into the trend of trying to grow perfect fruits and vegetables, which in turn will increase food wastage. Ratna De, Calcutta Sir — Spring is in the air way ahead of time this year. One can already see the palash trees flowering and hear the koels cooing. This has been one of the hottest winters on record in a long time. Yet, people hardly notice these changes. An awareness about such anomalies can go a long way towards educating people about the changing weather. Rima Roy, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
14-02-2021||Opinion||Oh, suck! Please now, new suckers||The more things don’t change the more they don’t remain the same. I mean TheChaiwala is still around making all sorts of noises but he, it would appear, has forsaken hawking chai and taken to hawking conspiracies; chai pe charcha has become chai pe parcha, and a screaming, flaming parcha it is, just unfurled on a teleprompter near TheChaiwala: KaunIsPiracy!!! Ahem, I mean, kaun is behind this piracy, because I bought the exclusive rights over conspiracy, so get out of the way, all, and let me tell you with all the authority at my disposal as TheChaiwala that we shall not have this any longer. It is chai, tea! And I am the only one to have a high on it, psst, get the joke and get it quick because I won’t crack another in a while. I am high on chai, I meant. And listen to the conspiracy now, hold your breath: They, I mean the conspirators out there, are trying to purloin the chai and the high and are planning to launch something called the High Tea! We shall not have that, I mean, BMKJ, what the hell, let’s have some storm in the teacup. Let’s have low tea, and let’s not have it in a cup at all, let’s be atmanirbhar and have low tea in our own kinda things, you got it, let’s have low tea in a lota. Gotcha! (I learnt that one from you know who, Kemchho, just before he became kimchhi, ha-ha, Gotcha!) We are getting more and more atmanirbhar, read my lips, if you can still see them in all of the lush overgrowth, I mean, someone has to lead by example on the afforestation programme. There are obligations that come with the job. Look at TheChaiwala. Does he leave your side even when you might want him to? Never. He is there, at the throw of the television switch, harnessed live to cause and country, relentlessly serving chai. Correction is required, we need to move. Nothing needs to be replaced with Something. NewIndia’s calling. We must be grateful to have been warned again of the renewed perils that are gnawing away at us and that will one day soon be the end of us if we do not take urgent measures. What would have become of us if we hadn’t been alerted that time to the rife and fatal perils of termites? Nobody bothered warning us all this while what an apocalyptic end termites had been plotting. We are teetering on a hollowed out precipice and nobody told us. Such were the reckless botch-ups of the epoch justly called NothingHappened. All through NothingHappened, termites happened, and they were allowed to continue happening. As their nomenclature vaguely suggests, termites terminate. We were being voraciously had. But since we have given unto ourselves TheBossOfAllThings, he’s given unto us reason to feel secure. He’s let out the war cry: Exterminate before they terminate. This is nothing to scoff at. We should feel indebted we are now sagaciously and ferociously helmed. And now, bhaaiyon-behnon, we have Parasites. Let us be warned. Those that live off us while they squeeze the life out of us, Parjivis, that name has a rig of unutterable horror to it: Parjivis. Ever heard of them? They live off. Off threat of the enemy. Off the peril of invasion. Off the sorrow of dead soldiers. Off the fear that we are in danger, all of us. We are in khatra, the sort of ditch we will never crawl out of, that is called khatra. Termites gnaw. Parasites suck. Together they are, well there isn’t even a word for that yet. Parasites and Termites. They are not a hazard to us alone, they are a global jeopardy. And it was down to one man to flag this menace to humanity. Is there more proof required to confirm we are now blessed with a world-class leader? Doubly blessed be his name, TheBossOfAllThings can do better than merely cry TERMITE! I tell you a tale of fabled might Though it only concerned a mite I swished my sword, I cried out of my sight! For I am the greatest parasite!!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
14-02-2021||Opinion||The Anti-Cupid||No matter what countdown you keep to Valentine’s Day — kiss day, hug day, rose day, his day, her day — truth is there is very little love in the air. So little that lately there have been complaints of unloving leading to suffocation. Veteran politician Dinesh Trivedi said as much last week on the floor of the Rajya Sabha as he announced his resignation. And yes, he also said, reportedly, that he had had enough of his erstwhile party’s unloving towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “There is so much of gali galoch,” he lamented. It is not just Trivedi who felt unloved. In the same august house, on a different day, when the PM expressed his disaffection for a new species that has come to be, the andolanjeevi parjeevi, the protesting farmers took it upon themselves. Others who might have felt unloved, un-embraced and spurned recently would be cricketer Wasim Jaffer, the Matuas of Bengal, human rights activist Rona Wilson. For others such as lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj and activist and priest Stan Swamy, unloving has become a way of life. Sons might have felt unloved and nephews too. Cows too, reportedly. Too little loving or too much too late, can be worse than the unloving. Even worse is when you are overlooked for a greater love. Misplaced affection is problematic. Affection without action won’t sustain. And feigned affection is an insult. Congress’s Rahul Gandhi assured the farmers that he was with them, supported them. He hailed them as annadata. Priyanka Gandhi took a dip in the Sangam on Mauni Amavasya day. The PM shed a tear for Congress’s Ghulam Nabi Azad. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee distributed financial aid worth Rs 83 crore to 8,000 clubs across Bengal. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had thrice the amount deposited in bank accounts of tea-garden workers of poll-bound Assam. Happy, happy Valentine's Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
14-02-2021||Opinion||The one man who silenced angry BJP leaders of Bihar||As soon as the hopes of the seasoned leaders of the Bharatiya JanataParty for getting a place in the Bihar cabinet expansion earlier this week were dashed, the member of legislative assembly, Gyanendra Singh Gyanu, raised the banner of revolt. He criticized the leadership for ignoring several aspects, including the sidelining of experienced and well-educated leaders. Several legislators who missed the bus started rallying behind Gyanu. They vented their ire over the party. It seemed that a rebellion was brewing in the saffron party. But suddenly everything fizzled out and nobody could even hear any murmurs. Senior leaders, who understood that this could have been their last chance to become ministers, also fell quiet. The political observers and mediapersons were also astonished over the way the issue dissipated instead of gathering momentum. After much cajoling, a BJP leader revealed the reason. “RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat arrived in Patna on the same day the cabinet was expanded. He is supposed to spend a week in Bihar. Do you think any BJP leader will have the cheek to denounce the party when he [Bhagwat] is present in the state? Who will want to destroy not only his own political career, but also of his next generation’s? Nobody in the party has the guts to sing a different tune in the presence of the topmost leader of the parent organisation,” the leader said. The former pacer for Team India, S Sreesanth, is playing catch-up for the seven years of cricketing he lost after being barred from playing at any level over an Indian Premier League spot-fixing scandal. Having clawed back into the Kerala team, Sreesanth has apparently not given up on his political leanings either. A losing candidate of the BJP in the 2016 state polls, he slammed Congress “hoodlums” for blackening Sachin Tendulkar’s cutout after the ‘master blaster’ insisted that the farmers’ agitation is an ‘internal’ matter, following expressions of solidarity for the protesting farmers from the pop star, Rihanna, and the climate activist, Greta Thunberg. Sreesanth certainly has his eyes fixed on whatever cricket is left in him. But having failed to feature in the IPL auction shortlist, he is not ready to cast aside his political ambitions either. Crestfallen at not being included by his party in the cabinet of the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, a former minister and senior BJP leader started weeping. People and family members gathered around to console him. Speaking amid sobs, the leader said he now understood what his party stalwarts, Lal Krishna Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, must have felt at being sidelined by the new BJP brass. Another former minister said that he has heard that the top party leadership was working on a blueprint to retire all those who entered politics during the students’ agitation and JP movement in 1974. He had a point, because almost nobody with a distinct record of participation in those agitations is now a member of the state cabinet. Rahul Gandhi may have missed an opportunity to send a conciliatory message to the party veterans by appointing Mallikarjun Kharge as the leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. While the dissenters known as the ‘Group of 23’ in the party hoped that Ghulam Nabi Azad would be retained as the leader by being brought to Rajya Sabha from Kerala, where vacancies will occur in April, the dominant view in the party reportedly was that the more combative Digvijaya Singh or P Chidambaram should have been picked over Kharge. While Singh is a veteran from the Hindi heartland where the real battle against the BJP is fought, Chidambaram’s insight into economy, law as well as politics could have given the party’s parliamentary offensive an additional edge. Kharge, who led the party in the Lok Sabha earlier, earned praise by regularly speaking in Hindi but for many that is not enough. This has caused serious disappointment in the party and the G-23 is bound to feel further alienated. One of them bitterly said, “The new advisers of Rahul Gandhi will ruin the party. They have told Rahul that he need not worry about Hindi heartland as there can’t be a bigger leader from this region than he himself. And from South, Kharge is more of a loyalist than Chidambaram who will be difficult to control.” What is worrying is that the relatively neutral leaders and Rajya Sabha members of parliament also resent the leadership’s tendency to play safe rather than adopting aggressive strategies. Now Sonia Gandhi and Rahul will have to do something else to assuage the discontent of the G-23. That is, if Rahul is at all inclined to go for appeasement. The former Assam chief minister, Tarun Gogoi, and his one-time blue-eyed boy, Himanta Biswa Sarma, never missed an opportunity to have a go at each other till the former passed away last year. However, his son, a sitting MP, Gaurav Gogoi, seems keen to revive the rivalry with Sarma, now a leading light of the BJP in the northeast, with the state polls round the corner. Since last month, he has attacked Sarma twice: first, by challenging Sarma to claim in public that he will never leave the BJP like he left the Congress in 2015; second, while reacting to the prime minister’s recent visit to Dhekiajuli, Gaurav stressed how Sarma and the chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, went overboard to please Narendra Modi at a massive public gathering. Both of them seemed to be ‘auditioning’ for the post of the chief minister before Modi, Gaurav said. Sarma has been measured in his reaction, saying Gaurav is still a young boy. However, the ‘young boy’, who is heading the state Congress’s manifesto committee, clearly seems to be a chip off the old block. n A peculiar change comes over some people when they join politics, especially the right wing. Jacob Thomas, a former director-general of police in Kerala, who recently joined the BJP startled even the die-hard among saffronites with his theory to reduce fuel consumption: raising motor fuel prices is the best way to reduce consumption and save the environment. He equated higher prices to higher revenues to build bridges and buy computers for schools. Political rivals say the former cop has landed in the right place to churn out his wisdom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
14-02-2021||Opinion||Caste out: complexities of systematic bias||It is a comment on the times that any positive sign of professional ethics is greeted with relief. An organization based in the United States of America, the Development Data Lab, examined eight crore case records of around 7,000 district and subordinate courts and 80,000 judges between 2010 and 2018 from the Indian government’s eCourt platform. The study detected no bias founded on the judges’ religious or gender identities in the trial courts. For example, women defendants did not get extra consideration from women judges, nor did defendants from the minority community gain any leeway when judges were of the same faith. Gender and religion — the latter particularly in recent years — are two indicators of inequality in Indian society that daily undermine the basis of the non-discriminatory democracy the Constitution delineated. To discover that in-group bias does not work in the lower courts is, therefore, certainly satisfying. Ironically, this empirical study of India’s judicial data exposed other manifestations of these biases. While 48 per cent of Indians are women — they are not quite half the sky partly because gender bias is violent — they comprise only 28 per cent of lower court judges. A similar asymmetry affects Muslim judges: Muslims are 14 per cent of the population, but constitute only 7 per cent of judges in trial courts. In-built bias can be difficult to pin down. The researchers did not use caste or income as variables in the study because they do not have the appropriate algorithms to assess these. But government data for 2019 show that Dalits and Muslims make up the majority of undertrial prisoners in India. Representation now works the other way: scheduled castes are 16.6 per cent of the population, yet they make up 21 per cent of undertrial prisoners. It is the same for tribal people and Muslims. An Indian study from 2016 showed that, of 385 persons on death row at the time, two-thirds were from backward classes or castes or religious minorities, as were all 12 female convicts. These figures are a clue to the complicated nature of systemic biases. Although the Development Data Lab study examined religious and gender biases related to conviction, acquittal and processes such as delay or change of judges, it did not consider the framing of charges, bail practices or severity of punishment. This may partly account for the fact that the religious minority was over-represented among undertrial prisoners in 2019 and on death row in 2016. Besides, caste bias is obviously present at some point in the process, but this cannot be separated fully from financial status and the disadvantages that go with low or uncertain incomes. Education, understanding of rights, social contacts, the ability to pay bail as well as other factors are tied up with caste, tribe and religion. It must also be asked how far local politics plays a part. The US-based study has just touched the tip of a submerged iceberg.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
14-02-2021||Opinion||Jaffer alone||Indian cricket nearly died this week. It was buried in a landslide in the Himalayan foothills. It lies there still, in critical condition, because hundreds of Indian players who could have helped dig it out have determinedly looked the other way. An official of Uttarakhand’s cricket association accused Wasim Jaffer, the provincial team’s coach, of communalism. Jaffer is a Muslim; he was charged with favouring Muslims over Hindus. Given India’s past and present, that is a wicked, career-ending allegation. It has been a storied career. Jaffer is 42 years old. He recently retired from the first-class game, having played as an opening batsman for more than two decades. In that time, he played 31 Tests for India, won eight Ranji Trophy titles for Mumbai, and then moved to Vidarbha and won two more with an unfancied side. He is the most prolific run-scorer in the history of first-class cricket in India. He has scored more runs than any other batsman in the Ranji Trophy, the Duleep Trophy and the Irani Cup. Jaffer’s list of Test teammates reads like a Who’s Who of Indian cricket. He played alongside Sachin Tendulkar, Rahul Dravid, V.V.S. Laxman, Virender Sehwag, Anil Kumble and Sourav Ganguly, who is currently president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India. Two days after he was accused of being communal, only Kumble amongst these storied names had come forward to offer support or solidarity. Kumble didn’t mention the accusation; he simply offered support and praised Jaffer for having done the right thing. (Jaffer had resigned as coach citing interference in matters of selection.) Even this brief message of solidarity echoed in the thickening silence as the other members of Indian cricket’s modern pantheon stayed as mute as a row of waxworks. It was left to Dodda Ganesh, who played for Karnataka and represented India in four Tests, to offer full-throated support. His tweet is worth quoting in full to illustrate what fraternal solidarity reads like: “Dear @WasimJaffer14, you’ve been a great ambassador of the game and represented India with pride. Cannot believe that this could happen to someone like you. You’re a gem of a cricketer and human, brother. Cricket world knows you and your integrity.” There is an innocence about Ganesh’s tweet that makes you want to cry. The ‘cricket world’ clearly doesn’t know Jaffer; it certainly doesn’t give two paise for his integrity, else Tendulkar, Dravid, Laxman, Sehwag and Ganguly might have used up 280 characters to tweet their support for him, as Kumble did. This is what is so baffling, so dismaying about their silence: why couldn’t they do what Kumble did? Just put out a tactful tweet that tells an old comrade that he is not alone, that they are, metaphorically, on his side. Unless they aren’t, of course. Unless the manager who accused Jaffer and the association secretary who backed him up are, in the eyes of these immortals, local avatars of the neta-gods who own Indian cricket and, therefore, not to be crossed. Which makes you wonder: what is the point of being a cricket immortal if you can’t stand up for a teammate publicly accused of bigotry by a petty official? What price your Bharat Ratna if you can’t practise that basic republican virtue, fraternity, within the narrow bounds of your sport? How seriously can we take the well-turned sentences of your Bradman Oration if you can’t spare a dozen words to comfort a beleaguered colleague who you once shared a dressing room with? Why become the president of the BCCI if, on your watch, a cricketer noted for his professionalism and integrity can be defamed by your minions? Jaffer shouldn’t be in the dock, trying to defend himself against defamation. The officials of the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand who defamed him should be suspended for bringing the game into disrepute and asked, in the babu’s menacing jargon — the only language that they understand — to show cause. Contemptible as the behaviour of his national teammates has been, the bigger betrayal of Jaffer and Indian cricket has been the failure of Mumbai cricket to protect its own. For Indian cricket fans who grew up in the 60s and 70s, Mumbai wasn’t just Indian cricket’s regional powerhouse, it was a formidable cricketing culture. Its league cricket nurtured some of India’s greatest players. The Mumbai school of batsmanship, epitomized by Vijay Merchant, Vijay Manjrekar, Dilip Sardesai, Sunil Gavaskar, Dilip Vengsarkar and Sachin Tendulkar, was famous for orthodoxy, stubbornness and the ability to play the long game. The camaraderie engendered by this high-pressure cricket culture was intense and the loyalty of Mumbai’s cricketers toward their own was legendary and, in matters of selection, notorious. Where is that loyalty now? Jaffer is the embodiment of the Mumbai school of batting. He batted for Mumbai for nearly two decades with heroic consistency. Mumbai’s cricketers man the commanding heights of every part of India’s cricketing establishment. Sunil Gavaskar and Sanjay Manjrekar are fixtures in television commentary boxes; Tendulkar is India’s cricketing mascot; Ravi Shastri is the manager of the national team; Rohit Sharma is the vice-captain of India’s ODI side, and Ajinkya Rahane is the vice-captain of India’s Test team. Not one of them has said a word in support of Jaffer. Ajinkya Rahane was asked on the eve of the second Test against England about the Jaffer affair. He refused to comment, saying, “I don’t have an idea regarding this issue...” Rahane was Jaffer’s teammate in Mumbai’s first-class side for years. It’s fair to say that he knows Jaffer. And it’s hard to believe that he doesn’t know that Jaffer’s been accused of communalism. He lives in a bio-secure bubble, not under a rock. Just a week ago, Rahane, Sharma, Kohli, Shastri and Tendulkar, prompted by the powers that be, were tweeting in chorus against foreign commentary on the farmers’ agitation. #IndiaTogether was Rahane’s preferred hashtag. Someone should tell this Mumbai batsman that unity begins at home. This recent sequence of events has been the perfect reveal: on-demand tweeting one moment and deathly silence the next. When Mohammed Siraj was heckled abroad by bigoted Australian spectators, the Indian team’s captain and manager brimmed over with outrage and solidarity. A month later, an awful allegation has been made against Jaffer, who held an impromptu press conference to rebut those charges, item by item. It hasn’t elicited a single word of sympathy or solidarity from his fellows. What is so different now? The answer to that question cannot be that in India, when cricketers who happen to be Muslim are at the receiving end of bigotry, discretion shall be the better part of valour. That would mean that Indian cricket, till recently breathing under that landslide in Uttarakhand, is conclusively dead. We should all hope that over the next few days, Jaffer’s peers, past and present, begin to speak up for him. They could start by reading a Mumbai player who had the decency and the heart to offer a resounding endorsement of Jaffer. Chandrakant Pandit, who had a brief Test career as a wicketkeeper-batsman, wrote: “It is shocking to read that Wasim tried to influence players over religion. I have known Wasim for... very long and worked closely with him during my time at Vidarbha. He was a role model to all the youngsters irrespective of caste or religion. He would only talk about talented players who he thought would benefit the team... He is an out-and-out team man. If any player was deserving, he would talk about him. It didn’t matter what religion he belonged to.” Shishir Hattangadi, who batted for Mumbai for a decade, has, like Pandit, declared his faith in Jaffer. If more cricketers take their cue from Kumble, Ganesh, Manoj Tiwary, Pandit and Hattangadi, we might yet drag Indian cricket, breathing, from under the rubble. If they don’t, we’ll know it’s dead. A team that represents a nation must consist of citizens who play for each other, not clients who service a hectoring State. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-73
