15-02-2021||Opinion||Clear the air: fossil fuel deaths||Pollution is a multi-pronged problem; among its many sources is the use of fossil fuel. This was evident from the startling findings of a recent study by scientists that revealed that air pollution caused by fossil fuel use is responsible for nearly nine million deaths worldwide. India is among the top two worst performers on this count; the loss of lives owing to fossil fuel usage amounts to almost 31 per cent of the nation’s total deaths. The picture is particularly grim when it comes to Bengal: in 2018, the state reported the third highest number of fatalities caused by exposure to emissions from coal, petroleum and other fossil fuels. The problem is aggravated by the dogged unwillingness of global leaders to acknowledge the crisis. Donald Trump fast-tracked dozens of fossil-fuel projects as president. India is still heavily reliant on coal. Not only did the Narendra Modi government seek to boost the domestic coal mining sector with a series of commercial auctions in 2020, but it has also delayed the implementation of pollution regulations for coal plants. The Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana — the government’s flagship scheme under which free liquefied petroleum gas connections are given to poor families — was touted to have almost 98 per cent coverage in India. Yet, the latest National Family Health Survey found that the usage of LPG cylinders remains low: this could mean that dependence on coal and wood fire for domestic consumption is yet to wane. Countering the problem within India would involve effecting a massive shift among coal-based industries as well as expediting the transition to energy-efficient, non-polluting household cooking systems. These internal interventions must be complemented at the global level by developed nations leading the charge to replace polluting sources of power with greener alternatives and extending meaningful assistance to developing economies to make a similar switch by transferring funds and technology. Hopefully, the US — it has rejoined the Paris pact — and China along with India would use climate talks to further this agenda. The threat posed by fossil fuel use can only be neutralized by collective, participatory action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
15-02-2021||Opinion||Great minds: Gandhi and Tagore||Sir — The article, “Dream collaborators” (Feb 8), by A. Raghuramaraju makes for enlightening reading. Perhaps the only Indian leader who understood M.K. Gandhi’s doctrines and philosophy fully was Rabindranath Tagore; between 1915 and 1941, Tagore and Gandhi exchanged a series of letters which were compiled in a book titled The Mahatma and the Poet: Letters and Debates Between Gandhi and Tagore 1915-1941. These epistolary exchanges serve as frank and intimate portraits of two contemporaries who were friends as well as intellectual rivals, but who seldom differed on the matters regarding India’s freedom from the clutches of the British. Ironically, it was an Englishman, Charles Freer Andrews, who was the link between the two men and arranged their first-ever meeting at Santiniketan in March 1915. But there already existed a great sense of respect and admiration between the two. Youngsters must explore and discuss the differences and similarities between Tagore and Gandhi and revisit their ideas and actions that shaped modern India and inspired people around the world. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Breeding distrust Sir — The Union home ministry’s call to citizens to become ‘cyber volunteers’ and identify, flag and report illegal, unlawful and ‘anti-national’ online content is perhaps the most brazen and dangerous sign yet of an attempt to turn our democratic and free society into a surveillance State. Vigilantism against the minorities and those who oppose the government in power at the Centre is already on the rise. The State has ignored, even patronized, this. But such an overt call to vigilantism was unexpected. This will have dangerous consequences for citizens’ rights and freedom. The Gestapo had civil informants and the Stalinist State, too, had a network of informers. Trust among citizens will be broken and we will live in fear of each other. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Risky behaviour Sir — Denmark’s top court is hearing an appeal to decide if coughing at someone while shouting “corona” constitutes threatening behaviour. In India, where civic sense is rarer than common sense, coughing and sneezing at people is par for the course. The pandemic has done nothing to change that. Instead, people can be seen removing their mask, sneezing and then putting the mask back on. Beat that. Roshni Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
15-02-2021||Opinion||Open secrets: shocking data forensics report in Bhima Koregaon case||When a character in a play says that something is rotten in the state of Denmark, he is expressing, unknowingly, the discomfort of people in many states at different times. One source of discomfort is suspicion, a nagging sense of enveloping falsity. The discomfort sharpens when these suspicions appear to have been well-founded. For example, in 2018, suspicions that lynching in the name of cow protection had the silent support of the Centre would have been confirmed by the spectacle of a Union minister of state garlanding eight men convicted of this crime. In such situations, even one revelation can have strong confirmatory force. Another example would be the release of purported exchanges between the director of a stridently pro-government television channel and the former head of the Broadcast Audience Research Council. If found to be authentic, this series of WhatsApp messages would confirm suspicions not only of falsified TRP ratings but also of the channel chief’s amazing access to classified information and obvious inwardness with those in power. Perhaps fewer people will be surprised that an overseas digital forensics company has found that malware was deliberately introduced into the computer of Rona Wilson, a rights activist arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon violence. Mr Wilson was among those accused of having made speeches inciting hatred at the Elgaar Parishad meet the day before the occurrence. The malware reportedly planted a ‘hidden’ file with documents that the police later retrieved to show that Mr Wilson and other activists were connected with a banned Maoist organization and were conspiring to assassinate the prime minister. These men and women, some seriously ill, remain in jail and more are being added to their number. Those who had felt that they were being detained for contrived reasons may not be too surprised at the revelation itself, but the scale, technical expertise and careful planning behind the purported planting of evidence are mind-boggling. Mr Wilson was reportedly induced to open a file by making it appear to have come from an activist colleague, Varavara Rao, also arrested. The filename referred to a place in Andhra Pradesh where the police had killed two alleged Maoists who local people insisted were innocent villagers. If the charge of false evidence is established, all its layers should be analysed. Funnily enough, some of the documents from the ‘hidden’ file that form the police’s evidence are in versions of programmes allegedly unsupported by Mr Wilson’s computer. Funnier still, the malware supposedly started operating months before the Bhima-Koregaon violence. The National Investigation Agency has rejected these findings, calling it a “distortion of facts”. The distortion is undeniable; the courts will decide which facts have been distorted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
15-02-2021||Opinion||A love so pure||No pair can be hotter than Amitabh and Rekha on the big screen. “Main aur meri tanhai...” says Amitabh, and Rekha appears. He woke up and found her true. I always wonder, though, why she should be called tanhai — she looks nothing like that — but before anything else happens they set the screen on fire. On Valentine’s Day, such songs are particularly poignant in a life so starved of love as mine. So I was listening to the song on loop, and feeling bad, but also good because I was capable of generating so much self-pity and abjection, and a certain tragic air about myself, when the penny dropped and hit me hard on my head. I have someone in my life. I have had that someone for many years now. I just did not see. I am talking about my Amazon account. Me and my Amazon, main aur meri tanhai. You, my Amazon, have always been there for me, more than anyone, anything that I can think of, in the last five years or so, or for even longer maybe. You have given me everything that I could ever want. Whenever I wanted. So many times have I just looked at you, in silence. You have known its meaning. You have known what I have had in mind. You have never questioned my choices. On the contrary, you have gently nudged me towards more. You have heard my sighs. I have sung songs and you did not object. I have felt inadequate. But you didn’t let me feel that for long. You have dazzled me with even more. You made me want you more and more. Sometimes I have not been able to take my eyes off you for hours — or my hands. You are desire itself. You always give enough, I feel, only to show me that you have more. At any time, any hour, you are always there. I have woken up in the middle of the night to find you waiting, and I have gone right back into you, exploring, exploring... Main aur meri tanhai, you have competition. Stop sizzling. I have the real tanhai. I always know that I am on your mind. All through the day, you keep sending me messages, tempting me, provoking me. I cannot but respond. You have always been sensitive. You have never made me feel old. With your support, I have been able to pick up whatever I felt I would look good in, and no eyebrows raised whatsoever. You have never made me feel fat. You have always organized different sizes. If something I liked was not available in a larger size, you have quickly shown me something else that was. You have never let anyone know anything. What is a little affair without its bit of secrecy, pleasure and guilt? With your help, I have acquired little stashes of things that are hidden away. I even have an Issey Miyake bottle lying on top of the heap. You were wonderful especially during the lockdown. When the world receded, when I was alone and crouching in a corner, when I was tired of washing dishes, when the
mop handle snapped into two, and when the virus was raging outside, you, Amazon, I turned to you. I just ordered stuff from you, things I absolutely did not need, from a one kilogramme jar of crunchy peanut butter to mountains of Himalayan pink salt — and a set of three floor mops with handles. True, you charge me for everything. But then everything comes with a price, relationships included. In fact, other relationships come with a hidden cost, but you are so absolutely upfront about payment and accept credit cards. Thank you. When old age shall this generation waste, thou shalt remain, in midst of other woe than ours, a friend to man, to whom thou say’st, “Buying is truth, truth buying, — that is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.” Buying cures everything. And you have taught me that. Heart emoji heart emoji heart emoji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
15-02-2021||Opinion||When the real met reel: no Padma awards for film personalities ||Perhaps for the first time in decades, not a single film personality was honoured with the Padma awards this year. The one name — as consolation? — on the list was that of the Late S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. But he was recognized posthumously for his contributions in the field of art. There is also the perception that the Padma awards are generally bestowed upon those who are close to the seat of power. The anomalies in the dispensation of such awards have led to whispers of political leanings being a determinant of national honour. Lata Mangeshkar has been rightly honoured with the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award. But Mohammed Rafi has been ignored. The dearth of regional artists in the award list is also discernible. M.G. Ramachandran has been a recipient of the Bharat Ratna, but it can be argued that the honour was linked to the political compulsions of the Congress. Interestingly, the omission of film artists from the Padma awards this year has been made all the more conspicuous by the fact that the present regime has used all its might to exploit the reach and charm of a select group in the film fraternity in a bid to promote its ideology. A particular film hero was selected to interview the prime minister even though similar requests from leading print and electronic media journalists have gone unheard for years. What makes the absence of a film personality from the honours list equally intriguing is the fact that ever since the National Democratic Alliance assumed power, the film industry has been divided into different groups. Gone are the days when the film fraternity kept itself at an arm’s length from the ideology of the political party in power. The only exception to this rule had been the film industry based in South India where artists like M.G. Ramachandran and N.T. Rama Rao went on to become chief ministers of their respective states. But that had much to do with the positions both these stalwarts took on linguistic and territorial disputes plaguing the regions at the time. The glamour of their personalities and their larger-than-life image of a benefactor of the deprived people influenced the political choices of the voters. Two contemporary stalwarts, Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth, have shown an interest to take a plunge into state politics. The untimely illness of the latter has forced him to issue a public statement denying any such action immediately. In the heartland, the Hindi belt or in the North and the West, the relationship of film celebrities with those in power was characterized by mutual dependency and patronage. The reach and respect of cinema has varied dimensions. Its range is inversely or adversely proportionate to the stature of artists, producers, directors or other associates. This stature is also largely determined by the success of these film personalities at the box office. Every party in power has sought to take advantage of this. This nexus had remained largely amorphous. It has become quite clear since 2014. In fact the film industry has been at the receiving end of this association. Several government-run units — the Films Division, Directorate of Film Festivals, National Film Archives of India and the autonomous Children’s Film Society — were merged with the National Film Development Corporation by the Union cabinet last year. These outfits did not form a very big part of the film industry. But in spite of being State-owned agencies, their contribution to the cause of promoting cinema and nurturing fresh talent in their respective domains cannot be denied. It would be interesting to see how the freshly-minted, State-owned film organization functions. The intended vision of the new entity is to ensure balanced and focused development of Indian cinema across genres — feature films, content for OTT platforms, animation, short films, documentaries and content for children. There was a need to discuss the merger. But, just like the contentious agrarian laws, such deliberations have been avoided. This reflects the mindset of those in power. The psyche of the ruling dispensation was also on display at the distasteful incident that took place at a public function — the prime minister was in attendance — to commemorate Subhas Chandra Bose on his 124th birth anniversary where Bengal’s chief minister was heckled. But the way in which a group of artists and film industry representatives got together to protest against the misdemeanour in spite of their political and ideological differences offers a ray of hope that the film fraternity would be able to keep its artistic expressions intact and apolitical. The question is this: are India’s other film industries ready to take a leaf out of the book of their brethren in Bengal?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
15-02-2021||Opinion||Delicate dilemmas||Soon after taking office as the first-ever special presidential envoy for climate of the United States of America, John Kerry compared the scale of the climate crisis to that of the nuclear arms race during the Cold War. As of 1985, the two superpowers had 100,000 nuclear weapons and the two premiers, Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev, started the process of disarmament. Today, each country has only 1,500 warheads. Kerry went on to tell CNN that the US had to reach out to China. The future of humanity and of the planet was at stake. Other countries mattered too, but there was little doubt that along with the US, China mattered the most. Part of this calculus stems from a deeper appreciation of where China stands today vis-à-vis the global environment as much as from the political and economic order. China is grappling with the ecological costs of breakaway growth and the rapid industrialization of a mostly agrarian society. Its post-reform-era economic growth since 1978 has made it the second-largest economy on earth. But it also leads as the single largest emitter of greenhouse gases, such as CO2 and methane, and key pollutants like sulphur dioxide. Its direct impact with timber or oil imports is also considerable. Where China differs from the US is significant. From around 1978, when Deng Xiaoping became a key influence, successive leaders have grappled with the dilemma of environmental protection in the context of rapid economic expansion. From a beginning with the ‘one child policy’, afforestation and the creation of nature reserves, this set of initiatives expanded significantly after the Yangtze floods of 1998. Jim Harkness quotes the phrase by Premier Zhu Rongji: “Now we must coax the forest tiger down from the mountains.” Controls on logging in the catchment area of the Yangtze basin were seen as vital after the devastating floods that claimed over 4,000 lives. The wider penumbra of regulation as well as incentives to afforest the Loess Plateau gained greatly from a modest but important opening up of spaces not only for expertise but also for voluntary organizations. In more recent times, the ban on use of imported shark fins in state banquets, the crackdown in 2017 on ivory smuggling and the support to stop cross-border commerce in tiger parts have all gained from press campaigns, superstar endorsements and a growing middle class. Nature as heritage also fits well with the communist party’s claim as the custodian of the country’s future. But China’s course also has major contrasts with that of the US. In his two terms as president, Ronald Reagan did more than champion free markets vis-à-vis  labour and capital. He began the rollback of environmental regulations that were put in place in the early 1970s. This trend reached its apogee during the four years of the Donald Trump presidency. Even under the Democratic administrations of Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, the Republican-controlled Congress has been hawk-like in allocating funds for protection, repair and renewal of the environment. China, by contrast, made the idea of an ‘Ecological Civilization’ a major part of its party programme in 2007. Eleven years later, under President Xi Jinping, this concept was enshrined in the Constitution. Has China gone green? Certainly. In taking on new and ambitious targets in carbon emission reduction and trying out a range of approaches — from larger State nature reserves to Payments for Ecosystem Services to farmers — China has embarked on vast and ambitious initiatives in its cities, villages, forests and coasts. In a deeply perceptive new book titled China Goes Green, Yifei Li and Judith Shapiro tackle an intriguing question head on. China’s political system is no monolith, but it has demonstrated, time and again, that it can not only do U-turns on policy but also actually achieve results. At a time when democracies such as the US, Japan, India, Brazil, Mexico and those in Europe struggle to balance the drive for growth with the need to protect resources for the future, the Chinese leadership seems to have more room for manoeuvre. The catch is that much of the greening of China is coercive. A new nature reserve on the cards since 2017 is 1,15,000 square kilometres in size. It will involve the displacement of no less than 65,000 people. There is little doubt that once approved such plans will be carried through. Coercion for conservation is not unique to China: America’s famous Yellowstone National Park came into being by excluding American Indians and poor whites. That was in another century and it would be more controversial today. And rightly so. Yifei Li and Shapiro acknowledge the gains for China and the world at large. But rather than the State going green, they contend that the environmental issues are now a way to bolster the State’s legitimacy. The top-down system of Mao Zedong’s time has changed but only in degree. Half-truths abound. Greenpeace estimates that China has added 12.6 gigawatts of power via wind and solar sources since 2014. But this world leader in renewables has also added five times as much in coal-based power plants. The tightening of political controls in the Xi Jinping era makes public criticism more difficult. China is also treading down a path familiar to early industrializers. In the 1970s, Japan imported timber from Indonesia while saving its own forest cover. China follows suit, exporting environmental destruction to poorer countries. The larger question is of how far a political system can meet the challenge of justice beyond immediate human concerns such as wages, profits and jobs. The US, Europe and Japan tried to strike a balance with respect to their own citizens. Citizen action, an open press, the courts and the rights of protest and advocacy have often helped as correctives to government and large economic interests. Such impacts expanded as these societies came to rely less on land to generate wealth and more people lived in town than village. China is a study in contrast. Its urban centres now house the majority of its citizens. It has the world’s largest middle class. But its political system has more in common with the former Soviet Union. Its environmental challenges are in part like those of the US and in part like those of India. In its global ecological footprint, both direct and indirect, it rivals the former. But on issues like urban air pollution, loss of grassland and forest and the flood-drought cycle, it is more like India (with a far more repressive and effective State). The issue goes beyond the old debate of democracy versus authoritarian systems. In that discussion, the issue was posed as one of free will versus regimentation. But we all know the levels of race, gender and income inequity in both systems, with the difference being they could be openly debated in the former. But the question of nature is more complex. Climate change or species and ecosystem extinction will affect the earth for generations to come. Kerry did name India, Mexico and Europe as vital partners, stressing that all of them had to work together. But China matters most. Beijing may not have the answers but will be a key part of the question. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
