16-02-2021||Opinion||The hunt: climate change activist Disha Ravi arrested||India takes pride in its demographic dividend. It assures itself that the burgeoning population of young, skilled men and women would be the engine of growth and development in the future. But what does India make of its cerebral — critical — politically engaged, opinionated youngsters? The question has acquired renewed urgency with the arrest of the 22-year-old climate activist, Disha Ravi, who has been charged with sedition by the Delhi police for being one of the key ‘conspirators’ behind a social media toolkit on the farmers’ protest. Questions have been raised concerning the police’s failure to follow the due process of law in the course of Ms Ravi’s arrest. The court, hopefully, would look into the veracity of the charges that have led to her incarceration — described as ‘extra-judicial abduction’ by writers, academics and activists. But the crux of the matter lies in this democracy’s changing relationship with the constituency of politically engaged dissenters, many of whom happen to be young activists and students. That their engagement has a steep price is evident from the growing list of incarcerated youth. Ms Ravi’s arrest was preceded by the arrest of a young Muslim man, a comedian, for a joke he, it is alleged, did not crack; several students and scholars from Jawaharlal Nehru University and Jamia Millia Islamia, accused of being involved in the riots in Delhi or for participating in the protests against the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, await trial and, in many instances, legal relief that is mandated by the law. It is possible to trace a worrying pattern in these developments. Global history shows that conscientious youth have often led protests against a myriad causes and suffered the consequences of their participatory action at the hands of repressive regimes. It is a matter of deep concern when a robust democracy refuses to engage with the concerns expressed by the youth and punishes them, instead, for their courage to question. This kind of intimidation is a testament to the paranoia among the powers that be, a distrust that is having damaging consequences for Indian democracy. It is unlikely to put an end to searching questions. India would do justice to its pride in its youth in a meaningful manner only when ruling regimes perceive young citizens to be harbingers of economic growth as well as custodians of social justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
16-02-2021||Opinion||Wrong move: Congress's Sabarimala law||Sir — The draft law prepared by the Congress in Kerala on Sabarimala reeks of electoral populism (“Holy touch”, Feb 11). With the state likely to go to assembly polls in April, the Congress clearly wants to win over the vote of the majority community. The party state unit has promised to give legal sanctity to the custom that women of reproductive age from entering the Sabarimala shrine. It is inappropriate to make such promises when a seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court is reviewing its own judgment on the matter. The Congress supported the mobilizations against the 2018 verdict allowing women entry into the shrine. Its phenomenal success in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was attributed to a Hindu consolidation on account of the party’s stance on Sabarimala. But the political scenario in the state has changed since then. Results of the recent local body polls indicate that the Left Democratic Front has recovered lost ground. It seems that the Congress thinks that it can leverage the controversy surrounding the Ayyappa temple to revive its fortunes. In 1985-86, when the Congress, siding with conservatives, challenged the Supreme Court’s verdict on the Shah Bano case, the party dented its liberal credentials beyond repair. This decision, too, is unlikely to bode well for the Grand Old Party. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is extremely unfortunate that the Congress is going out of its way to rally behind the Hindu right. Witnessing Rahul Gandhi remark favourably on the occasion of the bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple held in Ayodhya was distressing. Similarly, the promise by the Congress in Kerala to enact a law preventing women of reproductive age from entering the Sabarimala temple is unfortunate. A nation cannot progress if it caters to religious majoritarianism. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta New beginning Sir — It was good to see world leaders send Lunar New Year greetings to people around the world. Many see this as a gesture to promote unity and friendship. This comes at a time when unprovoked attacks on Asians, especially in the United States of America, have increased manifold. The pandemic has given way to a new wave of racism; as such, the gesture could go a long way in assuaging their fears. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
16-02-2021||Opinion||Caste off: no reservation for converted dalits||Correctness can sometimes seem indefinably askew. The Union minister for law, Ravi Shankar Prasad, did not deviate from Para 3 of the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950 when he said in the Rajya Sabha that Dalits who have converted to Islam or Christianity cannot get reservation benefits for scheduled castes or contest in elections for a reserved SC seat. Mr Prasad mentioned that conversion to Buddhism and Sikhism would not have the same effect, as the order exempts these faiths. Perhaps an atmosphere haunted by fears of discrimination made the law minister’s statement sound pointedly exclusionary. The emphasis on the Constitution Order almost seemed to suggest that discrimination need not be unconstitutional. This discomfort, however, is not entirely unreasonable. While caste does not exist in Islam or Christianity — so too in Sikhism and Buddhism — Indian realities demand a different perception. Castes are markers of traditional professions. The continuation of these, scavenging say, or the work of barbers and butchers, is common among groups that find social mobility elusive, having been historically oppressed. Conversion does not mean a change of job. So reservations for other backward classes in many states — Kerala and Karnataka for example — include members from religious groups barred by the 1950 order. The Sachar Committee Report showed that of three strata in Muslim society, the most oppressed stratum, associated with the so-called ‘unclean’ professions, needs the kind of attention given to the SCs. But its members are grouped with the better-off second stratum, equivalent to OBCs and, in some cases, do get OBC benefits, or are included in the most backward classes category. The crux of Mr Prasad’s statement is the term, ‘Dalit’. This was a self-identifying term for anyone outside the four main castes used in caste-based politics. While B.R. Ambedkar applied it to all depressed groups irrespective of caste, the Indian government identified it with SCs while prohibiting its use in official documentation. That the law minister should use it officially is confusing. But the greatest confusion around reservations is caused by the use political parties continue to make of the principle purely for electoral gain. Quotas for underprivileged classes and castes should be guided by need and record of progress; they are not meant as a political strategy designed to keep people dependent on the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
16-02-2021||Opinion||The Himalayas: not in the pink of health||Health of the hills, as ancient tribal wisdom goes, is the wealth of the plains. The Himalayas are not in the pink of health, as several studies have warned. Unbridled human activity is wrecking the ecology of the Western Ghats and destroying the Satpudas. The result: massive human tragedies in the plains, in the form of flash floods and drought. Last week, devastating flash floods, apparently caused by a glacial lake burst, killed over 30 people and trapped 200 workers in the underground tunnels of a hydel power project of NTPC Limited in Chamoli, Uttarakhand. The event brought back memories of a devastating cloud burst some years ago. The death toll is likely to go up as rescuers evacuate bodies from the tunnels-turned-graves, the rescue operations hampered by heavy boulders and muck. Climate change can be blamed, but the truth is that disaster after man-made disaster is waiting to happen in the plains of the Himalayas, the Western Ghats, and along the Satpudas as human beings mess with their ecosystems. Rivers are either flooding or running dry as mindless development projects, in wilful ignorance of warnings, destroy the sources. In 2013, seven rivers originating from the Western Ghats went dry at their source owing to the human interference on the hills. This plunged the plains into enormous socio-economic strife. In June 2019, the Drought Early Warnings Systems told us that more than 44 per cent of the country was undergoing varying degrees of drought, from abnormally dry to exceptionally dry. Because of the general elections that summer, the drought was ignored. According to scientists, there are about 10,000 glaciers in the Indian Himalayas, with 1,500 in Uttarakhand alone. Many of them are receding owing to the warming climate. People know about it. Ought there to be any project construction there? There should not, but humans crowd the Himalayas with mindless development, threatening opulations that live in those areas. “[The] Rishi Ganga has had a history of similar devastations,” says the historian and environmentalist, Shekhar Pathak. “There is a possibility of more such events this year.” Should we be putting power plants in the regions that we know are drought-prone? We should not. Yet, nearly 40 per cent of the country’s power plants are in highly water stressed areas, along the plains, witnessing heightened water contestation. The tragedy is not just the calamity itself. The tragedy is that we do not care. Instead of healing the hills, we do the opposite. Take this: the Niti Aayog has commissioned a study to examine the “unintended” economic impact of judgments by the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal. This is bizarre. The study should have ideally be on the long-term costs of the environmental devastation caused by development projects. It is no secret that the Narendra Modi regime disregards any serious efforts put towards conservation. Its idea of environmentalism seems to involve building zoos rather than conserving forests. Building projects is a priority, even if they destroy forests, oceans, river or mountain ecosystems beyond repair. I remember the wise counsel of the American ecologist and pre-eminent climate scientist, George Woodwell, given during a talk at the Prairie Festival of Land Institute at Salina, Kansas, the United States of America, in September 2009. A functional civilization, he said, needs three things: a functional government, a functional economy and a functional ecosystem. Political trade-offs are possible for the first two; the third is non-negotiable. There cannot be any trade-off with nature; follow the rule, or perish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
16-02-2021||Opinion||Lights, camera, action: Satyajit Ray centenary celebrations||The lukewarm preparedness for the centenary celebrations of Satyajit Ray’s birth on May 2, 2021 — ascribed largely to the pandemic — raises many questions. Sporadic efforts notwithstanding, the occasion is not on the public radar owing to a variety of factors. But should not a nation remember and pay homage to one of its most illustrious sons? The centenary is an appropriate occasion to watch his films, read his books, and ensure that his artistic creations reach far and wide. Since Ray, like Tagore before him, is known mostly for a singular achievement — as the director of The Apu Trilogy and an Oscar-winner — an attempt should be made to disseminate his body of work among the large swathe of the unreached. On January 14, in response to my letter to the secretary-general of the United Nations, Melissa Fleming, the under-secretary-general, responded positively about Ray: “We value greatly the passion and commitment that artists bring in support of causes that are high on the United Nations agenda. The organisation counts on the creative community, including individuals such as Mr. Ray, to raise awareness of, and inspire action on, the common objectives that Member States have agreed on.” It suggests that the UN resident coordinator and the UN information centre in New Delhi be engaged in this regard. One wishes that demonstrable interest were exhibited by both the Central and the state governments, by individuals and institutions. In an article for The Week and later in an essay for Science and Culture, I made certain suggestions that seem to have been followed up by the appropriate administrative and political levels of the Centre and the state government in West Bengal. There must be similar and more innovative ideas crying out for consideration. None of these is likely to entail major expenditure, but would surely send out the message that art and culture matter. At the international level, the United Nations, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the British Film Institute, the Cinémathèque Française, The Criterion Collection and other bodies could take the lead. Reputed journals like Sight & Sound, Film Quarterly and Cahiers du Cinéma could popularize Ray’s oeuvre. About six decades ago, Time magazine, in its lead article, “Cinema: A Religion of Film”, asked, “Will Ray redeem his prodigious promise and become the Shakespeare of the screen?” Should not such magazines revisit Ray on this occasion? At the national level, there are several options that can be considered: issuing postage stamps, setting up Ray Film Centres in collaboration with states (like Rabindra Bhavans during the Tagore centenary), declaring May 2 as Film-makers’ Day, May 2-8 as National Film Week, organizing international seminars, sub-titling his films in regional languages, asking the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, Sangeet Natak Akademi, Lalit Kala Akademi, Sahitya Akademi, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, the National Film Archive of India, the Film and Television Institute of India and such bodies to disseminate different facets of Ray’s genius — in cinema, literature, music and other forms of art. The external affairs, culture and education, and information and broadcasting ministries should chart out clear courses of action. It is also hoped that neighbouring countries, especially Bangladesh, would take adequate measures in this respect. Most of the action should, however, take place in West Bengal. Completing the unfinished work of the Ray encyclopaedia, expediting the Ray archive (maybe with support from the United Nations), acquiring and converting the house of the Rays at Garpar Road where the maestro was born into a memorial, publication of Ray’s film scripts and of all his writings for the public in multi-volume sets with state subsidy, reviving film societies, creating or earmarking a small auditorium at Nandan or elsewhere exclusively devoted to the screening of his films are amongst the many ideas, raised from time to time, that can be pursued. Ray was more than a celebrated director; he was a complete artist in the best of Renaissance tradition. His literary works are as original as they are luminous. Since the National Education Policy, 2020 lays stress on the translation of works into regional languages, it may be worthwhile to get select literary works of Ray transcreated into major Indian languages. The National Book Trust or the Sahitya Akademi may be encouraged to take up this project. But government action should be complemented by efforts from individuals, NGOs and corporates. Only then would the celebration be truly meaningful, participative and inclusive in nature. It is heartening that some enthusiasts and societies have started bringing out books and magazines, organizing film shows and discussions, but such well-intended efforts are yet to coalesce into a wholesome celebration. Unfortunately, sustained action rarely stems from bureaucratic enthusiasm. That initiative has to come from enlightened political leadership at the highest levels. There are no signs yet that it is happening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
16-02-2021||Opinion||Sinking boats||Fiscal and monetary policies announced this month are devoted to recovering growth and putting it on a sustainable footing. In this year’s budget presented on February 1, the government unveiled its post-Covid macroeconomic strategy. It chose capital investment to anchor medium-term growth, avoiding relief measures or a safety net cover for millions rendered jobless by the pandemic. While the logic of the former’s larger multiplier effects upon private investment, employment and incomes is indisputable, the risk is that the economically vulnerable sections could suffer permanent setbacks from prolonged economic duress. An alternative spending mix, splitting a portion of capital expenditure for front-loaded deployment towards temporary consumption enhancement, would have hit harder at the downturn and helped avert such a possibility. There is a large macroeconomic gap to cover in the wake of Covid-19. National output is estimated at having shrunk as much as -7.7 per cent in 2020-21 by the Central Statistics Office. In 2021-22, the government projects real gross domestic product to rebound 10 per cent from this depth; adding the rate of inflation, growth will be 14.4 per cent. This looks very robust but is actually technical because of the deep plunge. It therefore reveals little about the strength of the recovery. For better understanding, most compare this to the pre-Covid output, setting the 2019-20 level to 100; in 2020-21, the fall is to 92.3, from where it will lift to 102.3 next year. So the economy will have grown 2.3 per cent over two years. For the individual Indian earner, this means a reduction in annual real income to Rs 99,193 in FY21 from Rs 1,08,645 in 2019-20, a monthly loss of Rs 788 in the Covid-19 year. Next year too, her annual earnings will not be fully restored, remaining to be recouped in 2022-23. Relative to this recovery, the scale of economic loss is staggering. The per capita income representation above is not equally distributed across the population. The non-linear impact of Covid-19 has hit some segments much harder, such as hospitality, travel and retail, amongst others. This has been unfolding in the form of an uneven or what is called a K-shaped recovery: the winners gain big as observed from the unspent incomes and profits, while the bottom-earners and weaker firms fall even lower. The associated employment losses have been huge, with continued losses of jobs and incomes as businesses either shut shop or cling on in leaner form and regain strength through savage cost-cutting. The precedents were none too strong either. For a full grasp of the stress in the labour market, the pre-Covid overhang of the growth slowdown needs reckoning as well. The rapid descent of growth to 4 per cent a year ago — half of that recorded in 2016-17 and an alarming 2.5 percentage point fall in just one year — had earlier taken a toll upon consumption and employment. For example, the 2017-18 consumption expenditure survey, officially unaccepted but some findings of which were reported, had shown national unemployment at its highest, 6.1 per cent, in four decades, with a 3.7 per cent fall in monthly per capita consumption (mainly food) over the levels in 2011-12. There is insufficient timely alleviation in the budget to help tide over at least the duration of the economic reopening that can be expected to restore some of the temporary job and income losses. While the budgeted capital investments and other measures to incentivize domestic production and exports will take time to affect aggregate demand, a period of prolonged economic pressure could mean that second-round income effects take hold, resulting in a permanent slipping back of the vulnerable segments. It is difficult for some deeply wounded parts of the workforce to bounce back independently without policy support. It is likelier that enduring shocks to consumption and incomes will tip the peripheral earners and those at the margin into poverty besides the ones who may already have done so before. Late last year, the World Bank estimated that Covid-19 probably increased the number of extreme poor by 88 million, reversing the steady decline in global poverty since the nineties that lowered the number from 1.9 billion to 689 million. India contributed majorly to this decline — before the revision of the international poverty line in 2015 (from $1.25 to $1.90 per day), the number of extreme poor in India fell by 8.1 per cent, from 300 million to 99 million by 2010, in five years’ time. Using the intuition that growth is the most robust driver of poverty, Homi Kharas of Brookings, a think-tank based in the United States of America, combined poverty data with the International Monetary Fund’s growth forecast in October 2020 (then -11 per cent for India) to measure the pandemic’s impact; these estimated that about 120 million people worldwide would be extreme poor in 2020 relative to 2019, with the biggest impact likely upon India. Now, the expected contraction is less, -7.7 per cent, but the risk of reversion or slippage into poverty remains substantial unless countered by quick and strong growth. This illustrates the scale of the post-Covid challenge. The government’s main plank to grow out of the pandemic is a multi-year spending push to infrastructure. The shift to capital investment over other forms of spending is because the former is job-rich; indeed, construction work engages a higher number of unskilled and semi-skilled labourers over other forms of labour. However, infrastructure expenditures take long to kick off, a couple of quarters at least, with lagged impact upon aggregate demand. In the meantime, a slower period of demand growth minus temporary relief could accentuate or convert what might be temporary income-employment effects into lasting ones, and an increased prevalence of poverty. If consumer demand remains subdued, falls back after an initial spurt from pent-up pressures, firms or sellers may find it difficult to sustain profits or strength, slowing down investments and overall recovery. Many point to complementary structural innovations, such as labour and agriculture markets, privatization, bad bank, and so on, that further augment medium-term growth prospects. These too are in the distance. The growth trajectory visualized ahead is not unduly strong. From the 10 per cent peak in 2021-22, the economy is expected to grow in the 5-6 per cent region until 2025-26, according to the post-budget explanations by senior government officials. This appears insufficient or not a tide that is robust enough to lift all boats. Under the circumstances, even with the resource constraints that the government is operating with, an upfront provision of short-term income support from a part of budgeted capital expenditure to uphold aggregate demand with infrastructure expenditures taking up the baton thereafter may have been a superior strategy. A more forceful punch would minimize the risk of a feeble, prolonged recovery and of the transitory losses turning into permanent ones. Just as strong, robust growth lifts all boats, a slower recovery does the converse. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-72
