17-02-2021||Opinion||Unfair treatment: Wasim Jaffer||Sir — The article by Mukul Kesavan on the insult and injustice meted out to Wasim Jaffer makes all Indian cricket lovers bow their heads in shame (“Jaffer alone”, Feb 14). Jaffer exemplified the solidity of the Mumbai batting order for nearly two decades and provided great service to Indian cricket. The celebrities of the Mumbai and the Indian cricket teams who shared dressing rooms and playing fields with him should not forget his contributions. It is shocking that the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand has brought charges of communalism against Jaffer, compelling him to resign from the post of coach of the Uttarakhand cricket team. But it is more shocking, even unforgivable, that apart from a few cricketers, no one uttered a word of condemnation in support of Jaffer. The silence of the most famous names in Indian cricket — such as Sourav Ganguly, the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India — is disconcerting. They should have come out with an appropriate statement against the charges. Susanta Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — It is not Wasim Jaffer alone who has been made a scapegoat for having spoken the truth — many others have suffered the same fate. But Jaffer, who had alleged that undeserving players were being pushed by some selectors, is surely a victim of the same politics. The charges against him seem to have been made only to scrap him from the cricketing arena. It is also not a surprise that fellow cricketers of his time, except for a handful, have not spoken a word in favour or against him — they have preferred to stay mute spectators rather becoming involved in his problem. In his article, Mukul Kesavan has referred to such former players as a row of waxworks. But there is a reason for this: the fear of losing the position conferred on them if they dare to speak out. Many of them, especially those who have known Jaffer as a human being, may even support him personally. There is no doubt in Jaffer’s abilities as a cricketer. Whenever he represented his side with the willow in his hand, his performance spoke for him. He has shown great prowess as coach: his experience helped him successfully mentor the players training under him. It is very much possible that the complaints against him have been lodged by trainees biased against him. Perhaps it was better that he stepped down rather giving in to the high-handed attitude of others. Alok Ganguly,Nadia Sir — It was shocking to learn that Wasim Jaffer, the former Indian Test cricketer and the highest run-scorer in the Ranji Trophy, resigned as the coach of the Uttarakhand team, alleging that some officials were pushing for undeserving players. He received support from cricketers like Anil Kumble and Irfan Pathan; some of his former teammates have also vouched for his professionalism and integrity. A fallout between a coach and a cricket association is not new, nor are differences arising on the selection of players, how a team should function or the autonomy enjoyed by a coach. But cricket in India has been an exemplar of Indian secularism in practice. All that has mattered is how well one can bat, bowl, field and function in the team, on purely cricketing yardsticks. The allegations made against Jaffer of communalizing the selections is surely baseless. But it is also disturbing. It is an effort to introduce the politics of communalism, bigotry and prejudice into what has often been called India’s true religion — cricket. The treatment meted out to Jaffer must be condemned. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Wise choice Sir — Every year, people across Bengal pray to the deity, Saraswati, asking for wisdom. That the prayers of some have been answered is evident from the fact that artisans in a Baruipur village decided to make biodegradable idols for Saraswati Puja this year (“Go green with Saraswati”, Feb 14). Made of cow dung and clay, the idols are expected to dissolve in water within days, as opposed to those made of burnt clay. This could help reduce water pollution caused by idol immersions every year. May more people find the wisdom to opt for these environment-friendly idols from next year. Sampa Kundu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
17-02-2021||Opinion||Disgrace: Trump acquitted, not exonerated||Donald Trump will go down in the history of the presidency of the United States of America with several dubious feathers on his cap. He is the only president to have faced impeachment proceedings twice — he survived on both occasions, with the Senate recently voting to acquit Mr Trump by a thinner margin on the second occasion. But this acquittal — by a margin of 57-43 votes on the charge of being guilty of inciting a crowd of supporters that went berserk on the US Capitol — need not be read as an exoneration. Even though Mr Trump may no longer be vulnerable to eternal banishment from politics — an impeachment would have been a step in that direction — he remains unprotected in other ways. With the presidential office no longer serving as a shield from legal liability, Mr Trump the Citizen would have to devote considerable time to battle a number of cases in courts. This sustained demand for accountability is a point that Republicans complicit in Mr Trump’s second escape from disgrace are harping on to argue that the former president has not got away unscathed. But this is a rather lame argument, and the Democrats’ accusation of their rivals’ adopting double standards cannot be dismissed easily. The majority of Republicans chose to defer to what is believed to be a substantial public sentiment that remains favourable towards the former president. The consequences of their capitulation could have far-reaching implications for they signal the willingness of senators to prioritize narrow political imperatives over a greater cause. Unwise decisions on the pedestals of power are often a catalyst in the weakening of the foundations of democracies; American democracy is not an exception to this caveat. Punishing a leader for what, evidently, is a transgression could have served as a deterrent against such predations in the future. But that is not to be. Another message can be read from Mr Trump’s second acquittal. Even though seven Republican senators did exhibit the courage to break ranks with their timid brethren, the spirit of bipartisanship — something that Mr Trump’s successor has emphasized repeatedly — remains feeble. This could only mean that American politicians and the American people remain camped along partisan lines. Joseph Biden’s prayer for healing and reconciliation in a fractious polity seems to have gone unheard so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
17-02-2021||Opinion||Keep Quiet: Nirmala Sitharaman labels Rahul Gandhi the Doomsday Man||This is a triumph for DC comics. The most comprehensive put-down for a leader of the Opposition that India’s finance minister could think of appeared to have come out of the DC universe. Nirmala Sitharaman labelled the former Congress president, Rahul Gandhi, the Doomsday Man for India in Parliament, making it clear that the figure no longer inhabited a comic series but was stalking the makers of achchhe din in the real India today. Debate and dissent in Parliament have almost vanished. Now it is quite routine to hear a string of appellations flying towards the Opposition from the treasury benches whenever critical questions are asked. Mr Gandhi has consistently raised issues — from the effects of demonetization, the seriousness of Covid, the tragedy of migrant labourers and so on to China and the farmers’ movement — that Narendra Modi’s government will simply not address. Mr Gandhi is doing his job — as Opposition member he is unrelenting and most visible among other critics of the government. Hence Ms Sitharaman’s fanciful appellation in remarks claiming that Mr Gandhi’s ‘fake narratives’ of doom and humiliation of India by his criticism of Constitutional authorities such as the president, prime minister, Speaker and so on demonstrate his lack of belief in the democratically elected Parliament. When an Opposition politician’s rightful role in Parliament is described as his loss of belief in it, the distortion of India’s formative values seems complete. Dissent and protest from the people who have elected representatives within Parliament are being penalized daily by arrests and long detentions of the protesters. Ms Sitharaman accused Mr Gandhi of abuse and destructive politics, of becoming part of the ‘fringe’ of the ‘destroy-India-image’ brigade. This reveals the Modi-led regime’s attitude that questioning an elected government is equivalent to ‘demeaning’ or ‘humiliating’ India. This belief — its repetition suggests it is a belief, not just an attitude — encapsulates the true danger to democracy and is intimately tied up with the government’s furious reaction to all criticism and refusal to answer questions, whether they come from the Opposition or the people. The ruler can do no wrong. Mr Modi’s government wishes to erase its elected origin and turn its electors into subjects who are not permitted to criticize the rulers. Ms Sitharaman was representing that agenda, not the people or parliamentary democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
17-02-2021||Opinion||Road map for a hotter future||The United States of America is set to formally re-enter the Paris Agreement this week. On assuming the presidency of the US, Joseph R. Biden accepted the Paris Agreement and every article and clause thereof on behalf of his country. The US’s engagement is critical to but not necessarily sufficient for the success of the Conference of Parties in Glasgow in November, where it is expected that the parties to the Paris Agreement will finalize the rules of how the Agreement will operate in the future. I am, at best, cautiously optimistic. Donald Trump’s presidency has demonstrated the fragility of the institutional arrangement. Institutional arrangements will likely become more robust in the future and whims of an individual may not be able to derail global arrangements, but it might happen too late and the narrow climatic envelope of about 11 degrees Celsius to 15 degrees Celsius mean annual temperature may be breached by then. For millennia, humans have operated in a fairly narrow subset of earth’s available climates, transforming labour, capital, energy, and other natural resources into new goods or services. This is possibly a reflection of the human temperature niche; all species have an environmental niche. According to a recent study, the human population distribution in relation to MAT has remained largely unaltered, with a major mode around 11 degrees Celsius to 15 degrees Celsius accompanied by a smaller secondary mode around 20 degrees Celsius to 25 degrees Celsius corresponding to the Indian monsoon region. It has been found that globally economic productivity is non-linear in temperature, with productivity peaking at MAT of 13 degrees Celsius and declining strongly at higher temperatures, both for agricultural and non-agricultural activity, irrespective of the economic condition of the countries. If societies continue to function as they have in the recent past, geographical position of this temperature niche is projected to shift more over the next 50 years than it has in the last 6,000 years. Climate change is expected to reshape the global economy by substantially reducing global economic output. Over the coming decades, the human climate niche is projected to move to higher latitudes. “Draw a line around the planet at the latitude of the northern borders of the United States and China, and just about every place south, across five continents, stands to lose out.” Under such circumstances, what option does India have, given its large population that is dependent on climate-sensitive sectors and allied services? While some regions may face declining conditions for human thriving, conditions in other places will improve. As the world warms, no country stands to gain more than Russia. By 2080, Russia’s permafrost in the Asian part of the country will be reduced by more than half, potentially making more than five million square kilometres available for farming. A great transformation is already underway in the eastern half of Russia. Wild forests, swamps and grasslands, land that was once impossible to farm are for the last two decades bearing soya bean, corn and wheat. Russia could become the largest food producer on the planet, provided they have enough people to work the land. The Russian population, after a period of miniscule growth between 2008 and 2018, is again on the decline. Could Russia and India forge a partnership as they have done in case of exploration, development and production of oil and gas in the Russian Far-East? ONGC Videsh Limited, which is in the business of prospecting for oil and gas acreages outside India, has three of its oil and gas assets in the Russian Far-East. The State Farms Corporation of India Limited could be refashioned along the lines of OVL to prospect for agricultural acreage outside India. However, not all thawed land will be suitable for farming and neither will the thaw occur overnight. Therefore, SFCIL or a similar entity should start prospecting now. The OVL was founded in 1965 and its current oil and gas assets stand at 37, producing about 30.3 per cent of oil and 23.7 per cent of oil and natural gas of India’s domestic production in 2019-20. In time, OVL could surpass its parent, ONGC, in terms of reserves and production. Similarly, in the decades to come, SFCIL could account for higher agricultural production and ensure India’s food security despite declining domestic production. India’s national per capita income is projected to be nearly 92 per cent less by the year 2100. Repurposing a company like SFCIL is just one part of the solution. India will have to consider shipping hundreds of thousands of workers to the Russian Far-East to make it a win-win for itself and Russia. This might seem like an insurmountable challenge but India already sends hundreds of thousands of IT professionals where there weren’t any just 40 years ago. In spite of the formidable psychological, social, and political barriers to migration, seasonal or permanent, a change in the geographical distribution of human populations and agricultural production is almost inevitable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
17-02-2021||Opinion||Long shadow: a failure in Agra||The 20th anniversary of the Agra summit, when General Pervez Musharraf was invited to India, will fall this coming July. As is well known, it was Musharraf’s outspoken comments early during the visit that started a downward trend, which finally led to the summit’s ultimate failure. As is often the case in such India-Pakistan events, there are conflicting accounts of the proceedings. For the then Pakistan foreign minister, Abdul Sattar, Musharraf was “persuasive” and the audience “spellbound” as he held forth his views on Kashmir. For Jaswant Singh, the then external affairs minister, Musharraf was “belligerent” and a “grand standing fever” led to much unrestrained comment. While views have differed on how much weightage should be given to the press interaction in tilting the summit towards failure, that it did begin things on a negative note is undeniable. The invitation to Musharraf for the summit had itself come after a fraught time. The Kargil conflict in May-July 1999 had been followed by a coup as Musharraf ended another attempt at democracy in Pakistan. Barely had this drama ended when India went through in end December 1999 the trauma of the hijacking of IC 814 to Kandahar, and that ended only with the release of some terrorists in Indian custody. The released terrorists soon surfaced in Pakistan and the shadow of that event extends right up to the present. One of the terrorists released was Omar Sheikh who went on to kill the American journalist, Daniel Pearl, and, finally, surrendered himself to Ijaz Shah, an ISI officer, who joined politics subsequently and was, till recently, Pakistan’s interior minister. Omar Sheikh was awarded the death penalty but this was never carried out and after almost two decades in custody, his release was ordered recently and upheld by the Pakistan Supreme Court. If 1999, because of Kargil and IC 814, will go down as a very bad year in India-Pakistan relations, 2000 was a year without major conflict but no real stability either. This no-war no-peace period ended in May 2001 with the invitation to General Musharraf to visit India for talks. The invite infuriated many in India who saw it as a hasty, even maverick, decision, taken possibly because of US pressure and from which no good would come. Others objected because they saw the invite as a retreat from a position of the principle that there could be no talks without cessation of support to terrorists. Whatever the merit and validity of these views, Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee, perceived events from a different and wider prism and he wrote as 2000 came to an end, “A self-confident and resilient nation does not postpone the inconvenient issues of yesterday to a distant tomorrow”. Two other principal figures in his cabinet — the home minister, L.K. Advani, and the external affairs minister, Jaswant Singh — had been fully involved in the back room discussions with Pakistan before the invitation was extended. The summit ended without an outcome — not surprising in itself given the gulf between the two sides on the issues of terrorism and Kashmir. The differences were well known and, to an extent, both sides had sought to prepare for this. Musharraf had also used the opportunity to declare himself president and was sworn in as such in June 2001. He would now visit India as president of Pakistan rather than as chief executive as he had styled himself post the coup. In any event, it was the peripheral issue of the press meeting and Musharraf’s immaturity and cockiness that played spoiler. This was not the first time that a high-level meeting in fraught circumstances had failed at Agra. There had been a major missed opportunity a little under three and a half centuries earlier in the summer of 1666. Shivaji arrived in Agra on May 12 for an audience before Emperor Aurangzeb. Purists may well deny that this proposed meeting had the status of a summit. Aurangzeb was the Mughal emperor and Shivaji was then a rebel and a military headache but still eight years away from his coronation as king. Yet, he had established himself as a leader by defeating Mughal armies and raiding some of their major centres such as the port of Surat. His visit for an audience with the emperor was the outcome of both military pressure and patient diplomacy by the Rajput ruler of Amber, Jai Singh, who was the Mughal commander in the Deccan. Possibly the end result he and the emperor envisaged were of the Marathas joining the Mughals just as the Rajputs had three generations earlier. The differences between the Mughals and the Marathas were, of course, formidable and militate against this theory. Yet, the fact that the meeting was taking place at all suggests that possibilities always exist and even appear probable to actual participants. All this was not to be and the outcome of the audience was a well-known disaster. Shivaji felt that he was deliberately insulted, stormed out of the court, was imprisoned, but later escaped to make a separate history for himself and the Marathas. Was this breakdown inevitable? The historian, Jadunath Sarkar, asked himself this question just over a century ago on the basis of new documents he had unearthed. The downward trend that ended with the disastrous scene in the Mughal court began, Sarkar found, with a “comedy of errors” on account of what we would today call protocol mix-ups and unintentional mistakes. For these, Sarkar placed the main responsibility on Jai Singh’s son and the representative in the Mughal court. “Ram Singh’s slothfulness and the incompetence of his officers” meant that Shivaji was not properly received at the end of a long journey and reached the court late. Consequently the intricacies of court protocol could not be properly explained to him beforehand, he felt slighted at the treatment he received and walked out. At this breach of court etiquette, a group we would term today as hardliners coalesced. These were in the main Mughal nobles who had been worsted in battle by the Marathas, Jai Singh’s own Rajput rivals as well as others whose financial interests had been hit by Maratha raids. At their clamour, Aurangzeb’s own sectarian impulses also asserted themselves. The edifice that Jai Singh had so painstakingly built with the emperor’s earlier consent came crumbling down. Whatever may be the differences in assessments about what was achievable from this initiative, what is clear is that a major opportunity had been missed by the Mughals. In its immediate aftermath Agra — in 2001 at least — did not appear as a total write-off. Jaswant Singh said after the summit that “we will pick up the threads”; in the Pakistan readouts, the view was that the meeting was inconclusive, not a failure. Yet, over the forthcoming winter, the world changed as 9/11 meant that the global narrative on terrorism now would be decisively different. The terrorist attack on our Parliament in December 2001 heralded a fresh phase of India-Pakistan tensions. By January 2004, however, Vajpayee was in Pakistan and, by this time, the space for Musharraf’s grandstanding no longer existed. The author is a retired diplomat and currently Director General, Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-71
