18-02-2021||Opinion||A deeper churning ||Many of the forceful changes that the Bharatiya Janata Party is bringing about are the ones that should have come about as a result of democratic politics in India. For various reasons, they did not. Now the BJP-RSS are initiating these to build a majoritarian polity. But could they end up democratizing social hierarchies by default? The BJP is attempting to initiate change to gain popular political/electoral consent, but is also pulling it back so as to arrest social change. To begin with, the BJP initiated a renewed dialogue on the question of gender justice among Muslims. It has been raising the issue of the conflict between Shias and Sunnis to weaken a monolithic Muslim identity and create internal conflict to provide a possible justification for injustices perpetrated on the minority community. The question, however, is this. Would these debates and policy-changes offer new political and social spaces for issues that were difficult to be negotiated within the limits of a secular-progressive politics? What the debate on gender within the Muslim community has done is create a space for Muslim women to come out in big numbers to lead the protests against CAA/NRC. In doing so, Muslim women are not only resisting majoritarianism but also internal patriarchy. The BJP is caught in a bind; having initiated a dialogue on gender justice, it cannot delegitimize these protests. This has also created another problem for the BJP. Having opened up internal schisms and social differentiation among Muslims, it is becoming difficult for it to sustain the image of the conservative, aggressive Muslim resisting change. This may lead to some segments of the majority community to take a more reasonable and sympathetic view of Muslims and their everyday modes of engagement with democracy. This is something that secular politics could not deliver because it got mired in the debate of gender rights versus minority rights. Muslims lost out on both fronts in the process. The question of caste poses a similar dilemma for the BJP. By wedging open spaces internal to the Dalits and to the other backward classes, the BJP succeeded in expanding political representation to smaller sub-castes within larger conglomerates. The BJP is doing this politically for electoral success, which it is gaining, and socially  to divide castes internally so that caste identification is replaced with a more hegemonic Hindu identity. Could the smaller sub-castes emerge as aspirational social groups demanding greater opportunities for education and employment instead of settling down as silent constituents of a larger Hindu fold? This was a much-needed change that secular-democrats could not bring about on account of the pressure of the dominant castes within Dalits and the OBCs. The violence against Dalits and the cancellation of OBC reservations in the IITs prove that fear and intimidation are accompanying accommodation and representation. The BJP is pushing the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen in order to create the optics of a homogenized community that votes only on religious considerations. The AIMIM is equally apprehensive of internal assertion among the Muslims that can take them beyond its leadership to forge independent options. The Muslim-Dalit unity is a rhetoric that is helping to consolidate caste-Hindu-OBC unity as its obverse. But if cracks emerge in the unified Dalit-OBC identity due to the representation provided by the BJP, can it lead to newer kinds of political imagination instead of such consolidation getting limited to a unified Hindu identity? At another level, this is also about regional identities and federal structure. The BJP is undermining regional autonomy and disempowering regional leaders, be it KCR in Telangana or Mamata Banerjee in Bengal. Again, regional leaders are susceptible because of their own track record. The BJP is mobilizing this latent anger against local leaders who built their politics on regional and linguistic sentiments. As a result, the party is helping people, once again by default, to come out of their localized cultural imagination and think afresh. As of now, this is leading to greater support for the BJP as voting for the party is being linked to punishment of corrupt regional leaders. This sentiment is also allowing the BJP to undermine the federal structure by bringing into being weak states and a strong Centre. But the weakening of regional leaders may also have the potential for creating new political spaces for social activists, non-electoral and non-party movements. The farmers’ movement, which has distanced itself from political parties, could just be an initial signal of a larger change waiting in the wings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
18-02-2021||Opinion||Lusty chants||There are many controversies that have a habit of periodically resurfacing. One of the more interminable disputes from history that acquire contemporary political connotations is the one centred on Bankim Chandra Chatterjee’s iconic song, “Vande Mataram”. From the time of the movement against the Partition of Bengal in 1905, the cry of ‘Vande Mataram’ has epitomized nationalist and patriotic impulses in India. Nor did the resonance of Vande Mataram fizzle out with Independence in 1947. Even to this day, both the chant and the song distinguish different political traditions in India. Once the exclusive monopoly of the Congress and its numerous offshoots — such as the All India Trinamul Congress in West Bengal — Vande Mataram has increasingly come to be associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party and its larger ideological family. Although the Congress and the AITC in West Bengal still chant Vande Mataram in their street rallies, the former has seriously limited its use in the rest of the country, a reason why the old nationalist chant — along with ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ — has come to be identified with the saffron parivar all over India. The truncated version of the song, acknowledged by the Constituent Assembly as the national song following a ruling by its chairman, Rajendra Prasad, on the final day of its deliberations, is still sung at the conclusion of each parliamentary session. However, the full version — including the contentious verses that were objected to by the pre-Independence Muslim League — still finds a place in important meetings of the BJP. The history of Vande Mataram indicates that the political symbolism associated with it has undergone a big shift over the decades. At the time of the Swadeshi movement and the subsequent emergence of militant revolutionary nationalism in the early 20th century, Vande Mataram became the acknowledged shorthand for the demand for freedom from British rule. It epitomized both defiance of authority and the clamour for self-rule. Although initially popularized by Aurobindo Ghose and the so-called ‘extremists’ in the Congress, Vande Mataram became the bridge that linked the different strands of Indian nationalism, including the one led by Mahatma Gandhi. Vande Mataram also became an expression of insolence directed at British officials and those who were perceived as loyalists of the raj. On January 18, 1906, to cite a stray but revealing example, the Inspector of Schools in the Dacca Division instructed the Headmaster of Kishoreganj High School to order pupils in the junior classes to write “It is foolish and rude to waste time in shouting Vande Mataram” 500 times as punishment. Presumably, they had welcomed the official with this subversive chant. As for the revolutionaries convicted of carrying out violent acts of resistance, many went to the gallows defiantly chanting Vande Mataram. It was the vocal opposition to Vande Mataram, particularly by the Muslim League from the late 1930s, that gave the chant another dimension. In spite of the attempts by a section of the Congress and the nationalist leadership to accommodate Muslim objections to its alleged idolatrous imagery, Vande Mataram retained its grass-roots appeal and, after 1940, also became synonymous with the opposition to the separatist politics of the proponents of Pakistan. This may explain why after Independence — and the Partition of India — there was a sustained effort by those who wanted to let bygones be bygones to ease Vande Mataram out of the contemporary nationalist imagination. Equally, it may also explain why the adherents of cultural nationalism with their belief in Hindutva as a binding force of Indian nationhood felt it necessary to insist on the continued relevance of Vande Mataram and the worship of Bharat Mata. The shifting political connotation of Vande Mataram is of great contemporary relevance. It suggests that the meanings of symbols are rarely static; they are constantly moulded and re-moulded to correspond to present day imperatives. This is also the story of ‘Jai Shri Ram’, a chant that is at the centre of a furious battle involving the supporters of the BJP and the AITC, particularly in the context of the forthcoming assembly election in West Bengal. There have been persistent suggestions by many Bengali intellectuals and the opponents of the BJP that Jai Shri Ram is alien to Bengali culture, that it is communally menacing and that it injects Hindu faith into the political arena. The West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, in a well-publicized outburst during the 2019 general election campaign that — unfortunately for her — was recorded on video, described a chant of Jai Shri Ram as a verbal abuse. She again expressed her deep irritation at the chant when a section of the crowd greeted her with Jai Shri Ram as she rose to speak at an event commemorating the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Calcutta on January 23 this year. This, in turn, has triggered a fresh bout of controversy over Jai Shri Ram. At one level, Jai Shri Ram has its origins in a traditional ‘Siya Ram’ greeting widely prevalent in North India. However, the Jai Shri Ram chant heard today was a key feature of the Ayodhya movement that catapulted the BJP to the centre-stage of politics after 1988-89. Apart from the many kar seva programmes — including the one on December 6, 1992 that led to the demolition of the disputed 16th-century shrine in Ayodhya — Jai Shri Ram was a defining part of the BJP campaigns in 1991 and 1996. It was not so much in evidence in the 2014 general election that saw the BJP win a majority on its own, but it resurfaced in West Bengal — a state where the BJP was a relatively fringe player — in the 2019 general election. Since then, Jai Shri Ram has acquired a spectacular grass-roots popularity, much to the surprise of even the BJP leadership. Today, the BJP campaign for the state assembly election is defined by lusty chanting of Jai Shri Ram by its supporters. The AITC has responded with the argument that Jai Shri Ram is alien to Bengal’s traditions, a claim that bolsters its insistence that the BJP is a party of outsiders. That Jai Shri Ram was rarely heard in the political arena of West Bengal before 2019 is undeniable. It is also true that in an earlier phase the chant was associated with the Ayodhya movement. However, in the context of West Bengal, Jai Shri Ram has acquired a meaning of its own. In the political landscape of Bengal, Jai Shri Ram has become a symbol of both insolence and protest. The first stems from the profound irritation felt by Banerjee at the chant. With her every expression of displeasure, it has become a means to needle her and, at the same time, articulate political opposition to her. More important, it has become a convenient shorthand to express opposition to different facets of the AITC’s 10-year record in government — from corruption and political violence to the appeasement of minorities. In Bengal, Jai Shri Ram as an expression of protest has subsumed its other and earlier expression as a symbol of Hindu resurgence. It is always difficult to rationally explain why a song or even a chant captures the popular imagination. Why did Vande Mataram and a simple invocation to the motherland or even Bharat Mata inspire Indian nationalism and invoke fear in the British raj? Why did it acquire a different political meaning after Independence and yet persist in its popularity? We don’t know, but it did. This is also the tale of Jai Shri Ram that, in Bengal, has acquired a meaning quite detached from the yearning for the grand temple under construction in Ayodhya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
18-02-2021||Opinion||In violation: questionable arrest of Disha Ravi||Sir — The arrest of the 22-year-old climate activist, Disha Ravi, and the issuing of non-bailable warrants against two others in a case involving a Google ‘toolkit’ document shared by the climate campaigner, Greta Thunberg — it is alleged that Ravi is one of the editors of the toolkit — in support of the farmers’ protest is a matter of serious concern (“The hunt”, Feb 16). Ravi was picked up in a hush-hush manner from her home in Bangalore by the Delhi police and supposedly taken to the capital in violation of well laid out norms for arrests and federal principles. She has been booked on multiple charges including sedition and criminal conspiracy. The young activist is also being accused of collaborating with a pro-Khalistan outfit and conspiring to spread disaffection against the Indian State. The young woman’s arrest is yet another example of the government moving against anyone who opposes its policies. Several arbitrary arrests, as we can see in this case, have been made on unconvincing charges for which the police have scant evidence. Bail, which is supposed to be the norm, is frequently denied. This is usually followed up by a vilification campaign in the media where people opposing government policies are presented as threats to the integrity of the nation and labelled “anti-national”. The message to all citizens is brazen and clear; there is no democratic space for people to oppose the government and its actions. Freedom of speech no longer exists in New India. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The arrest of the young climate crusader, Disha Ravi, on multiple charges alleging her involvement in the farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm bills and the creation of a campaign toolkit shared by the Swedish environmental activist, Greta Thunberg, amounts to the muzzling of democratic voices. The reaction is scarily disproportionate. Globally, toolkits are used by activist groups to provide basic information about their cause and offer suggestions on social media tags and on-site protests. The government has decided to politically invest in a narrative of a foreign conspiracy against India, of which the “toolkit” is supposedly evidence. Where is the actual evidence to suggest such a conspiracy? At a time when India is facing criticism for growing illiberalism, is arresting young activists an ethical or prudent course of action? How does it sync with India’s constitutional guarantees on freedom of speech and political activity? The government should stop seeing activists as seditionists. N. Sadhasiva Reddy, Bangalore Sir — The arrest of Disha Ravi, a graduate of Mount Carmel college and one of the founders of Fridays for Future India, has come as a shock to many. Several lawyers are of the opinion that the arrest violated her legal and constitutional rights at every stage, terming it “ab-initio-illegal”, that is, illegal from the beginning. Ravi was not produced in a court in Bangalore where she was arrested, there was no transit remand and she was not provided legal counsel of her choice in Delhi, where she was remanded in police custody. The government would do well to remember that the Indian Penal Code does not mention the word “toolkit” anywhere. Moreover, creating or possessing any document with instructions and guidance for running a social media campaign is not a crime. Neither is criticizing the policies of the Indian government to a foreign audience. It is astonishing to see the Delhi police arrest Ravi on charges of sedition. The alleged lapses need to be looked into and remedied. The rule of law must be followed sincerely. The courts are expected to exercise checks on the misuse of powers by the executive. Yash Pal Ralhan, Jalandhar Sir — The questionable arrest and transportation of Disha Ravi to Delhi without following the due process of law is disconcerting. It was a relief to learn that the Delhi Commission for Women has taken suo motu cognizance of the matter. The commission has asked the Delhi police to provide a copy of the first information report, reasons for allegedly not producing her before a local court for transit as well as for not providing the accused with a lawyer of her choice when she was produced before the Patiala House court. The authorities must clarify the reasons for these missteps at the earliest. Ananya Subramanian,Bangalore Steady decline Sir — The political situation in Myanmar is taking a turn for the worse. The trial of the former state counsellor, Aung San Suu Kyi, and the deposed president, U Win Myint, began in secret with the defence attorney alleging that he was not made aware of the proceedings which ended in less than an hour. The democratically elected government of the National League for Democracy was ousted in a military coup earlier this month. Suu Kyi, along with several others, face charges that could land them in prison for a significant period of time. It is unlikely that any of the NLD leaders will get a fair trial. Rupa Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
18-02-2021||Opinion||Greener pastures: Biplab remark irks Nepal||A functionary of the Bharatiya Janata Party has said that the outfit, the most dominant political force in Indian politics at the moment, believes in winning hearts of the people in other countries too. Unfortunately, it seems that the BJP may lose a few friends in greener pastures. Kathmandu communicated to New Delhi its formal objection after the chief minister of Tripura, Biplab Kumar Deb, said that Amit Shah as party president had shared a rather expansive vision of imprinting the BJP’s political footprints in Nepal and Sri Lanka. Mr Shah, if he was serious, may have overestimated the BJP’s popularity a wee bit. India certainly seems to be enchanted with the BJP, but to hope to cast a spell on sovereign people conveys a seriously flawed understanding of political realities as well as diplomatic imperatives on the part of the modern-day Chanakya. India’s reach in the immediate neighbourhood is facing an unprecedented crisis. China’s expansionism is but one causal factor. There have been murmurs of concern among some neighbours with New Delhi allegedly preferring a more robust approach to collaborative outreach. Mr Deb’s statement — the spell in public office is yet to temper his propensity to make outrageous remarks — may add to these whispers. Kathmandu’s stern response and the terse reaction by the chairman of Sri Lanka’s Election Commission show that Mr Deb’s comment has not been brushed aside. More diplomatic heartburn cannot be ruled out given the precipitous decline in warmth in India’s ties with Nepal in particular. All of this could have been dismissed as a joke — albeit a rather poor joke — had the sangh parivar’s commitment to the principle of ‘Akhand Bharat’ not been public knowledge. Akhand Bharat, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s dream of a political entity that comprises Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and some other neighbours, is an embodiment of a template of expansionism that resonates in the statement being attributed to Mr Shah. This vision is patently in conflict with every acceptable tenet of Indian foreign policy. Respectable public figures making such frivolous remarks could be an embarrassing admission of their ignorance of India’s diplomatic positions. More damagingly, it exposes their indifference to the sensibilities of the people in nations that constitute the neighbourhood. Trampling over public sentiment, something that Mr Shah’s party excels in, may not be the best way to win friends, near or far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
18-02-2021||Opinion||Way ahead: inter-caste marriage||This is not the first time that the higher judiciary has protected an inter-caste union. Pronouncing on a case in which two teachers from different castes married in Delhi to escape the woman’s disapproving family in Karnataka, the Supreme Court reportedly said that educated youngsters were showing the way forward to reduce caste and community tensions through intermarriages. Since the case was one of inter-caste marriage, one of the two judges on the bench mentioned B.R. Ambedkar’s belief that intermarriage or the fusion of blood alone could create kinship and remove the sense of alienation caused by caste. This argument can obviously be extended to inter-faith marriages. It was hardly a desirable social exercise, felt the court, for parents to shun their children if they married outside their caste or community. Even if this were seen as a deviation from traditional social norms, it was high time that society accepted inter-caste and inter-community unions. Since young people often face threats from their families in such cases, the courts have to protect them. The Supreme Court reiterated in this context that marriage belonged to the core zone of privacy — earlier established as a part of fundamental rights — and that the right to choice was inextricable from dignity. Choice could not be surrendered to ‘class honour’ or ‘group thinking’. The Supreme Court has been consistent in its rulings on similar cases, and its remarks this time were particularly comprehensive. The reference to ‘class honour’ would bring up associations of honour killings and the way class and caste, including economic markers, are often indistinguishable in society’s perception. Especially important was the Supreme Court’s admonition to the police, which attempted to act threateningly towards the inter-caste couple. The court emphasized the need to counsel and train the police so that they are able to act correctly in cases of intermarriage where no law is being violated. Instead of trying to execute a disapproving family’s will, the police are supposed to protect the young people. Now this may be confusing for the police, which, in states such as Uttar Pradesh, are directed to do just the opposite by politicians in power. In general, too, the Supreme Court’s position on the issue of intermarriage is hearteningly different from the tendencies created by the political environment of the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
