19-02-2021||Opinion|| India needs a new roadmap for improving bilateral relations with Sri Lanka after port project cancelled||The unilateral scrapping of the East Coast Terminal (ECT) project at the Colombo port is the latest example of how far trust levels between India and Sri Lanka have plummeted in recent years. India, Sri Lanka and Japan had signed a tripartite agreement back in 2019 to develop the terminal. Both India and Japan got a rude shock when the Sri Lankans suddenly announced that the project would be scrapped and they’re still looking for ways to salvage it. Instead of going ahead with the ECT project, Sri Lanka’s cabinet has cleared a plan to develop with India and Japan the West Container Terminal (WCT) as a public-private partnership.  This move is seen as a bid to mollify and compensate India but it’s not clear yet whether our government will accept the proposal. From India and Japan’s point of view, Sri Lanka has clearly reneged on its commitment to the 2019 tripartite agreement. The Sri Lankans are unfazed by the charges of bad faith levelled against them. The cancellation has brought to the fore the disarray in Sri Lankan government ranks, especially when it comes to its dealings with India. The blame must rest squarely with non-state actors in Sri Lanka who have for reasons best known to themselves derailed a major project that was intended to bring big rewards to the country. Step back a bit and recall that India and Japan were two of the countries originally singled out by President Gotabaya Rajpaksa as partners for his rapid economic development plans. The other countries listed by him will no doubt take note of these developments and carefully chart out their investment and other plans for Sri Lanka. The president, according to insiders, had thrown his support behind the trilateral ECT project, and had made a commitment to India at the highest political levels. This was also in keeping with his vision articulated in a media interview with Nitin Gokhale, the New Delhi-based journalist, soon after winning the presidential polls in October 2019. To be fair to him, he has not changed his position on the subject. What’s more, Basil Rajapaksa, the third member of the ruling family triumvirate, also backs the president. It is Mahinda Rajpaksa, the former president, who’s apparently worried that awarding the ECT project to the joint India-Japanese collaboration in the face of mounting opposition would have severe repercussions for the ruling party both in parliament and outside. It seems he’s keen to safeguard the government and the ruling party from the adverse effect of “going against popular sentiment”. A politically shrewd strategist, Mahinda is aware of the government, the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) party’s and also Gotabaya’s declining popularity. Internal political developments within the ruling party and the state of the economy coupled by unpopular measures have exposed the fault lines in political governance and management of the economy. Opposition to the ICT project emanates from diverse elements such as trade unions, left-wing groups and minor parties including those in the ruling coalition. The powerful Buddhist clergy is of the same opinion as the trade unions. It is important to note that the cabinet and council of ministers is divided on the subject with a clutch of leaders of the Marxist former Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (People's Liberation Front) or JVP, the nationalist erstwhile nationalist Jathika Hela Urumaya (JHU) and the Trotskyist Jathika Hela Urumaya (LSSP) leading the anti-India charge. It’s no secret that the JVP has always opposed Indian projects and participation in Sri Lanka’s development. In addition, there are more checks and balances expressed by these circles as far as India is concerned. Chinese involvement in the evolution of the anti-India campaign and influence among the non-state actors is an open secret despite denials seen in the media. The all-powerful clergy too has thrown its weight behind the opposition to the ECT project. It is another thing that there is an impression being created that a lobby close to or identified with the Mahinda faction is not averse to India being allotted the West Container Terminal. The moot issue is whether the same clutch of trade unions which are opposed to India will agree to this proposal? Further, there is opposition to the involvement of Adani group in the port building activities. An influential political adviser suggested that trade unions and fringe elements are imposing their views on national strategic and foreign policy, even though it’s the responsibility of the government to protect the country’s “sovereignty” and “territorial integrity.” Another school of opinion points to the complicity of some civil service elements in creating obstacles to India’s plans. It’s another thing that Gotabaya may have already reached out to New Delhi in a fire-fighting exercise to salvage the situation with the West Container Terminal proposal. He cannot obviously be seen as weak and indecisive in matters of state policy and administration. This is not the only item on the agenda there are others too, especially the fate of the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA). New Delhi will have to consider some “out-of-the-box” solutions to remove the irritants in the bilateral relations. From India’s standpoint, the choice of the Adani group as a party to the West Container Terminal project is a strategic one as India requires major players in such high-profile projects. The Adani group must stay the course and the thwart machinations of the JVP and others who are believed to be acting at China’s behest. India requires a few more heavyweights to look at Sri Lanka as a manufacturing base. This means India’s corporate sector has a major role to play in this direction. Sri Lanka is an important strategic partner for India and is in the process of developing -- so it says -- a non-aligned foreign policy. Aides close to President Gotabaya have repeatedly stressed the importance attached by him to non-alignment -- in fact, this has been reiterated by him on several occasions. There may not be any doubt on this score. But the actions and utterances of some members of his inner circle seem to convey a different message. Sri Lanka has a critical political calendar ahead this year. The new constitution is on the anvil and will hopefully meet the aspirations of all sections of the population. There are prickly and tricky issues to navigate ahead. While these events will no doubt evoke considerable international interest, the manner in which legal experts and political pundits address the devolution of powers remains to be seen. Last October, Gotabaya won strong approval from lawmakers to restore the concentration of powers in his office as part of plans to draft a new constitution. But even on the future of the 13th Amendment, there’s no consensus within the government and the parliamentary party. A government minister is reportedly in favour of the abolition of the provincial councils. But it’s not clear yet whether he’s espousing a personal view or articulating the collective views of vested interests in the party. (The 13th amendment created provincial councils in Sri Lanka and made Sinhala and Tamil the official languages and English the "link language"). Whatever be the position of the various functionaries on the abolition of provincial councils or major changes to the 13th Amendment, the present leadership will have to contend with growing fault lines in political governance and national commitments. India, on its part, will need to build on its “vaccine diplomacy” and expand the ambit of its present range of interlocutors. While Prime Minister, Narendra Modi set the trend for more interaction with the Buddhist clergy, this needs to be followed up vigorously. There are several points of leverage available to both sides to arrest the slide in bilateral relations and importantly address the deficit trust issues. It’s clear that while India is concerned with the accretion of Chinese influence in Sri Lanka, we must evolve measures to strengthen our interests and objectives where we have advantages and create more opportunities in other areas. Development of bilateral relations has more stakeholders now than before.  Additional involvement of the corporate and business sector, education and information technology are some potential areas of greater interaction. These should be complemented by periodic visits or interaction between parliamentarians and legislators of both sides. This is very important, especially in the case of Sinhala Buddhist politicians of other parties.  Sri Lanka can also become an important destination for MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions) projects, given the excellent connections between the tourism industries of both sides, including religious tourism and medical tourism. P. M. Heblikar is Managing Trustee, Institute of Contemporary Studies Bangalore (ICSB) and Former Special Secretary, Government of India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
19-02-2021||Opinion||At long last: removal of Kiran Bedi||Sir — The removal of Kiran Bedi as the lieutenant-governor of Puducherry must have come as a great relief not only for the chief minister, V. Narayanasamy, but also for a large section of the people of the Union territory who were fed up with the tantrums of Bedi who put spokes in the functioning of the elected government and scuttled all welfare measures announced by the government (“Kiran Bedi sacked”, Feb 17). Right from the day of her appointment to the day of her removal, she exhibited only a confrontational attitude and animosity towards the government and did everything that made one believe that she was less of a constitutional head and more of an active member of the Bharatiya Janata Party, vociferously promoting the interests of the saffron party. However, she, with her autocratic and arrogant moves, has done such damage to the BJP in the Union territory that it is going to reflect in the upcoming regional elections. It is unfortunate that the BJP government at the Centre has decided to remove Bedi from the gubernatorial post only after allowing her to continue with her anti-government activities that have brought the Puducherry government to a grinding halt. If it were really interested in the welfare of the people of the Union territory, it would have sacked her long back. The president, Ram Nath Kovind, who deserves appreciation for his decision to remove Bedi, should not commit another mistake by making her the governor of any other non-BJP state. She has clearly proved during her stay in the Raj Nivas that she does not deserve to hold any constitutional post or, for that matter, any tall position in the government. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — There is little reason to rejoice the fact that Kiran Bedi has been removed from the position of lieutenant-governor of Puducherry. Clearly, the BJP understands that the people have been displeased with Bedi for long. Removing her before the elections is only a ploy to earn the trust of the electorate. Pradyut Sinha,New Delhi Stand together Sir — In Thailand, the artist, ‘Headache Stencil’, has put up a controversial exhibition criticizing the clampdown on dissenters by the authorities — 58 activists have been charged with insulting the royalty at protests since November. While the state of freedom in this monarchy is worrying, one wonders if the situation in New India, a democracy, is too different. Many artists, even comedians, are being persecuted for their dissenting views. The people must stand by such artists just as they have taken a stand for the people. Reba Guha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
19-02-2021||Opinion||Fatal ride: road accident deaths||The consequences of a tragedy often endure long after the mishap is over. Take, for instance, the findings of a study by the World Bank on road accidents: it revealed that every death in India caused by a road accident leads to the depletion of nearly seven months’ income in the households of poor families and pushes the victims’ kin into a vicious cycle of poverty and debt. Predictably, low-income rural households are hit the hardest. They reported twice the number of deaths as a result of an accident than high-income households did; the risk of a survivor having to deal with a disability was also twice as likely among poor families. Women, the report suggests, bear a disproportionate share of the burden as well, having to take on additional work alongside caregiving activities. While 50 per cent of women reported being severely affected by the decline in their household income, around 11 per cent said they had to take up more work to deal with the financial crisis. A key takeaway from the study is that the long-term effects of road mishaps remain — deliberately? — unaddressed in policy interventions. This is perhaps because road accidents are largely viewed through the lens of public safety and infrastructure, with interventions being designed accordingly. This is not to say that such aspects need to be ignored given that India witnesses 53 road crashes every hour, many of which are a result of the flagrant disregard commuters display towards road safety. This collective indifference is represented by the sightings of helmet-less children riding pillion on motorcycles, a common occurrence on India’s roads. Recent data from the National Crime Records Bureau showed that 83 per cent of road fatalities were on account of speeding and rash driving. But the collateral damage — debt traps for families, depression and added burdens on women — cannot be disregarded. Accidents can be reduced but not completely prevented. There is thus a case for making road safety a matter of public responsibility in India. But this must be complemented by an administrative push to redress the accompanying financial challenges. One way of achieving this could be by broadening access to insurance. Insurance policies must be designed to be affordable and easily accessible to survivors and their kin. But policies would be of little use — perhaps not even availed of — unless the government creates awareness campaigns encouraging citizens to insure themselves and their families, arranges for funds to be disbursed easily during emergencies and, crucially, ensures that insurance companies do not indulge in profiteering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
19-02-2021||Opinion||First sign: Congress sweeps Punjab polls||One possible reason behind the Bharatiya Janata Party’s stubborn refusal to relent on the controversial farm laws is that the farmers’ protest, till recently, had not managed to extract its pound of political flesh. However, the outcome of the civic polls in Punjab may cause some concern to the BJP. The Congress swept the polls piggybacking on the public anger directed at the BJP. Interestingly, the Aam Aadmi Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal proved to be collateral damage. The SAD suffered for its partnership with the BJP, while the AAP was perceived to be tepid in its initial resistance to the BJP forcing the contentious farm laws down the throat of unwilling farmers. The results would come as a shot in the arm for the Congress, especially the chief minister, Amarinder Singh, who was expected to battle anti-incumbency. The BJP, meanwhile, would strive to ensure that the political winds from Punjab do not lead to inclement weather in other states, especially Uttar Pradesh. Its decision to mobilize Sanjeev Balyan — he belongs to the same khap as Rakesh Tikait who is spearheading the spirited protests by farmers — betrays jittery nerves. It has been reported that the Centre’s refusal to budge on the demands of farmers could lead to political reversals in as many as 40 Lok Sabha seats in the Jat belt. The BJP would be desperate to contain the damage in UP, a prized state and, allegedly, an ideological laboratory of the sangh parivar. It is too early to map the extent of the potential damage that the farmers’ stir can cause to India’s ruling party. Mr Tikait has warned that the farmers would extend the agitation to other states, including Bengal, but the political impact of the agitation would depend on two things. First, the Opposition would have to generate greater public engagement without monopolizing the movement. Second, solidarities need to shift on the turf, with Jats, Dalits and Muslims forming a formidable electoral alliance to neutralize counter-mobilizations on religious lines. All these outcomes are speculative at the moment. But one thing is evident. In India, political parties are unlikely to concede to public demands unless the protests begin to hurt electorally. This is a sad testament to the perversions that populism has introduced to democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
19-02-2021||Opinion||Warming up: India-China relations||The defence minister, Rajnath Singh, announced in Parliament last week that India and China had agreed to “disengage” from the conflict fault lines at Ladakh. But with the winter chill receding, attention is riveted on another sector and there is more than the weather adding heat to India’s frontier with its northern neighbour. Late last month, a Chinese patrol tried to enter Sikkim’s territory and was forced back, official reports said, adding that while said sticks and stones were used, there were no gunshots. An army statement called it “a minor face-off at Naku La area of North Sikkim on 20 January 2021 and the same was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols.” The pass is at an altitude of over 14,000 feet. This is not the first time that China has tried entering Sikkim. In the same area last summer, at least 12 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in stone pelting and fisticuffs along the Line of Actual Control after a patrol party of China’s People’s Liberation Army personnel was stopped. Officers at the local level later intervened and resolved the stand-off. Prior to that came the skirmish at Doklam. China has also been building infrastructure along the McMahon Line along the border with Arunachal Pradesh too. There has been concern over reports that China has allegedly built a village on the bank of the Tsari Chu in Upper Subansiri district. Apparently, the PLA has constructed homes, recreational facilities and roads in the guise of civil infrastructure. This is being seen as China’s tactic to enhance its military network as these integrated model villages are an extension of Chinese cantonments (there are no civilians there). Since the bitter winter in the Himalayas has been no deterrent, the advent of spring and summer does not bode well. The Eastern Air Command’s public relations officer in Shillong told me that “our forces are always prepared for any eventuality.” Since the terrain in the Northeast is far more hostile than in Ladakh (my helicopter ride to Arunachal Pradesh was fraught with foreboding), the air force uses advanced landing grounds in Arunachal and helipads in Sikkim. India is not taking these developments lightly, going by the spate of visits by the defence brass to the region of late. When the chief of defence staff, General Bipin Rawat, visited forward areas of Arunachal Pradesh recently, he was briefed on the operational preparedness by the lieutenant-general, R.P. Kalita, the general-officer-commanding, Spear Corps, as well as other commanders. General Rawat also visited the forward outpost in the Subansiri valley in Arunachal and interacted with soldiers deployed along the LAC. In end-December, the air marshal, Amit Dev, AOC-in-C, Eastern Air Command, visited the forward bases with advanced landing grounds in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. He “interacted with [a]ir [w]arriors and reviewed the operational capabilities and preparedness of these bases and ALGs,” the air command said. There are seven ALGs in Arunachal, now upgraded and reinforced — at Vijaynagar, Walong, Tuting, Ziro, Pasighat, Aalo and Mechuka. The Tawang ALG is still incomplete. Describing the challenges in this sector, Nitin A. Gokhale, editor-in-chief of StratNews Global, said, “Indian military planners assess that the new threat from China may come in the eastern sector, comprising Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. Unlike Ladakh, jungles exist in Arunachal Pradesh, the climb is steep and in many places, India’s infrastructure leaves a lot to be desired.” There was a time when Indian and Chinese forces exchanged pleasantries at Bumla. China continues to dispute the boundary and has constructed villages barely 5 km from this trijunction between the two countries and Bhutan. As long as the spectre of Mao Zedong’s five-finger foreign policy (of ‘liberating’ Ladakh, Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan and Arunachal) looms, our defence preparedness must remain at an all-time high.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
19-02-2021||Opinion||Persons with disabilities: a persecuted people||I studied in a boarding school. Every day, two hours of the evening were scheduled for outdoor games. Before we could begin playing, our sports teacher would instruct us to run two rounds of the playground as warm up. A few of us, including myself, were exempted from it. Sometimes we would have to clean parts of the ground for others to play there. I have a locomotive disability with a case of Spastic Diplegia Cerebral Palsy because of which I could run slowly for only a few hundred metres during these warm-ups. After that, I would watch others play and never participate in any game. This and the task of cleaning the ground were like a form of physical segregation and I would feel excluded. I hated those two hours. This is just one incident among many others that made me think I was lesser than others. The constant need to fit in and improve myself put an extra burden on me. Over the years, these experiences contributed to developing a severe inferiority complex and a lack of self-confidence. The perception of disability in our society is unidimensional, conservative and narrow. Let us examine the words that are used to describe persons with disabilities: ‘Apang’, ‘Viklang’, ‘Handicapped’, ‘Specially-abled’, even ‘Divyang’. These terms lead to a stigma against disability in two ways. First, they identify and isolate PwDs from society. Second, they allot less personhood to these identified persons by addressing them with terms that mean, quite literally, weak and crippled. Else, they glorify them by according divinity (Divya — divine, Ang — body). These phrases prevent society from acknowledging their complete personhood and accepting them as human beings first. According to the World Report on Disability, 2011, there are more than one billion people (around 15 per cent of the global population) living with some form of disability. PwDs and their families, the report says, are more likely to experience economic and social disadvantages than others. They have lower employment rates and educational attainment. The report pointed out that working-age people with disabilities were found to be twice as likely to be unemployed. When employed, they are more likely to work part-time. Studies have shown that children with disabilities are almost four times more likely to face violence. Similarly, women with disabilities are three times more likely to experience domestic violence. Barriers — inaccessible social spaces along with the misbehaviour of people — hinder PwDs from full and effective participation in society on an equal basis as well as scar them emotionally and psychologically. They are more likely to experience loneliness, fear, anxiety, depression — the outcomes of discrimination and prejudice. Along with making physical spaces accessible to them, it is thus crucial to understand the mental health challenges faced by PwDs. To honour the principles of the signed convention of the United Nations — the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 2006 — India brought two legislations into force: Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Mental Healthcare Act, 2017. Both legislations pay scant attention to the mental health of PwDs. The RPwDA talks extensively of universal design, accessibility in the public sphere and the protection and safety of PwDs, but there are no provisions to address their needs of and access to mental healthcare services. The RPwDA and the MHA fail to address the intersection between caste and disabilities: PwDs hailing from the oppressed castes bear a double burden. Some other invisible barriers find no mention in the MHA. These include training and sensitizing of mental healthcare professionals to address the concerns of PwDs; the need to provide mental healthcare professionals with communication devices, technology and medium required by persons with sensory impairment. The existing data on disability in the 2011 census are vague and the phenomenon is under-reported. For example, according to the World Report on Disability, 15 per cent of the global population is living with some sort of disability, whereas the 2011 census says only 2.21 per cent of the Indian population is ‘disabled’. Clearly, the data do not give the complete picture. No effort should be spared to correctly collect data on disability during the 2021 census. Making the social environment inclusive for PwDs is the first step to integrate them fully into society. Disability cannot define a person. This kind of insensitivity renders PwDs disadvantaged and vulnerable. Unless society kicks away the stigma that is attached to disability, efforts at inclusion will remain incomplete.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
19-02-2021||Opinion||Alternative vision||Ninety-nine years ago this month, to the dismay of a significant section of the leadership of the freedom struggle, Mahatma Gandhi called off the Non-Cooperation movement. A Congress resolution passed in Bardoli on February 12, 1922, instructed its workers to stop picketing, start paying taxes, and suspend all forms of mass civil disobedience. The reason for this sudden volte-face was “the inhuman conduct of the mob at Chauri Chaura in having brutally murdered constables and wantonly burned the police thana...” Two weeks earlier, at Chauri Chaura, outside Gorakhpur, volunteers were picketing the local market, preventing the sale of fish, meat and liquor. Gupteshar Singh, the sub-inspector, had frustrated their attempts, leading to an altercation. A few days later, an enraged crowd gathered, 1,500-2,000 according to a UP government communiqué. They marched to the police station, armed with bamboo clubs, bricks and kankar from the adjoining railway tracks. When the police fired into the air, the protesters assaulted the officers, hurled bricks and kankar at the station and, ultimately, set fire to it. Twenty-one police officers and a little boy, the servant of the sub-inspector, were killed (numbers vary slightly in different accounts). “The kingdom of Mahatmaji has come” was, apparently, the chant ringing in the air in the aftermath of this brutal act. One hundred and seventy-two persons were convicted by the sessions court of murder and sentenced to death. The high court confirmed the sentences of 19 persons, acquitting or commuting the sentences of the rest. The reduction of sentences, according to the high court, was necessitated by the law — apart from the 19 ringleaders, the others were simply part of the crowd. Without condoning their lawlessness, the high court nonetheless spared them the gallows for being accessories to murder rather than its perpetrators. However, Abdulla, Bhagwan Ahir, Lal Muhammed and 16 others were not shown any clemency. Chauri Chaura is remembered for the wrong reasons in India’s history textbooks. Jawaharlal Nehru labelled the protesters “a mob of excited peasants”; Netaji called them “exasperated villagers”. There was a palpable sense of all-round resentment. Little of this was directed against the protesters who, despite having committed the act of violence, were considered a footnote. The disquiet was against Gandhi himself for calling off a resurgent Non-Cooperation movement because of a sporadic act of violence. Seeking to restore the pride of the protesters and give them their ‘rightful’ place in history, the Uttar Pradesh government has organized a year-long series of programmes to celebrate the centenary of Chauri Chaura. The grand inauguration repeatedly lauded the shaurya (bravery) and balidaan (sacrifice) of the men. Speakers at the function said that the fire in their hearts that burnt down the police station and took them to the gallows ignited millions of fires in the country. To commemorate Chauri Chaura without any significant reference to Gandhi, Non-Cooperation and the setback it caused to the national movement is a calculated attempt to revise India’s nationalist history. This would not be the first time such revisionism has taken place. Local accounts have always portrayed the Chauri Chaura martyrs as heroes defying the raj rather than failed satyagrahis. They were celebrated with the establishment of a memorial in 1991, where they feature side-by-side with Motilal Nehru, who is supposed to have represented the accused in court (Shahid Amin has written excellently about these local accounts). But never before has such an alternative retelling received such weighty national endorsement.  Earlier, there may have been a good reason for this. Motilal Nehru may have been the finest lawyer in the Allahabad High Court, but there is no record linking him with the defence of the Chauri Chaura accused. Neither is there any evidence to back the claim that Chauri Chaura played any significant part in inspiring the freedom movement, as was claimed earlier this month. Freedom, when it did arrive, did not come from the barrel of a gun but rather from actively abjuring its use. It is likely that the organizers of the commemorative celebration knew these facts. It is equally likely that they chose to go ahead with a grand spectacle to capture the zeitgeist of our times — that a post-truth society is fertile ground for alternative histories. When confronted with such events that are unapologetically designed to rewrite history, one can react with outrage and cite the facts from historically ‘authoritative’ sources. These facts would show that the Chauri Chaura protesters were volunteers who had taken a pledge of non-violence before joining the Non-Cooperation movement, a pledge they failed to keep. It would show that while brave in paying the ultimate price by taking the law into their own hands, they did the freedom movement a disservice, bringing to a grinding halt the hitherto successful Non-Cooperation campaign. It would be rational to be outraged that these facts have been glossed over. But this only adds further grist to the post-truth mill, prompting more strident endorsement of alternative truths. This does not mean that fidelity to recorded accounts should be abandoned; instead we must be cognizant that merely recounting long-held facts is unlikely to upset retellings in a post-truth world. The grand celebration of Chauri Chaura may more usefully be seen as an indicator of the emergence of a new kind of nation state in India. India has, for the last seven decades, been on a quest to find its authentic post-colonial self. One might have imagined that a post-colonial State secure in its acceptance of its British legacy while charting its own sovereign course might have emerged by now. But any such prospect has been consciously jettisoned to create the foundation of a republic that is a reactionary child of colony — a republic that celebrates violence, is at war with itself and, while claiming to look ahead, has its gaze firmly fixed on what has passed. So when the prime minister and the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh hail the Chauri Chaura heroes, they are, in one stroke, creating new icons and denigrating old ones to build a New India. And who are these new icons? Nineteen volunteers, and countless others like them, who fought their colonial masters with political violence, an act as brave as it is old. While their sacrifice has never been in doubt, what is striking is the lack of originality of their act. In selecting these men as icons, no real vision of a post-colonial republic is proffered or even attempted. An indubitably brave but ultimately pedestrian act repeated millions of times in scores of countries across the world is being held up as a symbol of New India. New India, on this account, feels rather old and unoriginal. In stark contrast, Mahatma Gandhi’s call to non-violence was not only revolutionary at the time, but also continues to be recognized as a truly original ‘Indian’ contribution to global movements. One may endorse it or resent it — that is a different matter. In the government’s celebration of Chauri Chaura is a clear message that Gandhian India and its unique ideal of non-violence have run their course. The government’s vision of New India needs a new Father of the Nation whose name isn’t Mahatma Gandhi. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-70
