20-02-2021||Opinion||Welcome to the Great Indian cow knowledge fest||Holy cow! It seems nearly half a million people have signed up for the government’s online exam to test their knowledge about “cow science” and the “advantageous” qualities of the 51 breeds of Indian Gau-Mata like the Kasaragod dwarf cow and the Red Kandhari over foreign “exotic” breeds such as the Jersey cow. The agency is holding a mock test this Sunday to be followed by the final exam four days later on February 25 and it’s offering prizes to “successful meritorious candidates” and certificates to all exam participants. People from virtually every district in India have registered for the test which is being offered in Hindi, English and 12 regional languages. And there’s been keen overseas interest. Some 15 per cent of the exam hopefuls are from abroad, says the government agency Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA). “We’ve got people from every continent from countries like Malaysia, UAE -- and even Pakistan” to join the Indian cattle knowledge fest, says RKA spokesman Pureesh Kumar. The aim of the one-hour multiple exam exercise is to “infuse the curiosity into all Indians about the cows, and make them aware of the unexplored potential and business opportunities a cow can offer, even after it stops giving milk”. So what’s in store as far as questions? Turns out quite a lot. The golden rule to remember for this exam is that Indian cows are superior in every way. For how superior, check out the exam ‘syllabus’ which makes some fairly eyebrow-raising claims, such as attributing earthquakes to cow slaughter. Desi cows are also cleaner than foreign ones. And they display impressive  respect:: “Whenever any unknown  person comes near a desi cow, she will immediately stand. And, of course, make sure you know what the exam syllabus lists as the five great contributions cows make to mankind -- milk, ghee, curd, urine and dung. But again, cow dung and urine of foreign breeds are “comparatively of inferior quality, says the syllabus. It goes without saying that Indian cows’ milk is superior to the milk from foreign cows and with its slightly yellow tinge even contains traces of gold. To be specific, RKA asserts that the milk from the Jersey, Holstein Friesian and other foreign-bred cows, imported from Western countries, have been linked to diseases from diabetes, heart disease and schizophrenia to autism. The milk produced by desi cows poses none of these dangers. Also, the Jersey cow, so the RKA says, suffers from a litany of  problems from being lazy to not being “emotive.” To get the highest number of exam participants, the Kamdhenu Aayog has gone all out, persuading the University Grants Commission (UGC) to lean on colleges around the country to take part in the exam. Letters have also gone out to the Kendriya Vidyalayas to persuade school-going children to take part (it’s going to be slightly dumbed down for kids). Got a yen to participate? It’s not too late to sign up as today’s the last exam registration day. And there won’t be any nail-biting wait for the results which will be declared immediately on the website of the RKA. The Kamdhenu Aayog was set up back in 2019 to focus mainly on the protecting, developing and promoting Indian cattle breeds. It’s other key mandate is to keep a close watch on the “implementation of the prohibition of the slaughter and/or cruelty to cows. Then there is the business potential from cows via itself milk, ghee, curd, cow dung and urine which have “immense potential for generating huge revenue by utilizing its milk, ghee, curd, cow dung and cow urine base.” Also to be explored, there’s the concept of “cow hugging” in the west for health benefits. In Rajasthan, the RKA notes there are already guest houses with walls and floors made from dung. In addition, indigenous breeds have some unique features like hump on their back that has the special power to absorb the sun’s energy with the help of the ‘solar pulse’ situated on their humps running through the spine, a unique colour and a curved backline, the RKA says. The Suryaketu Nadi, located in the cow’s back also absorbs many positive and medicinal energy from the sunlight and the atmosphere, leading to more nourishing milk, cow dung, and urine. The RKA’s overarching aim is to communicate to the public that the cow “is not just a milk-giving animal” but that its.so-called “waste products” --  like cow-dung and cow-urine, which are cheap and abundantly available, are bio-degradable and environmentally friendly. Also, aside from being used for fuel, cow dung is an excellent antiseptic, skin tonic and toothpaste.  And interestingly, the RKA researchers say, drop a Ganesh idol made of cow dung from 30 floors, it won’t break whereas if you drop a Ganesh made from foreign cow dung, from a lower floor, it will shatter.  Meanwhile, desi cow urine stops gas disorders, bile, stomach acidity as well as cures leprosy and other skin problems, the RKA says. As far as cow slaughter, don’t even let it cross your mind as you could be facing some pretty unpleasant karma, according to the RKA syllabus. So now you have the lowdown on the exam contents. What are you waiting for? Don’t be a cynical “pseudo intellectual” as the RKA says. Go ahead -- and gau for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
20-02-2021||Opinion||Shining examples: Serena Williams and Naomi Osaka||Sir — The thrill of watching the tennis legend, Serena Williams, and the immensely talented player, Naomi Osaka, play against each other on the tennis court is unparalleled. It was mesmerizing to watch Osaka beat Williams in straight sets — 6-3, 6-4 — in the semi-final of the Australian Open to reach her fourth major final. With this win, the Japanese tennis star has extended her winning streak to 20 matches. It is clear that Osaka is destined for greatness in the game; it is no mean feat to beat the younger Williams sister, who is easily the best tennis player of all time alongside Roger Federer. Osaka had, in fact, beaten Williams once before, in 2018, in the final of the US Open, a victory which catapulted her into the spotlight. It is a treat to observe her game: she has an offence-heavy playing style that is complemented by her powerful forehand and strong backhand. She is recognized as an aggressive baseline player; some of her fastest serves have been clocked in at 125 miles per hour. Given that she is just 23 years old, one can look forward with great anticipation to all the upcoming achievements in her career. But sport is as much about goodwill and mutual respect as it is about fierce and healthy competition. As such, it is heart-warming to observe not only the camaraderie between the two players but also Osaka’s clear admiration and awe for Williams. “I was a little kid watching [Williams] play,” said Osaka, “and just to be on the court playing against her, for me, is a dream.” One hopes that tennis lovers get more chances to watch the two formidable stars play against each other in the future; both of them set a magnificent example for young girls who aspire to play the game. Ronit Ganguly,Calcutta Sir — It is sad that the legendary Serena Williams has once again lost an opportunity to equal Margaret Court’s record of 24 Grand Slam titles. She has now missed 11 chances to win her 24th Grand Slam; her last win was in 2017, at the Australian Open. At the same time, one must congratulate the young Naomi Osaka, who has proved to be a stumbling block in Williams’s path, bouncing back in the semi-final match to defeat her opponent in straight sets. Will Williams be able to equal Court’s record in the future? Janaki Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — Serena Williams may have lost the Australian Open semi-final to Naomi Osaka and her chance to win her 24th Grand Slam title, but there is no reason for her fans to despair. This is the woman who won the Australian Open in 2017 while being pregnant. There is no doubting her greatness or her capabilities. Ankit Gandhi,Calcutta Be careful Sir — It was both distressing and infuriating to watch the video of an elderly woman in Rohtak who had to lie low on a railway track as a goods train passed over her. It was a relief to see her emerge unscathed — the local people advised her to lie still till the train had passed — but this is a case of extreme carelessness on the part of the woman. Passers-by and the signalman had reportedly tried to stop her from crossing the tracks with the train approaching, but she disregarded their warnings as she was in a hurry. While serious train accidents often take place owing to the negligence of the railway authorities, are not ordinary citizens also expected to behave responsibly? Aditi Khosla,Delhi PARTING SHOT Sir — The residents of two co-operative housing societies in Kankurgachi were practically immobilized for almost 13 hours a couple of days ago on account of a political meeting that was organized on the main road. The road was blocked by a podium as well as chairs and barricades, making the movement of cars and other vehicles impossible. Luckily no emergency arose during that period, but what would the residents have done if it had? The authorities and organizers of such meetings should think about the inconveniences caused to ordinary people before allowing such gatherings to take place in this fashion. That is, if they care about the people at all. Priyanko Mukherji,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
20-02-2021||Opinion||Enter the master: politics and education||Politicians in India believe that power is equal to mastery in every sphere. Education, for example, is firmly in their hands, irrespective of their experience of academia. Usually governments are reluctant to lose the chance of inserting the ruling party’s point of view — mildly or aggressively — into teaching materials or methods. Funding education, a public good, becomes a route for control, which is why autonomy has remained elusive for educational institutions. One positive feature of the Trinamul Congress government in West Bengal is that it did not try experimenting with school syllabi, such as postponing the learning of English till Class V, as an earlier government had done. That changed the future for a whole generation of students. Rather, the present government has shown some positive achievements: according to the Annual Status of Education Report from Pratham last September, Bengal ranked first in the country in reducing the percentage of school drop-outs. Government schemes and policies have helped. Different reports and accounts suggest that not just the proper distribution of midday meals — during the Covid-19 shutdown of schools the government distributed uncooked midday meal items with masks and soap — but also that of shoes, clothes, bicycles, textbooks — Bengal was the fastest in reaching books to pupils during the pandemic — have resulted in the growing numbers in schools. The Kanyashree scheme, by which government funds help parents educate girls until they are 18 and not marry them off, has been widely acknowledged. In the bleak scene of learning outcomes in India, the 2018 ASER indicates another improvement — if the ability to read Class II texts by students of Class V can be so called. But happy endings are rare. The state government’s pride in the growing number of schools, colleges and universities built in the last decade seems misplaced in the context of the lack of teachers. A teachers’ association has said that around 87,000 teachers’ posts are vacant in the secondary and higher secondary levels. This does not augur well for pupils. It is not just delays in recruiting teachers already empanelled by the School Service Commission but also the thrust to appoint politically preferred candidates that are eroding the positive effects of the government’s declared schemes. And when managing committees in schools reportedly have a ruling party-affiliated person imposed on top, academics are unavoidably tainted by politics and the independence and dignity of teachers are hurt. It is no coincidence that teachers and teacher candidates are growing increasingly unhappy. Universities and colleges are complaining of similar political interference, which has not lessened at all since the last regime. Perhaps the tragedy at the school level is more poignant, since the government has obviously tried hard in this sector. But all its efforts will go to waste unless the ruling party stops interfering — through the government route or otherwise — and higher education is no longer sabotaged from more than one direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
20-02-2021||Opinion||Plot twist: Trisha Sakhlecha’s recently published novel||I won’t give away the twist in Trisha Sakhlecha’s recently published novel, Can You See Me Now? but I was so shocked I had to read it again. The tale is about 16-year-olds, Noor Qureshi and Sabah Khan, at Westcott, an exclusive school in India, who are joined by Alia Sharma, an arrival from London. They become best friends but then dark things happen, ending up with Noor’s funeral. Trisha laughs and assures me these girls are nothing like her own best friends from Delhi Public School, where she went before studying fashion in Mumbai and Bangalore. At 22, when she settled in London, she did a creative writing course at the Faber Academy. A “sex scandal” incident similar to one which had happened at her school is woven into the plot. Trisha thinks it’s unfair that the girl — rather like Noor — was pilloried, while nothing much happened to the boy. Her intriguing novel moves backwards and forwards 15 years, which explains why Trisha used a spreadsheet to cope with the “many moving parts”. Trisha should be at her home in London, but is in lockdown in Bhopal, where her father, Om Prakash Sakhlecha, is an MLA. Her late grandfather, Virendra Kumar Sakhlecha, was once the Madhya Pradesh chief minister. Trisha chose not to go into politics — though she features communal tensions in her novel — but to combine writing with fashion. As a child she enjoyed Enid Blyton’s Famous Five and The Secret Seven stories and “adored” Agatha Christie. “Donna Tartt’s The Secret History has also been a huge source of inspiration and Jhumpa Lahiri and Kamila Shamsie are two authors I keep going back to again and again.” I discovered we love one poem in common — “The Highwayman” by Alfred Noyes. Girl’s got groove Perhaps as a treat to listeners on Valentine’s Day, Malala Yousafzai was a guest on BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs, where guests reveal something of their private lives while picking eight pieces of music. Malala’s choices were mainly Pakistani compositions, but she did pick Justin Bieber’s “Never Say Never”; “All I Ask Of You” from the musical, The Phantom of the Opera; and Peter Asher’s “Love Always Comes as a Surprise” from Madagascar 3. She admitted she had become a big fan of British TV comedy, such as Yes Minister. Malala, now 23, graduated in PPE from Oxford last year. She picked Plato’s The Republic, as her book, and lip balm as her luxury item. As for her moments of joy, she said: “When I’m watching a cricket match between India and Pakistan — and Pakistan wins — I am really, really happy.” Listening to her moving interview, full of life and laughter, some listeners could almost have forgotten what Malala refers to as “the incident” on October 9, 2012 when the Taliban shot her in the head. She spent months at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham. When she regained consciousness, the first thing she requested was for her father to bring her physics books “because I was worried that I might be a bit behind in my revision for my exams in Pakistan”. Maybe it is a blessing in disguise that Malala, who intends to continue to fight for girls’ education, has no memory of the assassination attempt.Under attack In the light of Black Lives Matter, many British institutions have decided now is the time to subject the history of the Empire to ever closer scrutiny. Churchill College, Cambridge, held a second discussion to examine Winston Churchill’s policies towards India, with academics alleging his notions of “white supremacy” were not so different from those of the Nazis. Deeply upset, Churchill’s grandson, Sir Nicholas Soames, responded: “I think Sir Winston’s reputation will withstand, with some ease, this sort of rant. I do think it’s terribly disappointing that views like this are advanced at Churchill College... I’m afraid to say I have nothing but contempt for what these people have said.” And according to the National Trust, Lord Curzon pursued racist policies as Viceroy of India from 1899 to 1905. The trust, which looks after the Curzon family home, Kedleston Hall in Derbyshire, says: “Like most of his contemporaries, British rule in India was to him a ‘civilising mission’: a euphemistic and racist ideology used to justify colonial supremacy.” Supporters of the Empire will be delighted to learn that Curzon’s statue still remains at the Victoria Memorial Hall which retains its name.Birthday boy Lord Swraj Paul, who has long been a sort of spokesman for Indo-British relations, turned 90 on Thursday. He was born in Jalandhar on February 18, 1931, moved to Calcutta in the 1950s when he was 24 (“Calcutta was and is a lovely city”), married Aruna Vij in 1956 within a week of meeting her although she was engaged to someone else, and settled in London in 1966. Although he has had both doses of the Pfizer vaccine, Swraj remains in lockdown. “I miss going to work.” Even though Swraj says, “I am 100 per cent Indian and 100 per cent British,” he adds, “On some things you have to choose. So I still get up at 5.30 am, have a cup of tea and am in the office by 8 am. Very Indian.” Footnote Taking part in the debate at Churchill College, Cambridge, the historian, Madhusree Mukerjee, said Sir Winston Churchill was a white supremacist guilty of aggravating the effects of the 1943 Bengal Famine, and also that Hitler “was inspired by the British Empire”. She added: “Hitler’s favourite movie was The Lives of a Bengal Lancer... in which British officers in the North-West Frontier perform these heroic feats. He made it compulsory viewing for SS trainees.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
20-02-2021||Opinion||Seize the moment||The nearly three-month old farmers movement has managed to make a dent into the carefully maintained image of the ruling party. Yet whether that dent translates to something of electoral significance depends on the response of opposition political parties. If this moment leads to a political turning point, it would have less to do with what these protests meant for the BJP, and more about with what they did to the opposition. Put simply, this is a rare opportunity for revival provided to a largely comatose opposition. The crucial state of Uttar Pradesh, known for its fierce political contestations, had in the last few years entered a phase of unusual political quiescence. That spell has now been broken with a string of kisan mahapanchayats put together by the SP and the RLD. Priyanka Gandhi has kicked off her own ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Abhiyan’ in the state with a farmer rally at Saharanpur. Can these parties use these protests alone to inflict electoral damage on the BJP? Can these parties use the energy of these protests to rebuild their political capital? The answer to the first question is unclear, but the answer to the second question is yes- it is indeed a unique opportunity for opposition parties to replenish their depleted ideological and organisational resources. The first question is unclear because there have been other farmer agitations in the last few years and farm distress has long beenprophesised as the Achilles Heel to the BJP dominance. Yet, the BJP substantially enhanced its vote share among both farmers and rural areas in 2019, compared to 2014. In fact, as a proportion, more farmers voted for the BJP than non-farmers. Only in the 2017 elections in Gujarat do we see concrete evidence of farmer distress playing a key role in hurting the BJP. In some other states, farm distress has been misattributed as a major reason for BJP’s reverses. In rural Haryana, for instance, it was Jat backlash over political marginalisation that dragged down the BJP, not wider rural distress. And in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, as the political scientist Neelanjan Sircar demonstrated,  the BJP’s victory strike rate dwindled as much in urban seats as in rural seats, indicating a wider disenchantment. In fact, contrary to the narrative of BJP’s waning control over rural India, the larger political story since 2014 has been the steady expansion of the BJP, both in terms of organisation and support base, into the rural hinterland. As the scholar Diego Maiorano has convincingly argued, the “2019 elections mark the culmination of a decades-long process of ruralizationand ‘proletarianization’ of the BJP”. It is not hard to figure out why. Political analysts can make overwrought contrasts between the mindset of urban and rural voters. But the political divide between the two has been rapidly shrinking over the last few decades. The improvement in rural infrastructure and connectivity, heavy migration, and diversified, rising incomes have meant that rural Indians are subject to the same political concerns and ideological currents as urban Indians. In the 2019 Loknitipost-poll survey, only 5% of farmers cited issues related to farming as a driver of their vote. Many more cited unemployment and development, much like their urban cousins. Farmer politics, that reached its high noon in the 70s, when peasant-based parties (dominated by middle peasant castes) such as Chaudhary Charan Singh’s BLD displaced the rural hegemony of the Congress, has been declining since the 90s. The pincer movement of the Mandir and Mandal on one hand and the Market on the other has meant that, since the 90s, the political salience of farming issues ebbed away in favour of a sharper contestation on issues of caste and religious identity. The BJP has built its rural base both on ideological messaging of ethno-nationalism that appeals particularly to the middle peasant castes and upper castes, along with well-publicised and effectively delivered welfare schemes that binds them to the rural poor. Unlike the vertically arranged networks of patronage that formed the bedrock of Congress’ rural hegemony till the 60s, the BJP’s system of dominance in rural India is thus structurally more resilient to occasional cycles of protests. That the protests have remained largely confined, outside Punjab, to the Jat belts of Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, suggests that there is no widespread rural anger against the BJP. However, as earlier mentioned, these protests have succeeded in denting the image of the government and have provided a fortuitous opening to the Opposition parties. They can capitalise on the protests in two ways. Firstly, it can help them in ideologically repositioning themselves in opposition to the BJP. The “Adani Ambani government” (to borrow the words of Rahul Gandhi) against the pious poor farmer is a potent political narrative. The caste-based parties in the Hindi heartland had started running out of steam even before the rise of the BJP. This political moment can enable them to recalibrate their political mobilizational strategies from caste to class, thus increasing their catchment area to a wider array of castes. This is particularly important in Uttar Pradesh, where the numerically strong but scattered Most Backward Castes have drifted rapidly towards the BJP. The protests have already given the impetus to the Congress, which is often charged with lacking ideological clarity, into adopting a shaper left populist rhetoric. Rahul Gandhi has situated the farmer protests in a larger anti-capitalist narrative, repeatedly stating that the government cares for their friends “Ambani and Adani” more than the ordinary people of the country. Unlike the Rafale issue, which dealt with the remote issue of French aircrafts, the farmer protests present an emotionally powerful political canvas on which to paint his populist attacks on crony capitalism. When P Chidambaram, a member of the liberal camp in Congress, tells Parliament that the government only works for the top 1% ‘parijeevi’ (parasites) who control 73% of the country’s wealth, the party’s lurch further Left is unmistakably highlighted. A key challenge to this ideological repositioning is that opposition parties must integrate their diagnosis of the farmer crisis with their larger thesis on economic precarity, joblessness, and development. This is because farmers are equally concerned with these issues as their urban counterparts. In fact, some of the largest agitations of peasant castes in recent years, the Patidars in Gujarat, the Marathas in Maharashtra and the Jats in Haryana, have been on the issue of jobs. For instance, Rahul Gandhi must also explain how crony capitalism of the BJP threatens jobs and development, and what is the alternative vision of the Congress in addressing those challenges. Secondly, the present moment can provide opposition parties with the necessary push to refurbish their organisational resources.  Indian political parties are known to be organisationally weak, and reliant on local elites to act as a bridge between them and the public. This weakness has been made painfully apparent in recent years, where opposition organisational inactivity and ruling party hyper-visibility has reinforced the impression of the hegemonic irresistibility of the BJP. A more proactive engagement with the farmers movement, such as holding rallies and public events in solidarity, with recharge the dormant workers of opposition parties, and activate party structures at all levels. It is perhaps with this objective in mind that the Congress party has planned to hold padyatras in every district this month. Opposition political parties are right to lament that the media has become overly biased towards the BJP, which impedes their message from reaching the public, or that BJP’s control over networks of funding have left them strapped for cash. But righteous laments have little use in politics. The need for an active organisation in between elections becomes even more acute, in the face of a compromised media, to act as a consistent andreliable channel of communication with the people. And organisations can be overhauled,even in the absence of adequate funding, through harnessing the mobilizational potential of protest movements. The BJP essentially built up its organisation base in many states on the back of the Ram Janambhoomi movement, when it was in power no where in the country. The BJP has successfully shifted the centre of gravity of Indian politics. It will not organically swing back towards the opposition parties. Therefore, when the contradictions in BJP’s system of rule presents the opposition with an opening, they must exploit it to the hilt to claw their way back towards the main stage. The farmers protests represent their biggest such opportunity over the last six years. Given the political shrewdness of the BJP, it might be a long while before they are presented with one again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
