21-02-2021||Opinion||Vadodara polls: Cong promises 'date destinations with coffee shops'||In a tea-loving country, a lot can happen over coffee. This seems to be the hope behind the Congress promising, among other things, “date destinations with coffee shops” as meeting places for “youth, students, couples” in its manifesto for the municipal corporation elections in Vadodara that are taking place today. The aim, apparently, is to give the weaker sections of the society a recreational space to unwind and relax — leisure and privacy are luxuries that they can seldom afford. The move is significant because of the Congress’s wobbly record of choosing to prioritize populist sentiments over a sustained commitment to a progressive ethos. The government led by Rajiv Gandhi had overturned the Supreme Court’s verdict in the Shah Bano case; this streak of cashing in on conservatism for the sake of electoral profit resurfaced recently when the Congress in Kerala promised to bring a law to punish women of child-bearing age if they were to break the ‘age-old traditions’ of the Sabarimala temple. The Congress’s decision to stand its ground on its manifesto — the Bharatiya Janata Party has already accused it of polluting the “sanskaari nagri” of Vadodara — is not the only matter of importance here. A poll manifesto can, often, be a sign of the times. Love jihad makes all the noise in a nation that has unleashed demons on love. Consensual, adult relationships are often demonized in India, especially when they are forged by cutting across the barriers of caste and faith. The BJP’s branding of coffee dates as ‘uncultured’ and the laws passed by BJP governments criminalizing interfaith unions are signs of a worrying regression. This kind of political meddling infringes upon the young adults’ right to freedom and privacy; both are fundamental rights in the eyes of the Constitution and courts. There may be a reason why the Congress has decided to mould the personal into the political. There is some evidence to suggest that the popularity of the BJP and its ideas are on the wane among the youth. In 2019, a post-poll survey had showed that among the youth, except in non-Hindu communities, the BJP had found acceptance across caste groups, but by 2020 as many as 46 per cent of Gen Z and 44 per cent of millennials were no longer enchanted with the party. This does not mean that their support has shifted towards the Opposition. This makes it all the more important for parties like the Congress to endorse affirmative policies that can reflect and meet the aspirations of Young India. Reaching out to the youth might serve the Congress well in a country in which 45 million new, young voters played an important role in shaping the outcome of the last general elections. The youth have acquired a critical mass in global politics. Political outfits across the world are attempting to include issues such as unemployment and climate change in their manifestos to win the allegiance of this constituency. The Congress, for once, seems to have gauged the pulse of the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
21-02-2021||Opinion||Historic verdict: Priya Ramani acquitted ||Sir — A Delhi court’s acquittal of the journalist, Priya Ramani, in the criminal defamation complaint filed by the editor-turned-politician, M.J. Akbar, will embolden survivors of sexual harassment at workplaces to speak up (“Akbar’s defamation suit is tossed out”, Feb 18). The court has rightly observed that the ‘right to reputation’ cannot be protected at the cost of the right to life and dignity of a woman, and aptly applied constitutional safeguards of right to equality and equal protection before the law to acquit Ramani of the wrongful charges against her. But it is still ironic that it was the victim, not the perpetrator, who was made to stand up in court as an accused. This verdict has given fresh impetus to the #MeToo movement, which seemed to have lost some of its momentum. The Delhi court’s observation that a woman has the right to put forward her grievances before any platform of her choice even after decades is of great import in this context. Besides retaliation from influential or powerful offenders, it is the fear of infamy and stigma that forces victims to keep suffering in silence for years. The first step towards asafer, more equal, future would be to create an enabling environment for women to speak about their ordeal. There is also a need to raise awareness about the legal weapons at their disposal — take, for instance, the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. Implementation of the law in letter and spirit can act as a strong deterrent. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — Priya Ramani’s acquittal is a defining moment in the fight against sexual harassment in the workplace. By exonerating Ramani, the Delhi court has not only foiled M.J. Akbar’s attempt to silence and intimidate her, but it has made other influential men with power rethink using legal action to hide news of their misdemeanors against women. The former Union minister was accused of sexual misconduct by a handful of women journalists around two years ago as part of the #MeToo movement, and the allegations had forced him to resign from the Union cabinet. It is an encouraging sign that women are courageously coming forward to talk about their experiences of sexual harassment. They are fearlessly naming their abusers. Her acquittal and the court’s words will motivate more women to come forward with the truth and hopefully make the society we live in a safer place for women. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — Be it in the media, as in the case of Priya Ramani, or any other domain, the reality that many women suffer in silence in the face of sexual harassment, especially in the early stages of their career, has been brought to the fore by the new-found space and freedom to share their experiences created by the #MeToo movement. Yet, even as Ramani was acquitted, there are still thousands of other women who have neither the resources nor the means to speak up against their oppressors. Ramani is fortunate enough to be literate and to have at her disposal weapons like social media that enabled her to stand up to her abuser. Can a woman labourer working in the kilns of Uttar Pradesh or the fields of Bengal or Bihar do the same? If children and daughters are not safe in their homes, one can only imagine the plight of the women who come to work for us. While the verdict in this case is encouraging, a lot more needs to be done to make all women feel safe and equal in the eyes of the law. K. Jana,Calcutta Bound no more Sir — The bindi has social media in a bind. While most are cheering the Nasa scientist who sported a bindi during the landing of the American rover on the red planet, others have raised eyebrows over why a bindi, which has many superstitions attached to it, should be something to celebrate. The simple answer is choice: the bindi is no longer a red dot to ward off the evil eye; its absence is not tied to the fate of one’s husband. It is a style statement — it comes in all shapes and colours and even varied states like solid and liquid. The bindi thus no longer binds the woman. A. Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
21-02-2021||Opinion||It’s a date: Bhasha Andolon Dibos||“Amar bhaier rokte rangano/Ekushey February/Ami ki bhulite pari?… Coloured with the blood of my brother/Arrives every 21st of February/ How can I ever erase that memory? How can I ever erase that memory?” Long before this date came to be International Mother Language Day, it was commemorated as Bhasha Andolan Dibos in Bangladesh. The above lines are in memory of the students gunned down by police on February 21, 1952. Students protesting the announcement that Urdu was to be the national language of Pakistan, overlooking 44 million of its 78 million people living in East Pakistan and speaking a different tongue. That day, when Gaffar Choudhury saw the body of a student protester, his head blown off, those anguished lines came to him. In the years that followed, those lines became the anthem of Bhasha Andolan legatees. The chant The word ekushe, ikkis or twenty one, shorn of some month before some circa after naturally throbs with the suggestion of coming of age. The violence of the State against its very own, fighting for their mother tongue, did not begin on February 21, 1952; neither did it end that day. In 1956, when the first constitution of Pakistan was enacted, alongside Urdu, Bengali too was adopted as the official language of Pakistan. Bangladesh was not born until two decades later. Today, Bangladesh has an Ekushey book fair. The nation’s highest civilian award is known as the Ekushey Padak. There is a private television channel by that name. There is something called the Ekushey Bangla Keyboard. Ekushey has gone from being a date to an incantation to a watchword for revolution to identity to triumph to credo. Abol Tabol For a section of people in Bengal too Ekushey has always been special, umbilical. But right now, right here, it is all about ekush. The BJP has been sloganeering for a while now “Unishe Half, Ekushe Saaf”. The Left parties are thrilled with their “Ekushe Ram. Ponchishe Baam”. The TMC too has its own ekush connection, but for now it is all focused on Mission Ekush, Assembly polls. To the man on the street, 21 is just another number, though it might remind some of a nonsense rhyme from the early 20th century. The rhyme is about a topsy-turvy world wherein no one ever knows what is going to invite the State and its ruler's ire. All that one can be sure of is that the punishments will be bizarre and for sure in sets of 21. The English translation of the poem goes thus, In Shiva's homeland, the rules are quite strange, as I can truly attest… While walking the streets, your steps cannot wander, a step left or right and the king is called yonder… Sukumar Ray called it Ekushe Ain or The Rule of 21. Touche.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
21-02-2021||Opinion||Did I not say Soney ki Chidiya?||The nests were always going to give. The birds were always going to weigh them down. These birds. Such birds. Such a slur on birds. We shall come to them. Eventually. We shall bomb their wings and torpedo their feathers. We shall fling on them the weight of mountains so they may be forever buried. Once and for all. Or we shall command the skies to fall, swoop down on their wings of fiery cloud, and end their flight. Forever. We shall come to them. We shall come to that. Things that fly, bird-like things I mean, have a tendency to go beyond reach and begin to do their own thing. That’s a danger to us, the tendency to have a mind that does its own thing, and a body that flies beyond reach. That must be stopped. Forthwith. Clear the airspace, it is ours, no enemy craft allowed; trespassers will be shot. Do not believe that nonsense about cloud cover, whoever may have told you. Clouds cover nothing; clouds only reveal. Rain, for instance. Or lightning. Or sun. Or sky. The game of clouds is not to cover things, it is to lay things bare. They move. They expose. They are forever moving. They are forever exposing. Ever seen a stationary cloud? Ever been able to nail one to whatever lies above in a way that it becomes a fixture? Let us know. Meantime, shore up some self-respect and figure out what can happen behind cloud cover and what cannot. Waise, these fighter jet type of things, you know, nowadays they can tear into sound and light and the rest of it so one must wonder where cottonwool clouds stand in that category. Imagine an engineered shard of reinforced metal and fibreglass at those speeds. Then imagine clouds. Then imagine cover. I am tempted to imagine more than cover, as it happens. I am tempted to imagine cover-up. Beherhaal, jo bhi ho. Birds will be birds, we need to be Us, now more than ever. Birds of steel or birds of style, they can both turn misguided and beyond our control or manipulation. This thing called flight, it is not such an acceptable thing. Which is why, you may recall, when I mentioned birds I mentioned them in a particular and well-meditated way. Soney ki Chidiya waala Bharat, I said. And people got me wrong, which is not unusual. When I say we are a democracy, people think I mean it for everyone, whereas I only mean “we”, as in me and my shadow. When I say I have done in seven years what they could not do in 70, people start saying but you are only undoing things, not understanding that undoing is also an act of doing. I am undoing. Wait till your turn comes, you shall be undone too, tell me how it feels. So, where was I? Haan, soney ki chidiya. I meant the bird that has been put to sleep. You know why they need to be put to sleep, these unruly flying things cutting the sky to ribbons with no direction or discipline. Look at this one. It has been hung upside down, claws braced against ionosphere. Look at how. You see that thing swinging by its neck. I cannot figure what this thing is. Is it a manual? Is it some explosive device? It is an explosive device attached to a manual on how the device must be triggered and exploded. I cannot tell. We are looking into it, investigations are on, experts are at it. First information reports tell us, psst-psssst, it may be something called a CoolKit. It looks innocent but it is actually a killer contraption. It floats in, unbeknownst, under all radars, cloud or no cloud, and pulverises everything in its vicinity. That’s why they call it that: CoolKit. Looks cool but it’s a kind of kit. You know, kit. They wear them when they set out to do that. I am too terrified to mention particulars. This bird had a CoolKit. This bird had to have it. Look at her, the sight of her. Soney ki Chidiya, the bird we put to sleep. The bird I promised. It is now being heard The command to pliant cattle The threat now looms of the bird And it must be crushed in battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
21-02-2021||Opinion||Wrong path: Ghulam Nabi Azad's exit from Rajya Sabha||The exit of the veteran Congress leader, Ghulam Nabi Azad, from the Rajya Sabha has reignited unrest within the party as one section — infamous as the Group of 23 — believes the truce worked out by Sonia Gandhi in December has been violated. There are murmurs in the party that the efforts at reconciliation have stopped and the leaders of this group face discrimination at different levels on a daily basis. The level of distrust and bitterness between these leaders and the new coterie is so high that any unity of purpose is impossible. This divide is bound to tell on the restructuring processes and the election of a new party president slated to take place over the next couple of months. Many leaders privately confess a “deep sense of hurt” and argue that somebody as senior and loyal as Azad should have been treated with greater sensitivity. They feel that the leadership and its “current advisers” should have anticipated this situation and brought Azad to the Rajya Sabha from Rajasthan instead of the general-secretary in charge of the organization, KC Venugopal, who could have been nominated from his home state, Kerala, in April. One leader said, “Azad is too dignified to ask anything for himself but the party leadership could still bring him to Rajya Sabha from Kerala.” This, however, will not be of much help as Azad cannot return as leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha because Mallikarjun Kharge has already been appointed to that post. The real anger, though, is against what insiders call Rahul Gandhi’s “current advisers” who are dragging him down a path of confrontation instead of stressing the need for unity. New superhero on the block Move over Superman and Batman, here comes the ‘development man’. Just when the people of Bihar had started taking the ‘vikas purush’ (development man) epithet of the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, at face value, his Janata Dal (United) officially anointed him with the title. The party’s national president, RCP Singh, announced that henceforth Kumar’s birthday (March 1) would be celebrated as ‘development day’ across the state. Party workers have been asked to gather at various places in every city, town,panchayat, village and booth to discuss the development projects undertaken by the leader who will turn 70 on that day. They will also pray for his long life and take a pledge to turn Bihar into a developed state. As soon as word got out, JD(U) leaders started singing paeans about the sterling work done by Kumar. One of them even suggested that like Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan and Lauha Purush Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Kumar should henceforth be addressed by all JD(U) leaders as Vikas Purush Nitish Kumar. It seems that party leaders have agreed to do so. It would be interesting to see whether the common man on the streets accepts this title. Chasing a dream The senior Assam minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, the BJP’s go-to man in the Northeast, launched his fourth book, Eta Xopunor Pom Khedi (Chasing a Dream), in Guwahati this week in spite of his very busy official and party schedule in the poll-bound state. Released by the Meghalaya CM, Conrad Sangma, at a packed function, the book is a collection of 25 select speeches reflecting Sarma’s passion to transform Assam into a leading state. The launch was also an occasion for Sarma to share a couple of secrets like the one about his letter to the state BJP president, Ranjeet Kumar Dass, on February 1 last year stating that he was not keen on contesting the upcoming assembly polls, a decision he had not shared with even his family. But the letter added that he would honour any decision taken by the party. Sarma also said posts hardly matter when asked whether he was in the race for the CM’s chair, going on to say that he wants people to remember him 50-100 years down the line as a person who lived for a cause, believed in his ideology and worked for his party and the state. However, these disclosures left his supporters and admirers stumped for they see him as a future CM, an idea fuelled by Sarma himself when he was in the Congress. A key reason for Sarma leaving the Congress in 2015 was the denial of the CM’s post despite him having the numbers. His supporters are seeking solace in the title of his book, hoping that Sarma will continue to chase his dream. Meteoric rise The rise of the Mahila Morcha secretary, Smitha Menon, has been causing heartburn in Kerala’s BJP unit. She first waded into controversy, and triggered intra-party issues after being seen on a delegate’s chair at the Indian Ocean Rim Association meeting in Dubai attended by the minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan. The minister backed her by claiming she was there only as a PR person and dismissed charges of protocol violation. Now she is back in the limelight after being preferred over old-timers like Sobha Surendran to receive the prime minister, Narendra Modi, during his recent trip to Kochi. Tipped for a party ticket in the upcoming assembly polls, Menon will surely set the cat among the pigeons in the coming weeks. Footnote The sprint queen of yesteryear, PT Usha, is said to have given the nod to join the BJP ahead of the Kerala state polls. While it is not clear if the ‘Payyoli Express’, who missed the bronze medal at the Los Angeles Olympics by a whisker, would contest, the party is keen on adding her at least to the list of star campaigners with the hope of cashing in on her image. But the larger question being asked in Kerala is if Usha still has the same appeal that once brought fan mails carrying just her name and state in the address column.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
21-02-2021||Opinion||A day of faith||‘Birthday’ is a standard word. But not ‘deathday’. Too inauspicious, perhaps. Too grim. But that is surely ahistorical. Some deathdays are to be celebrated for the persons who have died and the circumstances in which they have died bear out Donne’s famous lines: “Death be not proud… for those whom thou think’st thou doth overthrow die not.” The 22nd of February — tomorrow — is the deathday of a woman who did her life proud by her death. Valliamma R. Munuswamy Mudaliar belonged to a Tamil family from the village of Thillaiyadi, now in the state’s Nagapattinam district. Her ancestors had been indentured, like several others from the Indian peninsula and even from ‘up North’, to work on plantations and in mines in South Africa. In the early 1910s, these Indian labourers, poorly paid, uncivilly treated, without political or even civic rights, were riled by a racial poll tax — Three Pounds per head — that hurt their pride more than it hurt their purses. This, together with other disabilities like restrictions on movement between province and province and a requirement for getting registered on the basis of finger prints, was resisted by the affronted Indians who faced the consequences — stiff fines or jail. But when, on March 14, 1913, Justice Malcolm Searle, of the Cape Supreme Court, decreed every Indian marriage is invalid that is not registered before a Marriage Officer or celebrated according to Christian rites, more than pride was hurt. By a parallel order, Natal children of resident Indians or their parents were required to produce, if they needed admission in another province, certificates of birth. M.K. Gandhi memorialized the Minister for the Interior, General Smuts, to the effect that marriages celebrated according to Hindu, Muslim or Parsi rites were fully recognized by Indian law and that “it is a well-recognised fact that very few births are registered in India and it is practically impossible to produce certificates of birth except in rare cases.” The collective selfhood of Indian-South Africans stood insulted, the honour of motherhood stood besmirched. Kasturba Gandhi asked her husband, “Then I am not your wife according to the laws of this country?” He said she was right, adding, “Our children are not our heirs.” The community rose in a spontaneous protest. Indians, women leading, struck work and marched to break inter-province barriers to say, ‘We will not be humiliated thus.’ And they went on a great march, criss-crossing the border between the provinces of the Transvaal and Natal. Valliamma, born in 1898 in Johannesburg, at 16 years of age, was among “the marching great” from the Transvaal side, Kasturba from the Natal side. Nearly 40,000 of them courted arrest, with nearly 10,000 being actually imprisoned, Valliamma among them. She went cheerfully and defiantly into the march and entered jail as a sense of duty to her motherland’s — India’s — greatness. Imprisoned in Maritzburg jail, she endured its rigours along with other women satyagrahis who included Kasturba. The sentence for ‘hard labour’ included the task of washing fellow prisoners’ clothes. Many fell ill, seriously ill. Valliamma, very seriously. Released when on the verge of death “with a fatal fever”, she just about managed to get back home where Gandhi came to see her. “She was confined to bed when I saw her,” he writes in his classic, Satyagraha in South Africa. “[H]er emaciated body was a terrible thing to behold.” “‘Valliamma, you do not regret having gone to jail?’, I asked. “‘Regret? I am even now ready to go to jail again if I am arrested,’ said Valliamma. “‘But what if it results in your death?’ I pursued. “‘I do not mind it. Who would not love to die for one’s motherland?’” Thillaiyadi Valliamma died on February 22, 1914. Her remains are interred in Braamfontein Cemetery, Johannesburg. Gandhi writes: “Valliamma will live in the history of South African Satyagrahis as long as India lives.” Her deathday is a day of celebration, for India lives! A film on the life of this icon by Sharada Ramanathan is expected to be released shortly. Thirty years later, her jail-mate was in prison again, this time in India. Kasturba had been permitted to join her husband, imprisoned in the Aga Khan’s Palace Prison in Poona, for having heralded the Quit India resolution, asking Britain to exit from India. And she was gravely ill. A wedding anniversary occurred at this time — that of a fellow prisoner. Kasturba asked Gandhi, “How many years have we been married?” Gandhi looked at her and said, “Why, do you also want to celebrate your anniversary?” Everyone around them laughed, Kasturba too. She was 74 that year as was her husband. They had been married for sixty one years. On January 6, 1944, Gandhi wrote to the prison authorities: “... the patient has got into very low spirits. She despairs of life... Her state is pitiful.” And he asked for permission to be given to near and dear ones to visit her. As also for an ayurvedic physician for she had faith in that system of medicine. Her health continued to deteriorate and on February 22, 1944, her husband’s hands clasping her, Kasturba died. She was cremated in the grounds of the prison. A tulasi plant grows on the spot in Poona. The House of Commons was told on March 2, 1944: “... She was receiving all possible medical care and attention...” Gratefully acknowledging the fact that the regular attendants did all they could, Gandhi responded by saying the help that was asked for, when at all given, was given after a long wait, and the ayurvedic physician was permitted to attend only after he had to tell the prison authorities that if he could not procure the help that she wanted he should be separated from her as he ought not to be made a helpless witness of the agonies she was passing through. On the Valliamma-Kasturba Deathday, the following thoughts deserve reflection: First, a prisoner is a prisoner but a woman prisoner is a whole family in prison by proxy because of those, especially minor children, who depend on her. According to the National Crime Records Bureau’s report for 2019, of the 4.5 lakh prisoners in India today, about 3.3 lakh are ‘under-trial prisoners’. The overwhelming number of these are going to be found to be innocent. State governments which are in charge of this ‘state subject’ must, especially in our Covid-19 times, see to the urgent release of the women among the undertrials under the salutary Section 436-A of the Criminal Procedure Code introduced in the CrPC in 2005 as, essentially, a human right measure. Second, recalling what Gandhi said in South Africa about the lack of the practice of paper documentation in Indian families, we must ask: what papers can families required to produce them to establish their citizenship in the Republic of India possibly produce? Is it right, is it fair, for some fellow-citizens to be asked to produce such paper proof? Third, Indian women in 1913-1914 South Africa responded to the unravelling of the man-woman bond in terms of religion, a cause to which Valliamma martyred herself. Is the classification of marriages by religion, in the Republic of India, as is being sought in certain sections of our body politic, legally sound, morally right and, above all, civilizationally justifiable? No politicians, no lawyers, no agitation-addicts but two Indian women, one from India’s western seaboard, another from its southeastern, gifted with a rare commitment and great clarity, ask for February 22, their shared deathday, to be, for Indian women in prison or in fear, to be their Faithday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-69
