22-02-2021||Opinion||Plug the leak: water wastage||A country where wastage and scarcity of water have percolated down to every level can have a lot to learn from a nation that has been largely successful in tackling the same problems. In a recent interaction, the Danish ambassador revealed that only about 4 per cent of the water pushed into the distribution system in Denmark remains unaccounted for. The statement only throws into sharper contrast the long road in water conservation that lies ahead for Indian cities. In Calcutta alone, nearly half of the water that is injected into the network is lost. Given that the Calcutta Municipal Corporation sends 488 million gallons of water into the city’s distribution system every day, the gravity of the loss cannot be overstated, especially since 250 million gallons of water are reported by experts to be enough to meet the needs of the city’s residents. Calcutta — indeed, many Indian cities — will pay a heavy price for such lapses. Water scarcity brings additional challenges: it adversely impacts food production, causes prices to escalate and even results in social conflict; ‘water wars’ have already broken out on parched territories. Last year, Bengal’s capital featured among the 30 Indian cities in the World Wildlife Fund’s Water Risk Filter analysis that are set to face the greatest water shortages by 2050. Apart from poor infrastructure — the loss of water within the city’s distribution system has been attributed in part to old, leaking pipes — other factors have also aggravated the crisis. These include rapid, unplanned urbanization, over-extraction of groundwater for industrial and agricultural purposes, the low priority afforded by planners to the regeneration of depleting reservoirs as well as climate change. There is also a relative paucity of policies, mechanisms and frameworks to govern the use of water resources so as to maintain the fragile ecological balance — Calcutta’s vanishing wetlands bear testimony to this erosion. Then, as usual, there is the myopia of successive state governments that have prioritized populism over pragmatism. It would be prudent to tax citizens on the basis of water consumption but Calcutta’s administrators remain hesitant fearing a public backlash. The latter, in turn, exposes yet another challenge: scant public awareness. The water crisis is now global. Cape Town almost ran out of water in 2018, but solved the problem by involving businesses and citizens in multiple water-saving initiatives that bolstered water efficiency. Calcutta and other Indian cities must learn from these global experiences and models if they are to survive dry days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
22-02-2021||Opinion||Just view: Priya Ramani’s acquittal||It is not enough to speak up against sexual harassment; a woman’s courage and determination must endure further ordeals. Priya Ramani’s acquittal by a Delhi court in the criminal defamation case filed by the former Union minister, M.J. Akbar, for damaging his “stellar reputation” through her allegation that he sexually harassed her 20 years ago, is a victory for her steadfastness and an example of the court’s wisdom. The additional chief metropolitan magistrate, Ravindra Kumar Pandey, reportedly said that the ruse of criminal defamation cannot silence protests against sexual abuse since reputation cannot be defended at the price of a woman’s life and dignity. This would violate the Constitutional rights to equality. Additionally, the court felt that Mr Akbar did not have a stellar reputation since other women had similar complaints, two of whom provided testimony. The understanding of the court in this case is of overwhelming importance. Clearly, a law against sexual harassment is not enough: what is also needed is the court’s wisdom regarding its significance. Society should understand the trauma sexual harassment can cause, the court said in effect, so neither the lapse of time since the abuse nor the platform she chose for her complaint was relevant. This alone is a huge step forward. The court also said that there were no Vishaka guidelines or a law to help Ms Ramani and her peers when they faced abuse. The endorsement of Ms Ramani’s defence in the name of public interest, the truth and public good would be especially valuable in cases of sexual misconduct of people in power. The acquittal is a triumph for activists, courageous lawyers and all those whose support for the cause has never faltered in the history of the long fight against sexual harassment by superiors in the profession or the work sphere — a fight that recalls figures such as Bhanwari Devi and Rupan Deol Bajaj. The court laid bare the operations of gender-based power by its comment that men well-established in society could be cruel to women. But the sense of male entitlement is not limited to the more visible social strata. Underprivileged women desperate to keep their jobs are often helpless in the face of sexual abuse. The problem of their access to justice needs to be resolved too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
22-02-2021||Opinion||No escape for the Sheikh's daughters||Dubai can be amusing, in a voyeuristic way, for a week or two. Tallest building in the world and the mall with the shark tank, but it’s the people, really. There are a quarter-million expats, mostly British or American, living much higher on the hog than they ever could at home — but bored out of their minds. Offstage, there are also a couple of million servants, menials and labourers, mostly from the Indian subcontinent. They are probably bored too, but nobody bothers to ask. And there are a quarter-million native-born Arab citizens, most of them quite prosperous but also bored, though the richer ones console themselves with stables of race-horses and the like. The richest of them all is Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the absolute ruler of Dubai. The Sheikh has over 25 children by his six wives, so he obviously loves children, but unaccountably his daughters keep trying to escape. He recaptures them and locks them up, of course, but it’s starting to draw unwelcome attention. In the good old days, potentates from the oil-rich parts of the Middle East could get away with anything. When Maktoum’s daughter, Shamsa, ran away from the family’s compound in Surrey while on holiday in 2000, the Sheikh didn’t contact the English police. He sent his own agents out to find her. They tracked her down a month later in Cambridge, where four Arab men grabbed her on the street, bundled her into a car, and injected her with a sedative. She was flown back to Dubai on a private jet, and has not been seen in public since. (She would be around 40 now, but the Dubai government says she is “adored and cherished” by her family.) Two years later her younger half-sister, Latifa, made her first escape attempt at the age of 16. She was caught crossing the border into Oman and brought back to Dubai, where she was jailed for three years. She says she was kept in solitary confinement and tortured. Princess Latifa didn’t try to escape again until 2018, when she made it to the coast of Oman with the help of her Finnish fitness instructor, thence out to a yacht in international waters by dinghy and jet-ski, and off to India, from where she planned to fly to the United States of America and seek asylum. (Good luck with that; Donald Trump was still president.) But eight days later, only 30 kilometres off Goa, they were boarded by Emirati commandos from an Indian navy ship (the government of Narendra Modi still curries favour with rich Arabs), and Latifa was ‘tranquillized’ again and flown back to Dubai. For over two years she has been held in solitary confinement in a seaside ‘villa’. (“Safe with her family,” as the Dubai government put it.) But at some point a mobile phone was smuggled in to her, and she began locking herself in the bathroom and sending out secret videos to her Finnish friend, Tiina Jauhiainen. That phone went dead five months ago, so now the ‘family’ knows. Fortunately, there is now some support from the British, because Latifa’s stepmother, Princess Haya bint Al Hussein, took her two children and fled to London in 2019. Last year the British High Court issued a ‘fact-finding judgment’ confirming that both Shamsa and Latifa had been kidnapped and were being illegally held. It denied Maktoum’s demand that his children with Princess Haya be returned to his custody, and said that the Sheikh’s campaign of intimidation against her included having a pistol left on her pillow. That’s where it stands at the moment, but now the United Nations is getting involved: the office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has said it will soon question the United Arab Emirates about Latifa, and a spokesman said the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention could launch an investigation once her videos have been analysed. But that may not be enough, because now it has become a question of face for Sheikh Mohammed. He knows what all the other kings and sheikhs of the Gulf are saying about him. They’re saying “Why can’t Mohammed control his women?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
22-02-2021||Opinion||Show of strength: China ups the ante on Taiwan||Even as the Joe Biden administration in the United States of America is trying to settle in, China is making it clear that its priorities have not changed. The new dispensation in Washington, DC may talk of strategic patience when it comes to dealing with China but for Beijing, there is only one approach to managing issues like Hong Kong and Taiwan. The last few weeks have seen China upping the ante on Taiwan. After demonstrating its military might via air incursions and other military activities, China warned Taiwan that any attempt to seek independence “means war”. A Chinese spokesperson argued that the military manoeuvres were “necessary actions to address the current security situation in the Taiwan Strait and to safeguard national sovereignty and security”. There was also a direct warning to “‘Taiwan independence’ elements”: [T]hose who play with fire will burn themselves...” This sort of approach is becoming a regular feature of Chinese diplomacy. With every new US administration, Beijing makes a big show of its force, often testing the new dispensation’s resolve to stand up to its coercive tactics. With this power transition, too, China wants to ensure that the US gets the message about its seriousness when it comes to Taiwan. And so the world witnessed major air incursions by China into Taiwanese air space last month, at times involving as many as 15 aircraft. In response, Taiwan’s air force deployed air defence missile systems to monitor the planes. The Taiwanese government also made it clear that China should “not underestimate” the island nation’s determination to defend its sovereignty and uphold democracy. Amid such threats and counter-threats, the Biden administration not only reaffirmed its “rock-solid commitment” to helping Taiwan defend itself but also said that it sees “no reason why tensions over Taiwan need to lead to anything like confrontation”. In his first call with the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, Biden also underscored his “fundamental concerns about Beijing’s coercive and unfair practices, its crackdown in Hong Kong, reported human rights abuses in Xinjiang, and increasingly assertive actions in the region, including toward Taiwan”. Abandoning the cautious approach of its predecessors, the Donald Trump administration had given a new dimension to US-Taiwan ties by enhancing closer ties with Taipei, stepping up arms sales, increasing the frequency of US Navy ships sailing through the Taiwan Strait, and engaging in regular high-level interactions with officials in Taipei in spite of fierce warnings from China. In fact, in his last few days in office, the US secretary of state, Mike Pompeo lifted long-standing restrictions on contacts between American and Taiwanese officials, one of the most significant policy shifts on Taiwan in recent years. He called into question the US’s long-standing ‘one-China’ policy by stating in a radio interview that Taiwan “has not been a part of China”. Beijing issued a warning that behaviour that undermines “China’s core interests and interferes with China’s domestic affairs will be met with a resolute counterattack”. Biden will have to follow that policy of enhanced engagement even at the risk of incurring Chinese wrath. Taiwan’s de facto ambassador to the US, Hsiao Bi-khim, was invited to attend Biden’s inauguration ceremony, underlining for Beijing an essential continuity in US policy towards Taiwan. It is therefore no surprise that China is messaging Washington about its red lines at a time when global opinion is perhaps the most favourable it has ever been to Taiwan. This was a message also being sent by the Taiwanese president, Tsai Ing-wen, in her New Year address when she suggested that “stabilizing relations across the Taiwan Strait is no longer just an issue for the two sides” but “a concern for the whole of [the] Indo-Pacific region”. There is a lot of goodwill for Taiwan across the world today while China’s actions during the Covid-19 pandemic have generated a negative backlash. This worries Beijing as the global climate might propel Tsai to declare formal independence, although she has repeatedly said that Taiwan is already an independent State, making any formal declaration unnecessary. Beijing has been relentless in targeting Tsai, but the more she has been bullied, the higher her political profile in Taiwan has risen. She was re-elected to office last year with a landslide victory after she was seen as standing up resolutely to the Chinese Communist Party. The global goodwill for Taiwan will make it even more difficult for Biden to go back to the US’s overly-cautious policy framework of the past. For his part, Xi has made it clear to Taiwan that it “must and will be” reunited with China, arguing that unification was “an inevitable requirement for the great rejuvenation of the Chinese people”. And so, as the US and China restructure their relationship around the strongly contested issue of Taiwan, the latter remains one of the biggest flashpoints in global geopolitics, with serious consequences for the future of the global order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
22-02-2021||Opinion||A different shade||Governments are not benign, and the use of the law and regulatory agencies against inconvenient voices is not new. Although it has become a reflex action for journalists to invoke a comparison with the Emergency for each new attack on journalism and on free speech, there have been enough instances in two decades of this century to show that both the first National Democratic Alliance government and the United Progressive Alliance in its two terms were not shy of either deploying the sedition law against journalists and activists or of coming down mercilessly on media exposés that showed the government in a poor light. This month’s Enforcement Directorate raids on the online portal, NewsClick, smacked of harassment. They took place presumably on account of its reporting on a range of issues, including many stories on the alleged transgressions of Gautam Adani’s empire and its nexus with the ruling party. The ED, on its part, said that it was investigating payments received by the site from the United States of America. During Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s prime-ministerial tenure, the harassment of Tehelka and Outlook was  far bigger in scale after the portal’s 2001 sting operation and Outlook’s follow-up of that exposé. In his latest book, Jugalbandi, Vinay Sitapati documents the scale: “More than 700 tax officials searched the offices of the proprietor of Outlook in twelve cities and 120 premises.” As for Tehelka itself, after its entrapment sting captured bribes taken by the ruling party’s functionaries and implicated those close to the prime minister, its investor was prosecuted, its offices raided, its reporter jailed without bail, and government agencies went to town leaking hostile stories about the portal to the media. As an aside, one reason we see far fewer examples of the government coming down on investigative journalism is because there is so little reporting of this genre now. While there is frequent and escalating use of sedition by the current government against activists, district journalists and, now, far more prominent journalists, the misuse of Section 124A has been documented right through the UPA tenure as well — from 2009 onwards, at least, with the use of the law picking up in 2010 (against Arundhati Roy and Binayak Sen among others) and 2011 and thereafter. Between September and December 2011, for instance, the protest against the Kudankulam nuclear power plant in Tamil Nadu saw 3,500 people accused of ‘sedition’ and/or ‘waging war against the state’. Then again, it was the UPA government that amended the Information Technology Act 2000 in 2008 and notified rules to the amended Act that gave sweeping powers to the government to intercept, monitor and block websites and to pressurize intermediaries such as service providers on electronic content. Section 66A of the IT Act, which was so draconian that it was finally read down by the Supreme Court in 2015, was a legacy of the UPA government. The predecessor to today’s sweeping requests for the blocking of Twitter handles was the practice of government requests to internet intermediaries to remove content which Google has documented from the year 2010. The number of requests picked up substantially from 2014. Governments, then, have been intolerant of media criticism before. They have been repressive before. But what fosters the current sense of siege and intimidation is the following. Co-option by the ruling party and the government has made the mainstream media such a diminished force that no meaningful pushback is forthcoming. You may have a press club demonstration, but you will not get the same numbers as before. Ditto for the protest processions taken out by journalists. Proprietors do not want to take on a government that has demonstrated from the day it came in that it has no use for conventional media. If your star anchor tweets an unproven assertion, a prompt correction is not enough, you take him off the air. At the same time, for all its numbers in Parliament, this government has turned paranoid. The paranoia borders on the farcical when the country’s foreign minister bristles against a pop star’s tweet. Or when law enforcement agencies see conspiracies in internet toolkits tweeted by environmental activists. So you get these escalating requests to block Twitter handles. As a former Twitter official said during an online discussion, if you have a hammer every problem looks like a nail. Third, as the lawyer, Akhil Sibal, pointed out recently, free speech as a value is being replaced by nationalism as a competing value. Dissent and protest are dubbed anti-national. So terrorism-related laws, such as the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and sedition are brought against free speech ‘offenders’ and grass-roots activists. Both are non-bailable offences. Fourth, there is politically-motivated intolerance demonstrated by multiple first information reports registered in BJP-ruled states in response to similar and simultaneous complaints against the government’s favourite targets — some sections of the media, activists, and social media users who are not part of the ruling party’s verbal arsenal. The outcome is a proactive policing of speech. And its weapon of choice is the law. Not just UAPA and sedition but also Section 69A of the IT Act, which allows confidentiality of orders, complaints, and actions regarding internet platforms. There is no transparency about which accounts have been blocked and why. It is another section of the IT Act waiting to be read down. Finally, as the lawyer, Gautam Bhatia, among others, has argued, the Supreme Court has not been consistent in its defence of freedoms over the past year or more. If it found in the case of bail for the television anchor, Arnab Goswami, in November last year that the “[d]eprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many”, it was not similarly moved at the prospect of the deprivation of liberty in the case of the journalist, Siddique Kappan, arrested on his way to report on the Hathras gang rape in October. After four months and six adjournments, the Supreme Court granted Kappan bail for five days to visit his mother on her deathbed with several restrictions on what he will be permitted to do in that period. As Bhatia says sardonically, it is a case of show me the man and I’ll show you the law. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
