23-02-2021||Opinion||Easier path: Arjun Tendulkar’s IPL selection ||Sir — The selection of Sachin Tendulkar’s son, Arjun, by the Mumbai Indians at the Indian Premier League auctions has, once again, sparked debates surrounding privilege and nepotism. While some have argued that he should be given a fair chance, many believe that Arjun has benefited on account of his family’s connections. It is high time that people acknowledged their privilege. Viraj Sharma,Gwalior Waste not Sir — In a recent programme, the Danish ambassador to India, Freddy Svane, revealed that only 4 per cent of the water that is pushed into the distribution network in Denmark is unaccounted for (“Plug the leak”, Feb 22). This is in stark contrast to most Indian cities, where nearly half of the water that is injected into the network is wasted owing to leaks and other factors. Svane’s revelation must act as a wake-up call for Calcuttans. It has been reported that nearly half of the 488 million gallons of water that the Calcutta Municipal Corporation sends into the city’s distribution system every day goes to waste or is unaccounted for. According to water resource experts, about 250 million gallons of water should be adequate to meet the daily needs of Calcuttans. Astonishingly, a project undertaken by the CMC — it installed water meters in wards 1 to 5 in north Calcutta to read the volume of water entering houses — has revealed that households are consuming 900 litres per day whereas the national limit is 150 litres per person per day in metropolitan cities. These figures are alarming. Moreover, the Hooghly river, which provides a bulk of the water, is becoming more turbid and saline by the day. This colossal abuse and wastage of resources must not be overlooked. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — Calcutta, unlike other Indian cities — in many parts of Delhi, people get running water for only certain hours of the day — has rarely faced an acute water shortage. Thus, the importance of the resource is lost on many of its inhabitants. People often leave taps running with no concern for water wastage. The combined effort of the government and ordinary people will be required to put an end to this criminal waste. Riddhi Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
23-02-2021||Opinion||High price for fuel in India||Fuel prices in India — those of petrol, diesel and cooking gas — are witnessing an unprecedented rise in recent times. Since fuel prices affect many economic activities, the rise is emerging as a national political issue. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government is blaming past governments for not reducing import dependence. This view is unwarranted, coming as it does from a prime minister who has been in power for almost seven years. There is a complex story behind the trend. During the start of the pandemic early in 2020, crude oil prices fell, touching about $40 a barrel triggered by the sharp fall in demand. Now, the price of crude is rising and the Brent crude oil rate stands at around $65 a barrel as demand has started to pick up. Also, Saudi Arabia has voluntarily cut its daily production by one million barrels. This cut will stay till the end of March 2021. In the same period, the Central excise duty on fossil fuels has increased by about 50 per cent. It has risen from Rs 19.98 per litre to Rs 32.98 per litre for petrol and from Rs 15.83 per litre to Rs 31.83 per litre for diesel. These figures seem to be a plausible reason for the steep rise in prices. The government needs tax revenues badly and international price increases are beyond New Delhi’s control. However, the change in prices since 2014, when the current government came to power, is quite revealing. In May 2014, the Brent crude price stood at $108 per barrel. The Central excise was Rs 10 per litre for petrol. The retail pump price was Rs 71. Now, the crude price has dropped significantly to around $65 but the retail pump price has risen to Rs 100 while the Central excise has increased to Rs 32 per litre. The price of cooking gas has jumped by more than Rs 100 in about two months’ time to Rs 796 per cylinder. The fuel price inflation has been balanced by softening food price inflation. However, going forward, that may not last if the monsoons are weak. Also fuel prices hit household expenses, transport costs and agricultural costs of production. In short, the spillover effects of fuel prices are likely to be widespread and hard. It can be seen that the major reason for the price hikes has been the sharp rise in indirect taxes. This is done off-budget, and an increase by even a few paise can bring in tax revenue worth millions. However, indirect taxes hurt the common people. Managing the political fallout can be tricky.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
23-02-2021||Opinion||Free the mind: assault against free speech||The assault against free speech is now a global phenomenon. India, in spite of its democratic roots, is, unfortunately, not an exception to this regression. The causes of this assault vary among countries. But there is one common thread. The right to free speech is increasingly being equated with a propensity to offend public sentiments in polities that are being encouraged by its minders to be hypersensitive. In fact, there is a line of thought that argues that the freedom of speech ought to be tempered if it is found in conflict to the ‘right to be offended’. This association is not, by any means, innocent. This is because Constitutions around the world have already put in place checks and balances on the freedom of speech and expression. In India, the right to free speech is a fundamental — but not an absolute — right. The Constitution has imposed limitations, keeping in mind such imperatives as decency, morality, and public order. In the United States of America, another democracy that India is often compared to, the First Amendment offers meaningful protection against speech that is deemed hurtful or has been designed to provoke. The argument in favour of a ‘right to offend’ is thus specious; there are adequate constitutional and legal safeguards against offences directed at the State, its institutions, communities and faiths. There is another, equally formidable, argument in defence of the right to free speech. Frank but civil exchanges — be they debates or even dissenting opinions — are integral to the democratic ethos. Argumentative Indians have proudly borne, over the years, the tradition of tarkashastra. The passionate and, at times, heated exchange of views deepens democracy and, in the process, nourishes civilizational values. Reforms and policy changes have often been the outcome of spirited debates among and speeches by luminaries in Parliament. A confident, robust democracy is not expected to feel threatened by critical remarks. It is supposed to welcome the contrarian view. Yet, the opposite seems to be happening in New India. Sedition and defamation are allegedly being weaponized by the powers that be and the rights to speech and protest frowned upon. Data bear out the slide: as much as 96 per cent of sedition cases filed in India, says one report, were filed after the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political ascendancy in the states and at the Centre. These are troubling — even offending — statistics to the conscientious, democratic mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
23-02-2021||Opinion||Lonely lives in the time of a pandemic||The wives of British officials in colonial India — memsahibs, as they were called — wrote extensively about their struggles of living in India. In my study of the literature produced by them, I often came across accounts of boredom, loneliness and melancholia, as they were frequently left alone in their remote bungalows when their husbands were on raj duty. Housework did not take time because there was always an abundance of ayahs, cooks, drivers and so on; unless they had a hobby, these wives had very little to do all day. The raj required little contribution from women; even if they wanted to be involved, they were consistently excluded from imperial activities. The lack of work and the utter lack of a purpose caused further boredom. Making matters worse was the absence of company or regular socializing around the lonely mofussils or stations. Even travel was difficult and often life-threatening. This made the women homesick and prone to despair; they sometimes threatened to kill themselves. Boredom was so pervasive that Emily Eden, who wrote Wanderings of a Pilgrim in Search of the Picturesque (1850), wryly declared that her book should be renamed “Excursions of a Memsahib in Danger of Being Bored”. When Covid-19 hit and lockdowns were imposed globally, staying indoors quickly became oppressive. Deliberations on the idea of loneliness grew. It was the first anomalous period in history witnessed by my generation; the novelty of lockdowns, curfews and social distancing, combined with the spectre of death and disease, became fertile ground for creativity. This was the time when I was finalizing my thesis draft and going over my readings of memsahibs’ works. Uncannily, these writings about boredom in solitary homes resonated with the times, and with me, restricted as I was indoors. I realized that memsahibs were living under similar conditions close to two centuries ago. One of their biggest difficulties was the numbing dullness of the secluded dak-houses without friends and family. But imperial boredom remains a rather unexplored subject in colonial historiography even though Victorian society was already acquainted with it; Jane Austen’s Emma (1815) is a good example. In present times, reading about the pathology of boredom has made me think about the connection between boredom and pathology itself. Throughout history, disease has been tackled with the use of isolation — quarantines — to prevent the spread of infections. In the raj, there was growing concern about epidemics; the segregation of spaces, social distancing and so on were used as prevention. In fact, segregation and social distancing were the primary methods of containing contagious diseases in the Victorian period, as demonstrated in Charles Dickens’ Bleak House. In Emily Bronte’s Jane Eyre, Helen Burns dies of consumption after being quarantined for some time. Later, we are told about how Bertha Mason is kept in confinement owing to a mysterious affliction — a mental illness. Critical enquiries have uncovered the possibility of her ‘madness’ stemming from her captivity, as opposed to Edward Rochester’s argument that she was kept in captivity on account of her illness. Having been quarantined for two weeks myself, I am painfully aware of how maddening isolation can be. Whether it is the pathology of boredom caused by monotony, or the pathologies leading to boredom during isolation, the effects on the psyche are the same. The realities of the raj are not very different from ours. We are fortunate for medical advancements but there are striking resemblances in memsahibs’ boredom and confinement and that of people during present times. Like the memsahibs, we must take comfort in reading and writing; they are the time-tested ways of preventing melancholia during isolation and loneliness. Perhaps our accounts of boredom and loneliness recorded in tweets, articles and Facebook and Instagram posts will be studied in the post-pandemic era as defining literature of this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
23-02-2021||Opinion||An unhealthy health budget||The health budget of 2021 is extremely important given the backdrop of pandemic-induced disruptions in the social and economic lives of the people. This year’s Economic Survey emphasizes that India should increase its spending on health from an average of 1 per cent to 2.5 per cent of GDP, as aspired in the National Health Policy of 2017, in a phased manner by 2025. The High Level Group on Health Sector has also recommended to the Fifteenth Finance Commission that the Centre should allocate Rs 1.78 lakh crore for the health budget of 2021-22. In her budget speech, the finance minister announced an allocation of 2.23 lakh crore for ‘Health and Wellbeing’ expenditure. ‘Health and Wellbeing’ is one of the six pillars of the budget proposal and is already being identified as the much-awaited financial vaccine for India’s crumbling health sector. Therefore, it is necessary to understand how this sixth pillar is going to transform India’s health service system. Apart from the conventional budget categories for health, ‘Health and Wellbeing’ includes outlays for Drinking Water and Sanitation (60,030 crore), Nutrition (2,700 crore), Covid-19 vaccine-related special allocation as a one-time expense (35,000 crore) and the Finance Commission’s grants (49,214 crore for health and water and sanitation) which add up to the sum of 2.23 lakh crore. It is not clear why the Finance Commission’s grant is being shown as part of the budget framework as it is not the Centre’s resource: it is meant for direct transfer to urban and rural local bodies. The allocation of 2.23 lakh crore, apparently, offers a framework of “holistic approach to [h]ealth” to strengthen the “[p]reventive” and “[c]urative” parts of the healthcare system alongside “Wellbeing”. The benefits secured from the wider determinants of health, such as safe drinking water, open-defecation-free villages, nutrition supplements for pregnant and lactating women and children, do partially address the well-being of the population and may avert many diseases. But can these determinants strengthen health service delivery? The health budget was supposed to address the age-old needs of infrastructure expansion, building of a skilled workforce, investing in medical research and technologies, reinforcing community-level health schemes and other issues. Merely clubbing the health budget with other social sector overheads may endorse a holistic approach to health but it cannot address the structural problem of low public financing in India’s health sector. For 2021-22, the overall health budget of the department of health and family welfare (including AYUSH-Indian systems of medicine and health research) has been decreased in absolute terms by nearly 8,349 crore from last year (from 85,251 crore in 2020-21, Revised Estimates, to 76,902 crore in 2021-22). The government’s much publicized flagship programme, Ayushman Bharat (Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana and Health and Wellness Centre), has not seen much increment. The HWC component (implemented under the National Health Mission in rural and urban areas) was increased meekly by 300 crore (from 1,600 crore in 2020-21, expenditure budget, to 1,900 crore in 2021-22). The budget outlay for the insurance/assurance-based PMJAY scheme remains the same (6,400 crore) in comparison to the original expenditure budget of 2020-21. Significantly, the pandemic slashed the PMJAY budget outlay in size (3,100 crore in 2020-21, RE). This may be attributed to access-related problems faced by beneficiaries in availing cashless hospitalization services during the lockdown as well as to the threat of virus infection. The coronavirus finally enhanced the capital outlay on medical and public health after almost three years. It had been falling steadily from 3,048 crore (2017-18) to 2,341 crore (2018-19) to 1,640 crore (2019-20). The pandemic also forced the government to ramp up its infrastructure for medical and public health services by readjusting the allocation to 4,166 crore (RE) from its initial earmark of 996 crore (Budget Estimates) in 2020-21. The budget confirms, once again, that the NHM has been severely underfunded because of PMJAY. The NHM is the mainstay to lowering maternal and infant mortality and increasing institutional delivery. The fund crunch for the NHM has been adversely affecting allocations for Reproductive and Child Health services, including immunization, communicable diseases — tuberculosis, malaria, diarrhoea and so on — as well as non-communicable diseases for the last three years. An excessive focus on purchasing care mostly from the private sector under PMJAY and an overall stagnation in the health budget have withheld the much-needed expansion of the NHM, after excluding HWC, from 34,659 crore (2019-20) to 35,144 crore (2020-21, RE) to 36,575 crore (2021-22, BE). Ironically, the 2021-22 budget was expected to rejuvenate the NHM to energize public service delivery. There is also a proposal for system strengthening in addition to the NHM’s provisions. The new Centrally-sponsored scheme, the PM AtmaNirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, shall have an outlay of about 64,180 crore over a period of six years to upgrade primary, secondary, and tertiary care facilities, strengthen existing health institutions, and build new institutions for research, screening, detection and treatment of prevalent and emerging diseases. All these are at the announcement stage with no reflection in the budget document. The 2021-22 health budget may be historic — but only in popular perception.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
23-02-2021||Opinion||Captive audience||I’ve been watching a lot of films on the various OTT platforms. Besides showing you new films, platforms such as MUBI also allow you to take your pick from old favourites and classics that you’ve maybe seen long ago, and recently I found myself clicking on all sorts of gems from the past. Watching some of these films on my laptop screen is a strange experience. It’s not an exact analogy, but I did find myself thinking of peering at one of those tiny-printed, miniature versions of books, re-reading the ones that you’ve first read in a properly-sized volume. After a lot of such viewing, something also felt a bit off about the fact that I could fast-forward, rewind, pause and go do something or even suspend my viewing of a film for a few days. It occurred to me that from now on, for the foreseeable future, this is how most people would watch films that weren’t on current commercial release. This, of course, took me back to the time when young people of my milieu were discovering cinema in the late 70s. Growing up in Calcutta, the cinema theatres formed clear groupings in the head: it was a completely different experience going to one of the Hindi film theatres, or to a Bangla cinema hall or to one of the ‘English’ ones. Occasionally, when there was a Sunday morning show of an English film in a Bangla hall it just felt wrong; you went in past the Uttam-Suchitra posters and were wrong-footed by the screen when one of the Hollywood logos came on; you walked out, having almost skinny-dipped with Julie Newmar in Mackenna’s Gold, to find Chhabi Biswas locking eyes with you from the wall. Boarding school in small-town Rajasthan found me missing the comforts of Globe and Menoka, but in clement weather the weekly film screenings were outdoors and we watched them sitting on the red sandstone step-benches of a 19th-century pavilion. The projection on the portable screen was dim, the sound from the single film scratchy, the reel changes were frequent, but behind the screen stretched the cricket ground and beyond that was a peak of the Aravalli hills with the moon and stars moving over it. At the time all this seemed unremarkable, but in the memory it’s the whole scene rather than any one film that stays etched as magical. Back in Calcutta and attending college, many of us fell prey to the addiction of serious cinema. This meant getting up early on Sunday mornings and hanging around one of the film society screenings, hoping to catch the eye of some older acquaintance and cadging a pass. It seemed there was no question of anyone under the age of fifty-five becoming a member of a film society; as in the most exclusive clubs, membership opened up on a strict priority dictated by death and geriatricity. Occasionally, a kind dada got you one of the hand-printed parchas that allowed you to file in with all the dhoti-kurta clad kinobabus. This permitted you to sit under the honour guard of fans whirring out of the side-walls at the Sarala Roy Memorial Hall or the Calcutta Information Centre, absorbing whatever you could from the grainy black-and-white or faded East European colour of Polish, Czech or Cuban films. As a student at the old Alliance Française in the spectacularly dilapidated Queens Mansion, one had access to the great works of the French New Wave; the screening room at AF had a pillar almost in the centre and the projector throw somehow magically curved around it like a Zidane pass in constant replay. If you were late to a crowded screening, you spent the evening crushed against the back wall, playing peekaboo with Jean-Paul Belmondo around the dratted pillar. The Chitrabani screening room was small, just a bit bigger than the Seminar Library cubicle in Presidency’s English department, but the selection of films was something you could not easily access elsewhere. By far the best screening venue for art films and documentaries was the properly sloping theatre at Max Mueller Bhavan, but again, getting in was always a challenge. The thing about all these places was that the struggle to get in, the discomforts, the quirks of projection and sound, all added to the sense of having scored a precious viewing experience in an otherwise arid landscape. Obviously there were no VHS tapes, DVDs or internet downloads in the late 70s, nor any sense that these might be around the corner. Therefore you watched each film with a certain intensity, as though you’d been given brief access to a precious manuscript in an exalted library, acutely aware that this might be the first and the last time you were seeing it. With western music, art materials and many other things, landing in America felt like I’d fetched up in a massive sweet shop, and that too one with affordable prices. There may have still been no inkling of the coming technological deluge, but just by poring over the schedule sheet from Bleecker Street Cinema in New York, you could see all sorts of classics and strange new films being offered with regularly repeated screenings. It was here that I discovered the joys of the ‘double-bill’, where for just a bit more than the (already cheap) ticket price for one film you could sit through two films one after the other. And then, since excess was the middle name of this country, a group of friends could even decide to do two double-bills on the same day. This meant that you’d walk into the theatre at around 10 am clutching your bagel and coffee and watch, say, two early Bertolucci films. Coming out at around half past two, you’d quickly nip over to the deli and get yourself a sub sandwich and a couple of beers in brown paper bags before assuming your seats again. Then, through the pall of tobacco smoke from the last few rows, you would watch two more films, say Godard this time, and come out punch-drunk on jump cuts and Godardian aphorisms at 7 pm, a day well spent, an evening still to be ransacked. For certain films the theatre would be jam-packed, for others almost empty, as though you were a movie mogul in your own screening theatre. Whatever the number of fellow viewers, whether the seats were full or empty, something about the scale of the screen, the evidence that you were in a site of collective viewing, the silence and its corollary, the respect demanded by the fact of this being a theatre and not someone’s home, affected the way you watched a film. Each screening was, in a sense, a unique performance to which you were submitting, in which you were participating, and though that sense of scarcity from Calcutta no longer hung over you, the viewing was no less concentrated and intense. Conversely true also was that while watching a film in a dark theatre you relaxed and let go of other concerns, you were ensconced in the amniotic fluid of the audio-visual and the only thing that disturbed or nourished you was that which was unfolding on the screen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-68
