24-02-2021||Opinion||Take the shot: vaccine diplomacy||A vaccine, under ordinary circumstances, has implications for the realms of health and medicine. But these are not ordinary times. The transformation of Covid-19 vaccines into a tool of diplomacy is a testament to the uniqueness of the hour. It has been reported that Israel obtained the release of one of its prisoners after agreeing to finance an unspecified number of coronavirus vaccines for its adversary, Syria. India, too, has not been averse to use ‘vaccine diplomacy’ to its advantage. New Delhi has bolstered its regional and international standing by sending free Covid-19 medication to Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Afghanistan and Seychelles. That India remains keen to maintain this momentum was evident from the prime minister’s welcome comments that were made at a recent workshop that was attended by health and diplomatic representatives of a number of Asian nations, including — significantly — Pakistan. Addressing the event, Narendra Modi suggested a number of collaborative steps, including the creation of a regional platform for collating and examining Covid-19-related data, a special visa scheme for doctors and nurses that will be operative in the region as well as an air ambulance for the neighbourhood. India’s neighbours were reportedly receptive to these proposals. If a consensus were to emerge on the matter, it would not only lead to the sharing of knowledge but also generate considerable goodwill that would impact bilateral engagements in a positive manner. What makes sharing of resources among Asian nations all the more important is the concern that the developed world, given its deeper pockets, is likely to have a monopoly over Covid-19 doses, reducing the latter’s access to developing nations and poor countries. Of course, the vial as diplomatic capital is not an innocuous proposition. New Delhi’s decision to send vaccines to other countries is a gesture that is as much humanitarian as diplomatic. For Beijing, New Delhi’s principal rival, is also in the fray, sending coronavirus medicines to nations near and far. This rivalry, however, is likely to be compensated by the replenishment of the spirit of multilateralism through vaccine diplomacy. Mr Modi’s idea of a shared pedestal to take on the pandemic has the potential to become a truly broad, representative Asian alliance, leading to a possible reduction in mutual animosities. New Delhi should pursue these proposals earnestly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
24-02-2021||Opinion||Taught well: Golwalkar glorified||Some ironies are hard to swallow. The Union culture ministry’s glorification of M.S. Golwalkar, the second sarsanghchalak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, on his birthday as a great thinker, scholar and remarkable leader whose thoughts inspire and guide generations, brought forth some stinging responses. In defence, the media advisor to the culture minister emphasized India’s diversity and multiculturalism, because of which the culture ministry would not silence the aspirations of any section of society. Golwalkar, who propagated a homogenous nationalism in which minority communities would live as second-class citizens, was celebrated on the ruse of India’s democracy, built upon respect for different values and traditions. This would have been comic, had not it been ominous. Golwalkar believed that the Constitution, the foundation of Indian democracy, should be re-drafted so that federalism could be replaced by a homogeneous nationhood and a unitary State. Federalism is supposed to encourage ‘separatist’ tendencies. It is not difficult to discern here the ‘guiding’ principle behind the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders’ drive for singleness — whether in opinions, political strategy or governance. Golwalkar’s admiration for Hitler’s treatment of Jews — the RSS’s distancing from this idea in his second book notwithstanding — adds a telling dimension to his listing of ‘internal threats’: Muslims, Christians and communists. Both faith and political views are ‘threats’. According to this logic, communists cannot be part of a homogeneous nation. Are women excluded too? The BJP’s guiding light seemed to find their demands for equality strange and was rather sarcastic at the idea of their ‘emancipation from man’s domination’. With such ‘separatist’ sentiments, probably women would not belong to the loyal group that forms the ‘nation’. The suggestion that women must be kept in their place is echoed, much more clearly and expansively, in Golwalkar’s belief in the traditional system of caste. Unity, apparently, comes through caste division. It is not what he wrote but what is happening now that is important. Aggressiveness in the name of nationalism — the silence is only on the subject of China — has encouraged violence against peaceful protesters and critics, champions of the oppressed and even of values such as rationalism, against specific faiths and castes and, overwhelmingly, against rights of the individual. No wonder the BJP-led government felt that this was the right time to remind the country of Golwalkar’s contributions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
24-02-2021||Opinion||The elephant imitates the dragon||Speak of your global commitment to human rights while targeting minorities and cracking down on all forms of dissent at home. Talk of universalism and offer vaccines to other countries while casually threatening your neighbours’ sovereignty. And try and browbeat social media platforms into following your diktat. In each case, count on the size and allure of your giant market to get other nations and companies to still court you. This is a template China has used for more than three decades to rise to levels of economic success unimaginable during the upheaval of Mao Zedong’s Cultural Revolution in the 1970s. But in the bargain, it has lost much of its geopolitical credibility and is battling a growing coalition of democracies uneasy about China’s approach. This is also a template that the Narendra Modi government appears to be embracing now. True, sections of India’s ruling elite across political stripes have long looked up to China, often grudgingly. But for the most part, New Delhi has tried to sharply distinguish the pursuit of its rising ambitions from the approach adopted by China. A cascade of moves and comments from the Modi government and other leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, all in the past few weeks, shows that a silent awe of China’s method has now overtaken that historic discomfort. The irony? The architects of this ‘New India’ are laying its latest bricks at a time Beijing and New Delhi are locked in territorial battles. Indian and Chinese troops stepped back last week from the brink of military conflict in Ladakh after a stand-off that has lasted for months. But both sides know this is no more than a pause. Where there’s no pause is in the Modi government’s emulation of its geopolitical rival. Since 1989, China has insisted that the Tiananmen Square protests were kindled by support from foreign powers — an allusion to the West and America in particular. In 2021, the Modi administration wants everyone to believe that a Khalistani conspiracy, somehow aided and abetted by the teenaged Swedish climate activist, Greta Thunberg, is behind the farmers’ protests against controversial laws. That a pro-farmer ‘toolkit’ — a social media strategy of the kind every company and political movement uses for marketing and campaigning — is a grave danger to India. And that the 22-year-old activist, Disha Ravi, who helped edit that toolkit, is a threat to India’s sovereignty, deserving of time behind bars. While India’s foreign ministry appropriately highlights the country’s effort to share Covid-19 vaccines with the world, Tripura’s chief minister, Biplab Deb, has spoken of plans being hatched — according to Deb — by the home minister, Amit Shah, to instal BJP governments in neighbouring Nepal and Sri Lanka. Again, the parallels with China, which is leading vaccine diplomacy efforts while encroaching on the territories of its neighbours, are hard to ignore. And just like China couldn’t take social media dissent on Twitter and, instead, developed its own equivalents such as Weibo, the Modi government is promoting a Twitter-like Indian alternative, Koo, after its recent run-ins with the California-headquartered microblogging giant. To be sure, India is not China — and Modi is a wildly popular, twice-elected prime minister. And there are many who see strength in his approach, and indeed in China’s. But there are other differences too between Beijing and New Delhi, none more prominent than the fact that China’s economy is six times the size of India’s and is growing when the economies of most major nations are shrinking. Unless New Delhi is careful, it risks losing friends it has spent years cultivating — without the economic heft of Beijing to offset that criticism. Much of the world will see the arrest of young activists like Ravi as tilting at windmills at best — and as the brutal crushing of opposing views at worst. While many in India may listen to Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’, Thunberg’s bold words carry greater resonance globally. The niece of the US vice-president, Kamala Harris, is among those who have voiced concern over India’s approach to the farmer protests. And the historian, Sanjay Subrahmanyam, the brother of the foreign minister, S. Jaishankar, has criticized the ministry of external affairs’ recent move towards mandating that universities and academics need the government’s approval to hold seminars on matters of national security. Closer home, Nepal and Sri Lanka have both responded sharply to suggestions that the BJP hopes to expand its footprint in those nations. As long as the United States of America sees India as a counterweight to China, it will continue to tom-tom the Washington-New Delhi partnership. But as other US partners with human-rights skeletons — from Saudi Arabia to Israel to the Philippines — have found in the past, America can act as an uncomfortable, nagging elder brother coaxing you to change or face a public or private scolding every now and then. For Modi, who has repeatedly said he prioritizes a ‘neighbourhood first’ policy, rebukes from countries he’s trying to woo aren’t helpful either. The one country that will be happy? China. Imitation, after all, is the best form of flattery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
24-02-2021||Opinion||Prisoners of conscience||One of my neighbours is a friendly student who keeps me up to date. He is sensitive to events and issues, but rarely idolizes them. He expresses feeling only through his guitar. When the Jesuit, Stan Swamy, was arrested, he was upset. A few weeks ago, I heard him strum the beginnings of a song: ‘When are you coming home Stan Swamy?/ When are you coming home?/ The trees are in mourning/ And the festive air is grey./ They said you would be back in December/ The calendar is touching May./ Come home Stan Swamy./ Come Home.’ The student’s song, its plaintive sense of loss and waiting, captures the fate of dissent in our society. One could perform similar dirges for Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha. The sadness is that little attention is paid to these people beyond the flutter of drawing rooms. The media have created a wall of indifference around such issues. They are reported as gossip but never as debates on rights and suffering. The reports on the ‘toolkit arrest’ have a similar ring, a sense of a middle-class scandal, but the real implications are missing. At the centre of all these events is the fate of dissent in our society. The economist, Amartya Sen, created the myth of the ‘Argumentative Indian’. I wish he had added a chapter on the ‘Dissenting Indian’ after the last decade. The addas have a sense of heaviness and protest a sense of defeat. To understand this, one has to understand the transformation of the State in recent times. When nationalism yielded the nation state, a plurality of visions was reduced to a basic civics of citizenship and governance. Over time, with internal strife and the frictions on the border, the nation state became a National Security State. The sense of violence and paranoia that accompanied it transformed the National Security State into a National Surveillance State where information became a commodity. We moved to create an India between the enclosure and the panopticon. What facilitated this move and legitimized it was the emergence of a majoritarian society. The dominance of the Bharatiya Janata Party added a set of critical details. First, in idolizing the nation state and turning development into an iconic idea, it turned any environmental critique of development into a sacrilege. Environmentalists became the first, official anti-nationals. Sustainability, instead of being a life-giving idea, was subsumed under the logic of security. By this time, riots had become a part of the official regime. Exterminism as a tactic against the minority now became official. The university, which was one of the theatres of debate, was subject to attacks. Undermining of dissent and plurality in a university became part of education policy. We face the paradox of the NEP claiming the university to be a place of diversity, while dissent is defined as unpatriotic. The next few steps were surreally predictable as the regime integrated internal and external security to make all ‘anti-nationals’ security threats. Distinguished dissenters like Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Stan Swamy were all silenced in this lethal net. By this time, the National Security State had graduated into being a National Surveillance State. The interests of State and corporations converged, as surveillance, from a crisis ritual, became an everyday affair. Liberal critics who felt that Julian Assange was a distant possibility in India had to confront a wave of arrests around Greta Thunberg’s sympathizers. The arrest of Disha Ravi, a green activist — she has received bail — has to be read in that context. Supporting farmers, who have courageously stood up to the regime, is now anti-national. The cyber groups doing this are trashed as pro-Khalistani or secessionist. The toolkit, an outline of prospective protest, is reified as real and suspicion spreads like a controlled epidemic. The sedition law is invoked to suppress difference of any kind. The biggest casualty is dissent. Our democracy needs to revive the festivals of dissent it was famous for. The idea of sedition and the suppression of dissent have turned our polity into a dismal entity. To give voice to the voiceless is now an anti-national activity. Dissent, which literally anchored the informal economy of a democracy, is now treated as epidemic. The regime seems afraid of a new generation finding its relevance and articulation around ecology and environmentalism. Its ham-handedness is turning figures like Ridhima Pandey, the Uttarakhand activist, and Disha Ravi into iconic figures. They will become part of the new swaraj, a life-giving imagination, for a new idea of a planetary earth. Suddenly planetary issues, from climate change to the future of farming or the fate of the tribe — each a critical human rights issue — have been defined as anti-national. The demonology being built around Thunberg and climate change is fascinating to watch. After Covid-19, India has been systematically liberalizing environmental rules, allowing corporations to play the role of birds of prey. The issue is not just that India is seeking to destroy its future; it has turned democracy and citizenship into an arid game. At a time when every school and college should be planetary, combining swadesi and swaraj, our regime is turning authoritarian to the very dreams of an alternative future and a liveable society. What the regime with its authoritarianism hates is the pedagogic power of dissent. India becomes a learning society, learning the creative power of difference. It is the regime’s illiteracy about the creative functions of dissent. Democracy needs to rework itself in the following directions. It has to go beyond liberalism and tolerance as lazy theories of difference to make plurality the centre of its imagination. To do so, one cannot look at the Disha Ravi episode anecdotally, establishing Pollyanna-like equivalents to the Greta Thunberg fairy tale. We need to see a broader trend and, maybe, like the mothers of Argentina, link all those harassed into one story — from the Urban Naxal, the university protester, to the environmental activist — into one broad conscience of memory. Civil society has to adopt Disha Ravi and Sudha Bharadwaj as prisoners of conscience. The government has harassed Amnesty International into closure, but the idea of prisoners of conscience must become a civil society agenda. It is time for democracy to reinvent itself around new dissenting and plural imaginations. The sadness is the regime has turned democracy, rights, dissent into a dismal world. Argumentative Indians must return as climate change activists and Urban Naxals to protect the rights of the planet and the fate of marginals, items of little concern to the present ruling class. The very fate of dissent has become an early warning signal about the illiteracy of the regime. Dissent as pedagogic, dialogic politics has to reinvent the tired imagination of Indian democracy today. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
