25-02-2021||Opinion||Lessons to learn: Texas snow storm||Sir — The unprecedented snow storm which hit Texas earlier this month continues to wreak havoc in the lives of millions. While electricity has been mostly restored — much of the power grid had collapsed — a little over 3.4 million people are still facing problems with water supply. Although a confluence of factors have led to the blackout, one of the reasons flagged for the crisis was the complete deregulation of energy providers in the state. With India increasingly moving towards greater privatization, incidents such as these should act as a much-needed warning to the authorities in our country. Ruchira Biswas,Calcutta Victorious moment Sir — Riding the wave of goodwill garnered by the protesting farmers who have been on Delhi’s borders since November, the Congress in Punjab has romped home to a massive victory in the civic polls, with most municipal corporations and a majority of the 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in its bag (“First sign”, Feb 19). Over 71 per cent of the electorate turned out to vote in the largely peaceful local body polls held recently. The Shiromani Akali Dal, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Aam Aadmi Party were pushed to the fringes. The Grand Old Party’s victory, particularly in Pathankot, Hoshiarpur and Bathinda — the latter will get a Congress mayor for the first time in 53 years — is a big blow to the Akali Dal and the BJP that were perceived to have a stronghold in these areas. It is evident that public ire was largely responsible for the losses suffered by the BJP in Punjab. The shadow of the farmers’ protest — it has support from most sections of society — loomed over the election campaigning as the saffron party and its workers faced immense public wrath. Sensing alienation from the masses, the Akali Dal had already broken its long-time alliance with the BJP in September last year. The Punjab poll outcome has dented any real possibility of the BJP making a comeback in the state. The Akali Dal and the AAP need to reconfigure their strategies if they hope to win back the people’s trust. The assembly elections in Punjab, slated to be held next year, will be crucial. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The Congress has proved a point by sweeping the civic polls in Punjab. The party’s opposition to the agriculture laws and support for the farmers’ protests have borne fruit. The results indicate that the people of the state are more or less unanimous in their opposition to the new legislations. The passage of the bills in the state assembly aimed at negating the Centre’s farm laws — the question of their constitutional validity notwithstanding — seems to have paid dividends. The outcome puts the Congress in a position to win the Punjab assembly elections next year. The BJP could face a significant drop in votes if the farmers in Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country desert the party owing to its refusal to repeal the laws. The government might just be forced to concede if the farming community decides to vote en masse against the BJP. The results of the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal and Assam are going to be an indication of its political fortunes. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It was great to see the Congress make a clean sweep of the civic body polls in Punjab. The party won Moga, Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Abohar, Pathankot, Batala and Bathinda. This time the people of Punjab have clearly rejected the BJP, the Akali Dal and the AAP. The emerging scenario is a huge setback for the BJP in Punjab. The Akali Dal, too, seems to have lost its footing in the state owing to its former alliance with the saffron party. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Maharashtra is, once again, witnessing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases, weeks after the state government restarted local trains in Mumbai. The spike has been attributed to both the relaxation of curbs and careless public behaviour. This, coupled with the presence of mutant strains of the coronavirus, has sparked fears that India might witness a second wave of infections. Governmental and public complacency at this point, when vaccinations are on and cases nationwide are at their lowest in over eight months, can undo the hard-won progress and sacrifices made in the fight against the disease. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
25-02-2021||Opinion||High cost: health minister shares Ramdev's 'dream'||New India is setting novel standards for the values of governance. The Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, said he was “pleased” to have been present at the release of a “scientific research paper” which claimed that Patanjali, a commercial organization for which the yoga preacher, Mr Ramdev, provides the ‘face’, had produced “the first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19”. In the first place, why was the minister present at the advertising gig of a company? Mr Vardhan’s frankness was disarming: the years-long closeness of the Narendra Modi-led government with Mr Ramdev was flaunted in the face of citizens by the health minister’s declaration that the government shared Mr Ramdev’s dreams for ayurveda. The Indian Medical Association has pointed out that with Mr Vardhan being a doctor himself, the violation of ethics was professional too, not just related to governance. No doctor is supposed to endorse a drug or medicine in any form or manner of advertising. The presence of the health minister — with the Union minister for road transport and highways — next to Mr Ramdev at the event was nothing short of an endorsement. Its ramifications are dangerous. Scientists and doctors have variously shown up the flaws in the research process published as ‘evidence’ in the paper. In effect, it is an example of pseudo-science that not only has the approval of the government but also poses a serious danger to the people who trust their ministers. Fierce criticism has forced a statement from the company that the World Health Organization had not approved the product, although the banner behind the dais was cunningly designed to give that impression. The IMA has called the health minister’s “false and fabricated projection” of an “unscientific” medicine and the WHO’s subsequent denial of its certification a “slap and insult” to the people of India. But most people watching the event would be unlikely to know about the WHO’s denial. It is one thing to claim scientific glories for ancient India — from plastic surgery for Ganesha’s head to interplanetary travel — and quite another to promote commercial products without the required scientific processes in the name of ayurveda. Far from respecting a traditional system of healing based on years of study and experimentation, this is just exploiting people’s trust. At the cost of their health and pockets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
25-02-2021||Opinion||Justice lives: Rao and Ravi granted bail||A fair investigation is one of the prerequisites of justice. The infirmities in two separate investigations that were exposed and castigated by the courts in two recent judgments merit attention. The Bombay High Court granted conditional bail to the poet, Varavara Rao, infirm and an accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, observing that the National Investigation Agency had kept him in custody without framing charges for an extended period of time. The observations made by a Delhi sessions court while granting bail to Disha Ravi, the young climate activist arrested on the specious charge of sedition, are even more revealing. The court rejected almost every accusation that the Delhi police — it answers to the Union home ministry — brought against Ms Ravi, including her alleged engagement with groups with ‘dubious’ credentials, her association with banned organizations, the motive of incitement as well as the destruction of ‘evidence’. The shoddiness of the investigation raises the disquieting possibility of the inquiry being prejudiced. Of greater import was the court’s observation concerning sedition. Citing a judicial precedent, the court stated that the offence of sedition cannot be invoked to “minister to the wounded vanity of governments”. This can only be read as a comprehensive rejection of the worrying trend of silencing the voices of dissenting citizens with the help of intimidating — dated? — legal instruments. This kind of coercion is no longer limited to the realm of speculation. Reliable data indicate that the alarming spike in cases of sedition has coincided with the political ascendancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The courts must remain vigilant against such institutional aggression. The momentum generated by these verdicts needs to be taken forward to kindle an informed debate on judicial reform. Reform, increasingly, is being viewed in an instrumental manner. The discussion on meaningful reform must go beyond the imperative of addressing such paucities as vacancies in judicial posts to look into the urgent need of making law compatible with contemporary ideas of liberty and encroachments on it. Such a discussion must entail considered opinion on the need to do away with antiquated legislations. The sedition law, a colonial relic that is often misused by authoritarian regimes, must be amended, if not rejected. A bold, impartial engagement on the part of the judiciary to examine the need for draconian legislations would deepen the line of separation between court and government. That, too, is the need of the hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
25-02-2021||Opinion||Pakistan senate elections: gearing up for a fight||Senate elections in Pakistan will be held on March 3. All political parties are gearing up to get their nominees elected. The ruling party, the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, is busy consolidating its votes by addressing the grievances of some of its disgruntled members of parliament as well as making sure that the government’s coalition partners are also satisfied. The most interesting contest will take place for the general seat from Islamabad between the finance minister, Hafeez Sheikh, and the former prime minister, Yusuf Raza Gilani, who is a consensus candidate of the Pakistan Democratic Movement, an Opposition alliance of 11 parties. The idea of fielding Gilani was given last month by the Senator, Mustafa Nawaz Khokhar, of the Pakistan Peoples Party. Apart from the other Opposition parties, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz has assured the PDM of its support for Gilani. The PDM is lobbying to get the votes of the disgruntled PTI members as well as those of government allies. The reason for Gilani’s nomination is that he is well-liked across parties, and if he manages to win his seat from the capital, it will be a symbolic vote of no-confidence against Prime Minister Imran Khan. Some say the government is worried while others say it will win its seats easily. There is a debate going on about an open ballot instead of a secret ballot in the Senate polls. India has already done this, but without amending the Constitution; in Pakistan, it is a bit more complicated, and using an open ballot system may require a constitutional amendment in the end. A bill was moved in Parliament by the government regarding open balloting in the Senate, but the Opposition is in no mood to play ball. The federal government has also filed a presidential reference under Article 186 of the Constitution and sought the top court’s advice regarding the Senate polls — whether they are to be held under the Constitution (Article 226) or under the law (the Election Act, 2017). While the matter is still sub judice, the top court has observed that democracy will remain a dream unless the current voting method, that is, the secret ballot system, is changed. Recently, a few videos from the last Senate polls in 2018 emerged; in them, MPs from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa were seen taking stacks of money in return for selling their votes in the Senate. Some legal analysts say the timing of the leak of these videos in the media seems suspect and it may have been done keeping in mind that the apex court ruling is still pending. The argument in favour of an open ballot in the Senate is that not many people vote as per their conscience; they either vote for their party, for money or under pressure from certain quarters. Thus, in any case, their vote is ‘influenced’. Ideally, all parties should support this move. The Opposition parties are not averse to it, but they do not want to do the present government any favour owing to the way in which they were treated by the PTI dispensation during this tenure. In the long run, the Opposition parties are doing themselves a disservice by not supporting an open ballot just because there is no love lost between them and the PTI. For the Senate elections to be transparent, there should either be an open ballot or direct elections. It remains to be seen what the apex court eventually rules. On the other hand, the bypolls that were held last week have put the government in an embarrassing position. According to unofficial results, the PML-N won two seats out of four; one of them was a seat that had been won by the ruling party in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where the PTI has been in power since 2013. Another seat in Daska, Punjab, was said to have been won by the PML-N when suddenly around 20 presiding officers went missing. Hence, the results were unnecessarily delayed. In a statement, the Election Commission of Pakistan said that it suspected that the results of 20 polling stations had been falsified in the by-election. The PML-N said the government was involved in rigging the polls and there should be new elections in Daska, whereas the prime minister also tweeted for a recount in these 20 polling stations. In a series of tweets, Khan said: “[E]ven though there is no legal compulsion to do so before ECP announces results, I would request our PTI candidate to ask for re-polling in the 20 polling stations Opposition is crying hoarse over... We will always seek to strengthen a fair and free election process. Unfortunately others lack this commitment.” A ruling party losing bypolls is taken as an indication that the government is weak or not performing. The rising inflation and the lack of economic performance in Pakistan may be key factors in why the government could not win those seats. It needs to introspect as to what has gone wrong. The Senate polls, therefore, will also be quite interesting. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
25-02-2021||Opinion||Bengal’s magpies||In a nation that has slipped six places to rank a lowly 86 among 180 countries in 2020’s Corruption Perception Index, ‘thief’ — chor— unsurprisingly, has often been used as an expression of reproach in politics. In the late 1980s, Calcutta’s walls blazed with slogans condemning Rajiv Gandhi as a thief before a general election. The opprobrium cost Mr Gandhi his prime ministership even though, years later, he was exonerated of the charge. Before the parliamentary elections of 2019, Rahul Gandhi attempted to turn tables on Narendra Modi by weaponizing the word, chor, only to find, on the day of the results, that the tables had been turned on him. It is possible that Potol Das would shake his head in dismay while watching this political mudslinging. Potol, one of the principal characters in Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay’s delightful Pagla Saheb er Kobor, took pride in thievery — his chosen vocation. A despairing Potol even confides in Haribandhu, the young hero, that his son was indifferent to such wonders as hastalaghob, mukhbandhan, vayuniyantran, kumbhak — the tricks that elevated thievery to a form of art. Potol wasn’t pulling a trick here. A cursory examination of social and literary history of thievery — something that Prabir Mukhopadhyay does with wonderful results in his slim, engaging book, Chor Chaturdoshi — would reveal that sacred (Brahminical?) texts have intersected with Bengal’s folk traditions to accord a pride of place to chourjyobritti in recognition of the myriad expertise of the chor. The shastras, Chor Chaturdoshi reveals, acknowledged thievery as one of the 64 principal art forms. Thievery enlivens the Janmukhkalpa, Chouryochorja, Chourjyoswarup — handwritten Sanskrit scriptures (Pnuthis) — as well as the tales in the Jatakas and the Kathasaritsagar. The folk tradition responded in the form of the Chor Chakrabarti, a literary figure respected and, indeed, celebrated as a cerebral hero. In his essay, “Chor er Pnachali”, which has found its rightful place in Chor Chaturdoshi, Chintaharan Chakrabarty argues that Chor Chakrabarti should, in fact, be read as an honorific that was showered upon those blessed with nimble hands. This honour, even in early twentieth-century literature, functioned as a kind of social capital. Thus, in “Jhanu Chor Chanu”, Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury’s eponymous hero-thief manages to marry the zamindar’s daughter after passing a number of tests, including one in which he steals the zamindar’s horse with the nobleman still perched upon the equine. But it wasn’t slippery hands alone that enabled Bengal’s thieving magpies to win hearts. The literary thief, on occasions, challenged uncomplicated notions of morality by battling dilemmas that were the products of larger social and economic fissures. Mukhopadhyay refers to a story by Anurupa Devi in the journal, Bharati (1912), in which poverty pushes a young man to steal from his childhood friend; a similar plot informs Bhimapada Ghosh’s tale that appeared in Shishusaathi (1936). What makes the chor’s resurrection as the proverbial mirror to broader social cleavages interesting is the fact that Bharati and Shishusaathi were popular with young readers and, thereby, had the potential of kindling, albeit inadvertently, an imagination in which the thief emerged as a wronged, subaltern figure. Strikingly — we are, yet again, indebted to Chor Chaturdoshi here — a potent intellectual assault on the integrity of the chor came from the works by luminaries associated with Bengal’s Renaissance. The chipping away at the thief’s inner moral core was couched in the  form of an education that was undoubtedly tinged with puritan, colonial ethics. Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar denounced thievery as a repugnant habit (Barnaparichay); Madanmohan Tarkalankar attributes larceny to the triumph of greed whose taming is predicated on discipline and restraint; in Dharmaniti, Akshaykumar Dutt links this immorality to man’s capitulation to materialism. This denouncement of the thief, Mukhopadhyay posits, was indicative of a discernible complicity between the Colonial State and the Family — the latter being the State in an atomized form — in the sphere of education. The creation of a peaceful, productive social order was underpinned by the State’s ability to turn citizens into pliant subjects, and the Family was identified as the primary site of this ‘indoctrination’. But if deviance was dreaded and condemned, as is evident from the scorn heaped on the chor, what explains the valorization of the robber — Banglar dakat — in literary works? Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay immortalized Debi Chaudhurani; Nadia’s Bishu, alias Bishe, Dakat, Mukhopadhyay points out, entered the literary canon in 1896 in a ‘historical novel’ that eulogized the outlaw; Dhirendralal Dhar’s Banglar Dakat is proof of this persistent fascination. Mukhopadhyay answers this intriguing question by presenting a singular hypothesis. Bengal’s Robinhoods, as opposed to its thieving Magpies, were perceived to be symbols of indigenous masculinity, courage — even justice and dissent. The robbers’ association with justice and dissent may have been fortified by the shared cultural belief that the dakat, unlike the chor, robbed the rich to help the poor; more importantly, the robber, who often succeeded in eluding the reach of imperial, prejudiced law, was also a symbol of local autonomy. William Henry Sleeman’s brutal campaign against the Thuggee may have played a part in this romanticization of the robber whose collateral damage was borne by the thief. What can be deduced from Mukhopadhyay’s inference of the antipathy in the relationship between the two criminal classes is that public opinion on law and the lawless is inevitably mediated by conflicting pulls and pressures of a particular social epoch as well as by shifting political and moral allegiances. The other contribution of Chor Chaturdoshi is its ability to locate the thief in a twilight zone where the moral and the unconscionable collide with unexpected consequences. This is of critical importance on two counts. Mukhopadhyay suggests that the arrival of the detective not only pushed the chor, in a manner of speaking, to the margins of literature but, secondly, it also stripped the thief of a residual moral self that was fascinating because of its ability to challenge the normative ideas of crime and criminals. This purging of the criminal of grey specks to reveal an overwhelmingly dark heart is no longer limited to fiction. Technology is being  harnessed to achieve a similar, troublesome goal with law and order institutions relying on AI algorithms to create the archetypal criminal. Potol Das, who, in the end, had joined hands to resist the forces of darkness would be a bitter man today. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-67
