26-02-2021||Opinion||Right call: Court smashes Disha Ravi case, grants bail||Sir — The scathing observations of the judge, Dharmender Rana, while granting bail to the 22-year-old climate activist, Disha Ravi, arrested by the Delhi police in connection with the toolkit case, are an indictment of the unprofessionalism of the Delhi police, which functions directly under the Union home ministry (“Justice lives”, Feb 25). Rejecting the resistance to Ravi’s bail plea as more ‘ornamental in nature’, the Delhi sessions court found the proof against her to be too scanty and sketchy to warrant further incarceration. It also said that any call for violence was conspicuously absent in the toolkit that Ravi had edited. Importantly, the judge also made a stinging but significant observation that the offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments, thereby recognizing the freedom of speech and expression as an inviolable fundamental right. One hopes that the reasoning in this bail order will apply with equal force to many others across the country who are languishing in prisons on questionable charges of sedition. What is shocking is that while the Delhi police rushed all the way to far-off Bangalore to arrest Ravi and bring her before a Delhi court without obtaining a transit remand from a competent court in Bangalore, the same police force finds itself too helpless to arrest a Punjab-based gangster-turned-activist, Lakha Sidhana, a key accused in the Red Fort violence case, who was recently seen in public, as if daring the police to arrest him. Is the police’s inaction a result of its sheer incompetence or something even worse? The Delhi police commissioner should be held directly accountable and penalized for such blatantly discriminatory behaviour and for his failure to take Sidhana, clearly mocking the police force, into custody. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — While passing the bail order for the imprisoned climate activist, Disha Ravi, the additional sessions judge, Dharmender Rana, quashed almost every charge levelled against her — he highlighted Ravi’s absolutely blemish-free record and her firm roots in society. The fact that the court found “not even an iota of evidence” against her is a strong blow to the ruling dispensation at the Centre as well as the Delhi police. Interestingly, the judge not only quoted the Rig Veda and reminded the nation that “this 5,000-year-old civilisation of ours has never been averse to ideas from varied quarters”, but he also imparted a decent lesson on both democracy and the vision of our founding fathers. The Delhi police had accused Ravi, along with Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, of collaborating with the allegedly pro-Khalistani group called Poetic Justice Foundation to create a toolkit. Ravi, however, claimed that she had edited only two lines in the document, but she did want to support the farmers in their campaign against the controversial farm laws. She had said, “If highlighting farmers’ protest globally is sedition, I am better [off] in jail.” As the sessions court rubbished the police’s ‘toolkit case’, it has exposed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s own ‘toolkit’ — after all, charging citizens with sedition without proof is just another instrument of subjugation for the ruling party at the Centre, besides using different law-enforcement agencies to oppress its political opponents and toppling state governments by means of horse-trading. The Delhi police has stooped low to appease its political masters. It is shameful that the police force decided to pick on a young activist to teach other dissenters a lesson. This reveals  its blatant incompetence at pursuing the real secessionists. The verdict will surely encourage Ravi and ensure that she rises strong against the government’s wrongdoings. One only hopes that Ravi does not have to face such problems in the future. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Look deeper Sir — It was good to know that India has supplied free Covid-19 vaccines to several neighbouring countries as a gesture of goodwill and has gained a lot of international recognition in the process (“Take the shot”, Feb 24). But given that new strains of the virus are now surfacing, India needs to be more proactive, both in terms of vaccine development and inoculating its own people at a faster pace. The pandemic does not seem to be going anywhere, and scientists have also warned that this outbreak is not a one-off event. This means that multiple companies need to be involved in research and development to come out with a vaccine which treats the mutant strains. India should consider this a golden opportunity to boost the nation’s research and development sector; we must not let go of this chance. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The fact that India is sending free vaccines to other countries is laudable. But it must be ensured that all Indians — regardless of their social or economic standing — are able to get the shots. International applause will be of little help if the country’s own citizens are not inoculated. Sneha Chandra,Delhi Caught out Sir — The two worlds of sport and politics are inextricably intertwined in India. Even without having the faintest political sense, sportsmen enter politics and win votes for political parties. On the other hand, sports arenas are often named after political leaders instead of eminent sports personalities. This time, a new controversy has arisen as the Gujarat government has named the revamped Motera stadium, reportedly the largest cricket stadium in the world, after the prime minister, Narendra Modi — many claim that it was previously known as the Sardar Patel Stadium. Did the ruling dispensation just get caught out while aiming to hit a six? Sarbajeet Choudhury,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
26-02-2021||Opinion||Fair deal: Big Tech and news||Business relationships, as a matter of principle, ought to be complementary. But the ties between Big Tech — Google and Facebook being its two principal representatives — and the indigenous news industry are far from even. It is this imbalance in terms of market share and revenue that lies at the heart of the global pushback against Google and Facebook through affirmative legislation. Australia has become the first country in the world to frame a legislation, the News Media Bargaining Code, to address the anomaly by forcing the two technology behemoths to pay for news content and share revenue in a fairer manner. There is evidence in support of such course correction. The dominance of Google and Facebook on internet traffic has enabled these companies to gobble up a disproportionate share of advertising revenue — as much as 70 to 80 per cent according to some estimates — in their favour, starving news publishers of much needed funds. The Australian law seeks to address this skewedness, even though critics suggest that late changes to the draft have gifted Facebook an escape clause. What is undeniable is that a global momentum has been generated as a result of Canberra’s move. Canada is in talks with Australia to frame a similar template of redistribution; corrective action is likely to be bolstered in the European Union — France has taken the lead here — as well as in the United States of America. Strangely, India — one of the biggest markets for the digital giants — has not witnessed similar demands for equity so far. The Centre, which has not hesitated to challenge these corporations for their alleged indifference to India’s compliance edifice, must side with domestic news outlets in this battle to balance the scales. Such an intervention is necessary not only because there must be a level playing field among competitors but also the news industry plays a critical role. It is a custodian of the democratic ethos and is responsible for the dissemination of correct information. But these functions are being hampered with the drying up of revenue, leading to an existential crisis for the industry and its personnel. New Delhi must explore ways to bring about a compatible, equitable partnership between news organizations and Big Tech that can benefit the stakeholders. The government has an additional incentive to act. A profitable domestic news industry would be more amenable to cough up taxes than bullish tech firms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
26-02-2021||Opinion||Winning game: Puducherry conundrum||The erosion of principles in politics makes laws meaningless. The provision for president’s rule and the anti-defection law have been repeatedly used — or not used — to mask frank tussles for power. The hollowness of the anti-defection law is now starkly evident. The resignation of the chief minister of Puducherry, V. Narayanasamy, marks the untimely fall of another Congress government during Bharatiya Janata Party-led rule at the Centre. Resignations of Congress members from the assembly allowed the Opposition, of which the Bharatiya Janata Party is a part, to overtake the Congress in numbers. Advantage BJP. But with assembly elections in the Union territory to come soon, the BJP seems to be careful about perceptions. It won no seats in the 2016 assembly elections, but nominated three members in the assembly as a provision allows the Centre to have nominated members in a UT legislature. That was legal, but not ethical: the people did not want the BJP. But the removal of a lieutenant-governor hostile to the chief minister and the induction of a Tamil-speaking — thus linguistically sympathetic — lieutenant-governor might divert charges of toppling an elected government. Resignations rather than direct changeovers to the BJP could look good too. People’s wishes or democratic principles of legislature formation had never been pressing concerns for the BJP; Goa, Manipur, Karnataka and some other governments would have been different then. The Tenth Schedule of the Constitution or the anti-defection law was intended to keep governments stable by preventing legislators from switching sides. Only when two-thirds of legislators in a party merged with another could disqualification be avoided. What happens, however, is that the bar to switching sides is quite openly subjected to various tricks in favour of the more powerful party at any time. Resignations are common — rewards come to those who wait a bit. Delay in disqualifying defectors by the presiding officer in a legislature can also be to a waiting party’s advantage. The frequent fall of non-BJP governments in the most recent phase of India’s history is a painful exhibition of the law’s toothlessness. Re-drafting it by plugging its loopholes — these are many — may save it from derision. But it is only principled politics, scruples among elected representatives and their urge to keep the people’s faith that will make a difference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
26-02-2021||Opinion||True Value: remuneration for household work||Ahead of the Tamil Nadu assembly elections slated to be held later this year, the actor-turned-politician, Kamal Haasan, announced his party’s manifesto and sparked a debate by backing the idea of paying housewives for doing the household work. At first, it seemed to be a very empowering move, one that can ensure financial independence and recognize the efforts put in by wives to run the house. Yet, it also raised a few doubts. Doing housework is not a choice for every woman. Given that women are conditioned from a tender age to live a life of servitude, performing household labour has been accepted by many women without much protest. In a recent motor vehicle compensation case, the Supreme Court observed, “...the sheer amount of time and effort... dedicated to household work by individuals, who are more likely to be women than men, is not surprising when one considers the plethora of activities a housemaker undertakes”. The court further stated that “the issue of fixing notional income for a homemaker, therefore, serves extremely important functions... [i]t is a recognition of the multitude of women who are engaged in this activity, whether by choice or as a result of social/cultural norms”. It is time we acknowledged that women’s work at home contributes to the economic growth of the family and the nation at large. According to the United Nations, homemakers contribute 13 per cent to the global gross domestic product. It would thus be derogatory to affix a monetary amount to the labour, services and sacrifices of homemakers. But at the same time, the romanticization of the burden that is put on the woman to demonstrate her love must stop. In a deeply patriarchal society, generations of women have had their own battles to fight. Pioneering women in the 1950s broke the glass ceiling to a great extent to pursue careers; the next generation established themselves as the second bread earners in their families; now it is the turn of the present generation of women to provide for themselves and demand an unemployment allowance if, owing to circumstances, they need to stay at home. The compensation is not for the ‘love’ that is often attributed to women; it is for the full-time work they do at home, which is often done for many compulsions other than love. In our society, homemaking is still considered the centre of a woman’s life. The female labour force participation rates in India have never crossed 35 per cent after Independence, and women have mostly been confined to housework. According to the ministry of statistics and programme implementation, women spend 299 minutes a day on housework, whereas men spend just 97 minutes. It becomes clear that women in India are still rarely encouraged to pursue education or career growth. As such, implementing a policy to compensate only women for housework will do more harm than good. It will strengthen the stereotype of the kind of work that women are suited for, and will confine more women to the home. The choice to build a career will get restricted further, resulting in a decline in the number of women in the nation’s workforce. The fight against patriarchy cannot be won unless women are financially independent or, at least, not dependent on the goodness of men. However, the decline of women in the labour force from 31.2 per cent in 2011-12 to 23.3 per cent in 2017-18 cannot be ignored. Adopting the compensation policy will only further this downward trend and ensure that the sacrifices made by our predecessors for the inclusion of women in the workforce go in vain. The belief that women who stay at home do not ‘work’ or add economic value to the household is worrisome. The proposal to pay housewives is a heartening reflection of changing attitudes. But we need to recognize that domestic work holds value, and ensure social equality and dignity of life for women. The essentialist principle of women just being mothers and wives is the root cause of their deprivation. It is time to come out of it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
26-02-2021||Opinion||The trickster||Memory is a tricky thing. Most of us, I reckon, tend to fall back on our memories if we’re asked to give an account of who we are, what we do, how we spend our time, what we enjoy or dislike and so on and so forth. Our identities are inextricably tied to our remembrance of past things; yet, even as we use memory to validate an idea or express an opinion, we are often painfully aware of the inconstancy and fallibility of our memories. As someone who spends a disproportionate amount of time reading, thinking about, discussing and, occasionally, writing about books, I am sometimes asked about the first book I remember. The answer is simple: the earliest book I can recollect handling, probably when I was about two years of age, was the gorgeously-illustrated, flimsy paperback, Tutu-Bhutu — recounting the adventures of a kitten dressed in yellow t-shirt and red dungarees (Bhutu) and his black-shorts-and-blue-singlet-wearing friend — the puppy, Tutu. For decades after I first encountered Tutu and Bhutu, as well as the rest of the brilliant cast of supporting characters, I had absolutely no idea who the writer or the illustrator of the book was, but the luminous images still form a part of my mental landscape. I’ve also often wondered if my love of the Bengal countryside wasn’t — at least in part — triggered by the images I had encountered in Tutu-Bhutu as a city-bred child: the ponds, the fishing, the mango grove, the nullah over which the friends build a bridge with planks of wood… Even as I peck these words out on my laptop, I feel the familiar frisson of excitement I had first felt when I had picked up Tutu-Bhutu well over fifty years ago. But there are strange gaps in my recollections of this beloved book. Family lore has it that I would ‘read’ Tutu-Bhutu by running my index finger along the lines of text and reciting from memory the oft-told tale, which had been read out to me, my brother, and assorted cousins countless times by our patient grandmother. I clearly remember ‘reading’ the last words of the tale, which were “Now we are civilized and educated”, spoken to Bhutu by his saree-clad mother. But these lines occur towards the very beginning of the book, when Bhutu is being scolded for having unexpectedly attacked and injured some chickens in the midst of playing games with them in the village green. When I chanced upon a copy of Tutu-Bhutu some years ago, this discovery came as such a shock that I tried to find out if there had been an earlier edition of the book where these words were, in fact, the concluding lines of the story. There hadn’t been, and they weren’t. I did find out, though, that Tutu-Bhutu had been written and illustrated by the prodigiously talented Dhiren Bal, first published in 1959, and is still in print. My memory of Tutu-Bhutu, therefore, like so many of my memories, is imperfect and full of gaps, but also profoundly important in the narrative that is the story of my life. We string together memories to create stories — not just our own, but that of our families, our friends, neighbours, communities, the place we live in (or would like to live in), the planet we wish to leave for our children — and we pass on these stories to others we wish to bring around to our way of seeing and understanding the world we inhabit. These stories need not be made up of memories of places, people, things or events we have encountered at first hand. We often take the memory-strings given to us by others and weave them with our own to create new memories, new narratives, new stories, which, we, in turn, pass on to others. If these stories also serve to edify, educate, instruct, paint a moral, or clinch an argument, then they become so much more believable and powerful. The greatest storytellers knew, and know, this. They are able to, as it were, make up memories for us — of things that we know didn’t actually happen to us, yet which we feel we have seen, or heard, or experienced in our own lives. These stories become, often in strange and unexpected ways, part of what goes into the making of that ‘I’ that we typically think of as our unique, authentic self. What we perhaps need to keep in mind is that when it comes to weaving memories to create stories — whether personal ones, or larger tales involving (many) others — there is, inevitably, an element of selection at play. Such selection may be deliberate, or unconscious, willed, or unwilling. We may ‘lose’ a memory, only to ‘recover’ it at some point in the near or distant future, and it is by no means clear why this should be the case. As the memory scientist, Martin A. Conway, put it in a special issue of The Psychologist (the official monthly journal of The British Psychological Society) devoted to memory and desire, memories “are alive, free, sometimes alien, occasionally dangerous, mental representations that can overwhelm as easily as they fulfill.” Memories, whether our own or those of others, play a powerful part in creating identity. We weave memories together to build the stories that make up the ‘I’ that lives, and moves, and has its being in the world. It is this ‘I’ that not only remembers, but also craves, and anticipates. Memory, as has been long recognized, is twin to desire. In the same essay, Conway writes of how memories can “cause feelings of surprise, recognition, perplexity, even wonderment, and trigger an intense sense of the self in the past”; to which we might add that memories also have the power to trigger an intense desire for something we want to possess now, or in the future. My memory of the idyllic verdant world of Tutu-Bhutu is interfused with my memories of the many happy days I have spent in rural Bengal, reinforcing each other to create a desire to spend more time away from the bustle of the city — and, during this pandemic lockdown, often creating a sense of loss and longing for not being able to do so. In similar fashion, might the recollection of insult and/or injury caused by members of a specific group on members of another become commingled with individual experience to create a hyper-memory which angers, provokes, and spurs action against those deemed to have caused the injuries and insults in the first place. Your — real or imagined, factual or fictional — trauma, and the memories you weave into your tale of woe, can all too easily be passed on to me, leading me to wreak vengeance on an individual, or a group, perceived as the guilty party. Memories, and the stories woven from them, can be used for a variety of purposes — to heal or to harm, to attack or to shelter, to bring together or break apart. Nation-builders and propagandists know this all too well. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
