27-02-2021||Opinion||Iron fist in velvet gloves: Digital media code||The architects of New India have at their disposal formidable powers of transformation that would make Houdini nervous. Worryingly, the agenda behind these changes is often cleverly couched in benign or even affirmative rhetoric that can obfuscate the real intentions. Thus, attempts to instil transparency, ironically, have intensified concerns about opacity in the public domain. The softest of touch from this government, its critics allege, can end up delivering the hardest of blows. The jury is still out on whether the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 — the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre’s first attempt to regulate the vast and, allegedly, shadowy turf occupied by social and digital media players, big and small, and Over The Top platforms — belongs to the featherweight or the heavyweight category. This is because the declared intent of the regime has been matched by equally convincing reservations regarding some of the provisions in these rules. The objectives appear perfectly acceptable on paper. The draft, among other goals, seeks to establish a grievance redressal mechanism to resolve conflicts in a timely manner; OTT platforms have been directed to create categories to classify content; a degree of uniformity has also been brought in terms of the guidelines to put print, electronic and online news media on an even keel. There cannot be an argument against regulation for the amorphous digital universe. But that does not mean that misgivings about the reach and the ethics of such oversight mechanisms ought to be brushed aside. The Rules strip Twitter and Facebook of the ‘safe harbour’ clause — a principle endorsed by legal precedent — that reduced the liability of these firms on the content posted on their platforms, rendering them vulnerable to institutional intimidation; the traceability clause, which now demands that social media intermediaries identify the first originator of information, may not only impair privacy but also lead to other kinds of encroachments at a time when content critical of the powers that be are routinely held up as instances that adversely affect the sovereignty of the nation; the oversight tool employed in the case of online news, it is feared, could consolidate bureaucratic meddling and, effectively, censorship. There is a case to argue that the code is an embodiment of a global momentum towards taming social and digital media units: Germany, Russia, Singapore have, in recent times, evinced similar motives. Given the greyish outcome of some of these policies, it is of paramount importance to make the deliberations participatory. The lack of legislative discussion or collaboration makes India’s newly-minted regulations stick out like the proverbial sore thumb. This only goes to reveal a strange parallel between social media and the ‘leash’ that is now in place to bind it. The former, conceived as a technology to revolutionize communication and lives, has now been reduced to a handy tool for the toxic troll. India’s ethical code for social media could turn out to be a problematic — unethical — paradigm shift unless it achieves the right balance between surveillance and oversight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
27-02-2021||Opinion||Portraits of the present: Devon Rodriguez's Subway Series||During the pandemic, using the subway and other forms of public transport has taken on a different meaning. People are generally apprehensive as they try to socially distance themselves from others on their commute. The subway system is the lifeline of New York City. An artist’s work recently brought both him and his subway art into the spotlight. As part of his Subway Series started in 2010, Devon Rodriguez has been drawing pictures of strangers sitting on the subway. About six months ago his popularity skyrocketed and his Instagram followers went from around 30,000 to almost two million. He soon started a TikTok account showing himself creating his art and how he completed his first coronavirus drawing. It quickly garnered millions of views. Rodriguez said he primarily relies on the 6 train for his drawing, illustrating about one per week. Recently most of his subjects have been drawn with masks on their faces. Even though trains are emptier now, his artwork captures the current situation and the journey over the past months as Covid-19 ravaged NYC. The New York governor, Andrew Cuomo, mentioned Rodriguez’s artwork during one of his daily Covid-19 updates. Rodriguez also sells his subway drawings on his website. As of now, the NYC subway is about 70 per cent less occupied compared to last February, right before the pandemic sanctions began. The master’s works A worldwide exhibition displaying the artwork of Vincent van Gogh has been gaining popularity; it stopped by in Chicago on Feb 11. It was originally slated to end after a month, but on account of high ticket sales and success it has been extended till September. The exhibition made its debut last summer in Toronto and is meant to be an immersive ‘experience’. It takes 400 van Gogh paintings and then projects them onto the walls and corners of the interior of the 500-cubic feet venue. The walls, columns and floors become the canvas for the artwork. In addition, the paintings are brought to life through animation, such that “sunflowers are blowing in the wind, stars are twinkling and clouds are moving by,” as said by Corey Ross, the exhibition producer, to Time Out. The gallery is following Covid-19 safety protocols for the audience. In fact, it uses the overhead projectors to create ‘viewing circles’ on the ground to remind people that they must stick to those areas in order to socially distance inside the building. The latter has 35-feet-high walls and plenty of space to accommodate both the projected paintings and also the accompanying lights and music. The whole visit is an hour-long walk-through, with hand sanitizer stations along the way. The exhibition will also go to Los Angeles in May and to NYC in June. Tickets will go on pre-sale next month and are expected to sell out fast. Learn about the past Black History Month is wrapping up, but it is important to keep the conversation going beyond February. To celebrate black history, a new self-guided walking tour just launched in Brooklyn and Manhattan that takes you through 11 historic sites. Some of the stops include the African Burial Ground National Monument downtown as well as the neighbourhood of Weeksville in Crown Heights that was established by freed black Americans in 1838 and discusses the 1863 NYC riots and the dark side of New York’s history. The film and audio tour is called ‘Fighting Dark’ and can be streamed for free online as well. Another way to educate people on black history is through food. Two restaurant owners in Chicago and Detroit are offering special takeout boxes with illustrations and texts describing significant historic moments and social justice lessons. The restaurants are selling their food in shoe boxes owing to their historical significance. During the segregation era, black women were not allowed to eat in the dining cars of trains and thus packed their meals in shoe boxes. There are two information boxes. The ‘Jim Crow’ box highlights historical black figures such as the baseball pitcher, Satchel Paige, the aviator, Bessie Coleman, and the Nasa engineer, Katherine Johnson. The ‘End Racism’ box depicts recent events such as the tragic death of Breonna Taylor. Spotify also launched a guest-curated list of podcasts and playlists to highlight black culture and excellence. The hub, ‘Black History is Now’, consolidates all the content and can be found on the app. Ice age An unprecedented winter storm has ravaged most of Texas, destroying a power grid and leaving millions without electricity and water supply. People have been burning their personal belongings to stay warm and melting ice from outside to get water. Alongside donations to homeless shelters and food banks, local joints are also stretching themselves to help their fellow Texans. Domino’s Pizza in San Antonio was the only pizza place that stayed open to help out those in need. An image went viral showing its exhausted workers who sold all the food in four hours and garnered several thousand comments, with people noting the burden imposed on fast food workers. At the H-E-B grocery store in Leander, Texas, people were rushing to stock up on food and supplies to prepare for the winter storm. The store was crowded, and the power suddenly went out. Instead of making the customers pay, the H-E-B staff just let everyone leave with their groceries and supplies. Their generosity quickly went viral. The Texas senator, Ted Cruz, an avid Donald Trump supporter, came under fire after being caught catching a flight to Cancun, Mexico in the midst of the devastating storm. He had a booking at the Ritz Carlton to stay with his family. After the backlash, he was seen booking a flight back immediately. Footnote New Yorkers are familiar with the voice on the subway warning passengers to “stand clear of the closing door”. Now, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is bringing in 25 new voices, including those of Jerry Seinfeld, Whoopi Goldberg, Debi Mazar and Fran Lebowitx. The MTA said it provided a general script but encouraged the celebrities to improvise. To hear their voices, you have to ride the subway or the bus; just keep your mask on!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
27-02-2021||Opinion||Colossal figure||There was once a king named Narendra. He ruled over a large kingdom, home to (among other things) the holiest shrine of the Hindu faith. Because of his lineage and as the patron of this great temple he was regarded by his subjects as divinity personified. However, despite the hallowed place accorded to him by virtue of his hereditary position, the king was dissatisfied. He wished to decisively set himself apart from the men who had occupied this particular throne before him, and who might occupy the throne after him. So our vain king built for himself and his subjects a brand new capital altogether. He called it Narendranagar. The story I have told above is neither mythical nor ancient. It is true, and the events I have narrated occurred merely a century ago. This king was Narendra Shah of Tehri Garhwal state, whose family controlled the Badrinath temple. The construction of the new capital named after himself was completed in 1919. As a boy growing up in the Garhwal foothills, I often visited Narendranagar myself. Memories of the place, and the story of its origins, came back to me when I heard that a major cricket stadium in Ahmedabad had been named for Narendra Modi. The full details of how this name was chosen will probably never be disclosed to the public. A British newspaper has run a story with the headline, “Narendra Modi renames cricket stadium after himself”. It seems more likely that the idea originally came from a Gujarati politician with a strong familial interest in Indian cricket administration, who may have sought both to flatter his boss and silence criticisms of his progeny. Either way, for a serving prime minister of a so-called democracy to allow, encourage or initiate this renaming was a staggering act of vanity, matched only (as the Twitterati was quick to point out) by Adolf Hitler, who allowed, encouraged, or initiated the naming of a football stadium after himself in Stuttgart in the 1930s.  Further digging by a writer in The Wire revealed that Hitler’s fellow dictators, Benito Mussolini, Saddam Hussein and Kim Il-sung, also had stadia named after themselves when in power. All politicians have a high opinion of themselves. The profession demands it. However, in a republic, politicians must learn the importance of democratic procedure, and never allow themselves to become bigger than the office they hold. While a king may equate himself with his kingdom, a democratically elected prime minister (or president) should never think of himself or herself as synonymous with the country. Alas, this lesson has not always been heeded by leaders of the world’s oldest republics. Equating himself with France came naturally to President Charles de Gaulle. The American historian, Arthur Schlesinger Jr, coined the term, ‘imperial presidency’, to characterize those leaders of his own country who ruled more like monarchs and less like democratic politicians mindful of checks and balances. There have been three imperious prime ministers in the history of our own republic. These are Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Narendra Modi. All have towered above their colleagues in party and government. Both Nehru and Indira were awarded the country’s highest honour, the Bharat Ratna, while still in office. Could this be what Modi does next? It was intriguing, as well as a little surprising, that it was President Ram Nath Kovind who was the chief guest at the ceremony when the Sardar Patel Cricket Stadium was renamed after Narendra Modi. Could this be the prelude to Kovind awarding Modi the Bharat Ratna in 2022 or 2023? I think this unlikely, for two reasons. First, Modi has sought systematically to distance himself from his predecessors, and he will do so in this regard as well. Second, he has larger ambitions for himself. Nehru and Indira allowed or encouraged the awarding of a republican honour to themselves. Modi, however, will do something much more spectacular. He will, through an expensive exercise in monumental architecture, reshape India’s capital itself. Readers will recall that, in June 2014, shortly after he was sworn in as prime minister, Narendra Modi said in the Lok Sabha that his aim was to undo twelve hundred years of slavery (bara sau saal ki ghulami). At the time, a young writer told me that this statement, and the speech as a whole, was deeply revealing of Modi’s political and personal ambitions. Hindus, thought Modi, had for too long been subservient to or ruled by foreigners. He had now arrived to give them back their self-respect and their dignity. By framing the issue as he had, said my friend, Modi was suggesting that he was the first Hindu ruler to successfully unite the country. For all their bravery, for all the folklore about them, Shivaji and Prithviraj had succeeded only in having a small sliver of the subcontinent under their control. In territorial or political terms, they had not been remotely as successful as (the Buddhist) Ashoka or the (Muslim) Mughals or the (Christian) British. Prime Minister Modi would finally redeem the Hindus by accomplishing what Shivaji and Prithviraj had failed to do. To announce their significance, to proclaim their superiority and assert their sovereignty, kings often construct new capitals for themselves. When Narendra Shah built a new capital in Garhwal he was following in the footsteps of many kings in India and abroad. Indeed, a few years before he decided to build Narendranagar, the emperor to whom Narendra Shah himself owed allegiance, King George V of England, announced that British India deserved a new capital. The old seat of government, Calcutta, would not do anymore. The centre of imperial power in the subcontinent would henceforth shift north. On land acquired from villages to the south of the old city of Delhi, the British imperialists constructed a grand new city befitting their own elevated sense of self. Around three centuries before the British Empire decided to shift its capital, the Mughal Empire did likewise. Shah Jahan, the fifth ruler of a dynasty begun by Babar, chose to move his kingdom’s capital from Agra to Delhi. He supervised the construction of a series of gorgeous buildings, many of which still stand. Once everything was in place, and he was satisfied with what he saw, he named the city after himself. It was to be called Shahjahanabad. In The King and the People, his brilliant new history of 17th and 18th-century Delhi, Abhishek Kaicker writes that, of all the Mughal emperors, Shah Jahan was “the most voluble of all in enunciating the discourse of sovereignty in architecture”. Shah Jahan took especial “pains to ensure that his figure appeared before his subjects as an otherworldly, angelic being: when the emperor appeared below the gilded arched roof of his palace windows, the light of the morning sun enveloped his figure in the same sort of golden shimmering halo which enveloped his image in portraits”. Like Shah Jahan, Narendra Modi pays an extraordinary amount of attention to his dress and personal visage. His clothes, his posture, the background against which photographs are taken are all meticulously attuned to the occasion at hand. And he is luckier than Shah Jahan in the technology at his command. A medieval emperor had to appear in person to make a dramatic impact; whereas a postmodern autocrat can use radio, television, newspapers, websites, WhatsApp, Instagram and so on to present the image he desires to every Indian alive. Narendra Modi’s behaviour as prime minister has been imperious, as manifest in his treatment of political colleagues and political rivals, in how he presents himself in public, in his disregard for debate in Parliament, and in his refusal (whether born of contempt or cowardice) to hold even a single press conference. Like the emperors of yore, his publications are all one-way, Mann ki Baat being a 21st-century equivalent of the Mughal firman. Like them again, he seeks to perpetuate himself through an architectural reshaping of the very centre of political power. A mere cricket stadium in Ahmedabad or even a Bharat Ratna certainly will not do. It is ironic that, for all his denunciations of British and Mughal rule, Narendra Modi seeks to make his most permanent legacy a crass imitation of what the British and the Mughals did for Delhi. It may be his hope that, three or four hundred years later, future subjects of the Hindutva rashtra will look with pride at his buildings but with derision at what previous emperors had built before him. That hope is unlikely to be realized. For, from what one knows of the chosen architect and his past constructions, it is unlikely that this new exercise in imperial hubris shall yield a single building remotely as beautiful as the Lal Qila or the Jama Masjid, the North or the South Blocks. A final thought. The scheme to reshape New Delhi is currently called the ‘Central Vista Project’. Once the new complex of monumental buildings has come up, however, surely that colonial appellation must give way to an atmanirbhar replacement. ‘Narendranagar’ has already been taken, by a vain king of that name who ruled over a hill kingdom a century ago. Perhaps ‘Narendra Mahanagar’ then? Or even ‘Modiabad’? ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-66
