28-02-2021||Opinion||Big bully: control over news and its dissemination are at stake||Sir — Facebook had barred Australians from finding or sharing news on its platform, in response to a proposal by the Australian government that required social media networks to pay news organizations for content. The move had apparently brought down the online readership of Australian news sites. This battle is an important one; equitable control over news and its dissemination are at stake. The tech giant tried to bully the government and news organizations into giving in. The public must support the latter by buying more printed papers and reading news independently.  S. Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — Poor Spiderman, Thomas Stanley Holland, drew flak for a tweet by the author, Thomas Holland, on the subject of renaming the Sardar Patel Stadium in Ahmedabad after Narendra Modi. As usual there were calls to boycott Spiderman — this seems to be the weapon of choice for trolls when it comes to foreign offenders. But one has to admit that the original tweet by the author — Holland expressed ‘admiration’ for Modi’s modesty — makes sense in a weird way. After all, none of the great sons of Gujarat, M.K. Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel or Morarji Desai, would have felt comfortable at the stadium in the company of Ambani and Adani — the Motera stadium has pavilions named after their respective companies. India has come a long way since the days of the freedom struggle; it is now the time of the ‘wealth creators’ aka crony capitalists.  Haridasan Rajan, Kozhikode, Kerala Sir — The article, “The trickster” (Feb 26), by Samantak Das is very pertinent. An erudite Das cleverly weaves his memory of reading Tutu-Bhutu years ago with his experiences later in life. Those who have missed out on reading the book as kids should rectify this as adults. The wonderfully educative, colourfully illustrated books by Dhiren Bal — once known as the Walt Disney of Bengal — are an indelible part of my childhood too. In fact, like Das, Tutu-Bhutu is the first book I recall reading. My father had brought this book for me just as I did for my daughter. Such books taught us at an early age to coexist peacefully, regardless of ethnicity, religion, political beliefs, social status and so on. These books helped us develop a good character at an early age, before these lessons were imparted by parents and teachers. Having entered into the secondary education system in the city in the early Seventies after coming from a beautiful rural village in Bengal, the psychological trauma of city life haunted me for quite some time. I dearly wished to go back to that wonderful village and spend time with Tutu-Bhutu, Hansukhoka, Bhulu, Chao-mao and others. Bal and his creative achievements have entertained us as much as another great talent, Narayan Debnath, did. Bal was honoured by the government for creating Tutu-Bhutu — he got the Bhubaneshwari Medal, the Moumachi Award, and also an award from Sishu Sahitya Parishad. During his time at Anandabazar Patrika, he created other immortal favourites such as “Theke Habul Shekhe” and “Chenga Benga”. Somnath Mukherjee, Calcutta Sir — It was wonderful to read the interesting article, “Bengal’s magpies” (Feb 25), by Uddalak Mukherjee. It reminded me of a novel written by the renowned Bengali author, Narayan Gangopadhyay, titled Ponchanoner Haati, which I had read years back at my school library. There was a character of a thief by the name of Potai in that novel. I still clearly remember the misadventures of Potai chor. He stole from one house after another while the police struggled to get their hands on him. In fact, it is surprising how clear my memory of the story is even so many years after reading the book. Surely this is because of the magic that Gangopadhyay, one of the finest writers in Bengali literature, wove on the page.  Sourish Misra, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
28-02-2021||Opinion||The Unbearable Loneliness of Being||Odd it might be, the sound of it --- a loneliness minister, such as the one Japan has announced following the spike in the country's suicide rate through the pandemic. But more odd is the fact that it should sound so --- a tad amusing. As if finance and home and education and food and roadways and waterways and environment are all deserving of dedicated ministries and not loneliness. More disturbing than odd is the revelation that in 2020, 20,919 people in Japan took their own lives --- 750 more than 2019. The new appointee, Tetsushi Sakamoto, said something about hoping to “promote activities that prevent loneliness and social isolation and protect the ties between people”. It has been reported that in Japan half a million people live the life of a social recluse, they don’t leave their house for years. There is a term for them — hikikomoris. Lawmakers in the world’s third-largest economy are in discussions to formulate a clear definition of loneliness before they put in place effective policies, perhaps to make a clear distinction between loneliness and solitude. In the Japanese language a single word, kodoku, suggests both. A large section of experts believe that hikikomoris are the product of a technology-driven technology-dependent life. The United Kingdom also has a ministry of loneliness; it was instituted in 2018, soon after a report was published claiming that nine million of the country’s 67 million were lonely. A study from the Office for National Statistics revealed that young people between 16 and 24 are more prone to loneliness than others. The UK is currently onto its third loneliness minister. In 2016, the Prime Minister of the United Arab Emirates announced the creation of a minister of state for happiness. A new post of minister of state for tolerance was also created. Ohood Al-Roumi, who is possibly the first happiness minister in the world, has degrees in economics and public administration. She ensured that more than 50 of her chief happiness and positivity officers received appropriate training at UC Berkeley and Oxford. She said, “We have no intention as a government to impose happiness, or mandate it, or force it… We’re just doing the right thing for our people.” It takes all kinds. So there is one country in the world though that has a dedicated department for propaganda and agitation. It is the responsibility of this department to portray prosperous and peaceful neighbours as poverty stricken, dangerous; they rah rah about racial purity and racial pride; national emergencies are played down; the film industry is under its control; and songs are composed only to be dedicated to the political boss. North Korea, of course. Why, what did you think?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
28-02-2021||Opinion||In eulogising Modi, MP chief minister Chouhan invokes Lord Ram||The Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has been repeatedly betraying his desperation to make his loyalty to the current regime at the Centre known. He was once seen as a competitor to Narendra Modi, who was then the CM of the neighbouring state of Gujarat. If Modi was a popular three-term CM, so was Chouhan, or Mamaji, as he is popularly known. Chouhan would not dare to recall the memory of those days; now, he is time and again heard eulogizing Modi. The governor’s customary address on the opening day of the budget session in the Madhya Pradesh assembly had 10 references to the PM. When the leader of the Opposition, Kamal Nath, pointed it out, Chouhan hit back. Taking Modi’s name was a matter of pride, he said. “If Narendra Modi is Lord Ram then Amit Shah is Lord Hanuman,” Chouhan had remarked last month to emphasize how no power can stop the implementation of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act. He has come up with many more statements like these; in the Bharatiya Janata Party corridors in Delhi, Chouhan’s transformation is a matter of hushed discussion. However, what has led many in the party to pity him is his new-found eagerness to imitate the Uttar Pradesh CM, Yogi Adityanath. While his government has already followed up on UP’s contentious anti-conversion bill on interfaith marriages, the otherwise amiable Chouhan has also started sounding shrill and polarizing like Adityanath. The royal scion of Tripura, Pradyot Kishore Manikya Debbarma, who quit as the Tripura Congress chief in 2019, created quite a political flutter recently by announcing the merger of his social organization, the Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance, with two tribal parties, the Tipraland State Party and Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura-Tipraha, to form the state’s largest tribal political party — the Tipraha Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance. That is not all. He also announced that the TIPRA was joining hands with the Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura, an ally of the BJP-led state government, to realize the goal of a ‘Greater Tipraland’, a separate state for the tribal population living in and outside the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council. A few days ago, they even held a massive solidarity rally, with the IPFT skipping a meeting of the ruling alliance convened by the BJP. These developments assume significance because these have taken place in the run-up to the TTAADC polls in May, and are sure to give the BJP a headache that could continue beyond the polls and also put the BJP-IPFT alliance under a lot of strain. All because of the ‘royal strike’ carried out by Debbarma. National parties have taken to the “Pawri horai hai” meme that originated in Pakistan. It is based on a clip of the Instagram influencer, Dananeer Mobeen, saying, “Yeh humaari car hai, aur yeh hum hai, aur yeh humaari pawri (party) horai hai (This is our car, this is us, and we are having a party)”. Last Sunday, the Trinamul Congress tweeted a photo of a BJP meeting with only one person in the audience, and said, “Yeh @BJP4Bengal hai. Yeh unki jansabha hai. Aur yahaan inki pawri ho rahi hai! (This is the @BJP4Bengal, this is their public meeting. And they’re having a party here!)” On Thursday, the general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) took a dig at the refurbished Motera Stadium, where Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s name has been replaced with that of the PM and the ends are named ‘Reliance’ and ‘Adani’. He tweeted, “Yeh Narendra Modi Stadium hai, yeh iske do Ends hain... aur yeh cronies ki pawri ho rahi hai. (This is Narendra Modi Stadium, these are its two ends... and this is a party of cronies).” The Kerala state BJP president, K Surendran perhaps didn’t realize he had just shot off at the mouth when he said that his party needed to win just 35 or 40 of the 140 assembly seats in the poll-bound state. When asked why that was sufficient, he quipped that the Congress and the CPI(M) MLAs were there to make up the remaining seats for a simple majority. Little did he realize that he had just spilled the larger plan of his party that has, so far, managed to win just one assembly seat in a state that has continuously rejected it. While his party is certainly waiting to lure lawmakers from the Opposition, like it did in other states, Surendran perhaps didn’t gauge that both the CPI(M) and the Congress would use his slip as an election issue. While the whole country is worried about the rising cases of Covid-19, the actions of legislators in Bihar, including the CM, Nitish Kumar, the deputy CMs, Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, and all other ministers, belie their claims of concern. Social distancing is a rarity among them; no arrangements for it have been made as has been done for Parliament. Many of them do not even wear masks. Even the Opposition MLAs jostle with each other in the well of the state assembly to demonstrate before the Speaker. And yet, they all discuss the pandemic and express their worry. They also call for people to wear masks. The temperatures of the MLAs, MLCs, officials and other people entering the assembly premises are not taken. Hand sanitization is not mandatory. Free disposable masks and hand sanitizer on a small desk have few takers. A kiosk to conduct rapid antigen tests is just wishful thinking. Asked about not following pandemic protocols, a senior Janata Dal (United) leader said: “I am not against them. If everybody follows them, I will also do so.” He also took time to preach how Bihar has among the highest recovery rates in the country and among the lowest death rates as far as the virus is concerned. A Montblanc pen — it could cost anything between Rs 30,000 and Rs 90,000 — was dropped by an MLA in the Bihar assembly, and is yet to be claimed, despite an announcement by the Speaker. The National Democratic Alliance and the Grand Alliance both say someone from the other side owns the pen. But all agree that the claimant could get on the radar of the income tax department, the enforcement directorate and other Central agencies. Perhaps the pen will lie unused for eternity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
28-02-2021||Opinion||Isolate the problem||The French philosopher, Jean-Paul Sartre, was wrong. Hell is not other people, but the lack thereof. Social isolation and the resultant loneliness are more lethal than smoking 15 cigarettes a day or obesity, according to research published by Brigham Young University. Some researchers even say that loneliness increases heart disease, dementia and death rates. The pandemic has turned a bad situation worse, with some studies showing as much as a 90 per cent rise in loneliness globally. Public health experts in many countries have been debating how to address the “loneliness epidemic” that confronts and corrodes modern life. Japan, where suicide rates shot up precariously during the pandemic, has now appointed a Loneliness Minister, following in the footsteps of the United Kingdom, which in 2018 became the first country to create a similar cabinet position. This is a welcome move: a ministry of loneliness should accord gravity to a mental health concern. But the British experience also shows that ministering loneliness can be a rather lonely occupation with tokenism triumphing over meaningful policy — the unwillingness to implement the suggestions offered by Britain’s loneliness ministry since its inception is indicative of a deeper, troubling institutional and public apathy. In order to fully comprehend the depth of the crisis, the question that needs to be asked is why do so many people feel isolated at a time when human company, apparently, is a mouse-click away? The emergence of technology promising to connect the world and end social isolation has — ironically — achieved the opposite result, shutting people into the private, soulless, yet all-consuming cocoons powered by handheld devices. A second reason for the uptick in social isolation, research suggests, can be attributed to the broader social churning. The Jo Cox Commission on Loneliness found that the social conditions that allow loneliness to proliferate — the decline of the State’s commitment to the collective and the fraying of ties within community and family — aggravate deviance, violence as well as ennui. Cox, the British parliamentarian after whom the Commission was founded, was killed by an assailant who exhibited all the signs of loneliness-induced mental health ailments. Such transgressions can no longer be ignored. Research by the University of California found that lonely males are prone to hostility and adversarial views. This perhaps explains the flurry of measures undertaken by governments around the world to confront the social malaise of loneliness. These include programmes that encourage conversation, friendship, and empathy: the founding of community allotments where the lonely might gather, knock-on-door initiatives with volunteers reaching out to those who believe they have been forsaken, exchange programmes between schools and colleges and old-age homes. India, where chronic loneliness is rising not only among the aged but also the youth, must study these templates of intervention to design effective, compassionate models that are likely to be efficient under Indian conditions. Otherwise, the country, in spite of its populousness, would have to confront a different version of Sartre’s Hell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
28-02-2021||Opinion||New normal days||Newspapers report that from next week on, people over sixty will be eligible for vaccination as will those over forty-five with conditions that make them vulnerable to Covid-19. Setting aside, for a moment, questions about the efficacy of the vaccines available, vaccination holds out the prospect of a return to normalcy. It might take a year or more to vaccinate a population as large as ours, but it’ll happen. When it does, will we return to the world as it was or will some of our routines and behaviours have changed permanently? The Western press is full of reports about the death of the office, for example. There is talk of urban flight, the measurable decline in the populations of great cities like London and New York, and the accelerated extinction of downtown areas as people get used to shopping online. A piece in The Wall Street Journal argued that the gathering places that made expensive cities like New York attractive — theatres, museums, libraries, restaurants and bars — have lost their patrons and might go under before they regain them. There is talk of converting office buildings into condominiums as companies build upon their pandemic experience of working from home and cut costs by leasing less workspace. This could have a knock-on effect as the cafes, street vendors and shops that exist to serve office workers during their lunch breaks or their journeys home lose their customers. The economic life of a great city, organized over decades around commuter routines, might have to be re-ordered and there is no guarantee that the transition won’t create swathes of urban desolation. It’s hard to know how much of this is speculative doomsaying and how much will actually come to pass. Speaking from the very particular experience of a salaried academic about to retire, some changes seem more likely than others. Shopping for consumer durables has shifted, irreversibly, online. There’s an electronics megastore in my neighbourhood, part of a big-brand chain, that’s scheduled for extinction if my shopping habits are a sign. From buying from it, I had shifted to using it as a convenient exhibition space where I could check things out before ordering them online. During the pandemic, thanks to my learnt fear of indoor spaces, I cut out the intermediate step — physically inspecting the object of desire — and went directly to buying it online. And once consumers my age unlearn a lifetime’s need to touch something before buying it, renting expensive retail space to sell razors or refrigerators makes no economic sense. Shops that sell things that you want to try on for size like clothes or shoes or spectacles or jewellery will multiply. Even before the pandemic, my neighbouring market had become a phalanx of monstrous jewellery shops; now they have competition from deluxe opticians. I’ve learnt that for Delhi’s affluent elite, spectacles are a form of jewellery. The difference between an optician’s shop and a jeweller’s shop in Delhi is that only one of them has a man with an obsolete shotgun standing guard. There is a commercial on television peddling an app that allows people to try on spectacle frames virtually, so it is possible that these peddlers of grotesquely overpriced plastic might go bust. But conspicuous consumption is best done in public spaces so once the pandemic ends, I suspect Delhi’s rich will go back to buying Hermes frames for wads of cash at BonTon. The retail trade will adapt to the patterns of consumption forced on us by the pandemic but the institution most threatened by lessons drawn from the pandemic is the public university in India. I have been lecturing online for just over two semesters now and virtual teaching works... after a fashion. The questions about it that were raised when online teaching began have been mostly answered. Most of my students ‘attend’ my lectures using their phones, so the earlier objection that not owning a computer would limit attendance doesn’t have the same force. Some students can’t attend either because cellular connectivity is poor where they live or, as in the case of Kashmir, because it’s throttled by the State. Generally, though, a large majority of students regularly log on. The absence of a library is not so acutely felt because lecturers can use university subscriptions to online repositories like JSTOR to download readings, which can be emailed to their students. Beyond legal downloads, there are pirate libraries like Libgen that are an invaluable archive of accessible published work. University libraries aren’t just book repositories; they are also places to read and reflect and whisper in. But in a functional way, you could argue that technology has made it possible to deliver lectures, conduct tutorials and organize examinations online. I’m currently correcting handwritten examination papers downloaded from a university server. So if you were a University Grants Commission official who thought online university teaching was a good idea but didn’t know if the existing infrastructure would support it or whether students and teachers would adapt to it, the pandemic has just conducted a gigantic stress test/dress rehearsal and it has, sort of, worked. Nobody likes it; my students recently boycotted classes for a couple of days because they want a return to in-person teaching and most teachers I know find daily remote teaching frictionless and alienating. Colleges are meant to be collegial; fellowship and camaraderie are hard to achieve in the absence of shared physical spaces. But for the sarkari bean counters who have been slashing the budget for public universities for years now, the online experience, forced on universities by the pandemic, isn’t just an interregnum; it is a precedent. The main object of all governments in the recent past has been cutting investment in higher education by saving on teacher recruitment and physical infrastructure. Virtual teaching driven by Massive Open Online Courses has been the fantasy solution to undesirable university expenditure for some time now. The online experiment forced on us by Covid makes this fantasy seem plausible. In my gloomier moments, I see a future where the public university is merged with remote learning programmes to create a hybrid where the physical infrastructure of the university is confined to its administrators while the actual business of teaching and learning happens in an anonymous online wasteland underwritten by Google Meet. We must hope this never comes to pass but given the hostility of the Indian State towards free thinking public universities, this is likely to be the direction of travel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
28-02-2021||Opinion||Gol wol kar ke||Time to get inspired. We have to march ahead, goose and gander like, chests puffed to aspirations of 56, chins held so high they obstruct vision; it would be nice to have a beard hanging thereby, if not a full-flowing bushel, just a wisp, a wisp would do, a scattered battalion of hair on an outing, that would do just fine. It will not do to get left behind, because what is behind is being turned ruthlessly to ruins, all of those remnants of the era of NothingHappened, that’s being obliterated with gusto. It is being blown and pounded, scorned and screamed at in a great cacophony of destruction which is the intended preface to new construction: NayaYug, the yug unheard of, the yug now in invention, the yug beyond all yugs, beyond Satyug, Treta, Dwapar, Kaliyug... beyond all of them. But we haven’t got there yet, so it might be we are currently in Kaliyug. And we all know what happens in Kaliyug, in this Kalikaal, that’s what they also call it. The final dismantling of the HolyVow, or so goes one of the myriad metaphors of how we interpret our yugs. We are folks with many ways. We are folks who see things and read things and interpret things many ways. We often quarrel and squabble over this is right and that is wrong but we let those different ways be because the variety and the multiplicity is what we are descended from. Not one God. Many more than many. And for each, many stories and many ways of hearing and retelling. That is how we became talkative. That is how we have so many stories. That is why we became so rich. So there is this metaphor of the yugs and the status of the HolyVow in each of them and the diminishment happened, yug after yug, as the HolyVow became diminished, little by little, limb by limb. On all fours in the first yug. Three left in the second. Two-legged in the third. And finally there were none. Undone. So it is you hear the command issued to diggers and earthmovers, chomping about with their dinosaur jaws at the remnants of NothingHappened, making such a boisterous-clamorous-decadecibel feast of it. So it is you see the colour-coded soldiers scurrying about their given tasks of exterminating what remains of the Order of NothingHappened — black-robed, white-collared, blue-collared, khaki, ogee apparatchik going about their dictated tasks, hectoring, imploring, imposing, levying, raiding, arraigning, stymying, choking, charging, invoking, pronouncing, punishing. Doing all that requires to be done to pestle the accoutrements of NothingHappened to powdery rubble, so when the all the din and the tumult of it settles and the haze of what needed to be razed lifts, we shall most certainly see what it is that is in the works and which will inspire in such dazzlements that inspiration will need another name. Time to get inspired. Let’s see what we’ve got. Something that will move a whole nation as whole nations and more have been moved in the past. Onward, in stunning unison of posture and purpose. Toward that one objective, the solution to end all problems, the final solution. The sheer inspiration the sound of finality can invoke. You can probably feel the tremor of it in your bones already. And in the bubbling of your blood. The sky and its mutating hues. The seasons twirling in their unbolted dressing rooms. The sway of winds and their whispered necking in the trees. Fallen leaves and wings of birds. Rivers, forever flowing. Mountains, forever growing. Valleys and gorges, silent and gurgling. The oceans, their depths and surges. The deserts and their nugget gifts of oases. We are upon the season of Daffodils someone wrote, and so inspiringly, that folks began to see daffodils where there are only other flowers of yellow hue. Such a waste of effort. Let’s see what else we have. To move the nation, set it marching towards NavaYug. We now have a guru and a goal Beware though he may lead us to a hole; His philosophy was a beggarly rehash Of the one with the toothbrush tash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-65
