01-08-2021||West Bengal||Only time will tell what I do next: Babul Supriyo after decision to quit politics||A day after kicking off a political storm over his announcement to quit politics over Facebook, former Union minister and BJP leader Babul Supriyo on Sunday said he has met top leaders of the saffron party, but was yet to take a call on his next course of action. The Asansol MP told a TV channel that "only time will tell what I do in the future". Taking a dig at TMC spokesman Kunal Ghosh for his assertion that Supriyo was staging a drama and didn't have the guts to quit as MP, the parliamentarian said, "I have already sought time from the Lok Sabha speaker as his consent is required before I take a decision." "I have already met the top leadership of my party last night but only time will tell what is going to be my future move," he maintained. Sources in the BJP said Supriyo met party president J P Nadda in Delhi around midnight on Saturday. Lashing out at Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, who had asked reporters to cross-check if the Asansol MP "actually resigned as such decisions cannot be announced over Facebook", Supriyo said he has nothing to do with people who make "narrow-minded and nasty remarks", no matter which camp they belong to. "By not dealing with such people, I save my positive energy every day," he stated. Reacting to the broadside, Ghosh, without naming anyone, said, "The more my name is taken by people who want to be in news through theatrics, the more I become aware they tend to seek importance by doing that." He is still in the BJP, as far as my knowledge goes , the state BJP president said. Supriyo (50), who has served as a Union minister for the Narendra Modi government, was removed earlier this month in a major cabinet rejig. "Leaving, Goodbye. I spoke to my parents, wife, friends, and after listening to the advice, I am saying that I am leaving. I am not going to any other party - TMC, Congress, CPIM, nowhere. I am confirming that nobody has called me. "I am going nowhere. I am a one-team player! I have always supported one team, #MohunBagan - Have been with only one party - BJP West Bengal. That''s it!! Leaving," Supriyo said in the first Facebook post. The singer-turned-politician said that he will vacate his government accommodation within a month. "I have stayed for too long. I have helped somebody, have disappointed someone...it is for the people to decide. If you want to do social work, you can do it without being in politics. Yes, I am resigning from the post of MP," his post read. He hinted that difference with the state leadership was one of the reasons that prompted him to take the decision. Supriyo had unsuccessfully contested assembly polls against TMC's Aroop Biswas in the March-April assembly elections. "I think I need not be an MP or a minister to distribute tarpaulin or blanket among 500 people. Sans any vote politics there won't be any conflict of interest. "My long term plan to set up a trauma centre in my late mother's name will perhaps be more feasible now as some of my doctor friends will feel more free to come on my side with no political strings attached," the MP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||CPI(M) Bengal unit does not support party member's contribution in TMC mouthpiece||The CPI(M) on Sunday said it does not support the decision of its member Ajanta Biswas, who is also the daughter of late Left leader Anil Biswas, to write a series of articles in the Trinamool Congress daily mouthpiece, 'Jago Bangla'. Last week, a four-part series, titled "Bangorajneetitey Narishakti (role of woman power in Bengal politics), by the Rabindra Bharati University associate professor of history was published in the editorial page of the TMC daily, which raised eyebrows of several leaders of the Left party. "What she has done cannot be supported. Our Kolkata unit is looking into the issue," CPI(M) West Bengal committee secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra told reporters while responding to a question. He said the party's state committee will take a decision after getting a report from the Kolkata unit along with the view of Biswas, the Presidency University alumna. Another CPI(M) leader said Biswas has been asked to explain why she had penned the articles in the TMC mouthpiece. "Seeking consent is a must for any CPI(M) member. She is also part of the party's college and university teachers' wing," the leader said on condition of anonymity. Biswas could not be reached for her comment on the issue. TMC spokesman Kunal Ghosh had earlier said "the series of articles by an academician should be judged by its merit and not by her political identity". "Her articles encapsulated the role of women in politics from the time of revolutionaries such as Beena Das, Phulrenu Guha to Gita Mukherjee, Renu Chakraborty. "It ended by touching on the phase of Mamata Banerjee whose role in Bengal politics cannot be ignored. It is a historic document and is based on research. Unfortunately, the merit of the write-up is being overlooked," Ghosh had said. TMC leader and state minister Sujit Bose said the CPI(M)'s decision to seek an explanation from Biswas for writing articles in 'Jago Bangla' shows the Left party does not believe in personal liberty of its members".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee to visit Tripura on Monday||As part of the outreach campaign in BJP-ruled Tripura, TMC National General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee will on Monday visit the north-eastern state, where the party claims it has a sizeable support base. The visit of Banerjee, nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and defacto number two in the party, comes day after a controversy had erupted over "detention" of poll strategist Prashant Kishor's I-PAC team in an Agartala hotel room by the police, citing COVID-19 restrictions. The incident prompted back-to-back visits to Tripura by TMC leaders, including West Bengal ministers Bratya Basu and Malay Ghatak and TMC MP Derek O'Brien, who decried the "illegal detention of young boys and girls" of a professional firm. Banerjee will offer prayers at the Tripureswari temple in Agartala during the day, hold a meeting with party members and address the media in the afternoon, sources in the TMC said. Elections in the northeastern state are slated to be held in 2023. Deputy leader of TMC in Rajya Sabha, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, told PTI, "Abhishek will lead the party's journey in Tripura where Bengalis and other communities are rooting for us, our leader Mamata Banerjee. They are frustrated with the performance of the Biplab Deb-led BJP government." The "landslide victory of the TMC in West Bengal on the face of BJP blitzkrieg" has encouraged a majority of Bengali voters in Tripura to pledge their support for Mamata Banerjee, the parliamentarian said. Abhishek Banerjee is immensely popular among Tripura electorate -- youth and women in particular. He will chalk out the road map of our Tripura journey, he added. Veteran TMC leader and Lok Sabha MP Sougata Roy claimed that "Abhishek's visit will be the precursor to the storm that will be raised by our supremo Mamata Banerjee in Tripura in the near future". Making light of the visit by TMC national general secretary, Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh pointed out that the Mamata Banerjee-led party has no base anywhere outside this state. "In the past, too, the TMC had made futile attempts to gain foothold in Tripura. They (TMC leaders) are still day dreaming... people of Tripura, including Bengalis, stand solidly behind the BJP. The TMC should protect its flock in Bengal, where the BJP has increased its assembly tally to 77 from just three, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo announces decision to quit BJP and Parliament||Babul Supriyo, the Asansol MP who lost his berth in the Union ministry in the recent shuffle, on Saturday wrote a Facebook post signalling his decision to quit the BJP and Parliament. The announcement came at a time the BJP’s Bengal unit is still grappling with the Assembly election setback. Supriyo acknowledged that his recent removal from the Union ministry had “at least partly” fuelled his decision, admitted to his “differences” with the state leadership and said the “disputes” among senior leaders were hurting the party and demoralising the cadre. “After answering all the questions that had arisen in my mind, I want to say, in my own way, that I’m leaving,” the 50-year-old singer who had joined the BJP before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections wrote. “One can do social work without being in politics. I need to organise myself a bit before that…. Resigning from my MP-ship too (obviously),” he added in his long Bengali post, peppered here and there with English expressions and sentences. Until Supriyo sends his resignation to party president J.P. Nadda and personally hands over a quit letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, the Facebook announcement will remain only a statement of intent. If he resigns from Parliament, it will necessitate a by-election in Asansol where Trinamul won five of the seven Assembly segments this summer. Calls to Supriyo, and WhatsApp messages asking when he might formally send his resignations to the party and the Speaker, remained unanswered. Supriyo was a newcomer in politics when he defeated Trinamul heavyweight Dola Sen in 2014 to become MP. He defeated Moon Moon Sen in 2019 but lost to Aroop Biswas from Tollygunge when he contested the Assembly elections this year. He was junior minister for urban development and then for heavy industries and public enterprises in the first Narendra Modi government. However, he was shifted to the relatively lightweight environment, forests and climate change in 2019 before being eased out from the government in the July 7 shuffle this year. Party insiders said Supriyo, whose differences with state BJP president Dilip Ghosh were an open secret, had been unhappy for some time over the goings-on in the Bengal unit. He became deeply upset after being dropped from the Union ministry, but his resignation still came as a surprise, an insider said. “There will be questions why I have decided to quit politics. Has it any links to my losing the ministership? Yes it has, at least partly,” Supriyo wrote in his Facebook post. A senior BJP member said a couple of phone calls from Delhi could well prompt a rethink by Supriyo, known as a “temperamental person” in party circles. But even if Supriyo deletes his post and continues in both party and Parliament, a BJP source said, he has already damaged the party by writing openly about disunity in the state unit. “It’s more proof that the BJP’s central leaders are clueless not only about the political situation in Bengal but also about the infighting and the state of affairs in the Bengal unit,” the source said. In his post, Supriyo said the central leaders were aware of his desire to quit. “I went to respected (Union home minister) Amit Shah and respected Naddaji several times over the past few days with the intent of quitting politics. I’m eternally grateful to them that every time they inspired me in some way and sent me back,” he wrote. Supriyo said he was not interested in “bargaining” for “any post”. In his original Facebook post on Saturday, Supriyo had called himself a “one team player” and said he would not join any other party: neither Trinamul nor the CPM nor the Congress. He later deleted this portion. But late at night, he put out a new post saying he had inadvertently deleted this part while editing his original post and reaffirmed that he would not join any other party. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had expressed surprise after Supriyo’s removal from the Union ministry was announced. On Saturday, Supriyo wrote that his differences with the state leadership predated the Assembly polls and that some of it had become public. “Sometimes I was responsible for it (I had made a Facebook post that amounted to breaching party discipline); sometimes other leaders too were very much responsible — though today I don’t want to get into who was at how much fault,” he wrote without naming anyone. He said the rifts in the party and the manner in which they were becoming public was demoralising the grassroots workers. “This is why with all due respect and love for the people of Asansol, I quit,” Supriyo wrote. Several leaders loyal to Ghosh were unable to hide their joy at Supriyo’s resignation. “Such people have no place in our party. Good that he has quit,” said a BJP functionary with whom Supriyo had got into a scuffle at a party event in Midnapore that was addressed by Modi. Ghosh’s initial reaction made it clear that Supriyo’s departure didn’t matter much to him. “I don’t see anyone’s Facebook or Twitter posts. How can I say who is going where? Whether someone will be in politics is his or her personal decision,” he said. “Has he resigned? He is still in the Lok Sabha. He is still an MP, our colleague. I don’t know anything yet.” Party sources said it was time the central leadership put its Bengal house in order. “Look at how Mukul Roy was sidelined, forcing him to return to Trinamul. Mukulda helped us win 18 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls but Dilipda would not let him work properly and so he left. Babulda’s departure reminds us of that,” a source said. Roy, a former Trinamul number two, had joined the BJP in 2017. He won from the Krishnanagar North constituency in 2021 but soon after went back to his old party. Another state BJP leader said: “We lost the election badly. Now leaders are leaving the party. What do we tell our supporters?” He said the central leaders “seem to have forgotten Bengal” since the Assembly election rout and were now focused solely on Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||29 dengue cases reported near Siliguri in July, Darjeeling health department raises alert ||The Darjeeling district health department has raised an alert after at least 29 dengue cases were reported in July from Dudhia, a tiny hamlet located on the outskirts of Siliguri. Tulsi Pramanik, the deputy chief medical officer of health-II of Darjeeling, said around 140 blood samples had been collected from suspected dengue patients from Dudhia, under St. Mary’s — III panchayat of Kurseong block, and sent to Siliguri district hospital for examination. Health officials have found that the mosquito variant which is causing the vector-borne disease is the Aedes albopictus. Health officials said earlier this month, two suspected dengue patients were admitted to the primary health centre in Sukna from Dudhia. “However, in the past two weeks, the number of cases has increased to 29. We have initiated spraying of MLO (mosquito larvicide oil),” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||‘Creator’ of girl's fake profile found dead in Alipurduar||A 17-year-old boy of a locality under Falakata police station of Alipurduar district, accused of morphing the picture of a girl and creating her fake profile on social media, was found dead near the village on Saturday. On Friday, the girl’s kin had reprimanded the boy and forced him to delete the fake profile. On Saturday, some people spotted him dead at a deserted place near the village. A rope around his neck was tied to a tree but his body was lying on the ground. The boy’s family have accused the girl’s family of murder. Police started an investigation and arrested the the girl’s father. Sources said the boy, who passed his higher secondary exams this year, was running the girl’s fake profile for a while. “We are waiting for post mortem reports to know the cause of his death. Probe is on,” said Kuntal Banerjee, the additional superintendent of police of Jaigaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling District Legal Aid Forum forum helps Covid orphans||The Darjeeling District Legal Aid Forum, a voluntary organisation that gives legal aid to children and women, has taken up the task to identify children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 in Siliguri subdivision and adjacent areas of Jalpaiguri district. “We are working to identify those children orphaned in the pandemic. Over the past couple of months, 10 such children have been identified. We have submitted their details to the administration of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts so that they can get all necessary aid from the government,” said Amit Sarkar, general secretary of the forum. “All are minors from various areas of Siliguri subdivision and adjoining areas of Jalpaiguri,” Sarkar added. According to Sarkar, two of these children are from Matigara block, three from Naxalbari block and the rest five from the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) area. The lists, sources said, have been submitted through the child welfare committees. Sarkar said the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights had recently acted on an order issued by the Supreme Court where it was ordered that the all states have to ensure the safety and security of children who lost their parents in the pandemic. He said their organisation formed a 10-member team, named disaster risk management team, in May this year. “The team has academics, law students engaged in research and social workers. They are identifying orphans and keeping tabs on them to prevent child abuse, child marriage and trafficking. The team members are in close touch with the local administration. The task of identifying more such children is on,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Three workers associated with Sevoke-Rangpo rail project still traceless in Kalimpong ||Three workers associated with the Sevoke-Rangpo rail project, whose tent was swept away by the swollen Mamkhola hilly rivulet in Kalimpong district on Friday, are still traceless. On Friday, as their camp was washed away by the rivulet running between Rangpo and Melli, and debris fell on the site, two workers had lost their lives and two others were rescued. However, Arun Rai from Tarkhola of Kalimpong, Bikash Tamang of Sangsey, also in Kalimpong, and Damber Ram, who is from Nepal, went missing. “Search is on to locate the missing workers. Every effort is on to find them,” said Hari Krishna Pai, the SP of Kalimpong said. The site where the incident happened is around 23km from the district headquarters. The swollen rivulet as well as the debris it brought down have also damaged a number of machinery at the site for laying the railway tracks, senior officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) said on Saturday. “Heavy monsoonal downpour had suddenly swelled the rivulet that is adjacent to the approach of tunnel 10 of the rail project. Three people are still missing. We have urged the NDRF to carry out the rescue operations,” said S.Chanda, the chief public relations officer of NFR. Chanda added the water and debris choked the approach to the tunnel. Also, equipment like the boomer machine used to dig tunnels, a diesel generator and a concrete pumping machine have been damaged. “Experts will check the machinery,” he said. Sources in the NFR said senior officers are worried over the back-to-back mishaps in the project in less than a month. On June 17 this year, boulders had fallen at Bhalukhola, another site of the project. A portion of the tunnel had collapsed, leading to deaths of two workers. Five others had sustained injuries. The Sevoke-Rangpo rail project is considered to be one of the ambitious railway projects of the country. The plan is to lay railway tracks along 45km to connect Sevoke station, which is some 20km from Siliguri, with Rangpo, the bordering town of Sikkim. The project was initiated in 2009 by then rail minister Mamata Banerjee and aims to include the Himalayan state of Sikkim on the Indian railway map. “It is indeed an uphill task (given the terrain). But we are confident that the project will finish by December 2023. The accidents have put us on alert and all necessary precautions will be taken,” said a senior official of NFR.. Additional reporting by Rajeev Ravidas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Hoteliers’ association sets up two camps to provide Covid test facilities to tourists in Digha||The Digha-Sankarpur Hoteliers’ Association has set up two camps in association with local polyclinics in the East Midnapore seaside town to provide rapid antigen test (RAT) facilities to tourists who come without Covid-negative certificates. “Tourism in East Midnapore has taken several hits over the past 18 months (owing to the pandemic). Setting up Covid-19 testing facilities is a part of our endeavour to revive tourism in a protected way,” said an official of the hoteliers’ association. The two camps are at Old Digha and New Digha. The cost of testing per person is Rs 240. “The government will keep track of the testing formalities,” said Ramnagar-I BDO, Bishnupada Ray. Sources said that last week, hoteliers had told the district administration that turning away tourists without Covid-negative certificates had hit their earnings badly, following which district magistrate Purnendu Majhi met  hoteliers and approved the idea of tying up with polyclinics to test tourists without certificates in Digha itself. “The decision is a timely one. Every year there is an ‘August rush’ in Digha, starting from Independence Day and ending around Rakhi,” said a member of the hoteliers’ association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 769 new infections and eight deaths||Bengal on Saturday reported 769 new infections detected, 819 recoveries and eight deaths. The state also logged the 41st straight day of a fall in the total number of active cases, by 58 to 11,113. Bengal now has 2.73 per cent of India’s active cases and is 10th among states with the most active cases. Bengal’s recovery rate is at the state’s all-time high of 98.09 per cent. The national rate is 97.34. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, is 1.82 now. Calcutta logged 75 new infections and one death. New Covid-19 cases detected fell in North 24-Parganas that logged only nine on Saturday. Because of this development, not one among 23 Bengal districts on Saturday reported a three-digit figure of new infections, after a three-day gap. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures of new infections detected in a day, while South Dinajpur, Malda and Murshidabad reported single-digit figures. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday. Calcutta apart, West and East Midnapore, Hooghly and South 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.28 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first reported in March 2020, including nearly 14.99 lakh recoveries and 18,136 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
01-08-2021||West Bengal||Austerity drive damper on proposed bridges in Bengal||The fate of 13 proposed bridges across the state, urgently needed to replace old ones, seems uncertain as the state government’s austerity drive amid the pandemic has put a clamp on new infrastructure projects that cost more than Rs 1.5 crore. According to sources in the state administration, the projects may be delayed indefinitely as the estimated cost of each bridge exceeds Rs 1.5 crore. Sources said that groundwork of the majority of the 13 bridges is complete and cost estimates of 11 of these 13 bridges have been drawn up. The bridges are slated to come up in districts such as South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Nadia and Murshidabad. A source said altogether Rs 86.6 crore have to be spent for 11 bridges while the total outgo for all the 13 would be in excess of Rs 100 crore. “The average cost of a bridge is around Rs 7 crore. This is the cause of concern for us as the finance department has allowed the department to spend only up to Rs 1.5 crore on a new project” said a PWD official. “A survey after the Majerhat bridge mishap revealed that more than 50 bridges need to be replaced. A majority of these 13 bridges were in the list, but work for the new bridges taken up in the first phase is likely to be delayed owing to the poor financial condition of the state,” said a senior bureaucrat. The final estimate for the Suryapur Bridge in South 24-Parganas, pegged at Rs 6.45 crore, was sent to Nabanna for  approval a few months ago, but the finance department hasn’t cleared it. The final approval for a bridge on Chunkhali-Jalangi road in Murshidabad is yet to be secured from Nabanna though the estimated cost was pegged at Rs 2.14 crore. An official said that not only these projects, but the Talla Bridge, the state government’s priority project, estimated to cost Rs 348 crore, is also facing a financial crunch. “About 60 per cent work for the project has been completed, but the department is running from pillar to post to get a sum of Rs 20 crore to pay the agency carrying out the project. In such a situation, the fate of other bridges is clearly evident,” said an official. Sources said that recently the finance department has started an austerity drive under which departments like PWD and PHE were allowed to initiate new projects worth Rs 1.5 crore or less. “It is clear from the Murshidabad project that the finance department is not clearing any project that crosses the Rs 1.5 crore mark. This is why the fate of the new bridges hangs in balance,” said a source. In fact, projects like Maniktala bridge in Nadia, delayed because of the model code of conduct during the Assembly polls, was yet to secure approval as its projected cost has been pegged at Rs 7.73 crore, sources said. “The construction of all these bridges are important given the poor condition of old bridges. We hope that the financial condition of the state improves over next few months, as with the new Covid cases are decreasing significantly, and that these projects are cleared,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
01-08-2021||West Bengal||PhD scholar helps Sunderbans resident repay Rs 40,000 she raised to treat her husband wounded by a tiger ||A PhD scholar of Assam University and his family and friends teamed up to help a Sunderbans resident repay Rs 40,000 she had raised by mortgaging her land to treat her husband wounded by a tiger this April. Shankar Shee and his wife Jyotsna of Bhubaneshwari-Koilagheri village had on April 3 gone to catch crabs near a river when a tiger pounced on Shankar. Jyotsna put her hand inside the tiger’s ear to irritate it so that it would free Shankar. It saved Shankar’s life. Ujjwal Sardar, a PhD student researching on the economy of the Sunderbans, found her presence of mind “magical”. A fan of P.C. Sorcar Jr, Ujjwal raised Rs 40,000 to gift Jyotsna on the magician’s 75th birthday on Saturday so that she could free her land from the moneylender. Ujjwal and his hero P.C. Sorcar Jr on Saturday gave the cheque of Rs 40,000 to the couple at an event in Baruipur. “I heard my husband’s screams to see a tiger’s paw on his left shoulder. I had no time to shout or think. I immediately put my fingers inside the animal’s ear in a bid to to make the tiger go and save my husband’s life. After half an hour, I could drive away the tiger,” Jyotsna, 45, and the mother of two girls, said at the event. Shankar’s life was saved but the tiger had crushed many bones of his shoulder. “I have been treated at several private hospitals and to meet the expenses we had to take loans. A local doctor (a rural health service provider) helped me with Rs 3 lakh. But it was not enough as the cost of treatment has crossed Rs 5 lakh. So, my wife had to mortgage our land to a moneylender,” said Shankar. “The 15 cottah of land was our only property that I mortgaged as there was no other option,” said Jyotsna. As the couple struggled to repay the money or lose the land, Ujjwal came forward to help the couple. “I am a fan of P.C. Sorcar Jr., who says every person is a magician in his own field. This lady who saved her husband after a fight with a tiger is a real-life magician. So, I tried my best to help the family,” said Sardar, who is researching the economic history of the Sunderbans. Ujjwal pitched in with Rs 5,000 from his pocket and his friends and family raised another Rs 35,000. “I know my effort was not enough. But I thought if I can help them get back their farmland, the family can at least survive,” Ujjwal, the son of a Calcutta Police constable, added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
