02-08-2021||West Bengal||Will stay MP, says Babul Supriyo after announcing to quit politics||The BJP on Monday managed to persuade Babul Supriyo against resigning as a Lok Sabha member even as the singer-turned-politician insisted that he will no longer be part of active politics. Speaking to reporters after meeting BJP president J P Nadda, the Asansol MP said he will continue to discharge his constitutional responsibilities as a parliamentarian but withdraw from politics and leave his official residence in the national capital. His decision will be a big reprieve to the BJP as it would not have liked to be forced to contest a bypoll against the Trinamool Congress, which is upbeat after handing a comprehensive defeat to the saffron party in the recent West Bengal assembly polls. Upset at being dropped from the Union Council of Ministers by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the two-term MP had announced that he will resign as MP and quit politics. The Asansol MP who lost his berth in the Union ministry in the recent shuffle, on Saturday wrote a Facebook post signalling his decision to quit the BJP and Parliament. The announcement came at a time the BJP’s Bengal unit is still grappling with the Assembly election setback. He told reporters on Monday that Home Minister Amit Shah and Nadda had spoken to him, and he has taken a final decision after thinking over their suggestions. "I will continue as an MP but I will leave politics. I will continue to use the constitutional post. I will discharge the constitutional responsibility without engaging in any political activity," Supriyo said after meeting Nadda. "I'm not joining any political party. I'm leaving the bungalow and will shift to Kolkata or Mumbai." He asserted that whatever he had said recently, some of which was seen to be critical of the party's affairs in the state, was in the interest of the BJP and that he stood by that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||India to witness ‘khela’ in near future, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said TMC's poll slogan khela hobe (there will be a game) has become immensely popular among people, and the entire country will be witness to a match that will be played in the days to come, apparently hinting at the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The TMC supremo also said that Bengal will take pride in showing India the way. "You may or may not agree but it's a fact that the slogan has become very popular in the country. In Parliament and several states like UP and Rajasthan, too, the slogan was raised," she maintained after inaugurating here the 'Khela Hobe' scheme, under which footballs will be distributed among sports clubs. Banerjee further said that a brief game has been played thus far, and more is in the offing. "Bengal can take pride in showing people the way in this match. Remember, in the near future, the entire country will be witness to a game. There cannot be any life without khela (game)," she asserted. The feisty TMC boss said she has heard people chanting the slogan everywhere she went during electioneering for the assembly polls, held earlier in the year. The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to observe Khela Hobe Divas' on August 16, taking after its popular slogan, to commemorate the death of 16 football fans who had died in a stampede during a Derby match in the city in 1980. Distributing 10 footballs each to 303 clubs affiliated to the Indian Football Association (IFA), she said over one lakh more will be handed over to players and coaches in the rural areas. Noting that her government has provided financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to at least 25,000 clubs in the state, Banerjee said those taking part in matches organised on the occasion of the 'Khela Hobe' Divas would be given additional Rs 15,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Scientist calls for Bengal education policy overhaul||The Bengal government needs to overhaul its education policy for science and technology, says scientist Bikash Sinha. He proposes an institution in Bengal comparable to the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Mamata Banerjee is finalising her plan for the coming five years. Would you like to propose any specific agenda? First, I would congratulate her for her stunning (election) victory, (which) ensures that religion-based chauvinism opposed to science and reason will not find a berth in our state. Second, I would draw her attention to the condition of science and technology, especially its education which has turned somewhat moribund in Bengal. This is disappointing if one considers the rich history of science and technology in this state. The situation is so desperate that we need an overhaul of this branch of education. My appeal to her is: hammer out a new science and technology policy with the emphasis on education, so that after five years Bengal can claim to be the frontline state in this sphere, in no way inferior to states like Maharashtra and Karnataka. While Maharashtra has the excellent Tata Institute of Fundamental Research and Karnataka has the Indian Institute of Science, Bengal has nothing comparable to offer.... That is why I earnestly request the chief minister to build such an institution that will draw the world’s attention, as was the case about 100 years ago. There is no dearth of science institutions in Bengal — from the IISER, IIT, SINP, IICS, Bose Institute and the S.N. Bose Centre to the VECC and so on. But none of them is comparable to the excellence achieved by the IISc, Bangalore. Our institute must have teachers who can motivate and stimulate the students. The institute must produce world-class research, hold frequent conferences and seminars. It shall be a part of the world theatre of high science. The city that has nurtured C.V. Raman and been home to international science celebrities like Jagadish Chandra Bose, Satyendranath Bose and Meghnad Saha deserves such an institute. If the chief minister decides to build one such research hub or centre, we shall extend our helping hand.... I dream of an international conference hosted by our still-to-come-up institute at which guests like Roger Penrose and Carlo Rubbia will participate. Just imagine the boost such a conference will give to the image of the state and the good it will do to the youngsters. Bengal will be the best again. Let us not forget that the renaissance period of Bengal achieved supreme excellence in both science and the humanities. The “two cultures” were thriving simultaneously. Such an institute will represent the final step. But what about science and technology education at the school, college and university levels, and at the level of the research centres functioning in Bengal? I have to be candid while answering this delicate but necessary question. First, the existing research centres are doing nothing really worthwhile. The scientists working there are drawing handsome salaries and comfort-providing allowances. But they are not engaged in path-breaking research. Could you name one scientist working in Bengal who has produced an excellent paper that has drawn the attention of the international community in the last 10 years? I’m certain you will draw a blank. What they lack is the passion and drive needed to produce remarkable analysis and brilliant fruits of research. The working scientists of the state have to be prompted and provoked and this prompting will come if a solid research institute like the Indian Institute of Science is constructed in Calcutta or nearby. Now I come to the quality of teaching and reception at the school, college and university levels. This whole business of teaching and being taught is pedestrian. Certain texts are prescribed (and) taught in a listless manner, and the ultimate gain from this entire process is close to naught. The students learn by rote and gargle out the matter they have supposedly learnt. What I deplore is that neither the teachers nor the students adopt a scientific attitude and scientific outlook.... This business of teaching is more mechanical than anything else. Would you believe that there is no appropriate textbook on the phenomenal contributions by Jagadish Chandra Bose, Satyendranath Bose and Meghnad Saha? Had there been a proper scientific attitude and outlook, there would have been small theatre groups on their lives and discoveries, almost as in Copenhagen or London. These names prove that we have an unparalleled scientific tradition in Bengal, not to speak of scientist-entrepreneurs like Prafulla Chandra Ray? First, I will address the issue of entrepreneurial science. Productive technology cannot advance on its own, it needs the backup of scientific discovery. The latter, when applied, prompts the former. Dr Prafulla Chandra Ray is an example of a gifted being who could combine both. It’s a matter of pride that Bengal Chemical, which he founded, is still going strong in this age of fierce competition. Now I come to the question of scientific tradition. We in Bengal may well be proud of our scientists. We here are overtly conscious of our glorious past and icons. Then why don’t we recall the pillars of our own scientific tradition and imbibe their insight, brilliance and path-breaking exploits? Why should we limit ourselves to the traditions of creative literature and music only? Where is our tomorrow’s magic tune of science? I think even in this sphere the Olympian Rabindranath Tagore has something worthwhile to offer. Without a doubt. Just turn the pages of his seminal work of science, Visva Parichay, and you will realise his phenomenal contribution. It’s a pity that this memorable text has not been included in the science syllabus at our schools or even colleges. Even after so many years in research and technology and institution-building, I always find the book refreshing and tremendously exciting, almost intoxicating with its ideas, fresh and brilliant. My age becomes irrelevant, I experience the same exhilaration as Kabiguru possibly felt while writing this text just four years before his death. We wax eloquent over Tagore’s creative contributions to poetry and drama, ballet and music. But we tend to forget that he wrote Visva Parichay for the young ones so that they could develop a scientific attitude towards life and the world from an early age. The great poet was thus a rationalist to the core and knew how to maintain the balance between creative science and creative arts. I shall give you one telling example. After the devastating earthquake in Bihar in 1934, Gandhiji commented that this was divine wrath that the horrible caste system in Bihar had provoked. Rabindranath disagreed strongly. He said natural causes were the reason for the calamity and one should not read any “divine wrath” into it. In order to instil this rational, scientific attitude among the young ones he wrote his engagingly readable Visva Parichay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Gangetic dolphin washed ashore on Laxmipur sea beach in Bakkhali ||A 17.38-ftl-ong mature Gangetic dolphin was washed ashore on the Laxmipur sea beach in Bakkhali on Sunday early morning. Fishermen spotted the mammal, gasping for life then, and informed forest department officers. But it died before help could arrive. The carcass was later taken (in picture) to the Bakkhali forest range headquarters, where an autopsy was conducted to ascertain the cause of the death. Gangetic dolphins fall under Schedule I of the Indian Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, and are declared an endangered species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Divisional forest officer (South 24-Parganas) Milan Kanti Mondal said: “The cause of the death could not be immediately ascertained. The mammal was quite aged and could even have died of natural causes.” Sources in the forest department said the corpse was cremated after the autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Wary of blame, Delhi tries to make Babul reverse resignation move||BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda has apparently requested the party’s Asansol MP Babul Supriyo to reconsider his decision to quit politics, sources said on Sunday, even as leaders close to state party president Dilip Ghosh publicly questioned the singer-turned-politician’s commitment to the  organisation. Supriyo had taken to Facebook on Saturday to announce his decision to quit the Lok Sabha and politics. Sources in the BJP said Union home minister Amit Shah had also spoken to Supriyo in the wake of the Asansol MP’s decision to quit politics. The disparity between the efforts of Nadda and Shah to retain Supriyo in the BJP and the way leaders close to Ghosh reacted exposed the disconnect between the state and the central units of the party. Nadda got in touch with Supriyo and the two met at the BJP office in New Delhi on Saturday night. According to sources, Nadda asked Supriyo to reconsider his decision and also assured him that his concerns would be taken care of. “Babulda has a good rapport with our top leaders. Naddaji doesn’t want him to leave the BJP and hence, asked him to stay back. Babulda has also mentioned his reservations about Dilipda at the meeting,” a BJP source said. However, the source couldn’t clarify what Supriyo had told Nadda in reply to his request. The Ghosh loyalists who attacked Supriyo hold posts in the BJP’s youth and woman fronts in Bengal. “Dada, you had lost the game, you know why? Because you had played for money and fame. We had played for the country. And you sing for money....Hence, please leave as soon as possible,” Kaushik Ghosh, a state functionary of the Yuva Morcha, wrote on FB. The central leadership is desperate to prevent Supriyo from quitting for yet another reason, another source in the party said. “Both Mukul Roy and Supriyo were recruited by the central leaders. Mukulda has already quit and if Babulda also leaves, it would be a double blow to the central leadership,” this leader said. Supriyo on Sunday hit back at Ghosh for his “uncouth comments” on Saturday regarding the former’s decision to quit politics. In another Facebook post, Supriyo said he would not have to deal with “personalities” and “uncouth comments” (after quitting politics). He shared screenshots of two comments, each made by Ghosh and Trinamul’s state general secretary Kunal Ghosh. Asked to react to Supriyo’s post on him, Dilip Gosh, said: “I’m a man of importance and hence a lot of people attack me. Those who don’t have any importance need to create news to remain important.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Train enters Bangladesh through new Haldibari-Chilahati route||The first train from India chugged into Bangladesh along the Haldibari-Chilahati railway route on Sunday, around seven-and-a-half months after the route, closed in 1965, was reopened by both the nations. Loaded with 2,200 metric tonnes of stone chips, the goods train with 40 wagons entered the neighbouring country through what is the third such route between India and Bangladesh in north Bengal and the fifth in Bengal. Around 4.35pm on Sunday, the train that started from Damdim, a station in the Dooars, crossed the international border and reached Chilahati station in Bangladesh. “It is a major development in the rail network of north Bengal and will largely boost bilateral trade with Bangladesh. A number of neighbouring countries can send their goods through this route. In due course, the passenger train service will also commence through this route between Dhaka and Siliguri,” said Jayanta Roy, the BJP MP of Jalpaiguri. The link provides a shorter transit route for goods to be sent to Bangladesh from Bengal and Northeast, and Nepal and Bhutan and viceversa, pointed out an NFR official. Senior officers of the NFR, the BSF and Customs were present at Haldibari station for necessary formalities after which the train headed to the zero line. Officers of the Border Guards Bangladesh and Bangladesh Railway were present on the other side of the border, said sources. On December 17 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina had inaugurated virtually the route on pause since 1965. “Trains bound for north Bengal and Northeast used to run along the route even after Partition through then East Pakistan. But, during the 1965 war, train movement stopped on the route,” said an official of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR). However, the longstanding demand of north Bengal residents to reopen the route eventually made the issue come up in bilateral talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling leader S.P. Sharma starts indefinite hunger strike to nudge BJP on tribal status ||The general-secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati Tamang faction), S.P. Sharma, launched an indefinite hunger strike in Darjeeling on Sunday, demanding an explanation from the BJP and its Darjeeling MP Raju Bista on what they had done so far to get tribal status for 11 hill communities and a “permanent political solution” for the hills. Earlier, some other hill leaders had questioned the BJP and the Centre on these two issues. However, in recent times, this is the first indefinite hunger strike against the saffron camp and Bista. Sharma launched his hunger strike at the central office of the ABGL located in Laden La Road of the hill town. “The MP has spent half of his (five-year) tenure but is yet to elaborate how he would fulfill the promises,” Sharma said. Bikram Adi Rai, vice-president of the ABGL, demanded Bista should quit if he could not clarify his stand on these two issues that the BJP had cited in its poll manifesto before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “The BJP MP should clearly say, with evidence, what he has done on these issues. He should tell us the steps the Centre has taken for a permanent political solution of Darjeeling,” said Rai. ABGL leaders also wanted Bista to fix a deadline by which these commitments would be fulfilled. “Or else, he should accept his failure in writing and resign as MP,” said Rai. “It is obvious that such a move of the ABGL will mount pressure on both the MP and his party. It will be interesting to see how they handle the situation,” said a veteran in hill politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 701 new infections, 13 deaths ||Bengal on Sunday logged 701 new Covid-19 cases, 827 recoveries, and 13 deaths. The state also recorded six consecutive weeks — 42 uninterrupted days — of a fall in the total number of active cases. On Sunday, active cases fell by 139 to 10,974, below 11,000 again for the first time since April 4, 119 days ago. “The next target is to get the total of active cases to fewer than 10,000, an important landmark psychologically. We have come a long way since the all-time high of 1,32,181 active cases on May 21,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate is at the state’s all-time high of 98.09 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.32. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Calcutta logged 60 new cases and one death on Sunday. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, is now 1.61 per cent, indicating the shrink in Covid spread. With North 24-Parganas recording 93 new cases, Sunday was the second consecutive day, after a three-day gap, of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta apart, West Midnapore and East Burdwan reported one death each. Bengal now has nearly 15.29 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15 lakh recoveries and 18,149 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Residents of former Bangladesh enclaves celebrate 6th anniversary of merger with Indian mainland||Residents of erstwhile Bangladesh enclaves on Saturday night and Sunday celebrated the sixth anniversary of their merger with the Indian mainland. They lit candles, hoisted the Indian Tricolour and organised cultural and sports events to observe the day. On the midnight of July 31, 2015, 51 Bangladesh enclaves landlocked within the Indian mainland, and 101 Indian enclaves landlocked within Bangladesh had merged with the respective countries under the Land Boundary Agreement inked between the two countries. Under the LBA, citizenship was offered by the respective countries to residents of enclaves. Hence, those in 51 Bangladesh enclaves on Indian mainland became Indian citizens. “For us, it’s no less than Independence Day. Six years ago, it was on this day that we became Indian citizens,” said Jainal Abedin of Mashaldanga, a former enclave and now a village in Cooch Behar. On Sunday, a number of political leaders turned up at the enclaves to join the celebrations. Udayan Guha, former Trinamul MLA of Dinhata, arrived at Mashaldanga with some of his party leaders. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was instrumental in the exchange of the enclaves. She has also taken the task of infrastructure development of these enclaves after they became Indian villages,” said Guha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
02-08-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri, Bihar cops jointly nab youth accused in murder of former mayor of Katihar town||Teams of Bihar police and Siliguri Metropolitan Police jointly on Saturday night nabbed a youth who is the main accused in the murder of the former mayor of Bihar’s Katihar town. Last Thursday, Shivraj Paswan, who was the mayor of Katihar Municipal Corporation till June-end, was gunned down at Santoshi Chowk area of the town. A case was filed with the Town police in Katihar. Police had nabbed four persons. However, Bihar police sources said the name of Saket Shubham, in his late 20s, came up as a principal suspect. “During investigation, the Bihar police came to know that Saket had fled to Siliguri. Accordingly, they reached here and along with the local police, arrested him from a house in Milanpally (ward 26),” said Sushanta Neogi, a government lawyer in Siliguri. Saket, police sources said, was hiding at a relative’s place. On Sunday, Saket was produced at a local court. “We have filed a petition for his transit remand. The Bihar police want to take him to Katihar for further investigation,” added Neogi. Paswan’s brother, who had filed a complaint, had also named the nephew of the BJP MLA of Katihar as one of those involved in the murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
02-08-2021||West Bengal||False bomb alarm near Tenzing Norgay Central Bus Terminus in Siliguri||A bomb scare near the Tenzing Norgay Central Bus Terminus here on Sunday turned out to be a false alarm. Sources said around 10.30am, policemen spotted an unclaimed bag near the traffic guard office, cordoned it and informed their superiors. A team from the CID’s bomb disposal squad examined the bag with laser guns and scanners and triggered a minor blast to open it. However, the bag contained some clothes and a pressure cooker. In Cooch Behar district, a team of Sitalkuchi police station arrested one Benu Barman on Saturday night with two swords, a bow and two arrows. Police are probing why he had stocked those items.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-150
