03-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal flood: 15 dead, 3 lakh affected; TMC, BJP engage in political slugfest||At least 15 people have died, and lakhs of people were rendered homeless or marooned, as the flood situation in six districts of West Bengal aggravated on Tuesday, triggering a slugfest between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the opposition BJP over the release of "excess water" by the DVC. Around three lakh people got displaced after heavy rain in the last few days, followed by discharge of water from Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) dams, inundated major parts of the districts of Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Bardhaman, Paschim Medinipur, Hooghly, Howrah and South 24 Parganas, officials said. The DVC, since July 31, has released 5.43 lakh cusec of water till Tuesday evening. Seven people died and 2.5 lakh have been affected by the flood Till Monday. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who keeps a tab on the relief and rescue operations and has sent ministers to the affected areas, is likely to conduct an aerial survey of Howrah and Hooghly districts on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. She will later conduct an administrative meeting, officials said. "We are collecting the details of all 15 people who have lost their lives due to the flood. Some deaths are due to electrocution, snake bite, wall collapse. We are waiting for a final report from district administrations," an official said. Several areas in the six affected districts are reeling under flood, with people struggling to wade through waist-deep water. The districts of Hooghly, Howrah and West Midnapore are among the worst affected due to the floods. Around 79,000 people were affected in Hooghly district alone, whereas crops and livestock worth lakhs of rupees were destroyed. "Around 345 villages are affected by the floods, and more than 34 thousand hectares of crop area have been damaged. Around 1159 houses have been damaged in the district. We are presently running 89 relief camps," a Hooghly district official said. The situation was worse in Kolkata's neighbouring Howrah district, where around 1.8 lakh people were affected as 10 gram panchayats were severely affected by the floods. "Seven Gram Panchayats are completely under water, and three are partially submerged. The Udaynarayanpur block is the worst affected," a Howrah district official said. Water from the Rupnarayan and the Dwarakeswar rivers have overtopped banks and entered residential areas, flooding homes, the official said. State Irrigation Minister Soumen Mahapatra conducted a tour of the Udaynarayanpur block in Howrah district and took stock of the relief and rescue operation. The Paschim Medinipur district administration has opened 212 relief camps as areas under 172 gram panchayats and seven municipalities were flooded. The link road between towns of Keshpur and Medinipur is under water. Over one lakh tarpaulin, 1,000 MT of rice, thousands of drinking water pouches and clean clothes have been sent to the shelters homes, an official stated. On Monday, the Army and the Air Force had undertaken rescue operations in Hooghly district, where rivers have overtopped banks and flooded villages. The ongoing flood situation triggered a political slugfest between the ruling TMC and the opposition BJP. Mahapatra accused the Central government-owned DVC of releasing water and causing a "man-made flood" situation. "The DVC deliberately released so much of water that it led to a flood-like situation. The Central government deliberately created this man-made flood situation in Bengal. We condemn such politics," Mahapatra told reporters after his visit to Howrah. BJP state spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya termed the allegations "baseless". "Before making such allegations, the TMC government should know why the water was released. There must be a logic behind DVC releasing the water. The fact is the state government has failed to conduct relief and rescue operations properly and are now blaming others," he said. The DVC on Saturday said the storage facilities at Panchet and Maithon dams have reached their capacities due to heavy inflow of water from upstream Jharkhand, and discharge under such circumstances was "unavoidable". A DVC official stated that the corporation released 5.43 lakh cusec of water till Tuesday evening since July 31. Water discharge is regulated by Damodar Valley Reservoir Regulation Committee, which has a representative from the state government, the official said. Teams of NDRF and SDRF, along with the state administration, are involved in the relief and rescue operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Presidency University to hold no entrance exam for undergraduate courses||Presidency University will admit students to its undergraduate courses based on board marks as entrance tests could not be held, an official of the institute said on Tuesday. An admission notice issued on Monday said the merit lists for subjects in arts and science, barring statistics and economics, will be prepared on the basis of marks obtained in Class 10 and Class 12 board exams. For economics and statistics, students will be admitted based on their higher secondary or equivalent 12th standard board marks. Aspirants can submit online applications till 3 pm on August 20, it said. "We have posted details about the admission procedure for UG courses (arts and science) on August 2. It will be based on the marks obtained by students," Presidency University Vice Chancellor Anuradha Lohia told. The decision to admit students based on board examination marks was taken after the higher education department asked authorities of the state government-run universities not to hold any entrance test or counselling for undergraduate courses as part of screening process this year and only go by the marks awarded through evaluation method. The state board exams for Class 10 and 12 were not held this year due to the Covid-19 situation. In case of tie for preparing the merit lists, the candidates will be judged considering their percentage of aggregate marks obtained in the Class 12 examination at the first instance. A student obtaining more aggregate marks will have a better rank, the admission notice said. If tie exists thereafter, the process will be repeated considering the percentage of marks obtained by them in Madhyamik or equivalent 10th standard examination, it added. The SFI-controlled Presidency University Students' Council has opposed the new admission criteria by the higher education department, arguing that the government interfered with the functional autonomy of institutions and compromised with their high academic standard set up over the years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta Hight Court stays order on pleas seeking impartial probe into post-poll violence||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday reserved order on a set of PILs seeking impartial probe into alleged post-poll violence in Bengal, following conclusion of arguments by all parties in the matter. A seven-member enquiry committee set up by the NHRC chairman on a direction by a five-judge bench hearing the PILs has in its report recommended handing over the investigation in grievous crimes like rape and murder to the CBI, and that these cases should be tried outside the state. The panel said other cases should be investigated by a court-monitored SIT (special investigation team) and that for adjudication, there should be fast-track courts, special public prosecutors and witness protection scheme. Hearing in the matter concluded on Tuesday and the order was reserved by the bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar. Appearing for the Union of India, Additional Solicitor General Y J Dastoor submitted that it was ready to conduct a probe by any central investigating agency like the CBI as per the high court's order. The PILs alleged that people were subjected to assault, made to flee homes, and destruction of property as a result of post-poll violence in Bengal, and an sought impartial probe along with protection of life and liberty. Opposing the findings and recommendations of the NHRC committee report, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the state DGP, claimed it was erroneous and biased. Stating that a few members of the panel had links with the BJP, he prayed it should be rejected by the court. Denying alleged inaction by the police, Bengal Advocate General Kishore Dutta submitted that suo motu cases were registered by the police in several cases apart from those in complaints sent by the NHRC. The committee had in its scathing remarks in the final report said, "This was retributive violence by supporters of the ruling party against supporters of the main opposition party." Maintaining that the acts of violence resulted in disruption of life and livelihood of thousands of people and their economic strangulation, the report said, "The local police has been grossly derelict, if not complicit, in this violence."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata likely to conduct aerial survey of flood-hit areas ||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to conduct an aerial survey of two of the six flood-affected districts of the state on Wednesday to take stock of the situation, a source in the state secretariat said. At least 14 people died due to wall collapse or electrocution and nearly 2.5 lakh got displaced in six districts of Bengal, where water released from the Damodar Valley Corporation dams (DVC) and heavy rain late last week have inundated streets and hamlets. "The CM is likely to take an aerial survey of the flood-affected Udaynarayanpur in Howrah district and Khanakul in Hooghly district tomorrow. She may be accompanied by the chief secretary (H K Dwivedi)," the source said on Tuesday. The other four flood-hit districts are Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Bardhaman, Paschim Medinipur and South 24 Parganas. Banerjee has directed her ministers to remain at their respective districts and supervise the relief and rescue works. Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee visited the flood-hit areas of Ghatal in Paschim Medinipur district on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Class VII boy arrested with fake notes in Kaliachak||A Class VII boy was arrested after fake Indian currency amounting to Rs 4.40 lakh was seized from his possession in Malda’s Kaliachak on Sunday. Shyam Sundar Saha, the officer-in-charge of Golapganj police outpost, said they had information that smugglers were circulating fake notes by engaging minor boys. “The 12-year-old boy was engaged as a carrier by a relative. Searches are on to nab him. Counterfeit notes in denomination of Rs 500 and another 120 in denomination of Rs 2,000 were seized from him,” Saha added. On Monday, the boy was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and sent to a juvenile home in Murshidabad district. The detective department of Siliguri Metropolitan Police, Pradhannagar police and a team of cops from Sikkim raided a medicine shop in the Champasari area of Siliguri on Sunday night and held two alleged drug peddlers. The arrested duo have been identified as Kamrul Huda and Mortaja Alam. Both were produced at a local court in Siliguri on Monday and have been taken away to Sikkim on transit remand, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 575 new infections and 12 deaths||Bengal on Monday logged 575 new infections, 734 recoveries and 12 deaths. With this, the state recorded 43 uninterrupted days of a fall in the total number of active cases, which fell by 171 to 10,803 on Monday. The state’s recovery rate is at its best at 98.11 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.36. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Monday. With Calcutta logging 61 new infections and North 24-Parganas 89, Monday was the third straight day after a three-day gap when none of Bengal's 23 districts reported 100 or more new cases in a day. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures while North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths and Calcutta, Kalimpong, East Burdwan, Hooghly and North 24-Parganas  reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.29 lakh Covid-19 cases since March 2020, including 15 lakh recoveries and 18,161 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Hooch deaths: Khonra Badsha gets life term  ||Noor Islam Fakir a.k.a. Khonra Badsha, the main accused in the 2011 Sangrampur hooch tragedy that claimed 172 lives and blinded many others, received a life sentence from the additional district and sessions judges’ court in Alipore on Monday. He will serve his sentence till death, the court ordered. The Sangrampur hooch tragedy occurred on December 14, 2011, after which the state government had handed over the probe to the CID. On Saturday, additional district judge Pushpal Satpathi had held Fakir guilty of “poisoning people”. The court acquitted seven other accused, including Fakir’s wife Shakila Biwi, because of inadequate evidence. Fakir’s lawyers, however, said they would challenge the verdict in high court. Fakir, who is physically challenged, ran the hooch racket at Mograhat and nearby areas in South 24-Parganas allegedly using political clout during the Left Front era. The CID in its charge sheet stated the hooch that killed 172 people was adulterated with methyl alcohol and other chemicals to make the drink more potent. Most victims were daily workers, rickshaw-pullers, and hawkers. Post-mortem indicated respiratory and cardiac failure from methyl poisoning. Fakir had surrendered before the police and remained under judicial custody since January 2012. The district court in 2018 had convicted him with a life sentence in connection with another case in Usti police station area. The court on Monday said both sentences will run concurrently. Fakir’s lawyer Rampada Jana said: “The court ignored my client’s submission as he was not directly associated with the trade. We will move Calcutta High Court challenging the sentence.”Abu Bakkar Dhali, another defence lawyer, said the police “failed to produce any convincing evidence against Fakir”. Family members of the victims welcomed the verdict. Manjila Bewa, who lost her husband Jahangir in the tragedy, said: “Hope Fakir feels the pain that we have been feeling for long. We would have been happier had the court awarded him a death sentence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Nine migrant labourers died, 18 others injured in South 24-Parganas||Nine migrant labourers died and 18 others were critically injured when the pick-up van in which they were travelling rammed into a concrete lamppost near Kultali Simana Bazaar area of Baruipur in South 24-Parganas late on Sunday night. They were part of a group of 27 from Radhaballabhpur and Mullickpara under Joynagar in South 24-Parganas, who were headed towards Howrah station to catch a Kerala-bound train on Monday morning for work at a construction firm. Their kin said they had stayed at home for 16 months amid Covid-19-induced lockdowns and uncertainties. Police have started a case against the driver, also injured, for rash driving. Officials of Bakultala police station and eyewitness in Kultali Simana Bazar area said the accident occurred at 11.55pm on Sunday when the speeding pick-up van rammed into a concrete lamppost, then a tree and then overturned. Local residents, who took the victims to Nimpith Hospital, said six persons died on the spot while others succumbed to injuries at the hospital. Preliminary probe suggested that the driver lost control of the speeding vehicle. A senior officer of Baruipur police district said: “It could not be immediately ascertained how the accident occurred. We have spoken to some of the survivors who said the driver was drunk and driving with one hand on the steering wheel while speaking on a mobile phone held in his other hand. He was asked by the occupants to reduce speeding that he apparently ignored.” Police began a case of reckless driving against the driver, who is critically injured. “We will interrogate the driver to know the exact reason behind the accident once he recovers,” the officer said. Alamgir Mollah, one of the survivors, who lost his father, elder brother and two other relatives in the accident, said: "We had to catch an early morning train and hence left home close to midnight to reach Howrah station without hassle. But our driver was arrogant and drove with one hand at great speed. I cautioned him many times to reduce speeding but he did not listen.” Many people from several areas of Joynagar work as masons in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Many of them returned last year during lockdown. During the past few months many of them have been trying to go back in the absence of work in Bengal owing to Covid induced restrictions imposed by the state government. Jairul Majhi, a woman who lost her son in the mishap, said: “There was a serious financial crisis at home. My son was trying hard to go back to work and persuading a local agent for a long time. The agent gave him the nod on Saturday and now he is dead." Trinamul's Kultali MLA Ganesh Mondal said: "We are in touch with the state government to ensure that the kin of the deceased labourers and those who are injured get compensation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Revamp of BJP office building exposes cracks||Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari hasn’t been allotted a room at the state headquarters of the BJP in central Calcutta as the party started refurbishing the building and allocating space for office-bearers. The ongoing revamp of the office at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane has once again exposed the widening cracks in the BJP, in which state president Dilip Ghosh and Adhikari are at loggerheads with each other. Almost all key leaders, including Ghosh, state BJP vice-president Pratap Banerjee and state general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty, were allotted rooms at the headquarters. A single room was kept for five general secretaries of the state unit. Former Bengal BJP chief Rahul Sinha, who currently holds no position in the party, got a separate room. The only exception is Adhikari, whose meteoric rise in the BJP soon after his switch from the Trinamul Congress has drawn criticism from a section of leaders in the saffron camp, especially those owing allegiance to Ghosh. “Since Suvenduda joined (on December 19, 2020), most of our work was being done from the party’s Hastings office. But all leaders have shifted back to the headquarters which is being refurbished. Room allotment has been done on the basis of priority,” a state BJP functionary said. Another BJP source said: ‘There is no concrete plan to allot a room for Suvendu at the state headquarters.” Many in the BJP believe the delay in allotting a room for Adhikari is a ploy by a section of leaders to keep him outside the organisational activities. Similar allegations were reported against Ghosh and his associates by leaders close to Mukul Roy who later went back to Trinamul. “It appears that a section of BJP leaders is applying the same tactics against Suvenduda that they had used against Mukulda,” another state leader said. The state BJP headquarters is being refurbished in the wake of the party’s decision to release three floors in the Hastings office, which it had taken on rent ahead of the Assembly elections. Although thousands of people would flock together at Hastings office before the polls, it wears a deserted look post the debacle, which many believe is the reason why three floors were released. On the other hand, leaders close to Ghosh said Adhikari had hardly been to the headquarters in the past eight months. Adhikari, who visited the headquarters not more than three times, continues to hold a room at the Hastings office. Asked if the BJP planned to allot a room for Adhikari at all, general secretary Sayantan Basu said: “Yes, we have thought of giving him a room.” However, leaders aware of the issue said nothing of that sort had yet been decided. Basu said 74 MLAs of the BJP would be asked to sit and meet at the Hastings office, where the party still has two floors. “All organisational work will be done from the headquarters. Hastings office will be for the legislative party,” he added. A BJP source said it could be a ploy to keep Adhikari at bay from the party headquarters. Sunil’s protest Trinamul Congress MP Sunil Mondal, who had announced his switch to the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls, on Monday said he was with the Trinamul Congress and would remain with the party. He was also seen on Monday demonstrating against the BJP in the Lok Sabha, alongside Trinamul MPs. Kalyan Banerjee, a Trinamul MP, who had once attacked Mondal for switching sides, reiterated that Mondal was a Trinamul MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Won’t quit as MP, says Babul Supriyo||The BJP on Monday managed to persuade Babul Supriyo against resigning as a Lok Sabha member even as the singer-turned-politician insisted that he would no longer be part of active politics. Speaking to reporters after meeting BJP president J.P. Nadda, the Asansol MP said he would continue to discharge his constitutional responsibilities as a parliamentarian but withdraw from politics and leave his official residence in the national capital. After being dropped from the Union cabinet, the two-term MP had announced that he would resign as MP and quit politics. He told reporters on Monday that Union home minister Amit Shah and Nadda had spoken to him and he had taken a final decision after thinking over their suggestions. He asserted that whatever he had said recently, some of which was seen to be critical of the BJP’s affairs in the state, was in the interest of the BJP and that he stood by that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress launches campaign against John Barla||The Trinamul Congress has launched a campaign in the Dooars against Alipurduar BJP MP and Union minister of state for minority affairs John Barla over his alleged encroachment on land and corruption and the support for the separate “North Bengal” state. The campaign was launched under the banner of the Bharatiya Mulniwasi Adivasi Vikas Parishad, an apolitical organisation floated for tribal people by Rajesh Lakra, who is in Trinamul now. Following his switch to Trinamul, the Parishad has been functioning as a frontal organisation of the ruling party. In the past few weeks, Barla was accused of encroaching on tea garden land and a state government plot and constructing buildings. A woman accused him of fleecing her financially also. After Trinamul had swept the Assembly polls, Barla lent support to the demand that north Bengal be turned into a separate state or a Union Territory for its development. “We have launched a campaign against Barla. On one hand, he is speaking on divisive lines, indulged in corruption and encroached on land at many locations. On the other hand, Barla has not done anything for the Dooars or north Bengal as a whole even though two-and-a-half years have passed since he became an MP. We will start a movement against the MP if need be,” said Lakra. Political observers said tribal people in the Dooars could easily relate themselves to Lakra’s Parishad. “So, the campaign against Barla under the Parishad’s banner is a well-planned strategy of Trinamul. The basic idea is to dent the saffron camp’s base in the region,” said a political observer. Trinamul leaders said they would visit every tea garden and forest villages to apprise residents of Barla’s alleged land grab, corruption and divisive politics. Lakra and some other Trinamul leaders on Monday held a public meeting in Madarihat, the Assembly segment in Alipurduar where Lakra had lost to the BJP this year. “A similar meeting will be held at Malbazar on Tuesday (tomorrow),” said the Trinamul leader. Asked about the Trinamul campaign, an Alipurduar district BJP leader said: “Trinamul is making all efforts to try and revive its support base. But such activities will not work as people are with us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||Hunger strike heat on BJP in Darjeeling||S.P. Sharma’s Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati Tamang faction) polled fewer votes than Nota in the hill seats during the Assembly elections, but his indefinite fast from Sunday to ask the BJP and its Darjeeling MP Raju Bista on the headway in tribal status for 11 hill communities and a “permanent political solution” for the region has swivelled the spotlight on the faction. Sharma, the general secretary of the ABGL (Bharati faction), has managed to galvanise support against the BJP for its alleged failure to deliver these two key poll promises in the hills. Since Sunday, the faction’s office has been teeming with well-wishers from even rival entities, as Sharma on Monday continued with his hunger strike that seems to have increased the pressure on the BJP. On Sunday, Ajoy Edwards, the president of the GNLF Darjeeling Branch Committee, surprised all by meeting Sharma at the ABGL party office at Laden-la Road in Darjeeling. The GNLF is an ally of the BJP. Edwards tried to convince Sharma to work together to put pressure on the BJP to fulfil these demands instead of starting an indefinite fast. “We too are not eternally bound to the BJP. If they don’t fulfil the demands before their tenure is over in 2024, they will have no standing in the hills. Until then, let us work together to apply pressure on BJP,” said Edwards. Sharma, however, went ahead with his fast. Edwards left, wishing him all the best. Soon leaders of Bimal Gurung faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, a party instrumental in providing a foothold to BJP in the hills in 2009, trooped in to support Sharma. Bimal’s rivals, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction now headed by Anit Thapa, were the next to come to the office. On Monday morning, Dawa Narbula, former Congress MP from Darjeeling came forward to support Sharma. During the 2021 Assembly election, Sharma’s candidates managed to garner 4,939 votes in all while the number of people who voted for Nota from the three hill seats were 7,090. The ABGL is the oldest party in the hills and SP Sharma is now with Bharati Tamang camp for the past one year. The ABGL is divided into three factions. Bharati Tamang is the wife of Madan Tamang, who was hacked to death allegedly by supporters of the then undivided Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in 2010. Against this background, the presence of leaders of both factions of the Morcha at the ABGL’s office was significant. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, secretary-general, Morcha (Anit Thapa camp) even garlanded the photograph of Madan Tamang at the party office. Pokhrel is named as an accused in the Madan murder case. “Not just the BJP, all the parties that had supported the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha election will be responsible if anything untoward happens to Sharma,” said Pokhrel. All this support for Sharma seems to have made the BJP uncomfortable. Neeraj Zimba, the GNLF leader who won the Darjeeling Assembly seat on a BJP ticket, had tried to make light of Sharma’s hunger strike announcement a few days back. “We will deploy our supporters to ensure that the hunger strike is strictly enforced by Sharma,” Zimba had joked. But now, Zimba is silent. The BJP is also silent. Edwards has left for Delhi to string together various outfits and parties to mount pressure on the BJP to fulfil the two demands. “The BJP is under tremendous pressure now. Sharma may not be a mass leader, but the issues that he has raised are what the hill masses strongly connect to,” said an observer. Edwards decision was independent of Sharma’s hunger strike decision and he plans to rope in Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista, too, in this campaign. “However, none can deny  that pressure on BJP to deliver on their poll promise had never suddenly been so strong,” said the observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-148
03-08-2021||West Bengal||101-year-old woman among 31 airlifted by army from flood-hit Hooghly district||A 101-year-old woman and 30 others had been stranded for two days on the roof of a one-storey building at Khanakul in the flood-affected Hooghly district and it took a helicopter of the Indian Army to rescue them on Monday. All the 31 persons, including centenarian Janhabi Samanta, got stuck on the roof after heavy rain and water released by various barrages, including Damodar Valley Corporation, triggered floods in Khanakul’s Dhanyagheri area. The NDRF and the local administration could not rescue the persons despite several efforts and finally, the state government sought the army’ help on Monday morning. Local people said they couldn’t recall such a flood in recent memory in which people needed to be airlifted. “It was a challenge for us to save those 31 persons as we had no option to reach there. The challenge was to airlift the 101-year-old woman as she was reluctant to leave out of fear. However, after several hours of counselling, we finally managed to save the woman,” said Abhishek Mandal, the sub-divisional police officer in Arambagh. The elderly woman said she, along with others, survived without food for 48 hours as the ground floor of their home was flooded. “I had never witnessed such a flood earlier. I had never flown before and I was afraid after I saw it (the chopper). I told them that I would not fly but they assured me that there was nothing be afraid of. I have not had food for the past 48 hours,” said Janhabi, who was given a meal immediately after the chopper landed at Arambagh. Many of the stranded people lived nearby and took refuge on the roof of the building. Shibshankar Samanta, a grandson of the elderly woman, who was also rescued by the chopper, said: “My grandmother did not agree to come with us and said she would be happy on the roof. She came alone on the last trip. We did not want to lose her.” The army helicopter conducted five sorties, the last one was for Janhabi alone. Sources said over 200 villages in three Bengal districts, including in Hooghly’s Khanakul, West Midnapore’s Ghatal and parts in rural Howrah like Udayanarayanpur, had been facing devastating flood for the past three days and around five lakh people had been affected across the state. Officials said the situation worsened in Khanakul and Ghatal after the DVC discharged around 1.46 lakh cusec water till Monday morning. “As all rivers and canals were filled because of rainwater, the areas flooded as soon as different barrages, including the DVC in Durgapur, released water,” said an official in West Midnapore. In Ghatal alone, around 2.5 lakh people have been affected and five persons died in the past three days. “The five persons have died either by drowning or snakebite. We have rescued around 50,000 people from villages and sheltered them at hundreds of camps,” said Rashmi Kamal, the West Midnapore district magistrate. Panchayat and rural development minister Subrata Mukherjee, along with state irrigation minister Soumen Mahapatra, on Monday visited Ghatal to provide relief. “Because of lack of funds from the Centre, the Ghatal master plan could not be implemented. The flood situation is the worst here and our government is trying hard to rescue the people,” said Mukherjee, the minister. Sources said several hospitals and correctional homes were underwater in Ghatal and it had become a challenge for the local administration to reach the affected people with healthcare services. At least two dozen villages have gone under water since Sunday morning in Howrah’s Udaynarayanpur. Inundation has been reported from different pockets of Birbhum, East Burdwan and Bankura as well. Additional reporting by Abhijeet Chatterjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-149
