04-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal floods: Mamata accuses DVC of causing 'man-made' deluge||The flood situation in West Bengal worsened on Wednesday claiming eight more lives taking the toll to 23 as fresh areas went under water, with Chief Minister Mamata Bannerjee complaining to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) caused the "man-made" deluge by releasing water from its dams in an unprecedented manner. The DVC, however, said that it discharges water after taking consent of the state government and blaming it for the flood is not justified The prime minister telephoned Banerjee in the afternoon to take stock of the flood situation which affected seven districts of the state. During the talks, the CM blamed the DVC for the flood in the state and raised the issue in a letter she wrote to Modi in the evening. Heavy rain and subsequent discharge of water in the last few days have inundated large parts of Purba and Paschim Bardhaman, Paschim Medinipur, Hooghly, Howrah, South 24 Parganas and Birbhum districts. The death toll was 15 till Tuesday evening and the number of affected districts was six. A tweet issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that Modi assured Banerjee of all support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. "PM @narendramodi spoke to WB CM @MamataOfficial on the flood situation caused by water discharge from dams in parts of the state. PM assured all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. PM Modi prays for the safety and wellbeing of those in affected areas," the PMO tweeted. Large swathes of Nanoor and Labhpur block in Birbhum districts were flooded since early Wednesday morning, leading to the displacement of more than 3000 people. Banerjee surveyed parts of Howrah on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. The chief minister wrote to Modi claiming that desilting and dredging activities were not taken up and water-holding capacity of the DVC's dams was not increased, though the issues were raised way back in 2015. The state is facing a "grave man-made flood situation" in some districts due to "unprecedented" release of water from the DVC dams at Panchet, Maithon and Tenughat, she alleged. "In respect of the current flood, we will shortly be sending our damage assessment for your kind intervention. I would reiterate the need to develop holistic and long-term solutions in respect to the augmentation of the storage capacity of the DVC system to ensure that West Bengal is spared the regular devastation and suffering from man-made floods perpetrated by huge releases from the DVC dams," she said in the letter. The DVC, since July 31, has released 6.38 lakh cusec of water till Wednesday afternoon. On Wednesday alone 95,000 cusecs in two tranches. The DVC, however, rejected the charge saying it does not decide about water regulation and decisions on this are taken by the Damodar Valley Reservoir Regulation Committee (DVRRC) where the state's irrigation secretary is a member. "The DVC only implements the decision of the committee on water regulations. The state government's consent is taken before water discharge, and the DVC issues a warning to district administrations. So blaming DVC for the flood is unjustified," DVC executive director (Maithon) S Banerjee told PTI. The DVC official said that the DVRRC tries to restrict water release to the maximum possible but further regulating will put the dams in danger. Meanwhile, state Irrigation Minister Soumen Mahapatra wrote to the DVC authorities requesting them not to release water for the next three days. The districts of Hooghly, Howrah and Paschim Medinipur are the worst affected. Since Wednesday morning, rising water levels in Birbhum's Labhpur and Nanoor blocks forced thousands of people to flee their homes as houses and agricultural land got submerged in water. More than 4 lakh hectares of agricultural land in these seven districts is under water now. "Six people each have died due to wall collapse and lightning and seven due to drowning. Two each have died because of landslide and electrocution so far," a senior state government official said. The chief minister, who was scheduled to conduct an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas in Howrah and Hooghly districts, was forced to suspend the programme due to bad weather conditions. Instead, she took the road to Amta in Howrah. Standing in knee-deep water, Banerjee spoke to the affected people in Amta and assured them of all help by the state government. On Banerjee's allegations against the DVC, the state BJP leadership claimed that the state government is looking for a face-saver to hide its failure. "The entire irrigation system in West Bengal has gone for a toss during the TMC rule. The day is not far when the TMC government might demand that the DVC's dams be dismantled," state BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said. The already grim flood situation in south Bengal is likely to worsen, with the Met department forecasting heavy rain in the region owing to a cyclonic circulation over the North Bay of Bengal and the presence of an active monsoon trough. The Met department warned of heavy to very heavy rain at one or two places in the flood-hit districts till Thursday morning. The weatherman also cautioned against a rise in the water level of rivers and the inundation of low-lying areas in Gangetic West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta multiplexes to reopen with new Hollywood flick ‘Suicide Squad’||A national multiplex chain on Wednesday announced that it will release a new Hollywood film in six of its facilities in and around Calcutta on August 6, when the theatres will open after three months abiding by all Covid-19 protocols. Suicide Squad, the new Hollywood flick, will be screened in six auditoriums of the multiplex from this Friday, said Amitava Guha Thakurta, the regional head of the Inox multiplex chain. He said that the film will be released in the facilities at Beleghata, Esplanade, Salt Lake, New Town facilities of the city and its neighbourhood, as well as in Liluah and Madhyamgram on August 6. "Gradually we will open the rest of the 16 plexes after putting in place the Covid-19 protocols in totality," Guha Thakurta said. The protocols included ensuring operation with 50 per cent of total seating arrangement, disinfecting the auditorium, ensuring a touchless ticketing system and wearing masks even inside the theatre. A spokesperson of SVF Productions, which also operates several multiplexes, said their facilities will open on August 13. Satadeep Saha, owner of Ajanta cinema in the city and a local multiplex chain, said, "We will open after ensuring everything is in order. We are hopeful about opening by August 13." The owner of Basusree single screen, Sourabh Basu said the 1,000 capacity hall will open on August six with two shows. "There will not be any evening or night shows. And the 1000 seating capacity will be halved with no two spectators sitting side by side," he added. The Bengal government allowed the theatres to start screening movies following Covid protocols from July 31, three months after ordering them to shut down in view of the surging Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic. However, none of the functional single screens, numbering around 40-50, and multiplexes in Calcutta opened on that day, an official of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to PM to draft plan on upgrade of dams in Bengal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, after taking stock of the flood situation in six districts of the state, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday seeking his intervention for drafting a plan to upgrade dams in the region. Describing the flood as a "man-made one", Mamata held "unprecedented release of water from the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) dams Panchet, Maithon and Tenughat" responsible for the flood situation. Mamata, in her letter, said 16 people died in the flood and lakhs of farmers lost their livelihood. She noted that houses, bridges, power lines and other infrastructure have also suffered extensive damage. "In respect of the current flood, we will shortly be sending our damage assessment for your kind intervention. I would reiterate the need to develop holistic and long-term solutions in respect to augmentation of storage capacity of the DVC system to ensure that West Bengal is spared the regular devastation and suffering from man-made floods perpetrated by huge releases from the DVC dams," she wrote in her 4-page letter. Earlier in the day, the PM had telephoned Mamata to seek updates on the flood situation in the state, and assured her of central assistance. During the phone call too, she complained to Modi that the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) allegedly released water from its dams in an unplanned manner, thus causing a "man-made" flood situation in the state, a senior state government official said. Later, a tweet issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that Modi assured Banerjee of all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. "PM @narendramodi spoke to WB CM @MamataOfficial on the flood situation caused by water discharge from dams in parts of the state. PM assured all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. PM Modi prays for the safety and wellbeing of those in affected areas," the PMO tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||PM dials Mamata, assures her of all help to tackle flood situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi telephoned Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday and took stock of the flood situation in the state. "PM @narendramodi spoke to WB CM @MamataOfficial on the flood situation caused by water discharge from dams in parts of the state," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a tweet. The prime minister assured all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation, it said. The chief minister, who was visiting flood-hit Udaynarayanpur in Howrah district, was learned to have told the prime minister that her administration will send a report to the PMO on the flood situation and the damage caused by it, a state government official said. PM Modi prayed for the safety and wellbeing of those in affected areas, the PMO said. At least 15 people have been killed and nearly 3 lakh displaced after heavy rain in the last few days, followed by discharge of water from Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) dams, inundated major parts of the districts of Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Bardhaman, Paschim Medinipur, Hooghly, Howrah and South 24 Parganas. The ongoing flood situation triggered a political slugfest between the ruling TMC and the Opposition BJP. Mahapatra accused the Central government-owned DVC of releasing water and causing a "man-made flood" situation. "The DVC deliberately released so much of water that it led to a flood-like situation. The Central government deliberately created this man-made flood situation in Bengal. We condemn such politics," Mahapatra had told reporters after his visit to Howrah yesterday. BJP state spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya soon termed the allegations "baseless". "Before making such allegations, the TMC government should know why the water was released. There must be a logic behind DVC releasing the water. The fact is the state government has failed to conduct relief and rescue operations properly and are now blaming others," he said. The DVC on Saturday had said the storage facilities at Panchet and Maithon dams have reached their capacities due to heavy inflow of water from upstream Jharkhand, and discharge under such circumstances was "unavoidable".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to conduct genome sequencing for those testing positive even after being fully vaccinated||With reports of people getting infected even after being administered two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the West Bengal Health Department has decided to strengthen the surveillance throughout the state and to prepare a chart of such individuals, an official said on Wednesday. The department is also planning to conduct genome sequencing on such patients to find out whether if they have had any genetic change in the strain of the coronavirus. According to the official, the decision to carry out such sequencing was taken keeping in mind warnings of experts about a possible third wave of the pandemic. "The genome sequencing tests must be done on the people who are affected with the virus even after being fully vaccinated. The primary objective is to find out whether if the vaccine has worked against the virus or if it has mutated," the official said, adding that sequencing would be done everywhere in the state. Incidentally, the district administrations in the northern districts of the state, where a few of such cases have been reported, have decided to carry out such sequencing, he added. Keeping in mind that a large number of people from neighbouring states often enter Bengal through northern corridors, the department has alerted the districts in the northern part of the state. "There has been strict surveillance in the districts of north Bengal since it has several entries... from neighbouring states so that Covid protocols are properly followed. We need to be on high alert about the warnings of a possible third wave, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Building crumbles at flooded-Bandar village near Khanakul||A two-storey house, which went under water at the flooded-Bandar village near Khanakul in Hooghly district three days ago, completely collapsed on early Tuesday morning. Sources said Bandar and several other nearby villages were inundated as the Rupnarayan river spilled over its embankment since Sunday. Sadananda Samanta, a farmer and the owner of the house, shifted his family to a neighbour’s home after water started entering the village. Sources said the house started tilting (in picture) early Sunday morning and finally it collapsed on Tuesday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit some flood affected areas of Hooghly and Howrah on Wednesday. She is likely to reach Khanakul 2 block in Hooghly around 1.30pm and from there, she might go to Udaynarayanpur in Howrah. Mamata is also scheduled to make an aerial survey of some inundated areas, including Ghatal in West Midnapore. According to sources, several places in Howrah, Hooghly and West Midnapore districts were submerged because of heavy rainfall and overflowing rivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||17-year-old girl found dead in Murshidabad, father blames boyfriend||A 17-year-old girl in a locality of Murshidabad’s Dhulian, found seemingly drugged near her home, died late on Monday night on way to the hospital. The girl’s father complained to the police that she was poisoned by her boyfriend, whose marriage proposal the family had recently rejected in favour of someone else. “The father has not said so this in the report, but he claimed that in the ambulance his daughter was still conscious and claimed to have been raped,” said a police officer. The girl reportedly left home at 10.30am on Monday saying she was going to school for an exam. She did not return. Around 8pm, worried family and neighbours who had been looking for her, found her in a nearby mango orchard. Sources said she seemed semi-conscious and her speech was slurred. The girl’s father in his complaint alleged the boyfriend took her away on his motorcycle and proceeded to kill her. “We have started a case and will take action depending on post-mortem results on Tuesday. No arrest has been made yet,” said Jangipur police superintendent, Y. Raghuvamshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Hundreds of Aadhaar cards seized in Siliguri||Hundreds of Aadhaar cards were found dumped on a vacant land adjacent to Eastern Bypass in Siliguri on Tuesday. Police said the Aadhaar cards, wrapped in white envelopes, were strewn on the plot near Kankata More and they were trying to find out whether the documents were real or fake. “There were hundreds of those cards and also some other printed papers which appeared to be bank documents. It seems that someone had dumped these items in a hurry in the deserted area,” said a resident of Kankata More. In the past few weeks, a number of people have been arrested in north Bengal for cheating people with fake Aadhaar cards. “We are trying to find out whether the Aadhaar cards are real or fake. If it is found that the seized cards are genuine, we will speak with authorities of the postal department that delivers them to people on their doorsteps. It is a serious offence to dump original Aadhaar cards instead of delivering them to concerned persons,” said an officer of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||17-year-old boy found hanging in North Dinajpur||A 17-year-old boy was found hanging from a tree in North Dinajpur district on Tuesday. Family members of the Class XII student said he had been missing since Monday evening. They have alleged that two persons in their neighbourhood killed the boy and hanged him. Sources said the laptop of a schoolteacher, who stays in the locality on rent, had been stolen recently. “Both the teacher and his landlord, a retired police officer, accused the boy of stealing the laptop and filed a police complaint against him,” said a source. The boy’s father said the teacher and the landlord had  visited their house, along with the student’s friends, on Monday evening and asked his son to follow them. “My son went with them and did not return. Today, we learnt about his death. We suspect these people murdered and hanged him.” Police said the teacher and the landlord had gone into hiding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Two prisoners flee from cop van on way to court in Tamluk||Two undertrials escaped from police custody in East Midnapore’s Tamluk on Tuesday morning while they were being shifted from a West Midnapore prison to the court here. The incident occurred around 11am at a busy intersection in the town during rush-hour traffic when police were “distracted” by traffic on the road. The rusty grills of the police van also helped the duo, Animesh Bera and Vishal Das, both in their early 40s, make their escape. Animesh and Vishal, who had been behind bars in West Midnapore since early 2020 for violations of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, fled after Animesh managed to break the rusty grilles of the window of the police van. The attending officers did not notice him as they were apparently trying to navigate a traffic jam at the Jailkhana More, less than 100m from Tamluk court. Police said Animesh bolted from the window after making enough space, which attracted police attention. Vishal then took his chance, opening the door of the van and fleeing when the cops were busy chasing Animesh and had left the van unguarded for that brief time. After this, the alarmed police team prevented the other prisoners in the van from following the duo. “There were nine undertrials in the van. Two have escaped,” said a police officer. Despite frantic searches, both Animesh and Vishal remained untraced as of Tuesday late evening. “Both the accused hail from Haldia’s Bhabanipur area,” said a police officer. The escape prompted the setting up of several police checkpoints on district highways throughout Tuesday. “Two prisoners have escaped and we are trying to trace them by setting up checkpoints across the district,” Tamluk subdivisional police officer Atish Biswas said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||72% of health workers, 54% of general population develop antibodies against Covid||At least 72 per cent of healthcare workers and 54 per cent of the general population in five Bengal districts have developed antibodies against Covid-19, a recent serosurvey report, prepared by the Centre’s Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has said. The serosurvey is a test of blood serum from a group of individuals to determine seroprevalence or the presence of antibodies against a virus. Sources in the Bengal state health department said that in June this year, the ICMR, with the help of the state health department, conducted the survey in five Bengal districts — Alipurduar, Bankura, Jhargram, South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore — in order to know how people in those areas had developed antibodies ahead of the third wave. The survey was conducted among around 400 people from the general population and 100 healthcare workers, including doctors, in each district at random. The report was issued by the ICMR late last month. According to the report, Alipurduar reported 88 per cent positivity of Covid-19 antibodies among the healthcare workers, highest among the five districts. This positivity among healthcare workers is the lowest in Jhargram, at 72.7 per cent. The other three districts, Bankura, South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, reported 79, 82.7 and 78 per cent, respectively, of antibodies among healthcare workers. In the general population, 66.7 per cent of people from Bankura were found positive with Covid-19 antibodies, while East Midnapore reported the lowest positivity, at 53.9 per cent. Alipurduar, Jhargram and South 24-Parganas reported antibodies in 59.1, 54.1 and 62.2 per cent of the people tested. Senior health officials said that after the pandemic hit the country, the ICMR had started conducting such surveys to know about the presence of antibodies against Covid-19 in a bid to plan further health measures. “The serosurvey is a method to guide us about public health response to the pandemic,” said a senior health department official. “This is the fourth time that the government is conducting such a survey since the Covid-19 pandemic spread in our country. The ICMR did not claim openly that those who had reported antibodies against the virus have grown herd immunity, but in effect it reflects the same. However, we need to examine whether the antibodies are adequately protective or not,” the official added. A section of health officials claimed that they found such a survey report “a major positive”. It has been found that those having antibodies of the virus rarely reported serious suffering because of the pandemic, they said. “If you look at the data, you can assess that doctors and healthcare workers have antibodies in high numbers. This happened because the healthcare workers have had to handle Covid-19 patients directly. We consider this a report of hope,” said Shyamal Soren, the chief medical officer in Bankura. However, other health officials were more wary. Many said that the time to declare herd immunity was yet to arrive. “Those with antibodies may be competent to combat a specific strain of the virus. But the coronavirus has been mutating regularly and so we can’t say for sure that the antibodies present in people right now would act as a protective shield against all strains, and that those with antibodies already have herd immunity,” said a senior health official in Birbhum. The Indian Council of Medical Research, the apex body in the country to formulate, coordinate and promote biomedical research, was founded in 1911 and is headquartered in New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court hearing on Bengal post-poll violence concludes||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday concluded hearing in public interest litigations seeking its intervention in incidents of violence which had occurred after the counting of Assembly election votes on August 2. A five-judge bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal adjourned the verdict to a later date. The court had ordered the National Human Rights Commission to set up an eight-member committee to visit the clash-hit areas and meet people allegedly attacked by supporters of the Trinamul Congress. The committee submitted a report to the court admitting the petitioners’ contention of post-poll violence by the ruling party. The report recommended that each incident be probed by an independent investigating agency like the CBI. The state government opposed the NHRC recommendations. Appearing for the state and police, advocates Kapil Sibbal and Abhisekh Manu Singhvi argued that members of the committee were BJP activists and the report was politically biased. Appearing for the NHRC, advocate Mahesh Jethmalani claimed the bench should hand over each case to an independent agency for probe. The court, in its verdict, will decide whether the state police would continue its proceedings or the cases would be handed over to an agency like the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Centre rejects 9.5 lakh Bengal farmers’ applications for PM-Kisan scheme||The Centre has apparently rejected 9.5 lakh Bengal farmers’ applications for the PM-Kisan scheme, prompting the state government to write to Delhi asking for the reasons for their exclusion. Sources said the Mamata Banerjee dispensation had verified the farmers’ claims and uploaded their  names on the Union government’s portal for the particular scheme under which Rs Rs 6,000 is provided to each applicant. “Officially, the Centre’s portal is showing that data are pending for the correction for 9.5 lakh farmers. But the fact is  that these farmers have been excluded from the scheme,” said a state government official. In a communication to Delhi, the Bengal government stressed that the central doles should be extended to all 45 lakh farmers whose names were uploaded by the state. “The state government has sent a letter a few days ago asking for the reasons behind the decision of omitting the names of about 9.5 lakh farmers from the central scheme. We have also demanded that the benefit be given to all the farmers whose names we had uploaded. We are yet to get any response,” said Pradip Majumdar, the agriculture advisor to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Sources said the state government had already uploaded the names of 44,89,831 farmers on the central portal for their inclusion in the PM-Kisan scheme. So far, 24,31,885 farmers have been included in the scheme, while 9,47,861 names have been rejected. “Remaining 10 lakh farmers’ names were in the process of being verified... We have demanded that the benefit be extended to all the applicants when fresh installments are released in August. As things stand now, only 24.31 lakh farmers will get the money  in August. In the letter, the state government conveyed its displeasure to the Centre over the omission of about 9.5 lakh farmers’ names,” said a source. Under the PM-Kisan scheme, the Centre disburses Rs 6,000 each in three installments to the farmers annually. As Delhi made it apparent that all the farmers would not be considered for the benefit, the state government would put pressure on the Centre as the issue has political implications as well. The Bengal government has a similar scheme, Krishak Bandhu, wherein 62 lakh farmers get a maximum of Rs 10,000 for an acre annually. “We have no exclusion criteria for the scheme. This is why we could extend the financial support to 62 lakh farmers, but because of the conditional approach of the Centre, names of only 44.89 lakh farmers could be uploaded,” said a source. As the Centre does not provide the support to share-croppers and those who get pensions from the government, nearly 20 lakh farmers could not apply for the PM-Kisan scheme. Now, the number of beneficiaries from the state under the central scheme has declined further after 9.5 lakh applications were rejected . “If they were excluded for issues like mismatch in Aadhaar or bank-related data, the state would take initiatives to rectify those. But it is annoying that the Centre is not letting us know the reasons behind the rejections,” said another source. It appears the state would soon raise the issue in public to derive political dividends as the Narendra Modi government had earlier accused the Mamata administration of not cooperating with the Centre. “It is now clear the BJP talks about the farmers’ benefits only to gain political benefits. But our government is trying to extend benefits to the farmers and that’s why there are no exclusion criteria in our scheme,” said Majumdar. The sources said the initial letter had been written at the secretary level and if the Centre didn’t reply within a few days, the issue could be taken up by the chief minister or the chief secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal records 729 new infections and nine deaths||Bengal on Tuesday recorded 729 new infections, 756 recoveries and nine deaths. The state reported 44 consecutive days of a drop in the total number of active cases. On Tuesday, active cases fell by 36 to 10,767. Calcutta reported 59 new cases and zero deaths. A state minister spoke about vaccinations. “We are in a good place despite all the non-cooperation from the Centre as we went past 3 crore in vaccine doses administered. That’s 30 per cent of the state’s population, ” he said, adding that of these, over 87 lakh are fully vaccinated, which amounts to 8.7 per cent of Bengal’s population. The corresponding national averages are 28 and 7.9 per cent. “In terms of fully vaccinated people, Bengal is second to Maharashtra — 1.1 crore — in the nation, and ahead of Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, despite having received fewer vaccines,” he added. Bengal’s recovery rate is currently at the state’s all-time high of 98.11 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.34. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which had risen to nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.67 per cent on Tuesday. With North 24-Parganas logging 86 new cases, Tuesday was the fourth consecutive day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Nineteen districts reported double-digit figures and South Dinajpur, Malda, Purulia and West Burdwan single-digit figures. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. Bengal now has over 15.3 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes 15.01 lakh recoveries and 18,170 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Public libraries aided by Bengal govt to resume services from Wednesday||Public libraries sponsored and aided by the state government have been allowed to resume transactions of books and other services to readers from Wednesday. The directive to open the libraries comes with the rider that the service would be restricted to two days a week — Monday and Wednesday — to readers aged above 18 years. The library cannot allow readers beyond 50 per cent of its accommodation. The readers will be allowed in after a thermal gun temperature check and sanitisation. An order to this effect was issued by the director of library services on Tuesday. The government directed the library authorities to ensure the service by maintaining Covid-19 protocols. All district magistrates, who are chairperson of the local library authorities by virtue of their designated status, have been directed to comply with the order to ensure services to the readers. In March last year, the library service was suspended because of Covid-induced lockdown. The service resumed on January 26 this year. However, with a surge in Covid cases, library services were again suspended from April 28. In the backdrop of the second wave of the pandemic, the Bengal government announced a number of restrictions to contain the spread of the disease. Most of the restrictions were subsequently withdrawn. The state has at present 2,480 libraries, 13 of which are government-run. Another 2,460 libraries are government-sponsored and seven state-aided. In September last year, the state had instructed the libraries to clean books once a fortnight and sanitise the premises. Manoj Chakraborty, the  chief mentor of readers’ forum Janasadharoner Granthagar O Karmi Kalyan Samity, said: “The state government should take immediate steps to protect invaluable books and scripts which we fear have been seriously damaged because of lack of proper care.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Happy about new block, Jalpaiguri citizens offer state free land for offices||Any government knows how difficult it is to acquire land for public projects these days, even in exchange for cash and jobs. However, a completely different scene unfolded at the district magistrate’s office in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday. Twelve residents of Kranti under Malbazar subdivision met district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu to say that they were ready to part with their land free of cost for the construction of the office of the block development officer (BDO) and other state government offices needed at the block level. Earlier this year, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced two new blocks in Jalpaiguri. It was decided that Kranti would be a new block, the other being Banarhat. Kunja Kishore Roy, a resident of Kranti Bazaar area, and 11 others, who called themselves members of a citizens’ forum, Kranti Nagarik Committee, handed over a declaration in writing to the district magistrate that they were offering land to the state government for free. The 12 residents said they were happy that the Mamata Banerjee government had heard their longstanding demand to declare Kranti as a separate block. The first BDO of the block is already working out of the local Karma Tirtha, a state-owned building that offers space for shops to eligible jobless youths at lower rent. “We want the state government to expedite the process of building the BDO office and other offices of state departments needed to be set up at the block level. To ensure that the government does not face any problem in getting land, we are offering our land free of cost. We do not need any compensation or job,” said Roy. Sources said that after the state had issued the notification that the new block would have six panchayats — Lataguri, Kranti, Champadanga, Chengmari, Rajadanga and Maulani — under it, the district administration had started scouting for land in the area for its offices. “Some patches of land were found near the bank of the Dharala river, which flows through the block but is away from Kranti market. However, residents of Kranti want the BDO’s office to come up at a more accessible location in Kranti, which is why they took the initiative to offer free land,” said a source. Jogen Sarkar, the secretary of the committee, said the 12 members in all offered six bighas or 120 cottahs of land to the administration. “They are offering it for free as they are happy about the new block. We feel the administration should accept the proposal.” The district magistrate said the administration was indeed in search of land for the new offices. “We appreciate this gesture and will forward this proposal to the BDO and the panchayat samiti. If they approve it and send it back to me, we don’t have any problem in using their land to set up the office of the BDO and other ancillary offices.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
04-08-2021||West Bengal||Fire at Haldia Petrochemicals during upkeep||A major fire broke out on the premises of a naphtha cracker unit at the Haldia Petrochemicals (HPL) refinery in East Midnapore on Tuesday afternoon while contractual labourers were carrying out maintenance work. Preliminary suspicion was that the fire started from oil accumulated in drain pipes at the plant. There were no casualties in the blaze which was controlled only after fire tenders from adjoining refineries arrived. Local sources and employees said the fire occurred around 3pm while contractual labourers were carrying out maintenance work. “In any case, production is halted at the moment. Roughly 1,000 temporary workers are assisting our staff in the upkeep and the maintenance of the refinery,” said an HPL official. The on-duty workers said they had heard a “flash and a bang” and then witnessed a “tower of fire” near the naphtha cracker unit. “Safety engineers moved us to secure areas immediately and we thank them that there were no casualties,” said worker Tarun Dhali. HPL plant head Ashoke Kumar Ghosh told The Telegraph that they suspected oil accumulated in the drain pipes outside the naphtha cracker plant had caught fire. “However, we need to find out what sparked the fire,” he said. Fire tenders from the nearby MCPI plant joined the HPL team to arrest the flames. Fire tenders from Mitsubishi and Indian Oil were also reportedly present. Both the HPL and the MCPI are owned by Purnendu Chatterjee of the TCG group. “We will begin an investigation soon to find out the cause of the accident,” the HPL official said. “No casualties have been reported. Investigations are underway. Prima facie it appears an area near the naphtha cracker unit caught fire. We will conduct a probe,” East Midnapore district superintendent of police Amarnath K. said. In 2019, two employees had been killed and 15 injured when a fire had broken out at the same naphtha cracker unit. The HPL is one of the largest manufacturers of polymers in India and the biggest in the east. It is owned mostly by The Chatterjee Group, while the Bengal government has a significant minority stake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-147
