05-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul offers activist Akhil Gogoi to lead party in Assam for 2024 Assembly elections||After a victory in the Bengal Assembly polls, Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress(TMC) is working hard to create a strong base in Assam and Tripura. TMC has set its eyes on Tripura Assembly elections slated in 2023 and recently offered anti-CAA leader and MLA in Assam Akhil Gogoi to join TMC and lead the party for the 2024 polls in the BJP-ruled state. Speaking to reporters in Guwahati on Wednesday, Gogoi said, “After I came out of the jail, Mamata Banerjee invited me to meet her. I visited Calcutta twice recently and met her too. Trinamul wants me to join their party and lead the party as state president in Assam. We have not yet told her anything but my party Raijor Dal is trying hard to unit the opposition parties against BJP.” Gogoi is opposed to both BJP and RSS, saying both are trying to divide people on religious lines to win elections. He has been vocal against the BJP-led government in Assam and its policies including the CAA. Gogoi, who was arrested during the anti-CAA agitation in December 2019, came out of jail on July 1 this year, after a special National Investigate Agency court's order. The Assam police had charged him for sedition, while the NIA had charged him of having links with Maoists but the court cleared him of all charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid situation might turn grim if vaccine supply not augmented in Bengal: Mamata tells PM Modi||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing apprehension that the Covid situation might turn grim if the vaccine supply in the state is not augmented. She also alleged that the state is getting a “much lower number of doses” of vaccines despite having a very high population density, and urged him to ramp up the supply of vials. The state would require around 14 crore doses of Covid vaccines to cover all the eligible people, she said. “Presently, we are administering four lakh doses per day and are capable of administer 11 lakh doses per day. Yet, we are getting much lower number of doses despite having a very high population density and a higher rate of urbanisation,” Banerjee wrote in the letter. She also alleged that several letters sent to the PM on the same matter earlier have “not received due attention” at the Centre. “I am sorry to say the central government is providing a larger number of vaccine doses to other states. I have no problem if any other state receives higher number of vaccine doses, but I cannot remain a mute spectator to see Bengal deprived,” she said. The CM claimed that the positivity rate of Covid-19 has come down to 1.57 per cent due to the state's sustained efforts. “So, my earnest appeal to you is to see that Bengal receives adequate vaccine doses as per its requirement,” she said in the letter.    Till Wednesday, over 3.09 crore people have been inoculated in Bengal, health department sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata mulls opening schools, colleges after Durga puja||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said her government is weighing options for reopening schools and colleges on alternate days after the Durga Puja vacation in November. Educational institutions have been closed in the state since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March last year. "However, nothing has been finalised just yet," Banerjee told reporters following a meeting of the Global Advisory Board (GAB), headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, at the state secretariat. The economist is in West Bengal to discuss Covid strategies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata asks power regulator to switch to monthly bills||The Mamata Banerjee government has directed the Bengal power regulator to revise the billing cycle from the existing quarterly to a monthly one, the move raising questions of the authority of a government over a statutory entity. The move, if it gets a nod from the West Bengal Electricity Regulatory Commission (WBERC), a statutory body, will bring an end to the practice of quarterly billing cycle in the state since 1955. A letter signed by additional chief secretary S Suresh Kumar on August 3, states, ‘… the state government, in public interest, under section 108 of the Electricity Act 2003 issues the following policy directions to the West Bengal Electricity Regulatory Commission as under= a)    Define the billing cycle or billing period as one month for all consumers of WBSEDCL (West Bengal State Electricity Development Corporation Limited) b)    Work out the transitional plan for WBSEDCL to roll over to the monthly billing cycle from the existing quarterly billing cycle. “The commission can take decisions on its own, the commission has that power. There was no need for the government to issue a directive. Why they did so I cannot say,” said Rabindranath Sen, former chairman of the West Bengal Electricity Regulatory Commission. Sen said power tariff has always been a sensitive issue in the state.  WBSEDCL chairman Santanu Bose held a meeting with senior officials of the company to discuss the billing cycle issue on Thursday. According to sources, state power minister and Mamata confidante Aroop Biswas is keen to ensure the change happens quickly. Sources in the power department said the state government would ask the power utility to bring the new billing cycle into play in Salt Lake, Rajarhat and New Town. By when the change will take place is not yet clear as the WBERC is yet to respond to the letter. Transmission and supply of power in Bengal is divided between the Calcutta Electricity Supply Corporation (a private entity), the West Bengal State Electricity Development Corporation Limited (a state-owned utility that is the largest distributor) and the India Power Corporation Limited. The command area of CESC is around 765 sq km and India Power is limited to 618 sq kms across the Asansol-Raniganj belt leaving around 1.85crore consumers from Sagar Islands to Ghum in the Bengal Himalayas to WBSEDCL. Currently,  WBSEDCL is facing a staggering loss of Rs 250crore per month with 26 per cent accounted for transmission, distribution and commercial loss. “This move will guarantee a revenue spike for the WBSEDCL,” said a senior official in the power department. The official did not explain how the monthly billing cycle would plug the hole. In the letter, the government has argued, the universal norm in the country has been that the billing cycle is at monthly intervals. The letter also cites examples of CESC and IPCL. The government also plans to use the monthly bills for advertising to generate additional revenues, which is not possible in the current spot reading. For Biswas’ pipedream to be realised, the government (rather the WBSEDCL) will have to shell out additional funds, the tune of which is yet to be calculated. A  rough estimate can be made from the fact that WBSEDCL has 538 customer care centres with cash counters which would have to be increased by three times, which will also mean direct recruitment. Metre reading and spot billing is now completely outsourced, handled by one person. According to sources, agencies working on behalf of WBSEDCL have deployed around 5,300 persons for the work carried out over a period of three months. For the process to be completed on a monthly basis, more agents will have to be deployed as well. Can a cash-strapped WBSEDCL afford this overhaul -- is a question that none in the state administration is willing to answer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to Modi, expresses concern on vaccine shortfall||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing apprehension that the Covid situation might turn grim if the vaccine supply in the state is not augmented. She also alleged that the state is getting a "much lower number of doses" of vaccines despite having a very high population density, and urged him to ramp up the supply of vials. The state would require around 14 crore doses of Covid vaccines to cover all the eligible people, she said. "Presently, we are administering four lakh doses per day and are capable of administering 11 lakh doses per day. Yet, we are getting much lower number of doses despite having a very high population density and a higher rate of urbanisation," Banerjee wrote in the letter. She also alleged that several letters sent to the PM on the same matter earlier have "not received due attention" at the Centre. "I am sorry to say the central government is providing a larger number of vaccine doses to other states. I have no problem if any other state receives higher number of vaccine doses, but I cannot remain a mute spectator to see Bengal deprived," she said. The CM claimed that the positivity rate of Covid-19 has come down to 1.57 per cent due to the state's sustained efforts. "So, my earnest appeal to you is to see that Bengal receives adequate vaccine doses as per its requirement," she said in the letter. Till Wednesday, over 3.09 crore people have been inoculated in Bengal, health department sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee flags ‘manmade’ floods to PM, prods DVC||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him for measures to desilt DVC’s dams to increase their water-holding capacity so that Bengal was spared regular floods. The letter was sent after her phone conversation with Modi in the morning on the flood-like situation in some south Bengal districts, which she termed “manmade”. “Kindly refer to our telephonic conversation today on the grave manmade flood situation in some districts of West Bengal due to unprecedented release of water from the DVC dams at Panchet, Maithon and Tenughat...”she wrote. “Despite raising the issue to you and DVC way back in 2015, for the urgent need for renovation, upgradation and modernisation of assets of DVC and other allied systems, inter alia, essential desiltation and dredging, to prevent the recurrent wrath of floods in West Bengal and most importantly increasing water holding capacity of the DVC dams by around 1.2 lakh acre-feet, the issue still remains unaddressed,” she added. Mamata informed Modi through her letter that 16 lives had been lost after nearly 2 lakh cusecs of water got discharged from Panchet, Maithan and Tenughat dams (in Jharkhand) leading to severe flooding in Hooghly, Howrah, East Burdwan, West Burdwan, Birbhum and West Midnapore. She wrote about the “unprecedented displacement, suffering and loss of livelihood of lakhs...”, adding that the Bengal government was assessing damages and would send a detailed report  to the Centre. Mamata also made specific proposals in her letter to enhance the water holding capacity of the dams of the DVC network, such as desiltation of Panchet dam and a ring embankment on Maithan dam. Soon after the phone conversation, the PMO tweeted that Prime Minister spoke to the Bengal chief minister on the flood situation caused by water discharged from dams in parts of the state. Thousands of people in at least 100 villages in three flood-hit districts, Howrah, Hooghly and West Midnapore, were inaccessible to the administration on Wednesday. An official said if a problem is identified and nothing is done to save lives and livelihoods, it is the failure of the government. “In this case, the Centre should be at the receiving end,” he said. Nabanna sources said Mamata told the PM that the DVC was not sending proper information to the state government before releasing dam water. “The chief minister pointed out that the DVC had released nearly 2 lakh cusecs of water from its dams but had informed the state about 55,000 cusecs would be released a couple of days ago,” a source said, adding this information lacuna prevented the state government from evacuating people in advance. “We had to release a maximum of 1.2 lakh cusecs of water a few days ago. Every time we released water, the state government was informed in advance,” said a DVC source. Mamata on Wednesday visited flood-hit areas of Amta in Howrah. As her chopper could not fly in bad weather, she went by road. She had planned to visit flood-hit Udaynarayanpur in Howrah and Khanakul in Hooghly, but floods prevented her. Sources in the disaster management department said death toll reached 23 while 1.13 lakh people had to be evacuated. In all, 361 relief camps have been set up where 43,000-odd people have taken shelter. About 4 lakh hectares of farmland have gone under the water and the damage would be assessed only after the water recedes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports 826 new infections, 838 recoveries and 10 fatalities||Bengal on Wednesday reported 826 new infections, 838 recoveries and 10 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 22 to 10,745 on Wednesday, marking 45 consecutive days of the slide. Bengal currently has 2.65 per cent of the nation’s active Covid-19 cases, and is ninth among states with the most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is  at its all-time high of 98.11 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.36. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.19  per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34. Calcutta logged 77 new infections and one death on Wednesday. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.57 per cent on Wednesday. Only one district, North 24-Parganas, reported a three-digit figure of new infections in a day, at 116. Eighteen Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections, South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia single-digit figures. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday while Kalimpong, Bankura, South 24-Parganas and Calcutta reported one each. Bengal now has nearly 15.31 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March 2020, which includes close to 15.02 lakh recoveries and 18,180 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP’s minder Kailash Vijayvargiya’s ‘fall’ from peak||Bengal BJP’s minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, a leader who called the shots till May 2 afternoon, when it was clear that Trinamul was returning to power with a thumping majority, has apparently been reduced to an afterthought. On Tuesday, the allegedly steady decline in Vijayvargiya’s importance was indicated in a meeting of the BJP’s Bengal MPs in Delhi. According to multiple sources at the meeting that national joint general-secretary (organisation) Shivprakash attended, Vijayvargiya was not invited initially. It was as an afterthought, said sources, that BJP state general-secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty suggested Vijayvargiya be called since he was in Delhi and was the party’s Bengal minder. Vijayvargiya, in charge of picking candidates, has been widely blamed for the poll debacle. However, some believe he is being made a scapegoat so that blame doesn’t fall squarely on the shoulders of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. “Till the early afternoon of May 2, Kailashji would convene meetings, he had the final say on most things, and we would only listen. It is funny how tables have turned so quickly. He was invited yesterday only because Amitavada didn’t want to disturb protocol,” said a BJP MP. Two south Bengal MPs of the BJP, Asansol’s Babul Supriyo and Bongaon’s Shantanu Thakur were also conspicuous in their absence from the Delhi meeting. This was only the second time since May 2 that Vijayvargiya was seen interacting with colleagues from the state unit directly. He met with the functionaries of the BJP’s state committee virtually on July 24. Most leaders believe he made serious mistakes in choosing candidates that restricted the party to 77 seats, despite claims by Shah of 200-plus seats in Bengal. What also went against him was the return to Trinamul of Mamata’s former trusted lieutenant Mukul Roy, a BJP national vice-president in whom Vijayvargiya had invested tremendous faith, despite repeated warnings from within the saffron camp that Roy could have been a double agent. State unit chief Dilip Ghosh said: “The MPs were supposed to meet along with Shivprakash. They asked me whom else we should call, and I told them to call the observers.” Amit Malviya, Vijayvargiya’s deputy, was also invited later and was present at the meeting. Arvind Menon, another co-minder for Bengal, was unavailable to join. “All three of them were invited later, as an afterthought. But the fact remains that this is the first time that Kailashji’s name wasn’t the first on the list of invitees,” said a north Bengal MP of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Metropolitan Police floats new aerial surveillance system||The Siliguri Metropolitan Police on Wednesday launched an aerial surveillance system to keep a tab across Siliguri sub-division and in adjoining areas of the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district. Gaurav Sharma, the commissioner of police, launched the facility on the tenth raising day of Siliguri police commissionerate. “We have introduced a sophisticated drone today (Wednesday) and in due course, more such drones will be engaged. Also, our men will be trained to run the drones so that they can aerially monitor the commissionerate area,” said Sharma at a programme held in the town. Siliguri, known as the gateway to the northeast, is the largest urban hub of north Bengal and is located close to the international borders which the country shares with Bangladesh and Nepal. Also, China and Bhutan borders are located within 200 kilometres from the Siliguri, known as “chicken’s neck”, the most vulnerable part of the Indian sub-continent where the width of the country is slimmest, with Bangladesh and Nepal located in south and north, respectively. “This facility can help us in handling law and order issues, traffic related crimes and traffic movement as a whole. Also, we can keep a better watch during major festivals and public functions,” said Sharma. The monitoring can facilitate more prompt services to people and can also help the police to check whether people are adhering to the Covid-19 restrictions,” added Sharma. The drones, which also have facilities to record videos, would also assist the police in keeping records of criminal activities, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||People in 100 villages from flood-hit districts remain inaccessible||Thousands of people in at least 100 villages in the state’s three flood-hit districts —Howrah, Hooghly and West Midnapore — remained inaccessible to the administration as water levels stayed high owing to incessant rain in south Bengal since Tuesday night. Sources said at least six gram panchayats in Hooghly’s Khanakul, five in West Midnapore’s Ghatal and three in Howrah’s Udaynarayanpur stayed under water and administrative officials failed to reach them. The situation is worst in half a dozen gram panchayats in Khanakul’s Dhanyaghori, Kishorepur and Thakuranichawk where no relief team has been able to reach despite appeals for drinking water and food from thousands stranded on rooftops of two or three-storey houses, said sources. Ranjit Maiti, a farmer who runs a seed shop in Khanakul’s Bamunghata village of Kishorepur gram panchayat, is stuck on his roof with his wife since Saturday night. “We have managed to place the LPG cylinder on the staircase leading to the roof of my house. We are staying on the roof. When it pours we run under the shed of the staircase. We have some rice but there’s no water to boil it. We are making do with only 4 litres of drinking water since Saturday,” said Maiti. “No relief has reached us,” he added. District officials admitted that relief teams had been unable to reach several villages of Khanakul because of high water level, often 30 feet or more, and prevailing strong current in many flooded areas. “There are at least six gram panchayat areas in Khanakul I and II blocks that remain inaccessible. We are trying our best to send NDRF teams to those areas with relief items,” said Hooghly district magistrate Deepap Priya P. “This year, the water level in rivers is at least 4 feet higher compared to previous years. Many elders said they had not seen such a flood since 1978,” said Abhijit Bag, a local Trinamul leader in Khanakul. Many officials said they had no other option but to wait for the water level to drop. They said fresh rain from Tuesday night had compounded the problems. Apart from Khanakul, several villagers under five gram panchayats like Ajaynagar, Birsingha and Mohanpur were inaccessible. In Howrah, several parts of Amta and Udaynarayanpur were submerged mainly as water was released from DVC’s barrages. Flooding triggered a severe drinking water crisis. “As DVC released huge amounts of water from its barrage, the situation in Howrah is unmanageable. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday visited Amta but could not visit Udaynarayanpur or Khanakul as several roads are under water. Our department has arranged lakhs of pouches of drinking water for the flood-affected people,” said Pulok Roy, the state public health engineering (PHE) minister and an MLA from Uluberia South in Howrah. “We have sent drinking water pouch manufacturing machines to all flood-affected blocks in the state and our officials are reaching out to remote areas in boats.” . Officials cited another problem, that of many people refusing to leave their homes. “Many are refusing to leave home, fearing theft of property,” said Suman Biswas, the SDO of West Midnapore’s Ghatal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||‘TMC bias’ cry at two Covid vaccine camps in North 24-Parganas||Tension broke out in at least two vaccination camps under Bongaon subdivision in North 24-Parganas district on Wednesday as people alleged they were denied the jab despite waiting for hours as those with “recommendations” from Trinamul leaders got vaccinated. Vaccination at Gopalnagar and Gaighata had to be suspended for a few hours after local BJP MLAs rushed to speak to the aggrieved people who had been allegedly heckled by Trinamul workers. Tension broke out at Palla Debrani Balika Vidyalaya in Gopalnagar of North 24-Parganas on Wednesday morning after residents alleged they were being ignored to favour those close to Trinamul. Residents alleged that the list prepared by them since Tuesday midnight was rejected by local Trinamul leaders to ensure those close to their party got jabs. They were joined by Bongaon South’s BJP MLA Swapan Majumdar, which prompted Trinamul workers to stage a counter protest. In Gaighata, similar tension erupted at Chandpara block hospital’s vaccination centre when people in the queue alleged “Trinamul activists managed to get the jab”. Gaihata’s BJP MLA Subrata Thakur rushed to the spot. Trinamul’s Bongaon panchayat samiti president Prabir Das said people had been misguided and this camp was specifically for traders and toto operators. “The list of beneficiaries had been pre-approved. There is no question of denying vaccines to anybody but the BJP was trying to fuel tension.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||BJP supporters and leaders protest at party office in North Dinajpur||Around 50 BJP supporters, including some local leaders, protested in front of the North Dinajpur district BJP office on Wednesday, seeking the removal of the party’s district chief Basudeb Sarkar. In recent times, this is the first open protest at the district BJP office, that too against the party’s district chief. Balaram Chakraborty, a key protester on Wednesday, accused Sarkar of anti-party activities, including his “helping Trinamul to grab panchayats that the BJP had won in 2018”. Sarkar sounded unfazed and said the BJP had recently served a showcause notice to Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-145
05-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC asks Centre for explanation on 'permanent political solution' for Darjeeling region||Trinamul has sought from the Centre “a detailed explanation” on the “permanent political solution” for Darjeeling region with a “definite timeframe”. Shanta Chhetri, Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member, said she was to raise this issue at Zero Hour in the Upper House on Tuesday but could not speak amid “disruptions in the House”. “However, my written statement was accepted by the Speaker and has been recorded,” said Chhetri. In her written statement, Chhetri sought a “detailed explanation”, “definite time frame” and the “government’s current stand on this issue”. This is the first time that Trinamul has done so. The BJP promised a “permanent political solution" for Darjeeling hills, Dooars and Terai region along with tribal status to 11 hill communities but hasn’t spelt out details. Trinamul in its campaign during the 2021 Assembly polls had also spoken about it but not spelt out the details. The issue came in the focus after S.P. Sharma, general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati Tamang camp), started an indefinite hunger strike in Darjeeling from Sunday seeking an explanation on PPS and tribal status from Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista. His fast seems to have put pressure not just on the BJP but also its allies in the hills. On Wednesday, one of its allies, Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), shot off a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah requesting the Centre to open a dialogue on “Gorkhaland”. Jana Andolan Party president Harka Bahadur Chhetri and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction president Bimal Gurung visited Sharma and extended their support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-146
