06-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC delegates meet Bengal chief electoral officer for conduction of bypolls||A delegation of TMC ministers on Thursday met the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Bengal, Aariz Aftab, and urged him to expedite the process of holding elections and by-elections to seven assembly seats in the state, party secretary general Partha Chatterjee said here. The delegation, of which Chatterjee was a part, also requested Aftab to zero in on a date as soon as possible for conducting the pending polls, given the fact that the Covid-19 situation is currently "under control". "We urged the CEO to declare a poll date and make necessary arrangements for holding elections to two seats and bypolls to five constituencies at the earliest," Chatterjee stated. He said that the CEO has given assurance that work was being undertaken in this regard. "Almost three months have passed since the conclusion of the assembly election process. We sought to know what measures were being taken to conduct the pending elections and by-elections," Chatterjee told reporters following the meeting. Others who were a part of the TMC delegation include ministers Subrata Mukherjee, Chandrima Bhattacharya, and Shashi Panja. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who lost the Nandigram seat to BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, is likely to contest from Calcutta's Bhabanipur constituency which was vacated by winning TMC candidate Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, days after the poll results were declared. Chattopadhyay is slated to contest by-election from Khardah, which fell vacant after the TMC's Kajal Sinha succumbed to Covid-19. According to the rules of the Constitution, Mamatahas to get elected to the Assembly within six months of taking oath as the CM to be able to retain the chair. The CM has also moved an election petition before the Calcutta High Court challenging Adhikari's victory from Nandigram. Chatterjee further said that the eight-phase elections were held in the state when the second wave of the pandemic was wreaking havoc, and thousands of people got infected daily. The TMC had demanded back then that the number of phases be reduced in view of the rising cases of Covid-19, but the EC had stuck to the original schedule, he pointed out. "Daily infections, as per the data available up to August 2, have come down to around 500 or 600. That is why we want the elections to seven constituencies be held immediately with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols," the minister of industry, commerce and enterprise maintained. Asserting that election commissioners were not being proactive on the issue", the senior TMC leader, in a veiled dig at the BJP, said "those who talk of upholding democracy are trying to delay the polls". "We have requested the Election Commission to steer clear of such influences," he added. Last month, a delegation of TMC MPs had met EC officials in New Delhi with a plea to hold the elections as early as possible. Elections to Samserganj and Jangipur seats were countermanded earlier in the year following death of candidates due to Covid-19. In Gosaba too, TMC MLA Jayanta Naskar died of Covid-related complications. In Dinhata and Santipur, the winning BJP nominees quit as MLAs as they wanted to retain their parliamentary berths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
06-08-2021||West Bengal||WBJEE results declared, about 99.5 per cent examinees get ranks||An estimated 99.5 per cent of the 65,170 candidates, both from the state and outside, got ranks in this year's West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination (WBJEE), the result of which was declared on Friday. Candidates who cleared the exam will be able to apply for undergraduate courses in engineering, architecture and pharmacy in institutes of the state. WBJEE Board Chairman Malayendu Saha said that the counselling for ranked candidates, numbering 64,850, will begin from August 13 and end on September 11 for admission to 115 institutes, either state-run or private. He said that 74 per cent of the successful candidates are boys and 26 per cent girls. Altogether 92,695 candidates had registered for the WBJEE and 71 per cent of them (65,170) appeared for the test, the first offline public exam in the state this year, Saha told a press meet here. He said that 23 per cent of the successful candidates were from outside West Bengal. While Panchajanya Dey of Rahara Ramakrishna Mission Boys' Home High School got the first rank, Soumyajit Dutta of Bankura Zilla School secured the second position. Bratin Mondal of Santipur Municipal High School came third in the exam, Saha said. The schools from where the top three students came are under the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education (WBCHSE). Saha said that 34,217 successful WBJEE candidates belonged to the WBCHSE while the rest belonged to other boards. The exams were held offline in 274 centres across the state on July 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad: Mini truck veers off NH12, hits five people, killing four||A mini truck veered off NH12 and hit five persons killing four of them on spot and then rammed into the local bus stop in Murshidabad’s Pomia village early on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Subhankar Mondal, 45, Joy Mandal, 45, Raju Mondal, 42, and Rubel Sheikh, 40. Archan Mondal is admitted to the Murshidabad Medical College and is reported to be in a serious condition. Sources said the victims were waiting for the Farakka-Behrampore bus when the accident took place. “A case of unnatural death has been started and the bodies have been sent for post-mortem. The driver will be traced and arrested soon,” said police superintendent K. Sabari Rajkumar. Drug peddler held Baruipur police district arrested a homemaker suspected to be a major supplier of narcotics in South 24-Parganas on Thursday. The police said 4 kilo of heroin worth about Rs 1 crore was seized from the possession of the woman. The cops said Sazina Biwi, 29, was arrested from an undisclosed location in Ghutiari Sharif. A police officer said: “Sazina has developed a network using young girls who work as local suppliers. They are trapped with job offers but are engaged as drug suppliers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
06-08-2021||West Bengal||West Midnapore: Elderly couple dies after mud wall of hut collapses||An elderly couple died after the mud wall of their hut collapsed while they were asleep in West Midnapore’s Jogardanga early on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Dulal Bal, 65 and Sadhana Bal, 60. Sources said the bodies were recovered from the rubble after over an hour-long rescue led by neighbours. “We tried to rush them to hospital immediately but it was too late,” said an eyewitness. Continued rainfall owing to a trough of low depression over the Bay of Bengal has contributed to at least 15 deaths in West Midnapore over the last week. Jogardanga had witnessed inundation last Friday. Police said the bodies had been sent to Midnapore Medical College for post-mortem. In neighbouring Keshpur, Sushama Dolai, 32, a homemaker was killed in a lightning strike late on Wednesday. “The recent incessant rainfall has killed 15 people across the district in the past one week. We are looking at government schemes under which we can possibly compensate the kin of the deceased,” Ajit Maity, West Midnapore zilla parishad deputy chief, said. Several West Midnapore rivers including Shilabati, Jhumi and Kangsabati are flowing over the danger level. This has led to inundation of areas such as Ghatal, Birsingha, Ajabnagar, Chandrakona and Keshpur for the past several days. On the direction of district magistrate Rashmi Kamal 127 boats have been sent to the flood-affected areas to rescue people and distribute relief materials, including water pouches. Minister of water resources investigation and development, Manas Bhunia, who visited the flood-affected Keshpur and Chandrakona, said: “Every year at least eight blocks in East and West Midnapore get flooded. People die, crops get damaged, livestock are killed and houses collapse. This has become a ritual.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board of India to constitute district-level committees in north Bengal||The Tea Board of India has decided to constitute district-level committees in north Bengal to confirm that tea leaves supplied by small growers to bought-leaf factories are of proper quality and also notified a minimum price which BLFs will have to pay for the produce during August this year. In the past few weeks, the small growers had resorted to protests and written to Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal, mentioning that they were selling teal eaves at prices which did not cover even the cost of production. “In another 10 days, monitoring committees under the supervision of the district magistrates of North Dinajpur, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling and Cooch Behar (the four tea-producing districts which have small growers) would be formed in each district. These committees will be entrusted with the responsibility to ensure that there is a consonance in the quality of tea leaves supplied by the growers,” said a source in the Tea Board. On one hand, the growers had flagged the issue of low prices. On the other hand, BLF owners, who buy tea leaves from growers and process them to make tea, have time and again mentioned that their produce does not fetch proper prices in auctions because growers do not maintain the quality of leaves. The formation of committees can address this issue, said an official of the Tea Board. Along with this move, the Tea Board has also notified the minimum prices for a kilo of tea leaves for each of these districts for August. “The prices have been calculated on the basis of prices the tea made by BLFs have fetched at the auction in July. Again next month, a fresh notification would be issued,” the official said. According to the notification issued on Wednesday, BLFs will have to pay a minimum price of Rs 17.65 for a kilo of tea leaves in Jalpaiguri district in August, followed by Darjeeling (Rs 16.84),  North Dinajpur (Rs 16.69) and Cooch Behar (Rs 16.30).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista claims to have asked Centre for ST status for 11 Gorkha communities||Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista on Thursday said he had taken up with the Centre the demand for Scheduled Tribe status for 11 Gorkha communities. The clarification comes in the wake of an indefinite hunger strike by an office-bearer of a faction of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL) in Darjeeling, seeking a timeline from Bista for meeting two key demands of Gorkha people by the Centre. The demands are Gorkhaland and the ST tag for the 11 communities.The fast unto death by S.P Sharma, the ABGL (Bharati Tamang faction) general secretary, continued for the fifth day on Thursday. “I have requested the Union government to expedite the process of granting ST status to Gorkhas without further delay. I have raised this issue in Parliament and mentioned that till Independence, the entire Gorkha community was known as hill tribes but later, this status was taken away without any consultation with community members,” Bista said in a press release. On Thursday, he met the Union health minister, urging him to upgrade Darjeeling and Kalimpong district hospitals to medical colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal floods: Severe drinking water scarcity in three districts||The Bengal public health engineering department is struggling hard to combat severe scarcity of drinking water in three flood-affected districts — West Midnapore, Hooghly and Howrah — as around 15,000 tube wells have been lying inundated for several days. After floods hit parts of Bengal, the PHE department conducted a survey which found that around 15,000 tube wells in 15 blocks of the three districts had become defunct as they were under water. Sources said 9,000 tube wells in West Midnapore, mainly in Ghatal subdivision, were affected, while 4,000 tube wells had become useless in Hooghly. In Howrah, around 1,600 such tube wells have gone under water. “The main problem during floods is the crisis of drinking water as tube wells go under water and remain out of use for a long time. We are struggling hard to provide water pouches by boats in remote pockets. We have distributed at least 15 lakh water pouches so far,” said Pulak Roy, the PHE minister. Officials said seven motorised pouch making units had been deployed in flood-affected districts and 15 lakh litres of water through van-mounted tanks provided so far. “The demand for water is high and we are struggling hard to meet the demand. Although we are extending our full strength to combat the situation, the supply can’t be the same as demand,” said a senior PHE official. Heavy rain and water discharge from several barrages, including the DVC, have resulted in devastating floods in areas of Hooghly’s Khanakul, West Midnapore’s Ghatal and Udaynarayanpur in Howrah. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday visited Howrah’s Amta to witness the situation. The sources said thousands of people in remote pockets of the flood-affected areas were inundated and had taken shelter on rooftops of concrete buildings. Several people, who have taken shelter on rooftops, complained that they were forced to go without food as they were unable to cook because of the lack of potable water. “There is water everywhere but no source of drinking water. We have been staying on a rooftop for the past four days but lack of drinking water has forced us to fast,” said Bimal Samanta, a resident of Khanakul’s Dhanyagheri. Asima Bauri, a 50-year-old woman from Khanakul’s Bagnan, waded through flood water for around 3km to fetch drinking water for her family. “I went with 10 small bottles and an aluminium pot to bring water from a tank installed by the government 3km from my village. We have many tube wells in our village but all have been inundated,” said Asima. PHE officials said they had sent several teams to restore the tube wells in places where water level had dropped. “Our team to repair tube wells are on the ground but they can do little till the water recedes. We have already restored 200 tube wells in the past two days,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Erosion forces dismantling of school in Nadia||The Nadia administration on Thursday began dismantling a primary school on the banks of the Hooghly at a village near Chakdaha to retrieve building materials like bricks, steel bars as well as door and window frames before erosion eats up the two-storeyed structure. This is the second school which has been dismantled in a decade in the district because of erosion. The primary school has four teachers and 75 students. Panic gripped the students and guardians living at Sannyalchar Malopara village of Chakdaha when they realised that the school would soon be lost to the river, which has changed course because of erosion and is flowing barely 150-meters away from the building. The situation has been aggravated further following the recent spate of rain that caused fresh erosion. It has so far engulfed at least 10 residential houses apart from around 100 acres of agricultural land. Dilip Sarkar, a teacher of the school, said: “We fear the surging river will soon eat up the school. Continuous rain has led to erosion, bringing the school closer to the river bank. Anticipating further erosion, the administration has decided to dismantle the building and shift academic activities temporarily to the nearby Atal Behari Vidyapith.” Jharna Biswas, a local resident, said: “People are concerned about the future of the school. Heavy erosion started in July and brought the school closer to the bank.” Sources in district administration said the irrigation department had tried to arrest the erosion using sand bags, but it did not work. Nadia district primary school council chairman Jyotiprakash Ghosh said: “We have already purchased a piece of land to rebuild and relocate the school at a nearby location. We began dismantling the existing building so that some materials could be saved for use in the new construction.  I am hopeful to get funds for the new building."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Centre should engage more in free spending policies: Abhijit Banerjee||Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on Thursday said the Centre should have been more open-handed in spending in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I have said this many, many times. I think the central government is too unwilling to do what the US or the European economies are doing, printing money and spending. I think that would have been a better policy in the present context,” said Banerjee in Calcutta on Thursday. The Nobel laureate was in Calcutta to chair the meeting of the Global Advisory Board, which the Mamata Banerjee government had set up last year in view of the pandemic, that discussed how to prepare for the possible third wave of Covid-19. After a meeting of the committee, which includes people like Swarup Sarkar, former regional director of the WHO, Jishnu Das, economist, World Bank, and J.V.R Prasad, former Union health secretary, the chief minister and some members of the panel interacted with the media at Nabanna. Although most of the queries revolved around the possible third wave and what advice the Committee had given to the state government, some questions on the Centre’s economic policies were hurled at Banerjee. Asked to comment on the Centre’s decision to increase cess on various items, including petroleum products, Banerjee said the Union government may be trying to balance the budget in view of the fiscal problems it had been facing because of lower tax collections. Reiterating what several eminent economists and some Opposition parties had said earlier, the Nobel laureate said the Centre should not have taken this path and instead should have been more open-handed with spending. He, however, acknowledged that the Centre had moved away from the path of fiscal conservatism by announcing some relaxations. Asked about measures that could boost the state economy, Banerjee linked it to the revival of the country’s economy. “Migrant workers from the state go to other places and contribute to the state’s income. Given the situation of the Indian economy, it is not possible for West Bengal alone to do something for economic revival,” he said. The chief minister, who was listening to Banerjee with rapt attention, intervened at this point and said the state government did its best to offer employment opportunities and free rations to migrant workers who returned home because of the pandemic. Banerjee said the Indian economy would suffer badly if the third wave hit the country. Although the Nobel prize winner expressed concerns about the economic impact of the pandemic, he praised the state government for its efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 and its success in carrying out vaccination with minimum wastage. He also appreciated the state government for implementing the protocol that the committee had suggested before the festive season the last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||812 Covid cases and 13 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday recorded 46 consecutive days of a fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases as the state logged 812 new infections, 823 recoveries and 13 deaths, including one in Calcutta. The total of active cases fell by 24 to 10,721. Bengal currently has 2.64 per cent of the national total of active cases and is ninth on the list of states with most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.11 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.34. The daily positive confirmation rate was 1.66 per cent on Thursday. With Calcutta logging 79 new infections, Thursday saw seventeen Bengal districts reporting a two-digit figure of new infections detected. North 24-Parganas, with 114, was the only one with a three-digit figure. North Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Thirteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday, while Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Bankura, East Midnapore, West Burdwan, Hooghly, North 24-Parganas and Calcutta reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.32 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes close to 15.03 lakh recoveries and 18,193 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa set to launch new party for Darjeeling||Anit Thapa, who is heading a faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, has decided to float a new political party, said a source close to him. If the new party is formed in the Darjeeling hills, it might become a litmus test for not only Thapa but a large number of political leaders in the hills who have been associated with his camp since 2017. “Anit Thapa has decided to form a new political party. The party will be launched either during the last week of this month or the first week of September,” the source confirmed to The Telegraph. Thapa is currently camping in Darjeeling and has also taken a house on rent, suggesting that the leader from Kurseong now plans to base himself in this hill town. Sources said leaders started piling pressure on Thapa to form a new party and establish their identity independent of the Morcha after Binay Tamang had resigned from the organisation on July 15. The Morcha was founded by Bimal Gurung in 2007 and he heads the other faction. “It has now been decided that a new party will be formed. Party workers are finalising the party’s name and flag. Three probable names of the party are under discussion now,” said the source. Supporters coming to meet Thapa have also stopped using the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha flag. They are pasting stickers like “We support Anit Thapa” in their vehicles. The sources admitted that the decision to form the new party was a litmus test for them. “It is a litmus test for us as it will be a new beginning for us. But we are confident. We have the party structure in place. We have our various committees and also 23 frontal organisations,” said a leader. Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa had revolted against Bimal Gurung in 2017, when the Gorkhaland agitation was in full swing, to form a faction in the Morcha. Gurung was then on the run and returned to the hills last year. In 2019, Calcutta High Court had allowed both Gurung and Tamang to describe their groups as “Bimal faction” and “Binay faction”, respectively, while contesting elections. After Tamang’s resignation, Thapa was selected as the acting president of the faction. Thapa had been a businessman until 2007. However, he was actively associated with a campaign to promote singer Prashant Tamang who went on to win the Indian Idol — a TV reality show — that year. Soon after Prashant’s victory in September in 2007, Gurung decided to rebel against his party, Gorkha National Liberation Front, and formed the Morcha on October 7, 2007. Tamang and Thapa, who were part of Prashant Tamang Fan Club, decided to join the fan club patron Gurung when he floated the new party. Thapa’s rise in the party was slow but steady. He overtook two prominent leaders from Kurseong, Pradip Pradhan and Bimal Darjee, to be the party’s pointsman in this hill town. He also won the GTA election uncontested from Kurseong in 2013. The Tamang-Thapa faction made significant gains in the last Bengal Assembly elections. The faction polled 32.9 per cent of the total votes cast in three hill Assembly segments, while Gurung’s group bagged 20.6 per cent. The Tamang-Thapa faction also won the Kalimpong Assembly seat. “We are confident of taking forward this momentum with the new party,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
06-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata seeks more doses for Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to ensure that Bengal got required number of Covid-19 vaccine doses at the earliest while alleging that some BJP-ruled states were getting more doses compared to Bengal. “Even after the devastation caused by the second wave, the Centre has not been augmenting supply of vaccines to the states on warfooting to combat future waves. As a result, thousands of innocent people are still being affected every day,” the chief minister wrote in her letter. Mamata wrote that Bengal had received only 2.68 crore doses so far while the state required nearly 14 crore doses to administer two doses each to 7 crore eligible people who are above 18 years of age. “So, my earnest appeal to you would be kindly see that Bengal receives adequate vaccine doses as per its requirement as mentioned above at the earliest,” reads the letter. The chief minister said some BJP-ruled states were getting more vaccines. “I am sorry to say that the Central Government is providing larger number of vaccine doses to states like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka which are BJP-ruled. I have no problem if they or any other state for that matter receives higher number of vaccine doses, but I cannot remain a mute spectator to see Bengal deprived.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-144
