07-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt didn’t do enough to prevent recurring floods: Dilip Ghosh||Training his guns on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said her government has failed to take necessary steps to prevent recurring floods that leave lakhs of people in misery almost every year. The TMC, however, shot back, contending that floods have primarily occurred due to siltation at the surface of Damodar Valley Corporation dams, which forced the barrages to release water in an unplanned manner. Claiming that some TMC leaders have distributed central funds allocated for flood control and irrigation among themselves, Ghosh, on his part, told reporters that he will soon visit Ghatal in Paschim Medinipur, one of the worst-affected areas in the state. He accused the CM of "not sparing any serious thought" about fighting the crisis. "Mamata Banerjee had announced that she would be visiting Ghatal, Khanakul and Moina but confined herself to just one place (Howrah), did photo sessions there and returned," the Midnapore MP said. Banerjee, who had visited Udaynarayanpur in Howrah last week, called off her aerial survey of other affected regions owing to inclement weather. "Years ago, she did the same thing during her visit to flood-hit North Bengal... just had her pictures splashed all over in the media, made tall talks, blamed the Centre for the floods and returned. Nothing happened thereafter," Ghosh alleged. The saffron party leader further said that his party members and legislators had been carrying out relief work in the inundated areas. Responding to Ghosh's assertions, TMC MP Sougata Roy said the BJP state unit chief should gain knowledge about the cause of flood before making a remark. Floods in Bengal occurred mainly due to siltation at the surface of DVC dams, with no dredging undertaken for years by the central agency. We had placed demands for immediate dredging numerous times, but no action has been taken." Roy said the party may soon submit a memorandum to the Centre to address the issue. As for Ghatal, the Centre is yet to respond to the demand for putting in place a master plan to stop recurring floods. It has been pending for years," the MP maintained. Roy further said Irrigation Minister Soumen Mahapatra has already visited flood-hit Ghatal along with other leaders to lend support to the distressed. "Let Dilip babu go and take a look at the condition there," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata opposes passage of 'anti-people' Electricity Bill in Rajya Sabha||Protesting the Centre's move to place the "anti-people" Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in Parliament, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday shot a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to refrain from proceeding with the legislation. She requested the PM "to ensure that a broad-based and transparent dialogue on the subject is opened up at the earliest". "I write this letter to re-lodge my protest against the Union Government's fresh move to place the much-criticised Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020, in Parliament. It was proposed to be moved last year, but many of us had underlined the anti-people aspects of the draft legislation, and at least I had detailed out all the salient pitfalls of the Bill in a letter to you on June 12, 2020," she wrote. Mamata had written to Modi on June 12 last year, expressing outrage over the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020, which, she, said, was an attempt by the Centre to "destroy" the country's federal structure. She claimed that the bill aims to make the entire state electricity grid an appendage of the National Grid. "I am stunned to hear that the Bill is coming back without any consideration for our reservations, and in fact with some graver anti-people features this time," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Tankers strike withdrawn after fuel pumps go dry in south Bengal ||The strike by fuel tankers was withdrawn on Saturday afternoon as the Indian Oil Corp put on hold the new transportation rates amid a crisis at hundreds of filling stations in south Bengal, their association said. Hundreds of fuel pumps in south Bengal, including Calcutta, ran dry due to the strike that began on Thursday evening, dealers said. The tankers' association at IOC's Mourigram depot in Howrah, which serves the region, was on strike over the reduction in fuel transportation rates as a new tender was floated. "IOC extended the existing rates so that more negotiations can take place and normal supply can be maintained," West Bengal Tankers' Association's Mourigram unit secretary Rajkumar Chatterjee told PTI. An IOC spokesperson confirmed that the strike was withdrawn but did not divulge the details of the deal struck with the fuel transporters. The strike affected around 900-1,000 fuel pumps in the region, impacting public transport, movement of essential supplies and private vehicles, the dealers said. The strike was withdrawn at a time the IOC was planning to rush fuel to a few pumps from its Haldia and other depots to meet the demand in Calcutta, South 24 Parganas, Nadia, Howrah, Hooghly and North 24 Parganas -- the urban agglomerate. IOC has fuel depots in Haldia, Durgapur, Mourigram, Malda and Siliguri in the state. The tankers' association was also protesting against the termination of services of 60 tankers. "When costs are spiralling, how can IOC slash the fuel transportation rates? They also terminated services of 60 tankers in their new tender," association secretary Chatterjee said. "The survival of many people is associated with these tankers," he added. The IOC spokesperson earlier said that similar tenders were floated even for Siliguri, Durgapur, Haldia and Malda terminals in the last one year. "Such a tender is floated every five years for the deployment of tank trucks and the last one was floated in 2014. The tender was due since April 2020, which was deferred due to requests from the transporters on account of the pandemic," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||‘Apolitical’ talks push before MP statement ||The National Gorkhaland Committee (NGC), an apolitical outfit which positions itself as a “think tank” of the Gorkha community in Darjeeling, claimed that a consensus was building in the hills that “a neutral non-political body” must lead the talks with the Centre on a “permanent political solution”. Lt Gen. (retd) Shakti Gurung, the chairman of the NGC, on Thursday wrote to Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista, claiming that political parties in the hills were now “unanimous” that “a neutral non-political body like the NGC must lead the talks with the Centre to remind the Central Government to fulfil its long pending promise of PPS to the Gorkha Community before the current Monsoon Session ends”. The BJP’s 2019 general election manifesto had said: “We are committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issue of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri, Terai and Dooars region.” While the NGC is bullish that it can lead discussions on the PPS, it is unlikely that the Centre will heed the demand. BJP MP Raju Bista, who led a delegation to call on Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Friday, claimed that the Centre would convene a tripartite meeting in the first week of September. The tripartite meeting will involve representatives of central and state governments and Gorkhas. The ongoing Parliament session will end on August 13 and the NGC’s hope to take forward the demand and seek a concrete assurance before the monsoon session ends has gone down the drain with Bista’s statement. In an earlier letter to Bista, Gurung had said: “It was also felt that if a Bill is to be passed in parliament for a separate home state/UT as PPS for the Gorkha community, it must be done in this session itself as the next Winter Session would be too close to the elections in UP because of which the BJP would be unlikely to take any major decision affecting any other part of the country.” Many feel that the moot question is whether current developments in the hills have put the BJP under pressure to start a dialogue on the PPS promise it had made in the Lok Sabha election manifesto. “Several factors like the hunger strike by S.P Sharma of ABGL (Bharati Tamang faction), the letter by an apolitical party (NGC) to take forward the issue and even Anit Thapa’s decision to float a new political party and also the open expression of grievances by the BJP’s allies in the hills, more particularly by the GNLF, are putting pressure on the BJP,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Brothers killed by kin over wall in Malda’s Kanainagar||Two brothers were hacked to death on Friday afternoon by their uncle and his son over a boundary wall between their houses in Malda’s Kanainagar village under Kaliachak police station area. The deceased have been identified as milkmen Sudam Ghosh, 30, and Bidhan Ghosh, 26. Their uncle and cousin, Nikhil and Bikram, have fled. Sources said Nikhil, who lived next to the brothers, did not want a boundary wall between his land and that of his nephews. When the brothers built the wall, allegedly Nikhil asked them to remove it or face dire consequences. On Friday, when the brothers went to a tea stall, allegedly Nikhil and his son Bikram  attacked them fatally with sharp weapons. Sudam’s wife Pinky said doctors at the local hospital pronounced the brothers dead on arrival. Bidhan’s wife Munmum said onlookers were too afraid to intervene as Nikhil and Bikram were in a fierce mood and threatened others too. “Our officers are in search of the duo. Policemen are patrolling in the village to keep the situation under control,” said Alok Rajoria, the Malda SP. Cannabis seizure’ Acting on a tip off, the police of Phansidewa police station in Darjeeling district seized an illegal consignment of 140kg cannabis from the driver’s cabin of a truck near Ghoshpukur, some 25km from Siliguri, on Thursday. Police sources said the truck was coming from Assam. Tripura residents S. Sharma and Afzal Hossain have been arrested. They had loaded the narcotic substance in the vehicle in Guwahati, police said. Additional reporting by our Siliguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Elephant herd enters village near Jalpaiguri||A herd of four wild elephants entered a village on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri on Friday, damaging hutments, trees and farms. Sources said around 5am, the elephant herd  from the Baikunthapur forest came to Natunbusty, the village under Patkata panchayat of Jalpaiguri Sadar block. “Some villagers raised an alarm and all residents (around 250 people) hurried out of their homes with their belongings,” said Pradhan Hembram, the chief of Patkata panchayat. He added that he went to the village with a megaphone to alert people to maintain a safe distance from the herd. Many people, including youths from nearby villages, crowded around the elephants to watch them trample on huts. As the news spread, foresters from Belakoba range and Baikunthapur division rushed to the spot. A team of Kotwali police went to the area to keep the situation under control. Till late afternoon, the herd had damaged some 10 hutments. “I have lost my home. Don’t know where we will stay at night,” said Pushpa Biswas, one of the villagers whose hutment was damaged. Foresters faced problems in controlling the growing crowd of people. “During daytime, we could not steer the herd back to the forest. We are waiting for sunset after which the herd will be driven back. The department will provide compensation to all those affected by the attack. We are also making necessary arrangements for their relief,” said Manjula Tirkey, assistant divisional forest officer of Baikunthapur forest division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Six new Covid hospitals for north Bengal in pipeline||The state health department has decided to open six hospitals exclusively for Covid 19 cases across north Bengal and has asked the state PWD to prepare estimates for their construction. “Each hospital will have at least 100 beds. We are scouting for locations for such hospitals. We will prefer sites near existing district hospitals or medical colleges for better healthcare management,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special deputy who has deputed by the state health department in north Bengal. On Thursday and Friday, Roy visited Cooch Behar and Alipurduar, respectively. In both the places, he visited some of the existing government health establishments and held talks with district health officials. “In Alipurduar, we are planning a new Covid hospital with around 140 beds,” he said. According to sources in the health department, along with Alipurduar and Cooch Behar, new hospitals would come up at Falakata, Raiganj, Kalimpong and Malda. The new Covid-19 hospitals, sources said, would be ready within one-and-a-half years. “Such separate facilities for Covid patients will help in reducing the load on district hospitals and medical colleges. Also, standalone hospitals built only for the patients who test Covid positive will reduce the risk of the infection spreading elsewhere,” said a district health official. The chief medical officer of health (CMOH) of Darjeeling has formed a two-member committee to look into allegations that some private labs in Siliguri are charging more for RT-PCR tests than the sum stipulated by the state. Recently, a lawyer of Calcutta High Court based in Siliguri, Atindra Chowdhury, filed a complaint with health officials, alleging a private lab charged him Rs 2,500 for the test instead of Rs 1,200, but issued him a receipt for Rs 1,200. “The panel of assistant CMOH and deputy CMOH-I will probe into the allegation and submit a report in 10 days. The panel will also keep tabs on private labs to prevent such anomalies,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Diamond Harbour jab feat ‘proves CM’s point’||Bengal health department is planning to showcase Diamond Harbour municipality as its success story in the Covid-19 vaccination programme as the civic body is soon set to become the first fully vaccinated urban body in the state. “All eligible people (over 18 years of age) of Diamond Harbour municipality have received the first dose of Covid vaccine. About 90 per cent of the population have been administered a second dose of vaccine, too. Soon, the civic body would be the first completely vaccinated municipality in the state,” said a senior government official. According to health officials, the success of Diamond Harbour municipality would be showcased as the civic body has proved that if vaccine doses are made available, the state authorities can administer them to all eligible residents in the state. Diamond Harbour’s achievement has strengthened the argument of chief minister Mamata Banerjee that if Bengal received the required number of vaccine doses from the Centre, the state would have administered the jab to most of the eligible people by now, sources said. Mamata has also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for more vaccine doses. “So far, only over 3 crore people could be given the first dose of vaccine while we have to administer a vaccine to 7 crore people. It is clear that the picture would have been brighter had the Centre sent more vaccine doses,” said a Nabanna official. “The civic body that has 30,000-odd people over 18 years of age and could convince all eligible people to come forward and get vaccinated. This is the reason why it also could be the first civic body across the country to be completely vaccinated,” said a source. Sources said the civic body authorities and health workers worked hard.“Vaccination camps in all wards were open all day in the past two months...Health workers also reached the homes of those who could not come out of homes to vaccination centres. Continuous effort from all quarters helped us achieve success,” said a civic body source. “It is now clear that we can give vaccines to all those eligible if we get vaccine doses on time as our health workers are dedicated and hard-working,” agreed another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||CM Mamata Banerjee to visit Jhargram on Monday||Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit Jhargram on Monday to kick off the World Tribal Day celebrations following which she will hold a meeting with the local administration. This will be Mamata’s first district-level administrative meeting since assuming the office of the chief minister for the third time in a row. Sources at Nabanna said Mamata would fly to Jhargram in a chopper on Monday afternoon and inaugurate the programme of the World Tribal Day which her party celebrates every year. After holding the administrative meeting, she is scheduled to stay there on Monday and visit the flood-affected Ghatal before leaving for Calcutta the following day after, said a senior state government official. “We are eagerly waiting for the visit of our chief minister to listen to her guidance for the development of the people of Jhargram…. We are happy as she chose a date which is dedicated to tribal people,” said Birbaha Hansda, the minister of state in charge of forest and Trinamul MLA from Jhargram. World Tribal Day or International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples is observed every year on August 9. “We are really happy as the chief minister is starting her trips to districts with Jhargram from where the people had gifted her all four Assembly seats,” said minister Hansda. Sources said after Jhargram, Mamata would visit Bankura, Purulia and other districts of central and south Bengal. Jhargram is among the most tribal-dominated districts in Bengal with around 31 per cent adivasis. Sources said after the electoral victory, Mamata had earlier planned to visit north Bengal in June but it was cancelled because of bad weather conditions in the northern part of the state following heavy rains. Government officials said since coming back to power for the third term as chief minister, Mamata had been preoccupied with the handling of the Covid-19 situation and political issues of national importance like the Pegasus spyware allegation. As a result, she did not focus on her regular district trips amid her busy schedule, said a source. “Now that the Covid situation is under control, she is likely to start her district tours.… She may give special directions for development in the Jungle Mahal,” said a senior official in Jhargram. Trinamul leaders in the Jungle Mahal consider the visit of the chief minister to Jhargram politically significant as the party managed a turnaround there in the elections. Mamata herself gave special attention to the Jungle Mahal by reshuffling her party leadership by including the face of Lalgarh movement Chhatradhar Mahato in the state committee along with changing several district functionaries. Mahato, however, is now in jail after the NIA arrested him a day after the polls in Jhargram. “In the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, the BJP had led in three out of four Assembly segments in Jhargram. But we bagged all the four seats in the district, which was indeed a stellar show.... The chief minister was very impressed with the performance and we expect that the people of Jhargram will get the reward from her,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Jhargram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Centre to hold tripartite meeting on 'permanent political solution' for Darjeeling region ||The Centre has decided to hold an “official-level” tripartite meeting on a “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling region in the first week of September and will invite the Bengal government to the talks, Darjeeling MP and BJP leader Raju Bista said on Friday. If the event is held as Bista said, it will be the first time the Narendra Modi government would be holding a meeting on a permanent political solution to the Darjeeling issue. On Friday, Bista called on Union home minister Amit Shah along with GNLF president Mann Ghisingh, former Darjeeling MP and Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxist president R.B. Rai, BJP MLAs from Darjeeling and Kurseong Neeraj Zimba and B.P. Bajgain, respectively, and BJP hill president Kalyan Dewan. Bista said: “I am happy to state that the Union home minister has assured us that an invitation for an official meeting for a permanent political solution will be issued next week, around August 12… and the first official meeting will start in the first week of September.” The invitation, Bista said, would be issued to “Gorkha representatives, elected members of Parliament and MLAs, and the ministry will also invite the state government”. The Darjeeling hills have two MLAs from the BJP and one, Ruden Sada Lepcha, from the Anit Thapa faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Thapa’s party is in alliance with the Trinamul Congress, which is opposed to any bifurcation of Bengal. Bista’s statement was celebrated in Darjeeling. S.P. Sharma, general secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati Tamang faction), lifted his fast unto death on the basis of a media release on the meeting on a permanent political solution. Despite Bista’s statement, politicians in Darjeeling are waiting to see the content of the letter Shah is supposed to send around August 12. This is because last year the Centre had called a tripartite meeting to discuss “Gorkhaland”. But Roshan Giri of the Bimal Gurung faction, which was with the BJP then, claimed that the agenda for the meeting had been changed from “issues related to Gorkhaland” to those relating to the “Gorkhaland Territorial Administration” following pressure from the Bengal BJP. The meeting had been scheduled for August 7 last year but with BJP allies like the GNLF and even the Bimal Gurung faction protesting the change to the agenda, it had to be cancelled. On October 7 last year, the Bimal Gurung faction attended a meeting called by the home ministry, but representatives of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and the state government skipped that “tripartite meeting”. On October 23, the Gurung faction severed ties with the BJP and joined hands with Trinamul. “In this context, the most important issue is whether the state government will attend the proposed tripartite meeting in September first week,” an observer said. “The reality is simple: without the state’s participation, a permanent political solution cannot be worked out for the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-142
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Faster send-off for ambulances to Bangladesh||A consignment of 30 ambulances offered by India as a gift to Bangladesh to help fight Covid-19 has been cleared for movement on a priority basis. The vehicles will set out for Dhaka from the Petrapole international check post on Saturday morning. Bengal government on Thursday allowed the ambulances to move from Bongaon Municipality parking lot to Petrapole check post on an “out of turn” basis as special case, acting on a request from the High Commission of India in Bangladesh considering the urgent need of the vehicles in Bangladesh to fight Covid. The first lot of 30 vehicles is a part of the 109 ambulances that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had offered to donate the Bangladesh government to help in its fight against the pandemic when he visited the country on March 26-27 to attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh Independence and the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, its first Prime Minister. Modi had on March 27 in Dhaka handed over a symbolic key for the ambulances to Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, in addition to gifting 1.2 million doses of Covid vaccine as a mark of India’s support to Bangladesh. The SML ISUZU-make ambulances reached the municipality parking in Bongaon on July 29 for clearance to reach Petrapole. A senior official of North 24-Parganas district administration said it took around two weeks to get clearance, but the ambulances were cleared faster following a request from the High Commission of India in Bangladesh. Sources said the ambulances started to arrive at the ICP Petrapole from Thursday afternoon for Customs clearance. Superintendent of Customs (export) Avijit Mukherjee said: “We issued the clearance on top priority basis to make the vehicles ready to move on Thursday itself.” However, sources said movement to Dhaka was eventually deferred to Saturday as Friday is a weekly holiday in Bangladesh and obtaining car passes could not be possible. The remaining lot of ambulances is expected to reach Bangladesh in phases by the end of September this year, ministry of external affairs sources said. Kartick Chakraborty, secretary of the Petrapole Clearing Agents Staff Welfare Association, said: “This is a great gesture by our country. Such support in times of pandemic will further strengthen the bond to improve bilateral trade between the two neighboursing countries.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Lathicharge on Covid jab seekers prompts ASI’s suspension||A police officer of Ashok Nagar police station was suspended on Thursday night for allegedly wielding the stick on a group of people, including women, when they had staged a road blockade to protest the denial of vaccination despite having scheduled appointments through Cowin app. A departmental inquiry has also been ordered against the suspended assistant sub-inspector of police Madhusudan Tarafdar. Trouble broke out at a primary health centre run by the Ashoknagar-Kalyangarh civic authority in ward 18 on Thursday afternoon when people who had gathered to receive the jab after registering on the Cowin app were denied the jab. The health centre authorities claimed that Cowin-registered people wouldn’t be vaccinated since they didn’t have any data about them. The authorities in turn insisted that unregistered persons would be vaccinated using the stock available. “The health centre authorities expressed their inability to vaccinate us since they had no record of our registration. They apparently ignored the Cowin registration. This prompted the registered people to begin a demonstration by blocking the road in front of the health centre,” a person who had turned up for vaccination said. However, soon the protest turned violent and a truck was attacked. This prompted police to lathicharge the protesters to remove the blockade. “The police officer did not spare elderly women, girls and beat us up as if we were criminals,” said a local resident. As videos of the police assault on protesters went viral, an inquiry was ordered by SDO Barasat Soma Sau, apparently on direction from the state government. The local civic authority also held an immediate meeting and filed a report with the district administration. “After preliminary inquiry, the officer has been suspended by the Barasat police district and a probe ordered into the matter,” a senior police officer of Barasat police district said. An official of the civic administration acknowledged that the confusion was caused by a mistake committed by health centre officials. “They should have checked the Cowin registration list and arranged vaccination for the beneficiaries. There was a lack of coordination on their part. At the same time, the lathicharge was absolutely uncalled for,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Rising Ganga gobbles up at least 30 homes on its left bank in Malda district within 30 minutes||The rising Ganga on Friday afternoon gobbled up at least 30 homes on its left bank at Baishnabnagar of Malda district within 30 minutes. The district administration and the state irrigation department announced a red (secondary) alert along the banks of the Ganga and are keeping a close watch on the situation. Villagers have been asked to move to safer places. “The river suddenly started gobbling up large chunks of land in villages like Durgaramtola, Chinabazar, Bhimagram and Lalutola since afternoon. Within a span of 30 minutes, it swallowed 30 houses. Over 100 people became homeless and many others are moving to safer places as the river is moving fast and eroding land in a consistent manner,” said Rajiv Sheikh, a local Trinamul leader. Sources in the area said the anti-erosion measures in the area taken up by Farakka Barrage Authority proved inadequate as the river is swollen  during monsoon. Irrigation minister Sabina Yeasmin who also hails from Malda said: “The administration is taking necessary initiatives to rescue people in case there is sudden flood. However, what is bothering us now is the acute erosion in Baishnabnagar. The irrigation department has been asked to take up immediate measures and also speak with the Farakka Barrage Authority,” she said. Most people who lost their houses on Friday are migrant workers, jobless amid the pandemic, said Harun Al Rashid, a local panchayat member in Baishnabnagar. “The river now left them homeless too. Even my house got eroded away. We have urged the administration to see that the affected families get relief and rehabilitation,” he said. The rising Ganga has also made the administration put fishermen on alert.“The river is flowing above danger level. That is why we are apprehending a sudden flood in some low lying areas on the banks. Our officers are on alert as water levels of Mahananda and Fulhar (two other rivers which flow through Malda district) are also increasing steadily,” said Pranab Kumar Samanta, an executive engineer of the state irrigation department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Flood finger at missing funds in Bengal||The Narendra Modi government’s “refusal” to grant a promised sum to implement the Ghatal master plan — a full-fledged anti-flood plan drawn up by the state government — is a main reason for flooding in vast swathes of East and West Midnapores and parts of Hooghly, two Bengal ministers have alleged. The floods affect around 5 lakh people annually. “We would not have had to witness such a devastating situation in so many low-lying areas of the state if the Centre had kept its word by providing funds to implement the Ghatal master plan. The Modi government did not send a single penny till date, despite giving financial and administrative nods. It was the result of sheer negligence towards Bengal and our chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s requests, despite at least seven letters from her end,” said Manas Ranjan Bhuniya, Trinamul’s Sabang MLA and the current water resources investigation and development minister. Bhuniya had chalked out the plan as the irrigation and waterways minister in the first Mamata government. “Despite the state government agreeing to start the work at 50:50 ratio, the Modi government did not send even a paisa for the Ghatal master plan. Our chief minister has already given Rs 600 crore (50 per cent of the original project cost of Rs 1,200 crore), with which we dredged three major rivers, but we did not get the money promised by Delhi to finish the remaining work,” added Soumen Mahapatra, Bengal’s current irrigation and waterways minister. Bhuniya on Thursday visited flood-hit Ghatal and nearby areas, accompanied by minister Humayun Kabir, MLA Srikanta Mahato and others, on Mamata’s directive. Vast areas under the Ghatal master plan remain waterlogged since Saturday because of heavy rain, accelerated by the release of water from many barrages including those of the DVC. The Ghatal master plan is a cluster of projects that include the dredging and widening of riverbeds, strengthening of embankments, widening of confluences of at least 10 large rivers such as the Kansabati, and at least 40 channels and sub-channels passing through East and West Midnapore. In 2012, the state government sent Delhi a detailed project report of the plan estimated at around Rs 1,200 crore, which received administrative and financial approval by the Modi government in 2015. The Centre had approved to pitch in with 75 per cent of the project cost, but later reduced its share to 50 per cent. No money was sent. The state government dredged a large part of Durbachati, Khiraibaksi and New Koshi rivers with its own funds. Sources in the state irrigation and waterways department said the Ghatal master plan was approved by IIT-Kharagpur, and all its proposed work needed to be finished on a war-footing to save flood-prone areas in East and West Midnapore. “Without desiltation, rivers and channels are unable to carry water load. This year, rainfall was immense again, which accelerated the flood-like situation in pockets of Ghatal and adjoining areas. The prime work of the project is a thorough dredging of rivers and channels to let the water pass. But after around 10 years, cost-escalation and other factors have resulted in exceeding the budget, and now we can’t finish the plan without Rs 2,000 crore more,” said a senior state government official. Sources said had the Ghatal master plan been implemented properly, a large part of Khanakul in Hooghly could also be saved from floods. Sources said the Centre had refused to fund two other flood-protection measures, the Keleghai-Kapaleshwari project in West Midnapore, and the Kandi master plan in Murshidabad. “In those cases, the central government backed out without providing its due share, but our chief minister sanctioned money to finish the plans,” said Bhuniya. Officials said the state government had launched another master plan for Hooghly to desilt the lower Damodar basin. The state government dredged a large stretch that saved a part of Pursurah and Jangipara of Hooghly from floods. “It is a large project and we will continue it after the monsoon,” said Deepap Priya P., the Hooghly district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 717 new cases, 9 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Friday recorded 47 straight days of a drop in the total number of Covid-19 active cases, as the state reported 717 new infections, 787 recoveries and nine deaths. Active cases fell by 79 to 10,642 in the state. Bengal has 2.61 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is ninth among states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 71 new infections and no death. With North 24-Parganas logging 86 new cases, Friday was again a day when not a single Bengal district reported a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Seventeen districts reported a two-digit figure and North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.12 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.34. Sixteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Friday, while Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Nadia, Jhargram and Hooghly reported one each. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.5 per cent on Friday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.32 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.03 lakh recoveries and 18,202 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
07-08-2021||West Bengal||Plastic blow to Bengal jute industry||The Centre has written to states to consider expanding the use of plastic for packaging of wheat grains and the move has upset the Bengal government. Bengal’s food and supplies department has written back to the Centre informing it about the state government’s decision to ensure maximum use of jute bags, which is customarily used for packing food grains, to serve the interest of the jute industry. “The Centre had asked us to consider using plastic bags for packing 35 per cent of wheat produced in the state. However, that will serve as a major blow to the jute sector and hence, we have written to the Union government saying we will try to use as many jute bags as possible,” said Rathin Ghosh, the state’s minister for food and supplies. Ghosh added that talks had been initiated at the secretarial level to reach an amicable solution to the problem. According to the Jute Packaging Material Act of 1987, all food grains produced in India have to be mandatorily packed in jute bags. Under unusual circumstances, the central government can allow the use of plastic bags as replacement up to 30 per cent of the total food grains. Technically, the fate of the 60-odd jute mills in Bengal, which employ three lakh people directly and 40 lakh indirectly, including jute farmers, depends on the JPMA. Sources in the jute industry said the Centre wanted 45 per cent of wheat produced in the country to be packaged in plastic bags. “If the plastic packaging is of 45 per cent, the sector will incur losses close to Rs 7,000 crore,” said one of the sources. According to sources in the state government, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has expressed her discontent with the Centre’s decision and taken up the issue with her Punjab counterpart Captain Amarinder Singh. Punjab is one of the largest producers of wheat in the country. Punjab, along with Haryana and Chhattisgarh, is also the biggest purchaser of jute bags. Officers in the jute commissioner’s office, however, said the repeated failure of jute manufacturers to supply the required number of jute bags had forced the Centre to consider a dilution. While the total requirement of jute bags for the ongoing Kharif season — June to November — was 24 lakh bales in India, jute mill owners have committed to supplying only 15 lakh bales. “If there is already a backlog during the Kharif season, how can we expect that they will be able to supply the required number of bags in the next season?” a source at the jute commissioner’s office asked. The next lot of wheat crop will be harvested in March next year. However, the purchase of bags shall start in November. Sources in the Indian Jute Mills Association, which had already written to Mamata seeking help, said the Centre planned to scrap the JPMA completely and allowing the use of plastic to pack wheat was a step in that direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-143
