08-08-2021||India||Increase Covid vaccine quota for Bengal: Adhir writes to PM||Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention to increase the quota of Covid-19 vaccine for West Bengal. He also said there is a lurking danger of Covid explosion in the state given its dense population. “I am given to understand that up to August 2, approximately 3,00,65,845 persons have been vaccinated (in the state),” Chowdhury said in the letter. The state Congress president mentioned that seventy per cent of West Bengal's 10 crore population is ‘still waiting for protection from the virus’. Chowdhury requested the prime minister to ‘do the needful to increase the quota of Covid vaccine’ for the state. The Mamata Banerjee government has repeatedly accused the central government of providing an inadequate number of Covid vaccines to West Bengal than some BJP-ruled states with comparatively less population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Binay hush-hush meeting in Siliguri  signals ‘third chapter’ ||Hill leader Binay Tamang, who last month resigned as the president of one of the two factions of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, organised a “secret meeting” in Siliguri on Thursday to kickstart the “third chapter” of his political journey. Sources said the invitees to the meeting were asked to switch off electronic devices to maintain the secrecy of the gathering. Tamang had resigned from the faction on July 15 and had been lying low since then. His former deputy, Anit Thapa, is now heading the faction. While resigning from the Morcha faction he headed since 2017, Tamang, who has been in politics for 33 years, first with the GNLF till 1999, and then with the Morcha from 2007 onwards, had stated that he would start the “third chapter” of his political journey. Asked, the veteran leader said he organised the meeting at Hotel Sinclairs in Siliguri on Thursday. “Yes, a secret meeting was organised with various intellectuals from the hills and party leaders in Siliguri on Thursday,” Tamang told this paper. Following the Siliguri meeting, Tamang’s supporters organised a meeting in Darjeeling on Saturday. Sources said that more than 50 Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leaders were present at the meeting held at Sterling Resort in Ghoom, some 8km from Darjeeling town. Tamang, however, was not present at the Ghoom meeting. “I am told that my supporters will be organising similar meetings in Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik soon,” said Tamang. Asked if he was planning to float a new political outfit, Tamang said that he was presently focussing on taking forward three major demands but added that he would make a major announcement within the next 15 days. These demands are revision of the Indo-Nepal Friendship Treaty of 1950, inclusion of Darjeeling-Dooars and Terai regions in the ministry of development of north eastern region, and setting up of an All India Gorkha Assembly. “At the moment I am focussing on certain demands. I will make an announcement within the next 15 days about the platform from which these demands will be raised,” said Tamang. Tamang wants the Centre to set up a Gorkha Assembly which will not be restricted by any geographic boundaries but whose members should be constituted through adult franchise in Gorkha dominated areas across the country. A couple of days ago, it came to the fore that Anit Thapa, currently heading the faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, has decided to float a new political party. The new entity is expected to be floated in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Aged couple dead in Purulia flat||Police on Saturday morning recovered the bodies of a 76-year-old retired employee of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) and his 70-year-old wife from their flat in one of the oldest housing complexes in Purulia town. Both the bodies bore injuries made with a sharp-edged weapon. While Kshirod Sindhu Roy was found dead on his bed, the body of his wife Krishna was lying on the floor. The police have started a murder case. A sniffer dog from West Burdwan’s Asansol unit has also been brought in. “The investigation is on. We are inquiring about persons known to the couple and verifying the CCTV footage of the housing complex. No one has been arrested so far,” said S. Selvamurugan, Purulia SP, who led the on-site probe on Saturday. Roy, the owner of the flat, used to teach at a private technology college after his retirement. Sources said the couple had been residing in Pragati conclave for seven years. The daughter and son-in-law of the couple also live in Purulia. On Saturday morning, their house help Anjali Bauri reportedly discovered the bodies. “The husband’s body was on the bed and the wife’s body was on the floor in a pool of blood. I entered the house as the main door was open. The showers and taps of the bathroom were on and there was sound of water,” said Anjali. The couple’s daughter Pampa Sarkar, who lives at a different locality, reached the spot and claimed that everything was fine during her last visit on Friday evening. “My parents can’t commit suicide. I am in shock and dependent on the police for further leads,” said Pampa. The gates of the housing complex are under the ambit of CCTV cameras. “We are verifying the CCTV footage to identify those who entered the apartment. We suspect the culprit was known to the couple as the door was open from inside and not broken from outside,” said a police source. Prabir Adhikari, the secretary of the housing complex, said it was the first time such an incident had occurred. “The maid informed me about the incident. We have CCTV cameras to record people entering the complex. However, there are no cameras inside buildings. We are really shocked as we are not used to encountering such crimes here in Purulia,” said Adhikari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Student files police complaint against Visva-Bharati VC||A suspended Visva-Bharati student on Saturday lodged a police complaint against vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty, accusing him of harassing her by linking her to a “fictitious”  protest as she had “dared” to oppose his “illegal” activities. A member of the CPM’s student wing SFI, Rupa Chakrabortty was one of the faces of the campus protest against the pro-Citizenship Amendment Act lecture that the varsity had held in January 2020. In her complaint to the police, Rupa urged the force to “take appropriate action against Prof. Bidyut Chakrabarty for his criminal intimidation and selective harassment”. The final-year student of Hindustani classical music said she was tagged in a fictitious student protest and suspended since January 2021. Rupa said she went to the police as the varsity administration “on the VC’s behest” extended her suspension by three months. Birbhum police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi said the police would look into the complaint, a copy of which Rupa has sent to varsity Chancellor and PM Narendra Modi, the state and national women’s commissions. Visva-Bharati’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a text of this paper. “The VC had also tagged us as Maoists during an online meeting and I had to other option but to take recourse to law and appeal to people and institutions that matter,” Rupa added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Postal department files police complaint against ‘fake’ job applicants in Malda||Malda postal department has filed a police complaint against 15 applicants for furnishing fake documents with their application for recruitment in the department. Sources said recently, a notification was issued for recruitment of “Gramin Daksebak” (rural postman) for over 100 vacant posts in Malda. In due course, the department received hundreds of applications and as a part of the process, those were sent for perusal. “During verification, some educational credentials were found to be fake and officials of the department wrote to the concerned examination boards to verify the authenticity of those testimonials,” said a source. Jagdish Singh, the superintendent of posts, Malda postal division, said the boards informed that at least 15 such testimonials were not issued by them. “It was evident that the applicants had forged those documents and applied for a government job. This is a serious offence and we have lodged a complaint with the police,” Singh added. Alok Rajoria, the district police chief, said the complaint has been registered and a probe was on. In the past three weeks, this is the third such instance when the attempts of getting government jobs by forging signatures or furnishing fake documents have come to the fore. Last month, the minister of state of irrigation and waterways department Sabina Yeasmin had alleged that her official letterhead and signature was forged by a youth who used those to draft a recommendation letter with the name of the minister for a job in the state public health engineering department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Rs 4 crore fraud charge on Diamond Harbour Trinamul leaders ||Police on Saturday arrested two prominent Trinamul leaders from Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas for allegedly siphoning off Rs 4 crore meant to be paid as wages in the 100-day job scheme. Hasanuzzaman Mollah,senior party leader and deputy chief of party ruled Patra gram panchayat, and local youth Trinamul block president Mansur Daftary allegedly replaced bank account numbers of actual beneficiaries with those of their kin and aides and directed cash into those. The duo have been charged with criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||CM Mamata to PM Modi: Electricity (Amendment) Bill is ‘anti-people’||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing her displeasure over the Centre’s move to table the Electricity (Amendment) Bill in Parliament, describing it as anti-people and the result of a unilateral decision. Mamata in her letter expressed her reservations against “the sweeping abdication of the State’s pre-eminent role in the power sector in favour of unregulated and de-licensed private players”. “I write this letter to re-lodge my protest against the Union Government’s fresh move to place the much criticised Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2000 in the Parliament. It was proposed to be moved last year, but many of us had underlined the anti-people aspects… and at least I had detailed out all the salient pitfalls of the Bill in a letter to you on 12 June, 2020,” she wrote. She added that when the bill was not moved last year, she thought the Centre would consult all stakeholders, but now she was “stunned” to hear that the bill was coming back without any dialogue and “some graver anti-people features this time”. “Such a laissez faire approach would result in concentration of private profit-focussed utility players in the lucrative urban-industrial segments, while poor and rural consumers would be left to be tended by public sector DISCOMs,” she wrote. The chief minister wrote that the bill would leave state PSUs sick and ailing and yet forced to serve areas where no corporate entity would focus. “Allowing cherrypicking to select private entities cannot be the goal of public policies, particularly in a strategic sector like power,” she wrote. Mamata added that the reduction of the role of state PSUs, the unchecked enhancement of private players and curtailment of the authority of the states in this particular sector imply a sinister design. “The dilution of the role of the State Electricity Regulatory Commission and the state distribution companies implies a political design to demolish state bodies and domestic industries. Direct interference by the Central government in activities involving distribution will not at all be helpful to take care of the interest of the common people and the states,” she added. This is not the first time Mamata has written to Modi to oppose the bill. Last year she had taken up the issue with Modi over the draft bill, and to mobilise the Opposition had also written to chief ministers of non-BJP states. Even then she had argued that the draft Bill was a violation of the “spirit of co-operative federalism”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal jab shortage fuels Jharkhand trips ||Shortage in supply of Covid-19 vaccines from the Centre to Bengal has forced hundreds from three blocks of West Burdwan to travel to neighbouring Jharkhand for jabs. Bengal has received 2.68 crore doses from Centre so far, far short of the state’s requirement of nearly 14 crore vaccines to administer two doses to seven crore residents who are above 18 years and eligible for the jabs. In comparison, Jharkhand with a population of 3.29 crore has received over 1.01 crore doses. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has written to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to supply adequate vaccines to the state at the earliest. According to central government guidelines, an Indian national can take vaccine doses anywhere in the country after registering via proper online procedures using his or her Aadhaar card number. However, the journey to get vaccinated across the border has not been smooth for West Burdwan residents. Many have complained of harassment and arguments with people in Jharkhand’s Jamtara, where the residents of West Burdwan’s Kulti, Salanpur and Barabani blocks have been travelling to get the jab. Many Bengal residents who took the jab in Jamtara said they were called “outsiders” by people there and asked why they were here and why they did not  get vaccinated “in their own state”. Pradip Dutta, 57, a grocer from Sitarampur in Kulti, said he had gone to Jamtara district hospital with wife Putul by train for their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine but their experience was “unpleasant”. “We were in the queue at Jamtara district hospital. Some local people in the queue suddenly lost patience and accused us (Bengal residents) of taking a share of their vaccines,” said Dutta. At one point, local youths allegedly chased people from Bengal with bamboo sticks but were later pacified by police, he said. Taxi operators in Kulti said they are getting a good number of passengers for Jamtara and charging anywhere between Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,000 for a trip to Jamtara. Sources in the Jamtara administration in Jharkhand said they had arranged a separate queue for the people coming from Bengal. “Many people from Bengal are coming here for vaccinations and we are trying our best to give all of them the vaccines,” said Asha Ekka, medical officer at Jamtara district hospital. However, sources at hospital in Jamtara admitted to giving priority to local people to avoid chaos and arguments. “Local people become angry as many from Bengal come here regularly for vaccinations. We have set up a separate queue for people from Bengal and we give priority to our local residents,” said an official at the Jamtara hospital. A health official in Jamtara said the district with a population of around nine lakh had received 2.5 lakh doses so far from the Centre. Amarnath Chatterjee, administrator of Asansol Municipal Corporation, said they were running 17 Covid-19 vaccination centres in the municipal area. “We are vaccinating at least 5,000 people a day in the civic body area. There is a crisis of doses. Our chief minister has taken up the issue with the Centre,” he said. Additional reporting by Animesh Bisoee in Jharkhand||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
08-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 749 new cases, 15 deaths||Bengal on Saturday recorded 48 straight days of a fall in active cases, as the state reported 749 new infections, 791 recoveries and 15 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 57 to 10,585. Bengal currently has 2.63 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.12 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.36. Calcutta logged 66 new infections and two deaths. No Bengal district reported a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
