09-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee conducts aerial survey of flood-hit areas in Howrah ||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday conducted an aerial survey of flood-hit areas of Udaynarayanpur in Howrah district on her way to Jhargram, an official said at the state secretariat. Banerjee, the official said, is “very much unhappy” over Damodar Valley Corporation releasing “excessive water” leading to the flood situation. She is likely to conduct an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas of Ghatal in Paschim Medinipur district on Tuesday, they said. At least 23 persons have lost their lives and several lakh people have been displaced in seven districts of Bengal in the flood which Banerjee has described as “man-made”. She has held DVC responsible for releasing “excessive water” from its dams leading to the situation. Several south Bengal districts like Howrah and Hoogly had witnessed heavy monsoon rainfall last week. She visited flood-affected Amta and her plan to go to nearby Udaynarayanpur had to be dropped due to heavy rains. She had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging “man-made flood” by Damodar Valley Corporation. The prime minister had assured her central help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||IPS officer with BJP ties likely to take over as Bengal's DGP ||Bengal’s senior-most IPS Manoj Malviya has emerged as the front-runner to head the state police after much-delay from the Mamata Banerjee government in announcing the successor to the incumbent Director General of Police (DGP) Virendra. According to sources in the state administrative headquarters, the 1986 batch officer is most likely to get the coveted post, despite chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s reservations about Malviya. Earlier in June, the Mamata Banerjee government had suggested to three senior-most IPS officers of the state to opt for voluntary retirement to clear its own mess in appointing the next DGP and get a man of its choice at the top spot. The offer was made to P Nirajnayan, Sumanbala Sahoo and Adhir Sharma, all three 1987 batch officers who  were considered next in line to succeed the incumbent DGP and Mamata favourite, who is due to retire on August 31. “All three turned down the government’s request leaving it with no other option but to send their names,” said a senior IPS officer. The Bengal government clearly flouted the Supreme Court’s instructions to send names of contenders to the UPSC three months before the retirement of the incumbent. In this case, the Bengal government barely has weeks. Once the names are sent to the UPSC, the commission prepares a panel based on merit and seniority on the condition that they have two years of service left. The state governments have to pick the candidates from this panel. Sources said the Centre had asked the state government to submit a list of  officers holding DGP rank and also those who were next in line. “Accordingly, the state government had submitted the names of 21 officers from  batches of 1986 to 1991,” said a source. Mamata’s chief objection to Malviya, currently director general (organisation), is his family background that makes him close to the BJP. A descendant of the late Hindutva ideologue Madan Mohan Malviya, the senior-most IPS officer in Bengal was tipped to be the DGP if the BJP had come to power in the Assembly elections held between March and April. During his stint as additional commissioner in the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security, between September 2005 and May 2010, the CBI had found Malviya had accumulated wealth disproportionate to his source of income and had allegedly sought favours from officials of private firms, that included international travel and five-star accommodation. In July 2010, the Ministry of Home Affairs had ordered repatriation of Malviya to the home cadre. Sources said a senior IPS officer, known for his proximity to the chief minister,  had  pushed the case of Malviya to hold the top post. “Having an officer close to the BJP may help the state government in establishing an indirect channel on contentious issues,” said a senior official in the state home department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah behind attacks on Abhishek, TMC activists in Tripura, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday alleged that Union Home Minister Amit Shah was responsible for the recent attacks on her nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and other party workers, and asserted that she won't be cowed down by such acts. Her allegation comes days after Abhishek Banerjee and TMC student activists were attacked in separate incidents in BJP-ruled Tripura, where the party hopes to expand its base ahead of the 2023 assembly elections. "The BJP is running an anarchic government in Tripura, Assam, Uttar Pradesh and wherever they are in power. We condemn the attacks on Abhishek and our party activists in Tripura," she said after meeting injured TMC workers at state-run SSKM hospital here. "Such attacks would not have been possible without the Union home minister's active support. He is behind these attacks which were carried out in front of Tripura Police as it remained mute spectators. The Tripura chief minister doesn't have the audacity to order such attacks," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||Post poll effect: Unlike last year, BJP does nothing to mark  Rabindranath Tagore’s death anniversary ||The Bengal BJP had made a big display of marking Rabindranath Tagore’s death anniversary last year as Assembly polls loomed. A year later, it’s been normal service — that is, “nothing at all”, in a state BJP secretary’s words — on Baishey Srabon, which fell on August 7 or 8 according to different almanacs. Party insiders attributed the change in attitude to the crushing electoral defeat, with several of them warning that such sulky behaviour can be politically counterproductive. “Last year, we suddenly started falling over ourselves to try and prove the BJP’s connect with Bengal, and created a lot of noise around events such as Baishey Srabon,” a state BJP insider said, asking not to be named. “But giving up like this so soon after the electoral drubbing can only help Trinamul claim vindication of its charge that we were insincere in our professed love for Bengali culture.” On Baishey Srabon last year (August 7, 2020), a BJP bullish about its chances in the Assembly elections had dived in enthusiastically to claim the legacy of Tagore as a way of establishing its pro-Bengal credentials. State unit leaders had garlanded an image of the poet in front of the party headquarters, 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, as part of an elaborate political programme. BJP national president J.P. Nadda, who addressed his Bengal colleagues virtually from Delhi during the political event, too mentioned Tagore in his speech. The programme, party sources had said, was an attempt to counter Mamata Banerjee’s unwavering narrative about the BJP being a party of the bohiragawto (outsider), beholden to the RSS vision of “Hindi, Hindu, Hindustan” and uncomprehending of Bengal’s complex ethos. “If you remember, our women’s wing had organised a cultural programme virtually to observe Baishey Srabon last year. We had never done such things before. Last year was different, and it should have continued,” the state BJP secretary who spoke to this newspaper said. “But this year, there has practically been no programme — nothing at all. The national leadership’s failure to understand Bengal and its people led to the crushing defeat. Abandoning the display of respect and love for Bengal now is not the way forward.” On Sunday, even state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh’s social media handles — known to scrupulously acknowledge key occasions — were silent on Tagore. Party MLA and leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari’s social media handles, however, did carry tributes to the poet. A BJP source cited the pandemic restrictions to explain the absence of Tagore events, but quickly conceded that similar curbs had been in place last year too. Sayantan Basu, state BJP general secretary, said the Bengal unit was busy with a slew of events to be held between August 9 and 16 and had therefore planned nothing for Baishey Srabon. “It isn’t possible to organise a large-scale programme every year with the Covid-19 restrictions in place,” Basu said. In the run-up to the Assembly elections, Nadda, home minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had gone out of their way to claim familiarity with Bengal’s culture and history. Their efforts were often error-prone, and the poll results suggest the vast majority rejected their pitch. Many state unit leaders believe that the right strategy now would be to keep focusing on Bengal even more — at least to be able to hold on to the party’s 18 Lok Sabha seats in the state when a general election is held three years from now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||Now, a herbal spin to cocktails: Mixologist says cheers to hilly plants ||Master mixologist Yangdup Lama, who recently launched six cocktails with the iconic Makaibari tea, has come up with a few more Darjeeling hill-inspired concoctions. This time, however, local herbs and plants are  Lama’s muse. So, there is timbur (Sichuan pepper), lali gurans (rhododendron), dalle  khorsani (round chillies) and tite pati (mugwort) in the mix of his brew. “I have come up with these cocktails for Taj Chia Kutir Resort and Spa at Makaibari. The idea is to make use of locally available plants to enable visitors get not just the unique feel of our place, but also its tastes,” Lama said. The Taj Chia Kutir Resort and Spa, which started operations in December last year, is located amid tea bushes, a short distance from Kurseong. The locale of the resort with lush green forest and cascading water of the Rakti Khola, almost like a giant waterfall, on the hill otherside is a sight for sore eyes. Drink connoisseurs among the tourists visiting the hills can stop by at the resort, which is off Pakhabari Road, about 30km from Siliguri, and enjoy Kharsang ko Sero Phero (Kurseong’s surroundings). But Kharsang ko Sero Phero is also a drink. It’s actually is a cocktail of timbur-infused gin made by Lama. There are also Rato Piro Rakshi, a mix of the famous dalle and vodka, and Lali Gurans Hi Ball, a concoction of any light spirit and rhododendron nectar, among others. “I am really excited about these cocktails, and hope people will love them. I do make use of flavours from the hills in my bars in Delhi, but I am doing this for the first time here,” said the Gayabari-born and Delhi-based Lama, who was recently featured among the 100 best bartenders of 2021 in the Drinks International magazine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||NH12 roadblock turns violent in Malda, civic volunteer and police officer attacked||A roadblock on NH12 by Sujapur residents on the outskirts of Malda town on Sunday afternoon to protest a woman’s death turned violent as some protesters attacked the police who reached there to clear the highway. A civic volunteer and a police officer were injured in the attack. Additional police forces had to rush to the spot to bring the situation under control. Police have arrested five persons so far. Sources said trouble started when Arefa Bibi, 30, a homemaker in Chhoto Mahadipur area who delivered a baby at a private nursing home in Sujapur on August 2, complained of chest pain at home on Sunday morning. Her family took her to the same nursing home but authorities refused to treat her, her relative said. She was taken to another private clinic in Malda town where she died. Her kin alleged that nursing home authorities in Sujapur had discharged her after her delivery without properly treating her. Her angry relatives went to NH12 with her body and blocked the highway. Soon, their neighbours joined them and the crowd swelled. Traffic halted on the highway. A police team from Kaliachak asked protesters to lift the roadblock but demonstrators, shouting slogans against the private nursing home, paid no heed. The police then tried to shove them off the highway which led to a jostle. Some protesters turned violent and attacked the police team with bricks and stones and chased them with sticks. Subinspector Sirajuddin Sarkar and a civic volunteer were injured. Police retaliated with batons. The crowd dispersed, but after brickbatting the police. Additional police forces cleared the highway and traffic resumed after almost two hours. “Five persons have been arrested so far. We are in search of others. The situation is under control,” said Madan Mohan Roy, inspectorincharge of Kaliachak police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||5 arrested in tea wages loot case near Siliguri, 5 on the run||Police have solved the July 22 case where a gang had robbed Rs 26 lakh of tea garden money at gunpoint. So far, the police have arrested five accused and are on a lookout for five more. Ten persons had waylaid the staff of Thanjhora tea garden near Siliguri, who were on way to the garden with the cash on July 22. “We cracked the case within 48 hours but it took time to arrest people from different places,” said Dr Santosh Nimbalkar, the SP of Darjeeling. The police chief said the robbery plan started with Anil Tudu, a former tea garden driver, who noticed the tea garden firm got wages from a Siliguri bank either on Wednesdays or Thursdays. Tudu got in touch with history-sheeter Sadhan Das from Bagdogra. Das got in touch with gang from Chopra in Uttar Dinajpur for a “Rs 1 crore loot”. The gang assembled eight members. The gang made two bids to rob the tea garden officials but failed. “On July 22, garden officials stopped to buy bananas for a puja and this small window allowed robbers to assemble,” a source said. “Three bikes and a SUV (Bolero) followed the garden vehicle which had four employees. The staff car was waylaid. The robbers smashed the window with the butt of a gun and decamped with the cash-filled trunk on a bike.” The cash looted was to be disbursed as wages to tea workers. To avoid suspicion, the SUV went to Chopra via Bihar and the bikes took other village routes. Darjeeling police arrested Das, Tudu and three gangsters from Chopra, Md Rahamat, Md Rafigue and Monjur Alam. Except for Rahamat who is 22 years old, the rest are in the 30-40 age bracket. The accused were booked under 395 IPC (dacoity) and Arms Act. An improvised gun, five phones and a part of the loot money have been recovered. Darjeeling police have opened a dedicated WhatsApp group with the 110 tea gardens of the district so that police can be immediately contacted in case of any problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||NFR to resume toy train service in hills before Durga Puja||The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has decided to resume the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) toy train service in the hills ahead of Durga Puja if Covid-19 cases continue to remain under control in Bengal. “If there is no steep surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, we will resume the toy train service before Durga Puja,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relation officer of the NFR, on Saturday. A DHR source said only the joy ride service will resume at first. “We will keep a tab on the (Covid-19) situation and if it is favourable, regular services will resume in due course,” said an official. The 80km-long journey between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling station is one of the major attractions for tourists. The toy train had been largely off tracks since March last year as the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. In December 2020, the NFR had resumed the joy rides but only for a couple of months as a fresh lockdown was imposed in March this year. In recent days, the number of daily Covid cases in Darjeeling has been between 50 and 80. It is a must for tourists to be fully vaccinated or carry their negative RTPCR or rapid antigen test report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
09-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 675 new infections, 763 recoveries and 12 deaths ||Bengal on Sunday recorded 49 straight days of a fall in the total number of active cases with 675 new infections, 763 recoveries and 12 deaths. In all, Bengal’s active cases fell by 100 to 10,485. Bengal now has 2.63 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. Bengal’s recovery rate is 98.13 per cent, its highest ever this pandemic and still ahead of the nation's 97.37. Its mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Calcutta logged 68 new infections and one death. With North 24-Parganas reporting 77 new cases, Sunday was the third consecutive day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Seventeen Bengal districts reported two-digit figures and North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Purulia and West Burdwan single-digit figures. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday, while Calcutta apart, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, East Midnapore and Hooghly reported one each. Its daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.45 per cent on Sunday. Bengal now has nearly 15.34 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.05 lakh recoveries and 18,229 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-141
