10-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Speaker can file affidavit in PIL seeking Mukul Roy's removal as PAC head: High court||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed that West Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Bandopadhyay may file an affidavit in a PIL seeking the removal of MLA Mukul Roy from the post of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice R Bharadwaj adjourned hearing in the matter to August 12. The bench said that the speaker and other respondents, in the meantime, may file an affidavit if they wish to do so. BJP legislator Ambika Roy has moved the PIL before the high court seeking removal of Roy from the post of PAC chairman of the Assembly, making the speaker one of the respondents in the petition. The state government has opposed the prayer claiming that the appointment was “in the domain and discretion” of the Speaker of the House. The petitioner claimed that the post of PAC chairman traditionally goes to an opposition member, and since Mukul Roy joined the ruling Trinamul Congress after being elected on a saffron party ticket, he should be removed from the post. Claiming that a court cannot interfere in the decisions of a speaker concerning the business of an Assembly, as per Article 212 of the Constitution, Advocate General Kishore Dutta had on July 30 contended before the court that the PIL was not maintainable and should be dismissed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court asks Bengal Speaker to file affidavit in Mukul Roy case||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed that Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Bandopadhyay may file an affidavit in a PIL seeking the removal of MLA Mukul Roy from the post of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice R Bharadwaj adjourned hearing in the matter to August 12. The bench said that the Speaker and other respondents, in the meantime, may file an affidavit if they wish to do so. BJP legislator Ambika Roy has moved the PIL before the high court seeking removal of Roy from the post of PAC chairman of the Assembly, making the speaker one of the respondents in the petition. The state government has opposed the prayer claiming that the appointment was "in the domain and discretion" of the speaker of the House. The petitioner claimed that the post of PAC chairman traditionally goes to an opposition member, and since Mukul Roy joined the ruling Trinamool Congress after being elected on a saffron party ticket, he should be removed from the post. Claiming that a court cannot interfere in the decisions of a speaker concerning the business of an Assembly, as per Article 212 of the Constitution, Advocate General Kishore Dutta had on July 30 contended before the court that the PIL was not maintainable and should be dismissed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Police commissioner Soumen Mitra tops Mamata's I-Day medals list||The top name in the list of recipients of the Chief Minister’s Police Medal for outstanding service for the year 2021 is that of an IPS officer whom the Mamata Banerjee government had dumped five years ago -- Soumen Mitra, who is now  Commissioner of Police, Calcutta. The IPS officers selected for this year’s medal apart from Mitra are Peeyush Pandey, Additional Director-General of Police (correctional services) and D.P. Singh, Inspector General of Police (North Bengal). In the commendable services category, seven other IPS officers have been selected. The awards would be handed out on Independence Day. In the run up to the 2021 Assembly polls, the Election Commission had removed then city police chief Anuj Sharma and resurrected Mitra as the Election Commission higher-ups remembered his “impartial role” in the Assembly elections five years ago.  At that time, Mitra had replaced another Mamata acolyte, Rajeev Kumar. In between poll seasons of 2016 and 2021, Mitra, once a clear favourite of former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee,  seemed to have learnt the key lesson in survival under the current dispensation. For five years, Mitra was stationed at Barrackpore as ADG (Training). During this time Mitra co-authored a book, "Under the Banyan Tree: The Forgotten Story of Barrackpore Park." A student of history and an avid sportsperson, Mitra’s MPhil dissertation traced the history of football in colonial- era Calcutta and is also available in the form of a book. “He would have been sent on compulsory waiting (in 2016) had it not been for the former chief secretary Moloy Dey. He considered Mitra an able and upright officer and put in a strong word for him,” said a source. On April 13, 2016, the Election Commission brought Mitra to Lalbazar to head the city police force. Mitra brought the rule of the law back in motion and ensured the Trinamul poll bullies were kept at bay and irrespective of the outcome, Calcuttans could turn out to vote. That single-minded approach to his work, refusal to toe the ruling party’s line almost cost Mitra his career. Mitra’s predecessor at the Lalbazar was Rajeev Kumar, a year his junior in the cadre. Those in the know of the things within Calcutta Police headquarters said Mitra and Kumar were rivals in their younger days in the Calcutta Police and later CID. “Kumar often overstepped his jurisdiction and dealt with cases that Mitra and his team were handling. There was friction and unease. But the CPM government liked both the officers and managed the situation well,” said a source. While in Opposition, Mamata was suspicious of Kumar, whom she suspected of using technical surveillance on her and her party leaders. As chief minister, however, Mamata soon realised the advantage of having an officer of Kumar’s talent in her administration. She ignored seniority norms to get Kumar the top post in Lalbazar. During the 2016 Assembly polls, all the major Opposition parties complained against Kumar. With the model code of conduct in place, EC stepped in, and Kumar had to make an exit, though only for a short period. Just before the 2021 Assembly polls were announced, the Mamata Banerjee government sprung a surprise when it announced Mitra would replace Anuj Sharma as the Calcutta Police chief. Sources at the state administrative headquarters in Howrah said the seemingly impossible would not have happened without the intervention of another senior officer, former state police chief Surajit Kar Purakayastha with whom Mitra shares a close relationship. “Mitra too has possibly realised that opposing the government would only derail his career. It would be sad for an officer of his calibre to be sent to some outpost,” said a senior official in the home department. This time Mitra did not take any chances, stayed mindful of not ruffling Trinamul feathers. By the time the BJP realised the neutrality of the city police force was doubtful it already was too late.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Get all your WBJEE counselling queries answered at a free webinar on August 12||Engineering aspirants gearing up for the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination (WBJEE) 2021 online counselling sessions from August 13 to September 11 can have all their questions concerned at a free webinar to be held at 4pm on August 12.  The hour-long virtual session titled WBJEE 2021: Next Steps, part of the ABP Education Admission Fair 2021 powered by Anandabazar Patrika Online and The Telegraph Online, will be attended by Malayendu Saha, the chairperson of WBJEE Board, and Dibyendu Kar, the registrar of the WBJEE Board.  Saha and Kar will resolve students’ doubts related to admission in BTech courses at the 534-state aided and private engineering colleges and universities of West Bengal.  E-counselling for WBJEE will be held in three rounds this year —allotment, upgradation and mop-up.  Students who have cleared WBJEE 2021 can register for counselling and fee payment between August 13 and August 16.  The WBJEE Board has brought in several changes this year to quicken the admission process. Candidates will not have to go to reporting centres for physical verification of documents after locking their choice of institute. Also, unlike last year, the WBJEE Board is refraining from setting up virtual reporting centres. Instead, the institutes will themselves work as reporting centres, enabling the institutes to start classes early.  Candidates who have secured a rank in WBJEE 2021 can register for e-counselling at the board’s official website, www.wbjeeb.nic.in, after paying a fee of Rs 300. Registration is mandatory for counselling and admission, and is allowed only at the beginning of the first round.  The first round of seat allotment will be held on August 19. Students who are allotted seats in the first list have to pay the fees, get their documents verified and complete the admission procedure between August 20 and August 24. The second allotment list will be released on August 27.  The third or the mop-up round of e-counselling will begin on September 6. The seat allotment results of the mop-up round will be declared on September 11. Students who are allotted seats in the mop-up list have to complete the process between September 11 and September 15.  A total of 65,170 students had appeared for WBJEE on July 17 this year, of which 64,850 have been ranked. This year, the pass percentage stood at 99.5. The exam was held offline and the results were declared on August 6.  To know more, register at bit.ly/WBJEE2021 and join the free webinar by ABP Education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata hits out at Centre over flood situation in Ghatal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hit out at the Centre on Tuesday over flood in the Paschim Medinipur district, stating that the situation was a result of the Centre dilly-dallying the Ghatal Master Plan project. After touring the flood-hit areas of Ghatal, Banerjee said she would send a team to New Delhi to pursue the Centre in approving the project. "This is a man-made flood. The Centre is not paying heed to our requests for the Ghatal Master Plan. Repeated requests are falling into deaf ears," she said. "I have conducted a survey of the area. I will prepare a report on this," she added. As per the Ghatal Master Plan, several projects would be undertaken to desilt the rivers in the area, repair the canals and build a dam on the Shilabati river, among others. Banerjee conducted an aerial survey of the areas while returning from Jhargram. Her helicopter landed Moyrapukur from where she went to meet people affected by the flood. The administrative meeting, which was scheduled to be held at an auditorium in the area, was cancelled because it was inundated in floodwater, officials said. At least seven districts in West Bengal were flooded and at least 23 persons killed amid incessant rains last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Ganga floods 15 villages in two Malda blocks||At least 15 villages of Malda district’s Ratua and Manikchak blocks have been flooded by the Ganga in its left bank since Sunday night, administrative officials said here on Monday. “The extreme danger level of Ganga is 25.30m and on Monday afternoon, it was flowing at 25.17m. That is why a number of villages in the low-lying areas  are flooded. We are keeping close watch and collecting data on a regular basis. The river has swelled because of rainfall in its catchment areas upstream,” said an official of the state irrigation department. “In Rajkishoretola (of Ratua block), people are using country boats on roads to shift to safety,” said a source. The Fulhar and Mahananda rivers are also flowing close to danger level, sources said. “We have asked all the BDOs to be alert. Relief materials have been sent to flooded blocks,” said Kallol Roy, the SDO of Chanchal subdivision. Along with inundation, erosion caused by Ganga has turned acute in parts of Baishnabnagar in the district. Over the past few days, close to 100 houses and hutments have been eroded away by the river, along with huge chunks of land. The onus to prevent erosion from the stretch is on the Farakka Barrage Project Authority. On Monday, a delegation of youth Trinamul leaders and workers, along with Chandana Sarkar, the Trinamul MLA of Baishnabnagar, went to Farakka and demonstrated in front of its office. They also submitted a memorandum to officials, seeking immediate anti-erosion measures. “Authorities cannot evade their responsibility. Hundreds of people have become homeless in Baishnabnagar because of acute erosion and the authorities have hardly done anything to help people save their land and houses. We want to make it clear that if proper steps (to check erosion) are not taken within the next seven days, we will launch a prolonged movement,” said Prasenjit Das, district youth Trinamul president of Malda. Officials at the FBPA could not be contacted. However, sources said the authority had taken up anti-erosion work in some stretches of Baishnabnagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||34-year-old woman gangraped by Trinamul Congress men: BJP MLA||BJP MLA Agnimitra Paul on Monday alleged that the 34-year-old wife of a party worker had been gang-raped by Trinamul Congress goons late on Saturday night. “This woman had suffered a heart attack a few days ago and lost her ability to speak. She was alone at her home on Saturday night when Trinamul goons attacked and raped her,” said Paul, who is also the chief of the Mahila Morcha’s Bengal unit. Trinamul leader Arup Roy said: “The BJP is trying to do politics over this incident. The police are investigating. It is a condemnable incident. Law will take its own course. If the culprits belong to our party, we shall take action against them as well.” The BJP MLA alleged that police had refused to lodge an FIR on the basis of the woman’s written complaint. “Police called her husband to the police station and tried to force him not to lodge the complaint,” Paul added. However, the police registered an FIR on Sunday evening. Six local Trinamul leaders and workers, along with a few others, have been named in the FIR. The woman has been admitted to a local government hospital. Two of the accused — Seikh Syed and Joynal Mallik — were arrested. Two other accused men — Kutubuddin Mallik and Debasish Rana — have been detained. The BJP alleged that Kutubuddin and Debasish had initially been shown to be arrested, but they were not produced in court on Monday. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari visited the victim at the hospital on Monday evening. BJP’s IT cell chief and co-minder for Bengal Amit Malviya took to Twitter to protest against the alleged gang-rape and hinted that the party would take up the issue before a larger audience. Malviya tweeted: “TMC is using rape as a political tool to silence opponents.” BJP’s torch rally The youth wing of the BJP organised a state-wide torch rally on the occasion of the 79th anniversary of the Quit India Movement on Monday to protest against alleged atrocities on party workers after Assembly election results had been out. Police, however, prevented the BJP from organising rallies at several places in the state citing Covid-19 protocol. At least 17 BJP workers were arrested in Calcutta. The party’s state vice-president Raju Banerjee and others were arrested in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Centre’s proposed ‘tripartite meeting’ on PPS in hills triggers new contest between TMC and BJP ||The Centre’s proposed “tripartite meeting” on the permanent political solution (PPS) in the hills — reportedly to be conveyed in September first week — has triggered a new contest between Trinamul and the BJP with the arch-rivals challenging each other to prove their sincerity towards the most emotive issue in the hills. BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista after meeting Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on August 6 had claimed the Centre has decided to hold an “official -level” tripartite meeting on a “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling region in September  first weekand would invite the Bengal government to talks. N.B. Khawash, coordinator of Darjeeling for Trinamul on Monday threw the sincerity gauntlet at the saffron party saying the BJP should directly place a bill in Parliament on its proposed “permanent political solution.” “The BJP has brute majority in Parliament, what is stopping them from directly placing a bill on the permanent political solution? What is the use of calling a tripartite meeting which will only lengthen the process?” Khawash asked. This was Trinamul’s first official reaction to the proposed tripartite meeting. The BJP in its 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto had said it was committed to finding a “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling region and grant tribal status to 11 hill communities. “Neeraj Zimba (GNLF leader who won the Darjeeling Assembly seat on a BJP ticket) had once said that they had burnt the midnight oil to include PPS in the election manifesto. However, till now they are not clear what the PPS means,” said Khawash. Bista’s claim for tripartite meeting was made with pressure mounting on the BJP not just from rivals but also from allies like the GNLF to fulfil its Lok Sabha poll promise. S.P. Sharma, general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Bharati Tamang camp), also started an indefinite hunger strike seeking clarification on the PPS. He ended his hunger strike after Bista’s claim.. Kalyan Dewan, president, BJP (hills), however, said if Trinamul fails to attend the tripartite meeting it would indicate that the Bengal’s ruling party was insincere about solving the hill issue. “The GTA (Gorkhaland Territorial Administration) is not functioning properly since 2017 and if the state is sincere in removing this stalemate, they should cooperate with the Centre to fulfil the expectations of people in the region,” said Dewan. The BJP leader said apart from the Anit Thapa headed Gorkha Janmukti Morcha no political party in the hills was in favour of the GTA. The state government has been running the hill body through nominated persons since 2017 when the hills erupted with the Gorkhaland demand. Asked about Trinamul’s statement on what was stopping the BJP government in the Centre from directly placing a bill on the permanent political solution, Dewan said the fact the Centre was conveying a meeting showed its sincerity. “The meeting has been called in all seriousness,” said Dewan. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her recent Bengal Assembly election campaign had said that the state government would work out a permanent political solution for the hills. Despite the BJP MP’s statement, leaders in Darjeeling are awaiting the contents of the letter Shah is supposed to send around August 12. Last year, the Centre had called a tripartite meeting to discuss “Gorkhaland”. Roshan Giri of the Bimal Gurung faction, which was with the BJP then, had claimed the agenda of the meeting was changed from “issues related to Gorkhaland” to those pertaining to the “Gorkhaland Territorial Administration” following pressure from Bengal’s BJP state unit. The meeting was scheduled on August 7, 2020, but with BJP allies like the GNLF and the Bimal Gurung faction protesting the change in agenda, it was cancelled. On October 7, 2020, the Gurung faction attended a meeting called by the home ministry, but representatives of GTA and the state government skipped that “tripartite meeting.” Later that month, Gurung dumped the BJP and joined hands with Trinamul, accusing the BJP of being insincere towards the hill people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee raises voice to secure land rights of tribal people across the country ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday raised her voice to secure land rights of tribal people across the country and ensure that their plots were not made transferable. “The land belonging to tribal people should not be transferable. The land of the tribal people will be only of them. Our government has made such laws. We want the law to be made countrywide as no one can grab tribal land,” Mamata said from the dais of World Tribal Day celebration in Jhargram on Monday. This was her first visit to the adivasi-dominated district after she rode to power for the third successive term. Mamata’s demand is significant as the tribal people across the country fear that their right to land is facing a major threat. Tribal leaders said in several BJP-ruled states land rights of tribal people had come under threat as the government had tried to tweak law that gave protection to their land rights. “During the time of the BJP-led government in Jharkhand, it had tried to amend the century-old Chottanagpur Tenancy Act (CNT) and Santhal Parganas Tenancy (SPT) Act. The tribal people of the Jungle Mahal had blessed Mamata Banerjee for her role to save land of adivasis. It is not only Jharkhand, land rights of tribal people are under threat in several states,” said Opel Mandi, the state convener of tribal outfit Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal. “We welcome our chief minister’s demand as it is a nationwide issue for us,” he added. Sources said in 2016, the BJP-run Jharkhand government had tried to change the CNT-SPT Act that gave protection from trading land belonging to tribal people. The then BJP government in Jharkhand had tried to amend the law to facilitate private players to set up business on tribal land. Sources said Mamata also cleared her government’s stand on the issue of tribal land while moving ahead with the world’s second largest Deocha Pachami coal mine in Birbhum. Trinamul insiders said Mamata chose Jhargram to make the statement as her campaign on the vulnerability of tribal land under the BJP helped her reap political dividend in the Assembly polls. A large number of tribal votes moved the Trinamul after the BJP had managed to perform well in the region in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In her speech Mamata did not forget to express her gratitude to the tribal people for helping her come back to power for the third time. “You blessed us enough. You make us victorious in every seat of Jhargram to bring the government of Maa-Mati-Manush for the third time. I express my gratitude towards you for your effort,” she said. “If you face any problem, let me know immediately and I will solve it. But I will request you not to misunderstand us anytime,” added Mamata after felicitating around two dozen scholars, students and women from the tribal community. Mamata also emphasised how her government launched several projects for development of the tribal people, including the opening of around 1,000 schools in several tribal dialects like Santhali, Nepali and Rajbanshi. She also said her government would form 10 lakh self-help groups to empower the rural women and requested all to attend the government's Duare Sarkar programme that will continue for a month from August 16. Sources said Mamata would not continue visiting other south and north Bengal districts in the next two months. “We are really happy that the chief minister visited Jhargram. She focused on how her government is keen to focus on social, economic and educational development for the people of tribal communities,” said Lalit Hansda, a English teacher of a high school in Jhargram who attended the programme on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee writes to farmers on low dole from Centre||Mamata Banerjee has written to farmers across Bengal, informing them that while the centre has not been giving financial assistance to them under what was assured under the PM-Kisan scheme, the state government will continue to deliver on its promise of direct benefit transfer to them. “The state government had done its bit on time to enroll the farmers of the state under the PM-Kisan scheme. You were supposed to get Rs 18,000 but getting much less... You should not worry, we will fight to ensure that you get your dues,” reads the letter dated August 7. Sources at the state secretariat said the letter was being sent to all 62 lakh beneficiaries of Krishak Bandhu scheme though the agriculture development officers posted in all 341 blocks in Bengal. The letter written in Bengali, sources said, is politically significant as it gives a clear hint that the chief minister is keen to catch the BJP on the wrong foot ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, particularly after the Centre did not clear two years’ arrears of Bengal’s farmers worth Rs 12,000. “Prime Minister had promised during his election campaigns that Bengal’s farmers would get Rs 18,000, including two years’ dues when the state government did not implement the scheme here. But after the elections, only 7 lakh-odd farmers received Rs 2,000 each as this year’s first instalment under the scheme. The chief minister wants to remind the farmers that the BJP did not keep its promise,” said a source. Mamata also mentioned in her letter that the state’s own Krishak Bandhu scheme —which ensures annual financial assistance of Rs 10,000 for an acre — offers much better facilities compared to the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme. “We offer better facilities under the Krishak Bandhu scheme. The share croppers and bargadars have been included in the scheme. Those who have land-related issues can also avail the facility by submitting a self-declaration only,” the chief minister wrote. Sources aware of the development said that the chief minister chose to write the letter to the farmers primarily for two reasons. “In August, more than 24 lakh farmers from the state would get financial assistance of Rs 2,000 under the PM-Kisan scheme. The chief minister wanted to remind them that the state’s scheme was much better compared to the central one,” said a source. Moreover, Mamata has wanted to highlight that because of various eligibility criteria, share croppers, bargadars and those who have income tax payers or pensioners are being deprived of the Central scheme. While the state’s scheme gives the benefit to more than 62 lakh farmers, the state could upload names of about 44 lakh farmers for the central scheme. “Because of eligibility criteria, the state government could not enroll about 18 lakh farmers under the central scheme. Furthermore, names of about 9.5 lakh farmers were rejected under the central scheme. The chief minister wanted to lay stress that the central scheme did not offer the facility to all the farmers,” said an official. According to Trinamul insiders, Mamata is preparing to keep her support base in the agriculture belt intact ahead of Lok Sabha polls. Trinamul had received a jolt in districts like East Burdwan, Hooghly and Nadia during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “But the scene was changed in the last Assembly polls as Trinamul had wrested majority of the seats in these agriculture belt riding on its series of schemes for the farmers. The chief minister is eyeing to keep her support base intact in these districts,” said a Trinamul MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||State govt takes up Siliguri mega drinking water supply project||The state government has taken up the Siliguri mega drinking water supply project and seeks to implement it jointly with the Centre, Gautam Deb, who chairs the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), said on Monday. “The state government is keen to start work on the new drinking water project for Siliguri and has decided to approach the Centre for funds under Jal Jeevan Mission,” said Deb. Twenty years back, a drinking water project was taken up in Siliguri. But with rising population and rapid urbanisation, the existing project proved inadequate. “That is why a second project, with an estimated cost of Rs 470 crore, was planned after Trinamul came to power. It was decided water will be directly drawn from the Teesta river and a new filtration plant, with a network of distribution pipes and reservoirs, would be set up in the city,” said a source in the civic body. Told that Jal Jeevan Mission is meant for rural drinking water supply, Deb said they had information that the Centre was preparing fresh modalities of the scheme. “It is true that right now the scheme is applicable only for rural areas but the central government is readying new modalities so that the scheme can be extended to urban areas. Modalities are expected to be ready in a couple of months and hence the state government wants to take up this project jointly with the Centre,” said Deb. He said that considering Siliguri's importance, the Centre would not be able to deny its responsibility, particularly as the project is related to a basic service like drinking water. Deb recently spoke with officials of the state municipal affairs and urban development department regarding an interim arrangement of drinking water supply in Siliguri. During the past few years, water supply in Siliguri has been hit many times, particularly in view of low water levels in the Teesta canal at Fulbari from where water is drawn to the filtration plant. “Until the new project is completed, we have to bank on the existing facility. To ensure no disruption in water supply, a proposal has been mooted to draw water from an alternative location. For this purpose, we need around Rs 6.90 crore. The proposal has been submitted to the state government and is awaiting an approval of the state cabinet,” the chairperson said. In another development, the state transport department has granted permission to the civic body to one of its plots at Tinbatti More located in the southern end of the city. The plot would be used as a bus stand for local buses which run within Siliguri subdivision. As of now, the stand runs near Siliguri Town station. “The decision can largely ease traffic congestion in principal thoroughfares of the city,” said a source at SMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 557 new infections and 11 deaths||Bengal on Monday recorded 50 consecutive days of a fall in total active Covid-19 cases as the state reported 557 new infections, 719 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total of active cases fell by 173 to 10,312. Bengal currently has 2.64 per cent of the national total of active patients and is seventh on the list of states with most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.14 per cent, which is the highest ever, and is still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.4. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.85 per cent on Monday. With Calcutta logging 37 infections and North 24-Parganas 75, Monday was the fourth consecutive day of not a single Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new cases. Nineteen Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections detected. North Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Seventeen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Monday. Jalpaiguri, East Midnapore and Hooghly logged one death each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.34 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.06 lakh recoveries and 18,240 deaths. The Rotary Club of Howrah, in association with the Howrah Municipal Corporation and the Bengal government, organised a free Covid-19 vaccination camp on Monday. Around 276 people were given Covaxin doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Over 4,000 bottles of cough syrup worth over Rs 8 lakh seized, five smugglers arrested||Five suspected smugglers were held with over 4,000 bottles of cough syrup from Madhughat, a locality off NH12, in Malda on Sunday night. Police sources said the cough syrups were smuggled from Uttar Pradesh to Malda and the consignment was to be to delivered in Bangladesh. “The quintet were found loading cartons of the bottles  from one pick-up truck to another similar vehicle. One of the trucks bore registration plates of Uttar Pradesh. All the five have been arrested and 4,200 bottles of the syrup have been seized along with the vehicles,” said a police officer. The estimated price of the seized consignment is around Rs 8.5 lakh. The arrested quintet are Sezbar Sheikh, Hashmat Sheikh and Sheikbar Sheikh, all residents of Malda district, and Pappu Paswan and Mukesh Kumar Dubey, hail from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh. “We need to find out whether they are associated with any smuggling racket,” the officer added. In another incident, the BSF nabbed two persons with two kilos of cannabis worth around Rs 45,000 from Pannapur, near the Bangladesh border, under Habibpur police station of the Malda district on Sunday night. Two cell phones, four Indian SIM cards and a memory card, were also seized from  Hira Mohan Biswas and Bishal Mondal, both residents of Dalla in Habibpur. Later, both were handed over to the Habibpur police station. A case has been registered and police have initiated a probe, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-139
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek’s life was in danger, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb would not have allowed alleged persecution of Trinamul Congress supporters in his state without Union home minister Amit Shah’s active support. The Bengal chief minister on Monday visited SSKM hospital in Calcutta where Trinamul’s student leaders injured in Tripura were undergoing treatment. They were brought to Calcutta on Sunday by Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee. “It (the alleged persecution of Trinamul in Tripura) took place under instructions from the Union home minister (Shah). This I do believe. Otherwise, the Tripura chief minister wouldn’t have had this much courage,” Mamata said after spending around 15 minutes with the injured leaders at the hospital. The injured student leaders included Debangshu Bhattacharya, Sudip Raha and Jaya Dutta. On Monday, the Trinamul chief alleged that the Diamond Harbour MP’s life was in danger, apparently accusing the BJP — without taking names — of conspiring to kill him. “The way his (Abhishek’s) car was attacked. His head could have been injured. Later, their administration gave a bullet-proof car. Or else, the glass would have easily been shattered. With it, his head could have been smashed. Everything happened in front of the (Tripura) police,” the Trinamul chief said, referring to an alleged attack on her nephew’s convoy, during a visit to Tripura earlier this month. On Monday, Trinamul, which protested in Parliament over the alleged incidents, demanded Deb’s resignation as chief minister of Tripura over such issues. “A danobik party is running Tripura… the BJP. The BJP, in any state… in Assam, you saw, our people were not allowed to enter. Sent back from the airport, when I had sent them during the NRC exercise. When the Hathras incident took place in Uttar Pradesh, I had sent a team of MPs. Outside the airport… they weren’t even allowed to enter,” said Mamata. “Beaten up, hit with stones, shot at… these are students. Cars damaged, heads injured… Jaya’s face and ear were badly injured. Sudip has a head injury. The most surprising part of this, they did this right in front of the (Tripura) police,” she added. The Bengal chief minister alleged that neither was any treatment allowed for their injuries nor were they given even a glass of water at the police station, for 36 hours since the purported attack on them on Saturday. “In the future, we will win Tripura, that I firmly believe… that the people (there) will give a fitting response to this torture,” she said. Asked if she was planning to visit Tripura soon, Mamata said: “I will say later.” “It is happening already… the party has been going,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
10-08-2021||West Bengal||Two persons arrested for stealing mini truck from Murshidabad ||Two persons were arrested from North Dinajpur on Monday for allegedly stealing a mini truck from Murshidabad district on Sunday afternoon. Sources said the driver and cleaner of the mini truck, heading to Siliguri, were having lunch at Ahiran in Suti when the theft took place. The vehicle is owned by Abhijit Biswas of Dhantala in Nadia district. On Monday evening, the police arrested Abu Bakkar of Jalpaiguri and Shyamal Das of Nadia from Itahar in North Dinajpur and the vehicle was also recovered. The cops said a probe was on find out whether the arrested duo were associated with any racket that deals with stolen vehicles. After hearing the details from them, Abhijit Sarkar, the officer-in-charge of the outpost, acted promptly. He informed senior officers of Murshidabad district police and also went out to locate the vehicle. Meanwhile, police officers passed information about the vehicle to all police stations, especially located along NH 12. The information was also passed to the toll plazas located along the route that heads for north Bengal. Those who had stolen the mini truck managed to evade the police of Murshidabad and Malda districts. However, as they reachedLater on Sunday night, a police team from Murshidabad reached Itahar. They took away the duo – identified as Abu Bakkar of Jalpaiguri and Shyamal Das of Nadia – and the vehicle to Murshidabad. “The officer in charge of the Ahiran police outpost has done well. The prompt sharing of information helped us to locate the truck within a few hours after it was stolen,” said Y. Raghuvanshi, the superintendent of police of Jangipur police district in Murshidabad. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-140
