11-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata to attend international peace conference in Rome||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been invited to attend an international peace conference in Rome in October this year. Pope Francis, German chancellor Angela Merkel and the Grand Imam of Egypt's Al-Alzhar, Ahmad al-Tayyib, among others, are expected to attend the conference scheduled on October 6 and 7, 2021. The invitation for the meet, titled World Meeting for Peace “People as Brothers, Future earth” was sent to the chief minister by Macro Impagliazzo, the president of Community of Sant'Egidio, a Catholic association based in Rome. The invitation letter congratulated the Trinamul Congress chief for her “significant election” victory in the recently held assembly polls and “for the important work for social justice, for the development of your own country, and therefore, for peace, which you have been doing for over ten years now.” The TMC returned to power in the state of West Bengal for the third time in a row after a thumping victory in the March – April assembly polls this year by winning 213 out of the 292 assembly seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee, Bratya Basu, others booked in Tripura||A case has been registered in Tripura against TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, MP Dola Sen, Bengal education minister Bratya Basu and other senior leaders of the party for allegedly obstructing police officers from performing their duties. Kiran Kumar, the superintendent of police (SP) in Khowai district, said a suo moto complaint was filed on Tuesday against the TMC leaders, who had "misbehaved" with officers on duty on August 8. We booked them on August 10 under Section 186 (obstruction of public servants in the discharge of his public function) and 36 (common intention) of the IPC. The FIR pertains to entry into the Khowai police station... They will be summoned, the SP stated. Claiming that the ruling BJP in Tripura was "scared" of his camp's growing popularity, TMC's Bengal general secretary Kunal Ghosh, who figures in the list of leaders booked by the police, told reporters in Calcutta, "A case has been wrong fully registered against us. We went there to stand by our party workers." At least 14 leaders and workers of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) were arrested in Khowai district on Sunday, including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP men the day before, for flouting Covid-19 norms . Shortly after, Banerjee, who is also Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and the de facto number 2 in the party, flew to Agartala to meet the apprehended workers in Khowai police station, along with other leaders. Those arrested were later produced before a local court, which granted them bail. According to the police, the 14 TMC members were nabbed for venturing out after the imposition of night curfew at 7 pm, in violation of the Covid-19 restrictions. In a video that went viral on social media, the TMC national general secretary was seen raising his finger to enquire why his supporters were arrested after having faced assaults. He returned to Calcutta the same day after his party workers were released on bail. "Bail granted to all @AITCofficial workers who were arrested in Tripura. Satyameva Jayate! I'll be taking them to Kolkata as they have sustained severe injuries & were denied medical attention. @BjpBiplab you can keep trying but all your resources will fall short! MARK MY WORDS," Abhishek tweeted just before flying out of Agartala. Subal Bhowmik, a TMC leader from the northeastern state whose name figures in the FIR, claimed that his party's activists were being harassed and falsely accused of crimes they did not commit. "We didn't obstruct any police officer from performing their job. It was only after 48 hours, they decided to book us under section 186. These allegations are baseless and the police administration is being misused for political gains, Bhowmik added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Learn from Bengal how to dodge the anti-defection law||In the years between 2001 and 2005, Subrata Mukherjee held the mayor’s post in Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) as a Trinamul nominee. But, in the state Assembly he signed on the register for Congress legislators kept in the room reserved for the party. “He would walk into the room, sign the register and go elsewhere. In the Assembly he would sit with the Congress legislators, his name would be there in the list of speakers from the Congress. There was no way to disprove that he wasn’t a Congress MLA,” said a party leader of Bengal. Since its inception in 1998, Trinamul Congress, year after year, has poached MLAs from other parties and dodged the anti-defection bullet. This year, within two months of beginning its third term, Trinamul wrested Mukul Roy, an MLA of the only Opposition in the state Assembly, the BJP (the only non-Trinamul, non-BJP MLA in Bengal today is Naushad Siddiqui of the Indian Secular Front). Wait, isn’t there a law that is meant to prevent MLAs from jumping from party to party? Yes, the 10th Schedule of the Constitution, referred to as the Anti-Defection Law, was passed by Parliament in 1985 and reinforced in 2002. But in Bengal, it just doesn’t seem to work. Over the last few decades, neither the Congress nor the CPM could do anything with it to deter its MLAs from jumping ship. In the case of Roy, the BJP has complained to the Bengal Assembly Speaker against his defection. To complicate matters, the Trinamul has named Roy head of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), a position which by convention is held by an Opposition leader. Last month, Roy was with Mamata during her week-long tour of Delhi to meet national leaders. Speaker Biman Banerjee held a hearing on Roy’s defection on July 30. Roy did not attend. But BJP leader Suvendu Adhikary did. The Speaker is scheduled to hear the case again on August 17. And if he finds substance in the charges, Roy will most likely be served a notice. Adhikary, the BJP leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, shared an image and video of Roy at Mamata Banerjee’s residence from where she had delivered her virtual address to party workers for Trinamul’s annual Martyrs’ Day rally on July 21. “On which stage can you spot the PAC chairman?” asked Adhikary. Till it was held in public, the July 21 Martyrs’ Rally dais was the grand stage for political switchovers in Bengal as legislators and others, most of them from the Congress and a few from Left parties, would use the occasion to swear allegiance to the Trinamul flag. BJP determined But this time the BJP seems determined to press for Roy’s disqualification. Party MLA Ambika Roy has filed a PIL against Roy’s appointment as PAC chairman. "Whenever the Speaker will call us (on the defection issue) we will appear. All documents have been submitted. The anti-defection law is not effective here. After former CPM MLA Dipali Biswas joined Trinamul, 23 hearings took place but there was no decision. We will not wait indefinitely,” said Adhikary. Mukul Roy’s defection is one in a series of similar episodes in Bengal’s legislative politics since Trinamul Congress was formed. After the split in the Bengal Congress in 1997 and subsequent formation of a new party, around 16 MLAs had switched sides. Two years before that, the Congress had its best showing in Assembly elections, winning 82 seats, its highest tally since losing power in 1977. Veteran Congress leader Abdul Mannan, who was the party’s whip then, recalled he had moved the Speaker’s office seeking disqualification of four of the 16 MLAs—Sabuj Dutta, Tushar Bhattacharya, Sanjay Bakshi and Mihir Goswami. “But, nothing came of it. Some hearings took place. That’s all,” Mannan said. This was during a time when the CPM was in power and there was never any love lost between the two. A CPM leader who is aware of the goings-on in the Assembly in the last tumultuous years of the Left rule says it was almost impossible to prove they had joined the Trinamul. “Unlike now, the MLAs, even after defection, continued to sit with their former colleagues. Inside the Assembly they behaved as though they were with the Congress. In fact, they were quite eager to prove they were with the Congress,” the CPM leader said. During that time, the only Congress MLA who chose to resign after joining the Trinamul was Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who later got elected as MLA on a Trinamul ticket. What the law states The 10th Schedule of the Constitution states that a member of a House belonging to any political party shall be disqualified if he or she has a) voluntarily given up membership of such a political party, or b) votes or abstains from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by the political party to which he belongs. The onus to decide on defections lies with the Speaker, with no time limit on coming to a conclusion. In recent memory, only two MLAs have been disqualified for defection. In 2008, the late Speaker, Halim, had signed orders to disqualify the late Somen Mitra and Sudip Bandyopadhyay from being members of the legislative Assembly. The two did not deny they had joined the Trinamul. Then Congress legislature party leader Manas Bhunia, who himself defected eight years later and did not resign till the Trinamul nominated him to the Rajya Sabha, had actively pursued the case against Mitra and Bandyopadhyay. “Had Bhuniya not pursued the matter diligently that could not have happened,” said a Congress leader. When by-elections don’t help Another problem for the Congress was that pushing the anti-defection case against erstwhile MLAs would have meant by-elections. And that was unlikely to have brought any cheer to the grand old party in Bengal. A similar thought stopped the party from adopting a strong anti-defection stance from 2016 onwards. “Had the Speaker pursued the cases we would have fallen short of the mark of 30 to be counted as the main Opposition party. Risking that was not worth it,” said the Congress leader. In her first term, Mamata kept her hands off Congress legislators till she was in an alliance with the party. The first from the Congress to defect after Trinamul came to power was Krishnendu Narayan Chowdhury of Malda, who had been in and out of the party quite a few times, followed by Rejinagar’s Congress MLA Humayun Kabir. Both became ministers and fought by-elections. Chowdhury won, while Kabir lost. Then Shantipur MLA Ajoy De resigned from the Assembly and sought re-election on a Trinamul ticket in May 2014. In the decade-old Mamata-rule in Bengal, the late legislator De remains the only politician to have resigned after quitting his parent party. “He had made it clear he wouldn’t continue as a Congress MLA after switching to the Trinamul,” recalled a Trinamul leader. 14 more MLAs switched over By the time Mamata ended her first term, 14 more MLAs from the Congress and the Left had joined the Trinamul, but no defection charges were brought against them. Two months into her second term in 2016, Mamata welcomed CPM’s Dipali Biswas and Congress’ Tushar Bhattacharya into the Trinamul fold at the annual July 21 rally. For the next five years Biswas carried on business as a CPM legislator on paper, while sitting in the Treasury Benches. “Twenty-three hearings were held. She skipped dates. We kept on piling documents on the Speaker’s table. It was an exercise in futility,” said Sujan Chakraborty, CPM central committee member and leader of the Left Front in the last Assembly. The CPM leader wrote to the Speaker again after Biswas moved to the BJP in December 2020. By then, the Assembly term was coming to an end and a disqualification would not have done any damage either to her or to the parties she had joined. At one point, Mannan had even approached the Supreme Court to intervene and ensure the anti-defection law was not misused. “The court cannot intervene in this matter till the Speaker gives a ruling. There is no time bound factor for the Speaker to decide. The law definitely needs a relook, but the court can’t say so,” Mannan said. Roy’s defection, only the latest and definitely not the last, has gained significance since the Trinamul itself is pursuing a case against two of its alleged defectors, Lok Sabha MPs Sisir Adhikary and Sunil Mandal. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has issued notices to both. In the ongoing Parliament session, Mandal was seen protesting with Trinamul MPs, perhaps signalling a change of heart. But, it is unclear if the Trinamul will eventually "forgive and forget" and keep him in its fold. In case the Speaker's ruling goes in favour of Trinamul, the party would come under pressure to take action against Roy. In such a scenario, Roy, a reluctant legislator in the first place, may have to make room for someone else to contest from the Krishnagar North seat. His son, Subhrangshu, who left the BJP along with him, will be only too willing to fill in. But will Mamata agree?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Dhankhar talks to Union minister to increase efficacy of Bengal's cultural hubs||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Wednesday said he interacted with Union Minister of Culture G Kishan Reddy over enhancing the efficacy of the iconic Victoria Memorial and other cultural hubs in the metropolis. Dhankhar, who is in Delhi, tweeted that the Union minister has assured all steps to put the Victoria Memorial, Indian Museum, Asiatic Society and the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre (EZCC) at Salt Lake "on incremental trajectory and secure more footfalls." The governor embarked on a visit to the national capital on Tuesday evening, a Raj Bhavan official said. "Bengal is unparalleled repository of culture and heritage," he added. Dhankhar's visit comes close on the heels of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's four-day tour of Delhi during which she met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, apart from several opposition leaders. The governor's last visit to the national capital in the middle of June, amid allegations of post-poll violence in West Bengal, had drawn flak from the ruling Trinamool Congress, which has been at loggerheads with Dhankhar on several issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Trader rescued, kidnapper held in Malda||Police rescued a scrap dealer after he was abducted from Gazole in Malda district and arrested a person in this connection on Tuesday. The police sources said Sujit Haldar, a resident of Kunjaghat in Murshidabad, works as a scrap dealer in Gurgaon. “On Sunday, a group of miscreants, led by Mukaddar Ali, intercepted Halder at Gazole while he was waiting for a bus to reach Murshidabad and abducted him.” said a police source. “They forced Halder to board an auto and took him to Meherpur, a remote village in Jatradanga area under Maldaha police station, and kept him at Ali’s house there.” The cops said the abductors had demanded a ransom of Rs 1.5 lakh from Halder’s family. Hirak Biswas, the inspector-in-charge of Maldaha police station, said Halder’s family contacted them and also filed a complaint. “We started a search and managed to locate the village where Halder was kept. We raided the village and rescued Halder. The abductors including, Ali and his associates, managed to escape the spot during the raid but later, we could arrest Ali. Searches are on to nab his associates,” Biswas added. The police said they would find out whether Halder was abducted for ransom or there was any other reason behind it. “We will speak with the victim to gather information. He will be handed over to his family,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Workers’ cut money alert upsets Trinamul Congress in Purulia||An embarrassed Trinamul Congress leadership in Purulia has sought an explanation from party leaders in Raghunathpur after a few workers went around the industrial town on an e-rickshaw on Monday and asked people not to pay bribe or “cut money” to anyone to get benefits under various government schemes. The party workers also pleaded with the people to bring such incidents to the notice of the local authorities or Trinamul leaders so that the accused could be brought to book. “We have already sought a report from our leaders as to why such an announcement was made and who gave the permission as the programme had not been endorsed by the party. The incident has tarnished the image of the party. Once we get the inquiry report, we will take stern action against those involved in the incident,” said Nabendu Mahali, the district Trinamul spokesperson. Sources said local residents of Raghunathpur town were taken by surprise when an erickshaw decorated with Trinamul flags and equipped with a public address system went around alerting people regarding cut money. “Honourable chief minister Mamata Banerjee has never supported the practice of taking cut money….(we are campaigning) to stop the practice of cut money. If anyone asks for a share of the fund that an individual gets under the housingforall scheme, we request the person to inform the administrator of the civic body or SDO Raghunathpur or Trinamul leaders immediately. We assure you that stern action will be taken against the culprits,” a Trinamul worker who was part of the team that went around Raghunathpur on Monday said. Trinamul insiders said the issue of cutmoney had snowballed into a serious trouble for the party in the middle of 2019 when a large number of party leaders at the district level had to face people’s ire. The issue had prompted Mamata to warn her colleagues at the grassroots level against the practice. She had even asked Trinamul leaders who had taken cut money to refund it. Trinamul sources said an internal feud of the party was behind the incident that caused much embarrassment to senior Trinamul leadership. “I have heard about it but am not aware of the incident. You can speak to town president Bishnu Charan Mahata on the issue,” said Madan Barat, the chairperson of board of administrators of Raghunathpur municipality. Mahata did not take calls or reply to a text message from this correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Three of family mowed down in Murshidabad||Three persons from a family were killed on the spot in a road accident in Murshidabad on Tuesday morning. The accident occurred when a speeding truck collided head on with a motorcycle on NH12 near Chuapur village, on the outskirts Behrampore, around 6am. The incident occurred when stationery shop owner Indrajit Saha, 28, wife Sumita, 26, and fatherinlaw Gopal Datta, 49, were travelling on the twowheeler to Murshidabad Medical College for their first doses of Covid19 vaccine. The trio were reportedly not wearing helmets when the accident occurred. “The victims were on their way for a 10am appointment but wanted to be there early because they heard there was a token system to administer vaccines on a first come first served basis,” said a police officer. Eyewitness Mohammad Samsuddin, who was trailing the truck that was going in the opposite direction of the highway, said: “The accident occurred in front of my eyes. I was shocked at what happened and stopped at a distance. The truck had hastily tried to overtake another vehicle and collided headon with the motorcycle, running over everyone on the spot. It fled immediately.” The killer truck fled from the spot after the accident but was later found abandoned near a local riverbank. The police have started a case of unnatural death and sent the bodies for postmortem. The police said the driver could be booked under IPC 304 once apprehended. The victims were residents of Manindranagar village, 3km from Behrampore town. “The driver is currently absconding but will be booked under a nonbailable section once found,” said police superintendent K. Sabari Rajkumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt staff protest ‘assault’ in South Dinajpur village||Around 60 state government employees posted at panchayats of Balurghat block in South Dinajpur resorted to a pen-down strike and demonstrated at the Balurghat stadium on Tuesday to protest the alleged assault and detention of two colleagues at a village on Monday. In the afternoon, they went for a “dharna” in front of the chamber of the block development officer, Anuj Sikdar, who however promised appropriate action. On Monday, two employees, Saptarshi Roy and Babun Roy, posted at the Bolla village panchayat office of the block had gone to Sarangram, a village under the panchayat, to verify details of prospective beneficiaries of houses under a government-run scheme. Saptarshi on Tuesday said they had been verifying details on Monday when some villagers intercepted them. “The villagers said the list of beneficiaries we had was wrong. We were humiliated and assaulted. Things came to such a pass that a police team had to rescue us. Twenty-four have passed and no step has been taken against attackers.” Another employee pointed out that if these attackers were not arrested, there might be similar incidents in future. BDO Sikdar said the pradhan of the panchayat has been asked to find out what has happened and employees asked to submit applications with evidence for legal steps against the alleged attackers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation launches drive against use of plastic carry bags||Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Tuesday launched a massive drive against the use of plastic carry bags in the city. Led by Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators (BoA) at the civic body and Ranjan Sarkar, a member of the BoA, civic officials carried out the drive at Bidhan Market, the largest market. They alerted shopkeepers to dissuade them from using plastic carry bags and seized such bags from a number of shops and stalls. The civic team  visited stalls of fish, fruit and vegetables, grocery and stationery stores. Over 40kg of plastic carry bags were seized. In recent times, this is the first drive of this kind by the civic body in the city. A few years back, the National Green Tribunal had specifically ordered a complete ban on use of plastic carry bags across Darjeeling district. However, some in Siliguri started flouting the ban. “The NGT imposed a complete ban on the use of plastic carry bags in Siliguri. We are implementing the ban through this drive. It is necessary for environment reasons. During the drive, we clearly told the business community not to use plastic bags or else fines would be imposed,” said Deb. A shopkeeper found using plastic carry bags will be fined Rs 500 while other persons found with such bags will have to pay a penalty of Rs 50, SMC sources said. “It is a continuous process. We will use public address systems to inform shop-owners and people in general on the issue. If required, we will conduct raids in places from where such bags are sold in the local market. People should use alternative items like paper and jute bags,” Deb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||BJP panchayat member, husband abducted: Party||A panchayat member of the BJP and her husband have gone missing for the past five days  after she and some others had expressed no-confidence against the chief of a panchayat in South Dinajpur. The disappearance of Dipali Mardi, 42, and Lukash Mardi, 47, since August 5 made the saffron camp accuse Trinamul of abducting them. Trinamul leaders, however, have brushed aside the charges. Sources said Danga village panchayat of Balurghat block has 20 seats. In the 2018 panchayat polls, the BJP had won 11 seats, Trinamul six seats and the Left got the remaining three seats. The BJP had formed the board then. However, recently, the pradhan, Mallika Karmakar Sutradhar, who was an elected member of the BJP, defected to Trinamul. This made the other BJP members express no-confidence against her. They approached the administration and it was decided that the meeting where the motion would be tabled will be held on August 13. “Trinamul however, played politics and on August 5, they abducted Dipali Mardi, one of our members, and her husband Lukash Tudu. It was nothing but an attempt to stall the no-confidence motion. We also suspect that in this way, Trinamul is trying to get some more members from our side so that the pradhan (Karmakar Sutradhar), who did a turncoat, continues to remain in her post,” said Subhash Sarkar, a BJP leader and also a member of the panchayat. On Monday night, Dipali’s mother filed a missing diary with Balurghat police. Investigations have started to trace the couple, police said. District Trinamul leaders, however, have denied the charges. “We are not in so much of a crisis that we have to abduct a panchayat member of the BJP. There must be some other reason for such sudden disappearance of the couple. The BJP is simply trying to play politics,” said Gautam Das, the district Trinamul chief of South Dinajpur. Jalpaiguri: A Trinamul booth president was stabbed allegedly by the son of a BJP worker in Tarapara of Jalpaiguri’s Sadar block on Monday night. Police said Bappa Das, son of Naresh Das who is the booth president of the BJP in the same locality, stabbed Sujit Roy during a brawl. Roy is under treatment at the NBMCH. The police have arrested Bappa and Naresh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||KPP ire at state government approval for only one primary school for Kamtapuri ||Leaders and supporters of the Kamtapur Progressive Party (KPP) demonstrated at the district magistrate’s office here on Tuesday, alleging that the state government approved only one primary school where students would be taught in Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi) language, instead of many as promised. “At the state budget (in February), it was announced that the state government will open 100 schools where the medium of instruction would be three regional languages, including Kamtapuri. Recently, we came to know the state education department approved opening of only such school in Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri. This is unacceptable as none other than chief minister Mamata Banerjee had made the announcement,” said Budharu Roy, the vice-president of the KPP central committee. On Tuesday, a delegation of KPP leaders gave memorandums to the district magistrate and the district inspector of schools, demanding more schools imparting education in Kamtapuri language in north Bengal. “The decision to open only one school will create strong repercussions among the Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi community). That is why we met the officials today (Tuesday) seeking state nod for more such schools. Else, we will be forced to launch a movement,” Roy added. District officials did not comment on the protest. Calls by this paper to state education minister Paresh Adhikary went unanswered. Trinamul leaders in Jalpaiguri reacted on the issue. “Those demanding more schools should understand the state budget said 100 schools in all will be set up in next five years. The chief minister always keeps her promise. We believe schools will come up in due course,” said a party leader of the district. Sources said for the proposed primary school, a plot has been identified at Rajarhat in Maynaguri on which the state PWD will construct the building. Till then, two classrooms of a Bengali-medium primary school nearby will be used to run this new school for which two teachers will be engaged. “The language academy has readied textbooks and syllabus and submitted them to the state,” said Bajle Rehman, chairman of the academy. The Mamata Banerjee government has addressed some of the demands of the Rajbanshis such as setting up a university in Cooch Behar after Panchanan Barma, the most revered statesman of the community, creating a development board for the community and forming two academies of Rajbanshi and Kamtapuri languages. Founded by Rajbanshi leader Atul Roy with the demand for separate Kamtapur state and recognition of Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi) language, the KPP has onsiderable clout among Rajbanshis. In recent times, this is the second issue on which the KPP has tried to mount pressure on the state government. Earlier, they had sent letters to the chief minister and also to the Prime Minister over their old separate statehood demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 639 new infections, 724 recoveries and 12 deaths ||Bengal on Tuesday logged 639 new Covid-19 infections, 724 recoveries and 12 deaths as the state saw 51 straight days of a slide in its total number of active cases. Active cases in all fell by 97 to 10,215 on Tuesday. Calcutta logged 68 new infections and zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is currently 98.15 per cent, its highest during the pandemic, and fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.43 now. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. With North 24-Parganas logging 67 cases, Tuesday was the fifth consecutive day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Seventeen Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure and North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Purulia and West Burdwan reported single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.58 per cent on Tuesday. Calcutta apart, 14 other Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. Darjeeling, Malda, East Burdwan, Howrah, South 24-Parganas and Calcutta reported one each. Bengal now has nearly 15.35 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes over 15.06 lakh recoveries and 18,252 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Two girls drown in rising Ganga in Malda||Floods in Malda continued to worsen as all rivers swelled, the Ganga flowing almost near extreme danger level. Two girls, Khushi Mahato, 10, and Faguni Mahato, 13, of Bhutni, Manikchak, drowned in the Ganga on Tuesday afternoon. Laili Bibi, 35, of Babupara in Malda town, drowned in the Mahananda on Monday. So far, over 1,000 families have been hit by floods in Malda. Sources said 20 villages under Mahanandatola panchayat in Ratua-I block got inundated in the past 24 hours as the Fulhar river swelled. Irrigation officials said around 6pm on Tuesday, the Fulhar was flowing at 27.12m, merely 0.31m below danger level. At the same time, the Ganga was flowing at 25.26m, 0.57m above danger level and only 0.04m below extreme danger level. This has left residents of Bhutni, the largest islet of the district in Manikchak block and located on the Ganga, worried. “The irrigation department spent nearly Rs 1.20 crore to save villages of the islet by fortifying the embankment. But the water level is such that the embankment itself is under water at Koshi Ghat area,” said a resident. The Ganga, inundating localities on its left bank in Malda, started eroding chunks of land on its right bank in neighbouring Murshidabad. Since Monday evening, the river started gobbling up land in Shibpur village under Samserganj block of Murshidabad. “In past 24 hours, the Ganga has gulped five houses while 10 more houses are virtually hanging on the river. All the 15 families have been shifted to a local school,” said a source. Last year, around 235 families from Shibpur and three neighbouring villages became homeless from erosion. “It was only on Monday that the block administration handed over secured land tenures to 140 such families and today, there are more erosion victims. This erosion, we believe, could have been checked if some protection work was done this past year,” said a resident. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain in Murshidabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
11-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata visits inundated areas, lines up team for flood funds||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said senior Bengal ministers and Trinamul Congress MPs would seek an appointment with Union irrigation minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to demand funds for the implementation of the Ghatal master plan. The statement shows the Bengal chief minister holds the Narendra Modi government’s inaction on implementing the Ghatal Master Plan, drawn up eight years ago to control floods, responsible for the current inundation of large parts of West Midnapore and East Midnapore and Hooghly. On the Day Two of her first district tour since coming to power for the third time in a row, Mamata conducted an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in West Midnapore and then landed at Ghatal. “You all know that Ghatal is located in a lowland area. We have repeatedly appealed (to the central government) to implement the Ghatal Master Plan. Despite it being a central government scheme, the government (in Delhi) is not sanctioning the sum…..I would like to tell Soumen Mahapatra (state irrigation minister), Manas Bhuniya (state water resources minister) and all others to take a time from central irrigation minister and go to Delhi to place the demand for the funds,” Mamata said after visiting relief camps in Ghatal. She distributed relief materials to flood-affected people. “I think our Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members should also be taken in the team to visit Delhi. Otherwise, Ghatal can’t be saved (if the master plan is not implemented).” The chief minister spent  around half an hour in near-knee deep water at Ghatal. The Telegraph had reported last week that refusal of the Centre to grant promised funds was one of the main reasons for flooding in East Midnapore and West Midnapore and Hooghly. “Today I was coming here from Jhargram and conducting an aerial survey. I had made a video of a 7km stretch of flood-affected areas in which I saw everything, including farmland and houses totally marooned. I will talk about the matter administratively and make a report on it soon. The situation of Ghatal is horrible,” said the chief minister after directing the local administration to open more camps at Ghatal for the flood-affected people. The Ghatal master plan is a cluster of projects that include the dredging and widening of riverbeds, strengthening of embankments, widening of confluences of at least 10 large rivers such as the Kansabati, Rupnarayan, Shilabati and at least 40 channels and sub-channels passing through East Midnapore and West Midnapore. In 2012, the state government sent Delhi a detailed project report of the plan estimated at around Rs 1,200 crore, which received administrative and financial approval by the Modi government in 2015. The Centre had approved to pitch in with 75 per cent of the project cost, but later reduced its share to 50 per cent. No money was sent. The state government dredged a large part of the Durbachati, Khiraibaksi and New Koshi rivers with its own funds. Sources said, after Mamata’s visit, the ministers had started an initiative to get an appointment with the central ministry of irrigation immediately. “We have already started communication with our leaders in Delhi to get the appointment. According to the direction of our chief minister, all ministers, MLAs and MPs would accompany the team to Delhi. We would provide all relevant documents from the first planning of the project along with the approvals of the central government to the present ministry. We would also attach the video that our chief minister shot from her chopper,” said Manas Ranjan Bhuniya, Trinamul’s Sabang MLA and current water resources investigation and development minister. “Chief minister had earlier written to the Centre at least 10 times but because of sheer negligence for Bengal, the Modi government did not sanction the fund,” added Bhuniya. Mamata said her government had already provided huge funds to finish earlier Keleghai-Kapaleshwari master plan and granted around Rs 2,800 crore to de-silt and execute several other projects in lower Damodar basin to save vast areas of Howrah and Hooghly from inundation. “We (the state government) had spent Rs 700 crore from our fund to complete the Keleghai-Kapaleshwari project. We have constructed several check dams by using Rs 500 crore. We have also provided Rs 2,800 crore in Damodar lower basin project which needs to be completed soon,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-138
