12-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata dismisses rumours about 'Lakshmir Bhandar' scheme||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Thursday dismissed rumours that all taxes need to be cleared for availing benefits of the Lakshmir Bhandar (Lakshmi store) scheme and said a complainant can dial her office for redressal of her grievances. The chief minister's comment came in the wake of allegations of cut money being demanded in the districts though she did not cite any specific instance. Addressing a press meet at the state secretariat, the chief minister said, for enrolling on the scheme the beneficiaries will only have to fill up the form at Duare Sarkar (government at doorsteps) camps to be held for one month from August 16. Around 1.6 crore people are expected to be a part of the West Bengal government scheme, which was a part of the Trinamool Congress' election manifesto, aimed at providing financial assistance to women heads of families in the age group of 25-60 years. Under the initiative, the state government will provide Rs 1,000 per month to women heads of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families, and Rs 500 to those belonging to the general category. Asking people not to be swayed by any misinformation, Banerjee said "the form for Lakshmir Bhandar' will be free of cost and will be only available from Duare Sarkar' camps. There will be a unique ID given on the form which will be linked with AADHAAR. Only that form will be accepted." If someone collects the form from outside, printed by any agency, that will not be accepted, the chief minister said. Banerjee said a rumour was being spread in parts of North 24 Parganas district that one has to clear taxes to avail the Lakshmir Bhandar' scheme. But it is false, she said. Women not employed in government services or permanent private-sector jobs, and not getting retirement benefits will be eligible for the scheme, she added. "In case anyone has any complaint, she can call the toll free number at the chief minister's office. Any grievance will be dealt with on the lines of Didi ke Bolo' (tell Didi) helpline (launched two years back)," she added. While Lakshmir Bhandar is a financial benefit scheme for women, the Duare Sarkar camp was announced last year as an outreach programme. Meanwhile, the Leader of Opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari said the chief minister has broken her promise within three months of returning to power. Referring to the 'Laskhmi Bhandar' scheme announced by Banerjee, he said before the elections, the party had promised a minimum income for all women in West Bengal if it comes to power. About five crore women are residing in West Bengal. but after coming to power, the number of women beneficiaries of the scheme has been reduced to 1.6 crore, he said. Adhikari said the yearly outgo for the scheme will be Rs 15,000 crore and will add to the state's debt burden to a great extent. The chief minister further said, to reach essentials at the doorsteps of people, "Duare ration" will be launched from the day of Bhai Phonta (a festival when women pray for their brothers' long life and good health). The Duare Sarkar camp will be held till September 15 where people will get information about 18 schemes, including Swastha Sathi, Khadya Sathi, Caste certificate, Sikshasree, and Kanyashree . Already 17,107 camps have been shortlisted but the figure will rise as many areas are still submerged, she said. The chief minister also said as per a revised notification of the Union government, the state has declared August 20 as a holiday on the occasion of Muharram instead of August 19 as announced earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata warns of repercussions in Delhi for attack on TMC workers in Tripura ||Asserting that the Trinamul Congress will overcome Opposition from the BJP and win the assembly elections in Tripura, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday warned of repercussions in Delhi if there are atrocities against TMC workers in the northeastern state. At least 14 leaders and workers of the TMC, including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP workers, were arrested in Tripura's Khowai district on August 8 for "violating Covid norms". Senior TMC leaders from Bengal are of late visiting the NE state where the Assembly election is due in 2023. Claiming that around 2 lakh people owing allegiance to the BJP had come to Bengal from outside the state and even from abroad during the assembly election held earlier this year, Banerjee wondered why TMC leaders cannot go to Tripura which is ruled by the saffron party. "We will certainly go and win the election in Tripura. The fight in Tripura will continue," Mamata, also the TMC supremo, said. "If there are atrocities in Tripura, its repercussions will be felt in Delhi," she said without elaborating. Mamata was talking to reporters after visiting injured TMC workers, who had been flown to Kolkata for treatment from Tripura, at a state-run hospital in Calcutta. Accusing the BJP of running an anarchic government in the NE state, she claimed that the Biplab Deb dispensation does not allow any voice of opposition to it. In a not so veiled threat of a tit for tat against the BJP, the chief minister said, "If they think that by registering an FIR, they will arrest them (TMC leaders) when they land there, they (BJP government) must remember that we also have the law in our hands here. We don't want to apply it and hope that charity begins at home." The Tripura Police on Tuesday registered FIRs against TMC all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, minister Bratya Basu and other senior leaders of the party for allegedly preventing government servants from discharging their duties at Khowai police station on August 8. Abhishek Banerjee, who is the Bengal CM's nephew and the de facto number 2 in the party, and others had gone to the police station to meet the apprehended TMC workers. The TMC supremo said that state Education Minister Bratya Basu will go to Tripura on Friday. The Tripura Police had also arrested some TMC workers from West Bengal on various charges. They were later granted bail by a district court in Tripura. Claiming that the BJP government in the northeastern state was indulging in atrocities there, Mamata said, "I want to ask the (Union) Home Minister (Amit Shah) what is he going to do now? How many human rights teams, tribal commission, women's commission teams have gone there and how many cases have been filed in courts?" A committee formed by the National Human Rights Commission on the instruction of the Calcutta High Court had visited Bengal last month to probe allegations of violations of human rights during post-poll violence in the state. Those who went to talk to officials at the police station were arrested as if they are criminals while those who attacked TMC workers in Tripura are roaming freely, the chief minister claimed. To a question on the Election Commission seeking views of political parties on holding assembly by-polls in Covid time, she said, "We will inform (the EC)". Seven Assembly seats are lying vacant in Bengal due to the deaths of candidates or the resignation of MLAs. A TMC parliamentary party delegation met the EC in Delhi last month to press for its demand for holding by-polls to the vacant assembly seats in the state at the earliest. The TMC is keen on the by-elections as Banerjee, who lost the assembly election from Nandigram, will have to get elected within six months to continue as the chief minister. In that case, the by-polls must be conducted by November 5. The by-elections are due in the constituencies of Khardah, Gosaba, Shantipur, Jangipur, Samserganj, Dinhata and Bhabanipur. Banerjee is expected to file nomination from Bhabanipur in Calcutta, which was vacated by winning TMC candidate Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, days after the results were declared. Mamata said that she will get a CT scan done of her leg which was injured during campaigning for the Bengal Assembly elections in March. The chief minister also visited her ailing sister at the state-run hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Durga Puja: 66 Pally puja committee to have 4 women priests to conduct rituals||A crowd-puller Durga Puja committee in the city has decided to conduct the entire puja rituals by a group of four women priestesses marking a new precedent as it is in the domain of male priests. The 66 Pally Puja committee, which had decided to mark the new change in established practice after the death of its veteran male priest end of last year, is hopeful this will be accepted by residents of the locality and the public and they can carry on the practice in future. Puja committee senior office-bearer Pradyumna Mukherjee told PTI the "four women are all scholars having great command on scriptures, professors in their respective fields, and fit the bill as a worshipper of the goddess in every possible way." "Being woman cannot be the criteria of not appointing them. Don't women make all the arrangements for conducting puja rituals in household and para puja If there can be women clay modellers, if there can be women organisers, why not women priestesses?". He, however, added if the move is "successful and gets acceptance" the puja committee will repeat the exercise in next year. Also it depends whether the four-member team of women priestesses are willing to be associated with the puja in future. Recalling how the puja committee had roped in the four - Nandini Bhowmick and her three team members Ruma, Semanto and Poulomi - Mukherjee said a film had been made inspired by Nandini Bhowmick's life as a priestess breaking male bastion and we got in touch with the production team. "As we told them about our theme, they were taken in by the idea," he said, adding that Nandini is a known name in south Kolkata circles. But the four women team haven't conducted any Durga puja yet. The puja committee has themed its puja as 'Mayer Haate Mayer Abahon' (Mother goddess will be worshipped by mothers), Durga Pujor Itihase Ei Prothom (first in the history of Durga puja)." The puja committee will conduct the khuti puja on August 22 which will be a precursor to the five day puja in the second week of October. The khuti puja, which heralds the beginning of the setting up of the pandal, will be conducted by the women. "We are looking forward to the occasion," Mukherjee said. Bhowmik, who is a guest lecturer in the Sanskrit department in Jadavpur university after voluntary retirement from a college, is a scholar who considers Indology as her favourite subject. "We conduct rituals at social functions like marriage, rice ceremony and funeral. We do conduct grihoprobesh puja. We don't believe in segregating men and women, in segregating between humans. We strictly follow the scriptures. We think the scriptures need to be interpreted and communicated in an appropriate manner to the modern generation," she said. The puja committee had last year themed its celebrations on the Apu trilogy on the eve of 100th birth anniversary of Satyajit Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal relaxes night curbs, extends ongoing restrictions till August 30||The Covid-related restrictions in Bengal were extended till August 30 with relaxations in the curbs during the night hours, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Thursday. The restrictions, first imposed on May 16 amid the second wave of the pandemic and extended at regular intervals, were about to expire on August 15. "The Covid situation in Bengal is quite good but the danger of the third wave is still lurking. This is one of the reasons we have not allowed local trains," Mamata said, addressing a press conference. "So, we have decided to extend the ongoing Covid restrictions for 15 more days till August 30," she added. The chief minister announced that the night hours during which stringent restrictions are imposed will be reduced. "We have decided a few relaxations -- such as full lockdown during the night will now be from 11 pm to 5 am, instead of 9 pm to 5 am," she said. Mamata said the state was not getting the required doses of vaccines. "If we get vaccines, we can at least ensure one dose of vaccine for the rural population and then we can allow local trains," she said. To decongest the prisons, Mamata announced that her government will release 73 life convicts. "On August 2, we had announced to prematurely release 63 life convicts on humanitarian grounds. Today, we have decided to release 73 more life convicts," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||State to bring rural schools and hospitals under Jal Swapno scheme||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to bring village schools, anganwadi centres and hospitals under the Jal Swapno scheme which was originally initiated to provide pipeline-based water supply to nearly 2 crore rural households in Bengal. A senior state government official said most such facilities in rural areas didn’t have piped water and hence, a decision was taken to include educational institutions and healthcare centres in the scheme. Chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi had recently asked district magistrates to prepare the lists of schools, anganwadi centres and hospitals which needed to be linked to the Jal Swapno scheme at villages and send the same by end of August. According to sources, the state government is trying to ensure piped water for maximum number of rural households and the facilities, which were included in the priority list, before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “The target is that maximum number of people reap the benefits of the scheme before the next general election. The Trinamul Congress wants to prevent the BJP from making the scheme as a campaign tool ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said an official. The chief secretary also asked the district magistrates to monitor the scheme on a weekly basis and send reports to Nabanna. “We are already lagging behind... In 2020-21, we were supposed to give pipeline connections to 45 lakh households, but we could bring just 18 lakh under the scheme. This year, the target is to give 45 lakh connections, but it is clear we can take piped water to over 70 lakh consumers. It would be tough to achieve the target by the end of 2023, which is the deadline set by the state government,” said a source. Sources said the Rs 58,000 crore project — to be shouldered by the Centre and the state on a 50:50 basis — would require huge quantum of land to set up pumping stations and other facilities. Dwivedi asked the district magistrates to send proposals for purchasing land directly for the project and also find out unused government plots which could be used for the scheme. A source said water connections would have to be given at most to 50,000 schools, anganwadi centres and hospitals at villages. “If we can connect to 2 crore rural households, we would be able to link another 50,000 establishments to the scheme. We hope that the Covid-19 situation remains under control in the next few months. If the situation deteriorates, we would face trouble to complete the scheme on time,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Twenty-one tonnes of plastic bags seized from godown||The drive against the use of plastic carry bags continued in Siliguri for the second day on Wednesday. Siliguri Metropolitan Police raided a godown and seized 21 tonnes of plastic carry bags. Authorities of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) conducted a drive in another market of the city. The special operation group and the detective department of police reached a godown off Sevoke Road on Wednesday afternoon and found plastic carry bags packed in sacks. “Across Darjeeling district, there is complete ban on plastic carry bags. The civic board has started a drive and civic body officials have said raids are necessary at specific points to prevent entry of such bags in local markets,” said a police officer. SMC authorities took away the plastic bags and sealed the stockyard, Mriganka Dey, sanitary inspector of the SMC, said. On Wednesday, Gautam Deb, who chairs the board of administrators of the civic body, and officials held a drive against plastic carry bags at the DI Fund Market in Mahabirstan. “Soon, we will hold a meeting with NGOs and those who work for conservation of nature. The drive will go on in markets and an awareness campaign will be launched in the city,” said Deb. Around 40kg of plastic bags were seized by civic officials during the drive, SMC sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Hooghly river gulps 8 homes in 10 minutes in Nadia||The spate of erosion along the banks of the Hooghly continued in Nadia’s Santipur with at least eight houses tumbling into the river “in 10 minutes” at the town’s ward 16 on Tuesday night. Panicky at the fast-changing course of the Hooghly amid erosion, at least 30 families near the river bank in Char Saragar and Gobar Char areas of the ward dismantled their houses on Wednesday to shift to safer places with whatever belongings they could carry. Till Wednesday afternoon, 40 families had taken shelter at a primary school. A few others moved to homes of relatives nearby. Local sources said the erosion began around 7pm on Tuesday. Pradip Das, a farmer who lost his house, said: “The erosion was so sudden and rapid that we lost everything before realising what was happening. Around 10pm, I felt the earth below us shaking as if in an earthquake. The river gobbled up eight houses within 10 minutes,” he said. Ajit Das, another victim, said: “I lost everything I own.” On July 18, five houses and about 30 bighas of farmland were lost in erosion in the same area. Residents had blocked NH12 alleging the district administration’s apathy. “The administration had then assured us of preventive measures but did nothing,” a villager said. “All they did before monsoon was piling erosion-prone areas with sand bags. It is an eyewash and doesn’t help. Dredging the riverbed and building concrete guard walls along the erosion-prone stretch are needed, but those are not done,” he added. Former councillor and local Trinamul leader Brindaban Pramanik said: “Don’t know why preventive measures had not been taken.” A  state irrigation official said continuous rain worsened the situation. “In such a situation, no protective measures can arrest erosion, particularly since the water level of the river has increased alarmingly. Nevertheless, we will take up some temporary work once the water level drops,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Junior doctor at Burdwan Medical College and Hospital dies after fall||A junior doctor at Burdwan Medical College and Hospital was found lying in a pool of blood early on Wednesday on the ground behind his hostel by friends, who rushed him to the hospital where he died within a couple of hours. Sources at the medical college said friends and juniors of Sk Mubarak Hossain, 23, had heard a sound of something hitting the ground around 2.30am on Wednesday. Soon, they discovered the junior doctor lying in a pool of blood with serious head injuries behind the hostel on the campus. “We tried our best to save the junior doctor, but unfortunately he died. Now, it is the job of police to look into the incident,” said Suhrita Paul, the principal of Burdwan Medical College and Hospital. A senior police officer in Burdwan said: “We have started a case of unnatural death. We will probe all aspects to find out whether there was any foul play. We can tentatively say the death was the result of falling down from a great height.” Family members of Hossain said they spotted a large cut mark behind his head and suspected that he had been killed. Hossain was a resident of Nadanghat in East Burdwan, where his father is a small-scale trader. “We were informed that he was in a serious condition and found him dead on the hospital bed when we arrived. Many of his friends claimed that he might have jumped from the hostel to commit suicide. But we don’t think he was in a state to commit suicide. We suspect it to be a murder case and we will soon lodge a complaint with police,” said Sk. Safiqul Hossain, maternal uncle of the junior doctor. “My nephew had a problem in his relationship with a girl but that can’t be the reason for the death as that chapter of his life was over,” Safiqul added. Several leaders of Trinamul’s student wing reached the hospital as Mubarak was reportedly associated with the union as magazine secretary. “He was a doctor and his death is an unfortunate one. We demand an impartial investigation to find out the cause,” said Mohammed Saddam Hussain, the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad president in East Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Youth arrested with guns and bullets in Cooch Behar||A youth was arrested with a haul of arms and ammunition here on Tuesday night. Police said three revolvers, three magazines and 20 rounds of live bullets were from Sourav Singha Roy, a resident of Dinhata in Cooch Behar. “Roy had bought the weapons and ammunition from Begusarai in Bihar. We will interrogate him further to know why he had brought the illegal firearms,” said Sumit Kumar, Cooch Behar district police chief, on Wednesday. In another incident, a father-son duo were found dead near the rail tracks in Gitaldaha of Dinhata on Wednesday. Police suspect suicide. The deceased are Pradip Burman, 35, and Pallab, 14. Pradip is the husband of Bithika Burman, a former pradhan of Trinamul of Gitaldaha-II panchayat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata invited to attend international peace meet in Rome||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has got an invitation to attend an international event titled “World Meeting for Peace Peoples as Brothers, Future Earth” to be held in Rome on October 6 and 7. The invitation has been extended by the Community of Sant’Egidio, which works for the poor, homeless, sick and the needy. In the invitation letter sent to the chief minister, Prof. Marco Impagliazzo, the president of the community, wrote that Pope Francis, the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I, the Great Imam of Al-Azhar (Egypt) H.E. Ahmad al Tayyib, German Chancellor Angela Markel and highest Italian political authorities had already confirmed their participation in the event. The chief minister has been invited for her “commitment” and “generous battles” in favour of the weakest and disadvantaged. In the letter, Mamata has been congratulated for her electoral success. Sources said Mamata had not taken any decision on attending the programme in Rome as it was scheduled just before Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Special birthday party for 25 year old royal Bengal tiger ||It will be a special silver birthday party at the animal rescue centre in South Khairbari of Alipurduar district on August 23. The birthday boy is Raja, a royal Bengal tiger. Jaldapara wildlife division of the state forest department and the West Bengal Zoo Authority will celebrate the birthday on the date the then badly wounded tiger aged 12, arrived at the centre in 2008. Raja, who lived in the Sunderbans, had been crossing the Matla river when a crocodile injured his right hind leg. Rescued by forester, he was brought to Calcutta where vets saved his life but a part of the leg had to be amputated. The same year, he was sent to the animal rescue centre, said a forester. Royal Bengal tigers live for 17 years or so in the wild and up to 20 years in captivity. Raja’s longevity is rare. “Raja has lived for 25 years and hence a celebration has been planned,” said Deepak M, the DFO of Jaldapara wildlife division. As many as 19 other tigers, rescued from circuses after a ban was imposed on engaging tigers in circuses for entertainment, had also been brought to the South Khairbari animal centre over the years. “All of them gradually died of old age. Raja continues to live in good health,” said a source. As a part of the birthday celebration, the department is hosting an online drawing competition for children as well as an online quiz on tigers. Participants can upload their paintings and winners will be awarded. “We will share a link on our website where people can click and join the quiz. Every participant will get a certificate and the top 10 rank-holders will receive mementos. We will also upload pictures of Raja on the website with a brief description of him ,” said the DFO. At the animal rescue centre, the enclosure were Raja stays will be decorated with balloons and flowers. “We will also organise a cake-cutting ceremony,” added the forester. Elephant attacks Babulal Oraon, 57, a resident of Aibheel tea estate in Matialli block of Jalpaiguri district, died on Tuesday night after being attacked by a wild elephant. Sources said Oraon had come out of his hutment when an elephant that had strayed into the garden, wrapped him with its trunk and tossed him on the ground. Foresters recovered the body. In another incident, an elephant entered Madhya Khuttimari village in Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri on Tuesday night and damaged an anganwadi centre, devoured food grains stocked there and then left the village. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung meets Binay Tamang after four years, stirs political plot in Darjeeling hills||Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang, two prominent Gorkha leaders, met each other on Wednesday evening after a gap of nearly four years in a clear sign of another realignment in the political landscape of the Darjeeling hills. Tamang, accompanied by policemen travelling in pilot and escort cars, called on Gurung at Pattabong Guest House, about 7km from Darjeeling, and spent around an hour inside. “I met the founder president (of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha) Bimal Gurungji for about an hour and we discussed politics from 2007 to 2021 and issues we need to work on for the benefit of Gorkhas,” Tamang said after reaching his residence at Dali in Darjeeling late in the evening without revealing much. Both Tamang and Gurung had refused to entertain the media, camping outside the gates of Pattabong Guest House, but the meeting triggered a lot of speculations among political observers in the hills. In the middle of the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation, Tamang fell apart with Gurung and formed his own faction in the Morcha. Since then, Gurung had been on the run as several cases had been slapped on him in connection with the violent movement. However, Gurung made a dramatic appearance in Calcutta last year and bought peace with the Bengal government and the Trinamul Congress. In the past one month, the political contours in the hills changed rapidly with Tamang sending his resignation as the Morcha president to Gurung. Tamang’s close aide Anit Thapa was elected as the faction’s acting president also. “There are signs of some political realignment in the hills... But we should not forget that Gurung, Tamang and Thapa are all with Trinamul now,” said an observer. Tamang, who had recently held a “secret” meeting with his supporters in Siliguri, had told this newspaper that more than “forming a new party”, he would concentrate on focussing on three issues and “a major development” was due to take place within a “fortnight”. The three issues that Tamang plans to work on are revision of Indo-Nepal Friendship Treaty, 1950, inclusion of the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai in the ambit of the Union ministry for the development of Northeast and establishment of an All India Gorkha Assembly. Tamang wants the Centre to set up a Gorkha Assembly which will not be restricted by any geographic boundaries. But he proposes that its members be constituted through adult franchise in Gorkha-dominated areas across the country. It was not clear whether Tamang spoke about those issues with Gurung during the meeting. There were no immediate reactions from the Anit Thapa camp but sources said they were not alarmed by the meeting. “It just shows Binay Tamang’s desperation to be relevant in hill politics.... Just watch earlier videos where both Tamang and Gurung had attacked each other,” said a leader in the Thapa camp. A section in the hills would be happy to see Gurung and Tamang talking to each other again, while some leaders in both the camps would be upset with the development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-136
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Six youths arrested for opening e-wallets to help cheats ||Bankura police on Wednesday arrested six youths who allegedly opened fictitious e-wallets to help conmen electronically route the money obtained from various bank accounts by fraud. Police said they busted the racket being run from Bankura with the help of distributors of SIM card providers of a mobile service provider. Over 8,000 mobile SIM cards, which were registered with fake identity proofs have been seized. “We got a tip-off that a person was buying SIM cards in bulk and that set us investigating. The trail led us to the kingpin of the racket, Abhishek Mondal,” a policeman said. The police suspect this racket has roots across the country. Abhishek apart, others arrested were his brother Abhijit, who helped him sell fictitious e-wallets to fraudsters, Ajit Mondal and Rajaram Biswas, who were the distributors of two mobile service providers, Ramprasad Digar, who collected fake ID proofs, and Rohit Mondal, an associate of the gang. All are aged between 21 and 30 years. Explaining the modus operandi, a senior police officer of Bankura’s cyber crime cell said: “Their prime job was to divert money acquired through fraud to various e-wallets. They first purchased and activated a SIM card against a fictitious name. Then they opened an e-wallet with that number and shared it with fraudsters who directly credited the cash into the e-wallet. Immediately, the cash was transferred to a bank account using the e-wallet registered against a mobile number.” The officer added: “To mislead cops, the fraudsters immediately ported the number to another service provider. As the e-wallets are opened with forged documents and photographs, it made tracking more difficult.” Police have recovered  from the youths 8,282 SIM cards, seven different bank accounts, 110 forged identity-proof documents, many computers, smartphones and other gadgets used in running the racket. “It is a modern crime involving e-wallets and e-accounts. Those that we have arrested today (Wednesday) are just the tip of the iceberg as they were opening e-wallets with forged documents to help bank frauds across the country. We have found several e-wallets opened by them and some are being used internationally,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the SP in Bankura. “We need to get several details from the arrested persons to find out all the people involved in the racket using e-wallets to commit frauds. According to primary information we think that the gang had defrauded people to the tune of at least Rs 50 lakh by using e-wallets,” he said. The arrested youths were produced at Bankura court on Wednesday and sent to police custody for seven days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 700 fresh Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 700 new Covid-19 infections, 746 recoveries and six deaths. Active cases fell by 52 to touch 10,163 now, with the total number of active coronavirus cases dropping for 52 continuous days in the state. Bengal now has 2.64 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 78 new infections and zero deaths. With North 24-Parganas logging 89 new cases, Wednesday was the sixth straight day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Sixteen Bengal districts reported two-digit figures and Kalimpong, South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Purulia and Jhargram single-digit figures. Nineteen districts reported zero deaths.  Kalimpong, West Midnapore and North 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s recovery rate is 98.15 per cent, its highest ever this pandemic, ahead of the national rate of 97.42. The state’s mortality rate is 1.18 now, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal’s daily Covid-19 positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.49 per cent on Wednesday. Bengal now has over 15.35 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.07 lakh recoveries and 18,258 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
12-08-2021||West Bengal||Ganga in Malda above extreme danger mark||Floods in Malda have worsened with the Ganga rising above the extreme danger mark on Wednesday morning, inundating new areas in Manikchak and Ratua-1 blocks. Nearly 8,000 families are affected in Manikchak and Ratua-I blocks, said sources. They added that the Ganga is flowing at 25.36m at Manikchakghat, above the extreme danger level of 25.30m. A red (secondary) alert has been sounded in unprotected areas along the river’s bank and the administration is keeping tabs on embankments. Mridul Halder, the additional district magistrate in charge of disaster management and relief, said on Wednesday that flood relief centres were open and relief items had been sent to the inundated blocks. Ganga apart, the Mahananda and Fulhar rivers of the district are also swelling. Rangaswamy Azhagesan, the general manager of the Farakka Barrage Project Authority (FBPA) and his team on Wednesday visited the eroded areas of Kaliachak-III block where nearly 150 families lost homes in a month. The FBPA, responsible for preventing erosion along a stretch of the Ganga’s left bank, promised permanent anti-erosion measures. In Nadia’s Santipur, eight homes were submerged in sudden erosion caused by river Hooghly on Tuesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-137
