13-08-2021||Business||Bengal scouts for more Swiggys to deliver swigs at home||Twenty-two-year-old Mukta Roy gets to deliver around 24-25 food packets a day, but dispatching a bottle of liquor is a no-no for her. Roy says it is because of her gender that she is restricted by her aggregator to deliver only food items. On the other hand, Santosh Yadav, who makes an almost similar number of rounds from his Santoshpur residence, delivers at least 12-14 liquor bottles to various addresses in the city every day. But Swiggy, their aggregator, may now have to do away with gender discrimination and allow Roy to deliver liquor bottles as the Mamata Banerjee government is keen to ensure residents of Calcutta have their home bars well-stocked, and, also, get to extend the practice to the rest of the state. On August 11, the West Bengal State Beverages Corporation invited expressions of interest from reputed online ordering and delivery platforms to ensure that people of drinkable age in the state are not deprived of their bottle. The new order has barred already empanelled service providers from applying, leaving other players like Zomato and Big Basket, among others, to enter the fray. Economics and not altruism is behind the move. State finance minister Amit Mitra has set a target of Rs 16,100 crore excise revenue, despite the state falling short of its target in the last financial year. “The lockdown is to be blamed for the shortfall,” said a senior official in the state finance department. In the 2020-21 budget proposal, excise collection was estimated at Rs 12,731.56 crore, while the state managed around Rs. 11,458.40 crore. With a large chunk of tax collection going under the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the state’s chief sources of earning are excise, sales tax and VAT collected on petrol, diesel, tobacco products and registration and stamp duties. Needless to say, in an economy impacted with a virus gone global and no recoveries in sight, the government can only hope for more "sinners" to collect its toll. The Mamata Banerjee government can hope that Calcuttans will emulate fellow tipplers in Karnataka who had helped the state collect Rs 23,231.28 crore in excise surpassing the budgetary target of Rs 22,700 crore. Last year, obviously the people of Bengal had disappointed the state government which had expected the revenue collection to be at least Rs 2,500 crore higher than the estimate of Rs 12,731.56 crore. The government has been squeezing the brewing and distillery industry hard in Bengal, adding an additional excise tax to the existing excise rate. The producers also were asked to provide the ex-distillery price that is the break-up of the production cost and profit margin. Based on these inputs, the government has prepared its excise and additional excise duty to determine the maximum retail price of a bottle. Finance department sources said this system replaced the 30 per cent sales tax that the government had imposed in April 2020. The new pricing had come into effect in November last year, just about a month since the government had first invited private players to deliver liquor at home. Of all the companies that had initially shown interest only Swiggy has continued with the service. Among the conditions imposed by the corporation are Web and Mobile app-based service for facilitating online orders and purchase of liquor from licensed outlets. Only those companies with at least two-year experience in e-commerce with transportation of essential commodities or FMCG or drugs and having a minimum annual turnover of Rs 25 crore with local offices in and around Calcutta will be eligible. Excise licensed hotels, restaurants and liquor outlets with organisational strength and resource deployment are also eligible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education chief removed from post||The Bengal government Friday removed Mahua Das from the post of president of state higher secondary council and appointed Jadavpur University pro-vice-chancellor Dr. Chiranjib Bhattacharya in her place. In a notification dated August 12, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said Dr. Chiranjib Bhattacharya is being appointed s president of West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education (WBCHSE) for four years with immediate effect and it has been approved by the education minister. Das had been in the eye of a storm ever since the publication of higher secondary results on July 20 in which initially about two per cent of the total 8,19,202 candidates were declared failed leading to protests by the unsuccessful candidates across the state, and for having revealed the religious identity of the topper triggering a controversy. The number of failed candidates was pegged at around 18,000 based on an evaluation method adopted by the council as exams could not be held this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The evaluation method had been worked out this year based on the marks obtained by an examinee in the Madhyamik (class 10) examination) and the best of four of the subject marks in class 11 annual test. The assessment marks in class 12 practicals in the case of science subjects and projects by students of humanities were added to the evaluation criteria. At the intervention of the state government and Higher Education minister Bratya Basu, the results of the failed candidates were re-evaluated and the council on August 2 announced all the unsuccessful candidates to have passed. Bhattacharya, who is currently not in town, confirmed the news and thanked the higher education minister for giving him the responsibility. "I intend to take up the charge on Monday," he told reporters. A top JU official said the university has not yet been formally intimated about the decision of the higher education department and it was not sure whether Bhattacharya will be in full-time charge of the WBCHSE or will be able to simultaneously discharge his responsibilities at the varsity. Das did not take calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal second highest in people consuming alcohol, says study||Bengal ranked second after Uttar Pradesh in terms of absolute number of people who consume alcohol, a joint study by economic research agency ICRIER and law consulting firm PLR Chambers said. According to the study, nearly 1.4 crore people in West Bengal consume alcohol, and this sector is among the top three revenue earners of the state. The price model in the state has been tweaked recently from a free market to a lowest ex-distillery price (EDP) and an increase in taxes has been witnessed, which is a major concern for the industry, the study said. It revealed that steep hikes in the market retail price have resulted in substantial decline of India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) sales in the state. Therefore, even though the formula for calculation is lowest EDP, the excise duty has been hiked and this issue needs to be studied taking into account how consumers react to price changes, it said. The report found that India is one of the fastest growing markets for alcoholic beverages globally, with an estimated market size of 52.5 billion US dollars in 2020. The market is expected to grow at a CAGR of 6.8 per cent between 2020 and 2023. Production of alcoholic beverages increased by about 23.8 per cent during the period between 2015-16 and 2018-19 and the sector contributed to around 1.5 million jobs and generated around USD 48.8 billion in sales revenue in 2019, the study noted. Yet India is unable to become a large exporter like Chile, Argentina or China, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to relax night-time curfew by two hours from August 16||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced her government’s decision to relax night-time restrictions by two hours from August 16. But she added that the stricter restrictions would continue till August 30. “The night-time restrictions will be in place between 11pm and 5am. Earlier, outside activities were barred between 9pm and 5am. The additional two hours will help shops and other establishments carry out their business properly,” Mamata said at Nabanna. The state government will allow theatres, swimming pools and sporting arenas to operate at 50 per cent capacity. The chief minister made it clear that suburban trains would not run till at least August 30 although she conceded that the absence of local trains posed a problem for many. “Many were asking me why local trains were not being allowed to run.… As vaccination in the rural areas has not been up to the mark owing to a shortage of supplies, I would request all to bear with the pain for a few more days,” Mamata said. The chief minister said the state would allow local trains to run once 50 per cent of the rural population got vaccinated. She said 75 per cent of the urban population had already been vaccinated with at least one dose. An official said: “A number of special trains in the suburban areas has been allowed and the state government has requested the railways to allow people working in certain fields to board these trains. This is how we have to manage the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang: Platforms different, but mission same||Binay Tamang on Thursday said he and Bimal Gurung would work from “different platforms” on various issues for the benefit of Gorkhas by “taking the state government into confidence”. Tamang added a new dimension to the ever-changing political landscape in the Darjeeling hills when he called on Gurung for a one-on-one meeting on Wednesday evening. “We have decided to work from different platforms to raise the issues of the Gorkha community by taking the state government into confidence,” Tamang told this newspaper on Thursday. There were rumours in the hills about the possibility of Tamang joining Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha but the former ruled it out “at the moment”. Speaking at a different location in Darjeeling on Thursday, Gurung also said he and Tamang would work from different platforms, but he was quick to add that “anything can happen” in politics. The two leaders’ statements clearly indicated that while both of them had agreed to work from different platforms at the moment, they remained open to the idea of different political permutations and combinations, which some observers think will add to the element of uncertainty in the hills. In the middle of the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation, Tamang fell apart with Gurung and formed his own faction in the Morcha. Since then, Gurung had been on the run as several cases had been slapped on him in connection with the violent movement. The political equations in the hills started to change after Gurung dumped the BJP and allied with the Trinamul Congress last year. Tamang’s meeting with Gurung on Wednesday comes after the former quit his own faction in the Morcha on July 15. Anit Thapa is now heading the Morcha faction that Tamang headed. Observers believe that though Gurung, Tamang and Thapa are all allies of Trinamul, Gurung and Tamang have joined hands to take on Thapa. The Thapa camp said the new development would only help their faction. “It has exposed Tamang and let us see how other leaders in the camps of Gurung and Tamang react to this development. We have nothing to lose from yesterday’s development,” said a leader from the Thapa camp. Speaking to The Telegraph over the phone from Kalimpong, Thapa said he would announce the date of the launch of his new party at a meeting to be held on August 17. Sources close to him had earlier told this newspaper that Thapa would launch the new party “either in the last week of August or the first week of September”. Thapa was in Kalimpong on Thursday where a former GTA Sabha member Gopal Ruchal joined his faction while Tamang started a tour of the foothills of Kalimpong and the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Six Bangladesh youths held for infiltration||Acting on a tip-off, a team of the 148 battalion of the Border Security Force (BSF) arrested six Bangladeshi nationals on Wednesday for allegedly infiltrating India via the international border at Kuchlibari in Cooch Behar. According to BSF sources, after entering Indian territory, the men, aged between 24 and 40, had hired a van when the BSF team arrested them. “The van’s driver and the cleaner were also arrested. All were handed over to Mekhliganj police. They need to be interrogated why they infiltrated India,” said a BSF officer. All the six Bangladeshis, aged between 24 and 40 years, are residents of Parsinghra village of Natore district in the neighbouring country.  The driver and cleaner are from Kuchlibari. On frisking, Rs 24,875 in cash, some currencies of Malaysia and South Africa, six cell phones, two Aadhaar cards and some suspected herbal medicines were found on them. In recent months, this is the first time in north Bengal that six Bangladeshi nationals have been arrested at one go. The BSF in a special anti-smuggling drive along the India-Bangladesh border in different areas of north Bengal on Thursday have seized items, including cough syrup bottles and cattle, altogether worth Rs 2.12. “These were supposed to be smuggled to Bangladesh from India,” said a BSF source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Rain triggers landslides, NH10 hit for hours||Incessant downpour across the sub-Himalayan north Bengal since Wednesday night led to landslides in a number of locations across the hills. As the slides brought down debris, traffic came to a halt along a number of roads, including NH10, the principal highway that directly connects the Himalayan state of Sikkim and Kalimpong district in Bengal with the rest of the country. The slides also damaged houses in many hilly hamlets of Mirik and Kurseong town. As monsoon rain continued to lash the region even in the early morning hours of Thursday, a chunk of debris fell on NH 10 at Hatisuray, a locality between Sevoke and Kalijhora, also known as SNT-Dara. Boulders and earth blocked the road, halting traffic. Vehicles bound for Sikkim and Kalimpong from Siliguri and vice-versa had to take detours on small interior roads. The debris on NH10 cleared partly by Thursday night and traffic in a single file was restored by 10pm. “The landslide on NH10 near Coronation Bridge of Sevoke (around 30km from Siliguri) cut off direct connectivity to Sikkim and Kalimpong. Officials of the NH division of the state PWD did the restoration work,” said a source in Darjeeling district administration. Excavators have been engaged to clear the highway. However, there is risk of fresh slides  if it rains again. Rainfall also triggered slides in localities like Dumaram Busty, Subedar Busty, Sherpa Busty, Rajbari Busty, Ranicoop and Gurukul of Kurseong town at different times in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, damaging at least six houses. “Also, three houses in Ninth Mile and Thurbo area of Mirik subdivision and one more at Neez Gaon that is in ward I of Mirik town were partially damaged because of the slides,” said a source in the district disaster management section (DDMS) in Darjeeling. Rainfall on Wednesday night caused cave-ins of portions of a road that connects Rimbick and Bansbotay in Darjeeling district. The road was built by the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. Damages were reported from Namla under Rimbick panchayat. Weathermen who earlier predicted steady downpour from Wednesday, on Thursday said further bouts of heavy rainfall could occur during the next couple of days. In past 24 hours, that is, till 8.30am on Thursday, it rained 1349mm in Siliguri. “We are on alert. All necessary arrangements have been made to handle any emergency situation,” said a senior official of Darjeeling district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Headless body of a 62-year-old found in Balurghat||The decomposed and headless torso of a 62-year-old man who had been missing from home for six days was found in a patch of forest located on the outskirts of Balurghat town in South Dinajpur district on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Jyotirmoy Mondal, a resident of Tank More in Raghunathpur area of the town. Police have sent the body for post-mortem and have initiated a probe. Sources said Mondal used to practise homoeopathy. “He was not a registered homoeopath but used to provide homoeopathy medicines to people of his surrounding areas,” said a police officer. Last Friday, Mondal went missing. When the sexagenarian did not return home, his family members started a search for him but could not locate him. Eventually, they filed a missing diary with the police. Police initiated a search. On Thursday, some residents of Madhuban, an adjoining area of Raghunathpur, sensed a foul smell emanating from the forest nearby. Some residents went to the forest area to discover the root of the odour and found the decomposed body. Police were informed and soon a team of Balurghat police station reached the spot. “We were surprised to learn that my brother’s headless body has been recovered from the forest. We have no inkling at all as to how he died. Police should find out what led to his death,” said Tapan, the victim’s brother. Senior police officers suspect that Mondal died some days back and dogs or foxes in that patch of forest took away his head. “We are waiting for his post-mortem report to know how this elderly man’s head got severed. Our officers are talking to his family members to obtain more information,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Special farm trains to Calcutta launched||The Eastern Railway on Thursday launched an exclusive train service for farmers in its suburban section on an experimental basis for transportation of agricultural and perishable products to markets in Calcutta. Two trains — Krishak Special — will run between Gede and Sealdah as well as between Santipur and Sealdah six days a week. Vendors will be allowed to travel with their produce on the trains. The two trains will help a large number of farmers and vendors from Nadia district and some parts of North 24-Parganas district to bring agricultural produce, particularly green vegetables, to markets in Calcutta. On August 7 last year, the railway ministry had introduced the inter-state farmers’ special train (Kisan Rail) between Devlali (Maharashtra) and Danapur (Bihar) in pursuance of an announcement in the 2020-21 Union Budget. This followed the launch of more similar inter-state Kisan special trains. But Eastern Railways’ Krishak Special is the first ever intra-state service launched in the suburban section to cater for a huge number of farmers and vendors who regularly struggle to transport their produce to the city markets from rural areas. Otherwise, they travel largely in general compartments. The nine-coach trains from Gede and Santipur will have limited stops and general passengers will not be allowed to travel, a railway official said. The Krishak Special train would leave Gede at 3am and reach Sealdah at 5.46am. On the other hand, a similar train from Santipur will start at 1.20pm and reach Sealdah at 3.50pm. “Vendors will be allowed to carry their agricultural produce by using their monthly vendor season ticket, luggage tickets as well as unreserved tickets to travel in the train,” an ER communication stated. Speaking about the objective of the two trains, an ER official said: “The early morning train from Gede is aimed at helping farmers ferry agricultural produce, particularly green vegetables, so that they could ensure supply to the city markets in the morning. The other train from Santipur is to help chhana producers who regularly supply huge quantities of cottage cheese to satisfy the demand of the confectioners,” the official added. ER authorities have decided that if this new special service becomes popular, similar trains will be introduced gradually in other suburban sections as well. “This Krishak special train service has been introduced on an experimental basis in the suburban section. If this experiment becomes successful, launching of similar train services will be considered in other suburban sections as well,” Ekalavya Chakraborty, chief public relation officer of Eastern Railway, told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections: Yechury highlights mistakes made by state comrades||CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday used a review of the Bengal election results to highlight the mistakes made by his Bengal comrades in their approach to the Assembly polls in which the party could not bag a single seat. The review had already been adopted by the central committee, the party’s highest decision-making body. “Sitaram was furious. He kept accusing the state leadership of not conforming to the party line. There was hardly any defence from the state leaders,” said a CPM leader who was present at the state committee meeting. “Even after coming back to power with a landslide victory, look at Trinamul’s groundwork. What are you doing? You are not even able to identify the issues properly,” a source quoted Yechury as telling the Bengal comrades while wondering how they could be oblivious to the decay in the party’s organisational abilities. The CPM general secretary has always been aligned with his colleagues from Bengal and had often lent his weight behind the so-called Bengal line in times of debates on the political-tactical line. But he was unsparing this time. A source in the party said that with the central committee (CC) adopting the review that the politburo had prepared — after discarding an electoral analysis drawn up by the state committee — it was practically impossible for Yechury to stand by the state committee that has been accused of flouting the party line. The report adopted by the central committee says: “During the course of the campaign, the seat adjustment with the Congress party and the Indian Secular Front were projected under the terminology of Sanjukta Morcha as a United Front calling for an alternative government. This was wrong and not in consonance with the CC understanding.” A segment of state leaders want to carry on with this electoral understanding. Their line came under fire from Yechury as the central committee’s view was laid on the table. This central committee note, a party source said, is going to be a bitter pill that the Bengal unit will have to swallow in all subsequent discussions — to be carried out across districts — on the Assembly poll outcome. The review of the election results did not restrict itself to the alliance the state unit had entered into. It highlighted how state CPM leaders had overestimated the anti-incumbency against Trinamul and how the ruling party’s attempts at tackling the people’s grievances were brushed aside as “dole politics”. Over the past few years, the CPM has often tried to criticise Mamata’s pro-poor measures as “dole politics”. A section in the party never approved of this line but got overruled in various forums. Now that the central committee has castigated this approach, it will be interesting to see how the state leaders, who had been in denial despite successive electoral debacles, chart their future course and criticism of Mamata. One of the central points of Yechury’s criticism of the state unit at Thursday’s meeting was its approach on the question of land, an issue believed to be at the core of the slide in the party’s support base since 2008. “The slogan of land as our basis and industrialisation as our future, coined at the time of the Nandigram developments, continued to be used even in this election campaign. In the current situation, this slogan was seen by the people as a continuation of the land acquisition policy, reviving memories of that period which had alienated rural people from the Left Front,” the source quoted Yechury as having told the meeting in reference to the note. Amid the current agrarian crisis and the farmers’ agitation, any talk of acquiring land would deepen the peasantry’s alienation from the party, the note said. Yechury reiterated the point. The Bengal unit’s repeated assertion during the poll campaign that the BJP and Trinamul were two sides of the same coin too came under attack at the meeting. The general secretary explained how this approach had damaged the party’s credentials as an uncompromising defender of secular democracy that opposes the BJP. The Bengal unit of the party, led by Surjya Kanta Mishra, has publicly acknowledged its mistake in coining the term “Beejemul”. The question, however, is how the state leaders will react to the other lacunae the central leaders have highlighted in their assessment of what went wrong in the Assembly polls. “During the central committee meeting earlier this week, some Bengal comrades seemed defiant in the face of criticism from comrades from Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tripura,” a source said. “One of them went to the extent of asking a Tripura comrade about the party’s performance in the tribal council polls in his state without acknowledging that the CPM remained a force in the northeastern state. We will have to see how the Bengal unit reacts and redraws its strategy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Three more held in e-wallet fraud||Bankura police on Thursday arrested three more youths associated with the e-wallet racket that helped bank conmen across the country to electronically route fraudulently acquired money. Six youths, including alleged mastermind Abhishek Mondal, were arrested on Wednesday with over 8,000 SIM cards and several computers and smartphones. “After interrogating the six, we got to know about the three more who were arrested today (Thursday). They supplied SIM cards and forged documents,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the Bankura police chief. Those arrested on Thursday were Dipak Guin, an expert in making fake voter ID cards, and Manas Sahana and his brother Kripasindhu, who supplied SIM cards using forged papers. Police also sent half-a-dozen phones to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory in Calcutta to track those who gained from the fake e-wallets. SP Sarkar said the accused had deleted thousands of messages exchanged with bank fraudsters and those needed to be retrieved. “The forensic lab will help us access this data,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Social cost of schools shut: teen weddings in twin Midnapores||The continued closure of schools amid the pandemic-induced lockdown has resulted in dropouts and at least 500 instances of underage girls being married off in the twin Midnapores this year. Reports of many minor boys being sent off to work in other states as migrant labour have also surfaced in the two districts. The causes, sources said, were an agglomeration of the lack of facilities for online classroom teaching in rural areas, heightened financial need in families and a loss of interest in education because of prolonged lockdowns since last year. “Government schools have largely not had the means for online learning. In the districts, we have a system of sending monthly home assignments but the enforcement is very poor,” said a district official in East Midnapore. The link between closure of schools and marriage of girls below 18 was first highlighted by officials in the twin districts early last year while surveying a spike in child marriages during the first lockdown. The problem seems to have come further to light this year during the assessment of the Kanyasree awards, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s flagship conditional cash transfer scheme to empower girls, one of whose provisions is a one-time grant of Rs 25,000 to a student on turning 18, provided she is unmarried and studying. Sources said a significant portion of the grant funds sent to schools were returned to the state as the beneficiaries had apparently been married off by their families. “More than 10,000 children of both districts dropped out of school since the first lockdown. We were able to confirm this from the Class XI to XII migration forms,” said an official, adding that authorities were monitoring marriages of those aged below 18 closely. “Lack of online resources is one contributing factor, but students are en masse losing interest in education. The outcome may be disastrous,” said headmaster of the Bhadutala Vivekananda High School, Amitesh Chowdhury. Chowdhury, also the West Midnapore district president of the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses, explained of 80 Kanyasree allottees in his school this year, 11 had been married off. At East Midnapore, eight of the 18 Kanyasree grants at Haldia’s Dalimbochowk High School were returned for the same reason. “Among the boys, on the other hand, at least 35 out of 135 in Class X have dropped out and entered the migrant labour force,” said headmaster Amitabha Nanda. “We have no income, so what else can we do? We sent him to Gujarat to work," said Roma Das, mother of a boy who was studying in Class X. East Midnapore district inspector of schools (secondary) Aminul Ahasan said greater efforts would be taken to ensure monthly home task modules were given to students and returned after being checked by teachers. Ahasan’s statement comes in the wake of reports of lacklustre enforcement of the home task mode in some schools. “We heard that some schools are slacking. We will write to them to ensure government norms are obeyed,” said Ahasan. On child marriage in this district, social welfare officer Purnendu Pouranik agreed that lockdown-induced closure of schools and financial distress exacerbated pre-existing social trends. “At least 15 FIRs have been filed since last year but the real number of child marriage cases is closer to 500, of which 84 were reported and 76 prevented outright,” a district official said. Pouranik also explained that as schools were closed, students were out of touch with their respective Kanyasree Clubs, an after-school activity that fostered strength and togetherness among adolescent girls and possibly played a part in preventing forced marriages in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Six persons arrested from different locations in Malda with around one kilo of brown sugar||Six persons, including two residents of Bihar, have been arrested from different locations in Malda district in the past 24 hours with around one kilo of brown sugar — a derivative of heroin. Malda police and the Criminal Investigation Department conducted joint raids as they had information that the drug was being supplied to Calcutta and Bihar from Malda district. On Wednesday night, the officials arrested Serajul Sheikh and Dalu Sheikh from Khochpara of Birnagar under Baishnabnagar police station with around 250 grams of brown sugar. Jalaluddin Momin was nabbed from Shershahi under Kaliachak police station with 275 gram of the narcotic. On Thursday morning, Kaliachak police seized 540 grams of brown sugar from an SUV that was heading to Bihar and arrested Pranab Roy and Ranjoy Roy, both residents of Bhagalpur in Bihar, along with driver Sandip Chowdhury. The estimated price of the seized drug is around Rs 40 lakh. Malda district SP said cases under the NDPS Act had been registered against all the arrested persons. “We will continue to conduct such raids to prevent smuggling and peddling of narcotic substances in the district,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid situation under control in Bengal: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the Covid-19 situation in Bengal was under control with daily infections in the range of 600-800 and 3.32 crore people had been inoculated (at least with one dose) in the state though the Centre hadn’t made available adequate quantum of vaccines. Bengal on Thursday reported 747 infections, 773 recoveries and 10 deaths. While Calcutta logged 77 infections, North 24-Parganas recorded 88. The total of active cases fell by 36 to 10,127. “The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was around 1.5 per cent now (1.64 per cent on Thursday). We have not been getting adequate vaccines, in spite of that, we have been testing so much daily (around 46,000 on Thursday), getting only 600-800 cases daily,” said the chief minister, adding that the recovery rate was 98.15 per cent currently. Mamata said there had been a total of over 3.32 crore vaccine doses administered in Bengal. The state has managed to vaccinate over 33.2 per cent of its population (with at least one dose) against the novel coronavirus, which is substantially higher than the national average of 30.3. “Of them, the first dose has been given to 2.39 crore (23.9 per cent of the population). Both doses to 0.92 crore (9.2 per cent of the population),” she said. Despite the alleged lack of cooperation and step-motherly treatment towards Bengal by the Centre, the state is third on the list of most people vaccinated after Maharashtra and Gujarat. Mamata reiterated that the state had the capacity of vaccinating 11 lakh people daily, but had been getting doses enough for 3-4 lakh. “We have the minimal wastage, at seven per cent. Our vaccination (infrastructure and pace) is the best in the country,” she said. Bengal’s 9.2 per cent – of fully vaccinated population – is much higher than the national average of 8.7. Mamata said since there were fears of a third wave in September, the administration was still trying to have some restrictions in place. She said the state government was trying to increase vaccination in rural areas. “Especially, the two 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, East Burdwan, Nadia,” added Mamata. With Calcutta logging 77 infections and North 24-Parganas 88, Thursday was the seventh consecutive day again of not a single Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections detected. North Dinajpur, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Purulia and West Burdwan logged single-digit figures. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday, while Jalpaiguri, Hooghly, South 24-Parganas and Calcutta reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.36 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.08 lakh recoveries and 18,268 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
13-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal decides to bring five more schemes to citizens' doorsteps||The Bengal government has decided to bring in five more schemes at Duare Sarkar (government on doorstep) camps to be held between August 16 and September 15 across the state in an attempt to expand the scale and scope of the initiative that many believe helped the Trinamul Congress beat anti-incumbency in the recent Assembly polls. The government set up Duare Sarkar camps for the first time in 2020 to enable people to avail themselves of 13 welfare schemes if the benefits had failed to reach the applicants. This year, people can avail themselves of 18 schemes at the camps. “People can benefit from 18 schemes at 17,107 Duare Sarkar camps which will start from August 16. Eligible applicants would get benefits at the camps between September 24 and 30,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Thursday. She said a total of 32,830 camps had been organised during the first phase of Duare Sarkar in December last year. This time, camps could not be set up at places that still remain marooned because of monsoon rains. “The state would set up camps in these areas later,” said the chief minister. According to the schedule of the outreach programme, five new schemes would be made available at the camps. “The most sought-after scheme at the camps this year would be Lakshmir Bhandar, which offers Rs 500 to general caste women and Rs 1,000 to SC/ST women a month. This is going to be the centre of attraction as nearly 1.6 crore beneficiaries would try to register themselves at the camps,” said a senior official. Among other new schemes, the camps would offer registration under the student credit cards, free of cost social security scheme, mutation and rectification of land records, opening of bank accounts and registration under the new Krishak Bandhu scheme that offers Rs 10,000 per an acre annually. As registration would be done under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme at the camps, officials estimate that this year’s programme would surpass the total footfall of last year’s camps. Last year, a total of 2.75 crore footfall was recorded and 1.77 crore applications were submitted in the camps. “This year, we are expecting 1.6 crore applications under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. So, it is expected that this year’s outreach programme will be more successful,” said an official. Sources in Trinamul said the state government’s target was to surpass last year’s Duare Sarkar programme considering the fact that the ruling party in Bengal was laying stress on 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “The success of last year’s Duare Sarkar camps had helped us regain lost ground in many areas, particularly at villages. If this year’s camps are more successful by offering more schemes, it will help us in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said a Trinamul insider. Aware that the state has a history of irregularities in government schemes, the chief minister stressed that she would not tolerate any kind of irregularities at the camps. “This gives a clear hint that the top brass of the government is very sensitive about delivering through the camps. This is why the entire administration would be busy in making the programme successful for the next one month or so,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-135
