14-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC MLA threatens BJP candidates aspiring for panchayat polls in Bengal||Trinamul Congress MLA Jagadish Chandra Barma Basunia on Saturday courted controversy by saying that there will be no central forces in the 2023 panchayat elections in Bengal and members of the ruling party will "take care" of those aspiring to contest the rural polls as the BJP candidates. The party's top leadership, however, did not approve such comments and said it is confident of winning the panchayat polls in a free and fair manner. At a meeting with local TMC activists, the Sitai legislator from Jalpaiguri district said, "Keep it in mind. Unlike the last Lok Sabha and Assembly polls, central forces will not be deployed in the 2023 panchayat elections. Those going to file nominations as candidates of the saffron party in the next rural elections here be careful. Our men will take care of you." He also said, "If you seek votes in the name of a murderous and communal party like the BJP, you will face consequences." Trinamool Congress MP Sougata Roy told PTI that the party did not approve such comments. "Panchayat elections are still far away. We will democratically fight the polls and win. People of Bengal have voted overwhelmingly for the Trinamool Congress led by Mamata Banerjee and defeated the conspiracy and intimidation of the BJP in the last assembly elections. They continue to support us," he said. TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh alleged that several leaders of the saffron camp had made provocative statements against the ruling party during the assembly poll campaign but they were rejected by the voters. Condemning the Sitai MLA's comments, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, "I challenge him to execute what he has said. Such words cannot instil fear among our workers. We will fight against the Trinamool Congress' terror tactics." He claimed that Basunia had left the constituency after the assembly polls held in March and April as he was afraid of people's anger. There were reports of booth capturing and violence against political opponents of the TMC in the 2018 panchayat polls in the state but the ruling party had denied charges in most of the cases. "Time has changed since the 2018 polls and the BJP won 77 seats in the last assembly polls. We will make sure that the TMC would not be able to execute its strategy adopted three years ago," Ghosh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC leader shot dead in Bengal, 5 arrested||A TMC youth leader was shot dead by unidentified persons in West Bengal's North 24 Parganas district, following which five people were arrested, police said on Saturday. TMC alleged that the BJP was behind the killing, while the saffron party claimed that the murder was a fallout of infighting within the ruling party in the state. Ranajoy Kumar Shrivastava (33), a close aide of winner from Khardah assembly seat Kajal Sinha who succumbed to COVID-19, was shot dead near Sandhya Cinema on B T Road in Titagarh in Khardah police station area early on Saturday when he was returning home in his car, an officer said. Unidentified persons stopped the vehicle of Shrivastava, who was the chief of the Hindi cell of TMC's youth wing, and hurled bombs and fired a few rounds at him, he said. Shrivastava was first taken to a hospital in the locality, and died on the way while being shifted to another medical establishment in Kolkata, the officer said. TMC North 24 Parganas chief Jyotipriyo Mullick alleged that the BJP had masterminded the attack to "instil fear among ruling party workers in the area". TMC chief whip in assembly and Panihati MLA Nirmal Ghosh alleged that the saffron party workers killed Shrivastava as he had joined the ruling party in the state from the BJP before this year's elections. Dismissing the allegations, Barrackpore's BJP MP Arjun Singh claimed that Shrivastava was never a member of the BJP and the killing was a fallout of "infighting over extortion". He claimed that the five arrested people are TMC members close to Ghosh. Shrivastava had worked hard for Sinha, who succumbed to COVID-19 after the polling and before the counting, leading to countermanding of elections in the Khardah constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Security beefed up across Bengal ahead of Independence Day celebrations||Security arrangements have been beefed up across Bengal to prevent any untoward incident during the 75th Independence Day celebrations, police said on Saturday. Vigil has been upped across Calcutta, especially in the Red Road area where the state programme will be held in the presence of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and other important dignitaries, a senior officer said. Vigilance has also been heightened in the districts sharing international borders and inter-state boundaries. Watchtowers have been erected and at least 500 additional CCTV cameras installed in and around Red Road where the 40-minute event will be organised on Sunday morning, the officer of Calcutta Police said. Around 2,000 police personnel will be deployed at the venue and Quick Response Team, Heavy Radio Flying Squad vans, and members of combat forces of Calcutta Police will be present, he said. Seating arrangements ensuring physical distancing have been made at Red Road, and strict adherence to other Covid safety measures including wearing of masks and sanitisation will be enforced, the officer said. "There will be a nominal number of spectators at the venue to ensure adherence to restrictions on congregation in view of the pandemic," he said. Naka checking at 20 entry points to the city are being organised at night and preventive arrests have been made, the officer said. Police have stepped up monitoring at hotels and guest houses in and around the metropolis as a precautionary measure, he said. "We are keeping an eye on hotels and lodges even though not many people are visiting the metropolis due to the pandemic. We have sought details of every traveller from the accommodation facilities. All vehicles coming in and going out of the city are being checked. Sandbag bunkers have been set up at key locations," another senior officer of the Calcutta Police said. "Fool-proof security arrangements have been made for Independence Day celebrations in the districts to thwart any attempt to disturb peace and harmony in the state," an officer of Bengal Police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||100ft-long embankment crashes, Ganga enters Bhutni island||A 100ft-long embankment protecting Bhutni island in Manichak block of Malda district collapsed on Friday, endangering nearly 20,000 people. The Ganga which surrounds the island was flowing 0.15 meters above the extreme danger level on Friday evening. The extreme danger lever of the Ganga in the district is 25.3 meters. Sabina Yeasmin, minister of state, irrigation and waterways department, said: “A long stretch of the main embankment at Manichak block has collapsed. We are keeping a close vigil on the situation.” Irrigation officials are trying to reinforce the ring embankment — the second line of defence after the main embankment — in the Koshi Ghat area of Bhutni. But local people doubt if the gushing waters can be stopped. Bhutni island is about 15km from the block headquarter of Manichak, which is among blocks affected worst by the raging river. Malda has 15 blocks. In Bhutni, villages like Kesharpur, Binpara, Kesharpur Colony are largely inundated as of now. Pranab Kumar Samanta, executive engineer of the irrigation department, said despite all measures, the main embankment could not be saved. “Our target is to fortify the ring embankment at any cost to avoid further damage,” he said. It is being anticipated that if the ring embankment collapses, the majority of the localities in Uttar Chandipur and Hiranandapur gram panchayts of Bhutni and the most-densely populated area of the island would be completely inundated. The third gram panchayat on the island is Dakshin Chandipur. The population of Bhutni is around 1 lakh. Residents of villages like Gadai Char of Bhutni, which are completely inundated, have started take refugee in higher areas abandoning their houses. The water levels of two other rivers in the district, Mahananda and Fulhar, are also increasing. The Mahananda was flowing at 19.75 meters, a little below the danger level, while the Fulhar is flowing in the danger zone at 27.35 meter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 739 active cases, 749 recoveries, 8 deaths||Bengal on Friday recorded 54 consecutive days of a fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases as the state reported 739 infections, 749 recoveries and eight deaths. The total of active cases fell by 18 to 10,109. Bengal currently has 2.67 per cent of the national total of active cases. Calcutta logged 88 infections and North 24-Parganas 89. Friday was the eighth consecutive day of not a single Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new cases. Eighteen districts reported two-digit figures of new infections. North Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.15 per cent — the highest ever — and is still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.43. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.63 per cent on Friday. Twenty Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while Jalpaiguri reported one. Calcutta reported three. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.37 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.09 lakh recoveries and 18,276 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Mayor of TMC-run Durgapur Municipal Corporation faces parking lot harassment||The mayor of Trinamul Congress-run Durgapur Municipal Corporation has not been spared by youths involved in running several unauthorised car parking lots in the town. A group of youths, who operate an unauthorised parking lot of four-wheelers and two-wheelers in front of a hospital in the town’s City Centre, stopped mayor Dilip Agasty’s car after he refused to pay “parking fee” a month ago. The harassment was revealed by Agasty at the meeting of the mayoral council on Thursday. Sources said the mayor expressed his anger and dissatisfaction over mushrooming illegal car parking lots. “Some youths stopped my car and asked me to pay the parking fee. I told them that ‘I am the mayor of this town’. Even then, they dared to harass me. I told them that this parking lot was illegal and I will not pay them,” said Agasty, who was returning home after recovering from Covid-19. The incident took place outside the Health World hospital. Agasty’s son was in the driving seat and he was trying to pacify the youths but they started thumping on the car’s bonnet. “The youths gave us a slip without any official seal and continued demanding money,” the mayor told the reporters on Friday. The mayor’s personal secretary was informed and he, along with some local Trinamul workers, had to rush to the spot to free Agasty from the clutches of the youths. The sources said Agasty rebuked deputy mayor Anindita Mukherjee for the mushrooming of illegal parking lots in her municipal ward area. “The parking lot in front of the hospital is illegal. I did not allow anyone to run any unauthorised parking lot in my ward,” said Mukherjee, who represents ward 22 at the City Centre. The sources said most of the illegal parking lots had come up at City Centre and Bidhannagar as those areas house government offices, including court and the sub-divisional headquarters of Durgapur. “Both the areas have several banks, hospitals, restaurants and shopping malls where a large number of people come for work. Local unemployed youths backed by the ruling party have set up several car parking lots illegally as a source of income,” said a Trinamul leader in the town. The relative of a patient at Health World hospital said he went to the healthcare facility at least thrice a day and each time ended up coughing up around Rs 20 depending on the duration of the stay. The parking lot operators charge two-wheeler owners Rs 10 for each hour of stay, while those who park their cars are arbitrarily charged between Rs 20 and Rs 30 for one hour. CPM West Burdwan district secretariat member Pankaj Roy Sarkar said: “The situation in Durgapur is so bad that a mayor is not spared by Trinamul-backed hooligans who run unauthorised parking lots in the city.” Agasti said the illegal parking lots had come up on the land of the Asansol-Durgapur Development Authority (ADDA). “I have urged the chairman of the ADDA to remove all illegal parking lots from its land. Those operating the illegal parking lots are extorting and harassing people,” said Agasti. The ADDA chairman, Tapas Banerjee, said they had only four authorised parking lots – three at City Centre and one at Bidhannagar in Durgapur town. “We take action against illegal parking lots whenever we get complaints. We will do it again,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Wild elephant raids hut in Jhargram, woman dead||A wild elephant, which had got separated from its herd, broke into the mud house of an elderly woman killing her on the spot at a village in Jhargram early on Friday morning. Sources said a mud wall fell on Fulmani Mandi, 65, a resident of Kapatkata village in Jhargram’s Belpahari, while she was asleep after the tusker broke into her hutment. “The family members of the victim will be compensated as soon as we get the required documents within a day or two. We have deployed our staff and trained workers to guide the elephants and keep them away from human habitat,” said Sheik Fareed J, the divisional forest officer of Jhargram. “We are sending bulk SMS to local people every morning informing them about presence of elephants in their vicinity and are also sharing the location of the animals. Our staff make announcements using the public address system to aware about the elephants movement,” Fareed added. Kids drown Two children drowned in a pond near Mohana village in Bankura on Friday afternoon. Police sources said Anmol Hazam, 6, and Anshika Sharma, 8, residents of Bankura’s Mejia, had come to the spot with their uncle Jagdeep Hazam. The sources said Jagdeep, who was washing his motorbike, tried to save the children but failed. The bodies have been sent to Bankura Sammilani Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt extends evening business hours for shops and bars||The Bengal government has allowed all shops, bars and restaurants to remain open till 10.30pm from Monday when the night curbs get reduced by two hours. A notification issued by chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi announced the relaxation of the pandemic-induced restrictions. The order, however, makes it clear that adherence to all Covid protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining physical distance is mandatory. “Bars and restaurants were closed for more than a month since mid-May. In late June, the state government allowed them to operate till 8pm. Now, after about three months, the bars and restaurants will be allowed to operate till 10.30pm,” a source said. “These establishments have to wind up everything before 11pm. So, they can do their business till 10.30pm,” an official said. The night-time restrictions barring non-essential outdoor activity will be in force between 11pm and 5am from August 16. The state has also allowed all types of government outdoor programmes from August 16. But the organising departments have to ensure physical distancing and adherence to all Covid protocols at the programme venues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress gram panchayat member murdered in Murshidabad||A Trinamul Congress member of Kurunnurun gram panchayat in Murshidabad district was murdered on Friday morning when he was on his way home from a market. Mostafa Sheikh, 46, was reportedly attacked with crude bombs and then bullets by the side of a paddy field around 9am after being stopped by four unidentified persons at Hastinapur . Trinamul workers have termed the murder an act of political vendetta, while the BJP blamed rivalry within Trinamul for the crime. Sources said Mostafa was an ardent Trinamul worker  and “galvanised” local youth, which may have made him a target if the act was political in nature. However, local sources denied knowledge of any such rifts. Eyewitnesses rushed him to the Burwan block hospital, 10km away, but doctors pronounced him dead. Sources said his assailants walked off on foot after committing the crime. “We were at some distance, so we couldn’t hear what was going on, but we saw clearly that he was killed in cold blood,” said a resident of Hastinapur. “Mostafa was a great organiser, so the BJP has decided to silence him. This is another sign of their reign of terror in our district which commenced after they lost their assembly seat here,” said Trinamul Burwan MLA Jiban Krishna Saha. BJP district president Gourishankar Ghosh said: “The BJP is not involved. This is Trinamul’s internal strife.” District superintendent of police, K. Sabari Rajkumar, said a murder case and an investigation had been started in this connection. "We have already arrested two persons and are looking for the other two," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Assistant director of factories issues fire safety notices to 31 industrial units in Haldia||The assistant director of factories in East Midnapore has this week issued notices to 31 industrial units in Haldia with directives to upgrade their fire-safety systems, the move attributed to the fire in the Haldia Petrochemicals naphtha cracker unit on August 3. The assistant director of factories has also asked the companies to inform authorities about measures undertaken to upgrade the fire-safety systems. Referring to state fire safety regulations as well as the Factories Act, the letter directs the companies to conduct fire drills every two months, alongside system upgrades. A timeframe of 15 days has been given for response and compliance. "Haldia is an industrial town, and entails the operation of several factories, a few of whom deal in extremely hazardous material. It is important that they know how to respond to crises, and that we are kept informed about the same," said assistant director (factories), Debayan Dey, who had visited the HPCL plant following the August 3 fire and went on record saying he was "surprised" at the amount of hydrocarbon effluent he saw accumulated in the naphtha unit's drainage system. The memo dated August 9 references directs units to emphasise drills, drafting of a list of emergency personnel to be shared with the government, also various up-to-date industrial regulations pertaining to fire safety. "Air pollution is not the only thing that needs to be attended to. All other systems of effluence also need to be monitored stringently to avoid such incidents in the future. Seeing the HPCL incident spurred us to take preventative steps at all other such units immediately," he added on Friday. No one was injured in the HPCL fire on August 3. District authorities said the units would have to prove that they had four hours of water supply to fight fires in order for future permissions. "Outstation tenders which have up-to-date firefighting material often take a bit of time. So, this requirement has been emphasized to units," said a source. Thirty-one units received the letter, including the Indian Oil Corporation, Mitsubishi, Bharat Petroleum, Hindustan Petroleum, Tata Power and Tata Steel. Sources said IOC had already responded, agreeing to a meeting with district officials next week regarding upgrading safety systems in their Haldia plant. Other units are expected to respond early next week. "We appreciate the authorities' initiative for safety and we will cooperate accordingly," said an official from HPCL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Bison runs amok, kills 52-year-old woman in Jalpaiguri district||A woman died after a bison running amok in the Malbazar civic area of Jalpaiguri district attacked her on Friday morning. Police said the animal attacked Sitadevi Prasad, 52, a resident of Khudirampally under ward-12 of the Malbazar municipality, while was returning home after a morning walk around 6am. Local people rushed her to Malbazar Super Specialty Hospital where she succumbed to her injuries later in the day. Foresters Malbazar wildlife squad under Gorumara forest division suspect that the animal might have strayed from Lataguri forest, about 22km from Malbazar. “We managed to tranquillise the bison around 8am. It was hauled by an excavator and taken to the nearby Gorumara forest. After primary treatment, the bison was released in the forest in the evening,” said Dipen Subba, ranger officer, Malbazar wildlife squad. Jumbo carcass The carcass of an adult tusker was recovered from a drain in Alipurduar district on Friday. Foresters of the Buxa Tiger Reserve said the corpse had been sent for post-mortem. “The cause of death can be ascertained only after we get the autopsy report,” said Pravin Kaswan, deputy field director of the BTR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
14-08-2021||West Bengal||Ballot box cleaning sets off panchayat election buzz in hills||The Darjeeling district administration has cleaned ballot boxes that were lying unused in a store room for decades, a move which has created excitement among political parties because panchayat elections were last held in the hills in 2000. Although electronic voting machines are used for Assembly and Lok Sabha polls, the panchayat elections are held using paper ballots that voters drop in ballot boxes. “We heard that ballot boxes lying with the district administration had been cleaned recently and we cannot rule out the possibility of the state government holding panchayat elections soon,” said a hill leader. Sources in the district administration did confirm to this newspaper that the ballot boxes had been cleaned about “10-12 days” back. “Honestly, whether panchayat elections will be conducted or not is a decision that the state government will take and we are not privy to this information,” said an official. In 1993, the Indian Constitution was amended paving the way for a two-tier panchayat system in the Darjeeling hills unlike the rest of the state where a three-tier panchayat system is in place. The two-tier panchayat system was introduced following the formation of the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC). The Gorkha National Liberation Front which was in power at the DGHC didn’t want the top tier of the panchayat system as the party feared powers of both the bodies would be overlapping. However, in 2000, elections to only gram panchayats were held in the hills. Many observers say the late GNLF leader Subash Ghisingh was against holding elections to the second-tier panchayat samitis as he believed that tier would interfere in the working of the DGHC. After the 1993 amendment, the Siliguri Mahukama Parishad was formed for the rural areas of the Siliguri subdivision which ensured a panchayat system akin to the zilla parishad in the plains of Darjeeling district. Areas which were not under the DGHC and also the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) which replaced the council in 2012 were included in the SMP. However, the Centre, the state and the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, while signing the memorandum of agreement for the GTA on July 18, 2012, had agreed to implement the three-tier panchayat system in the hills. “It is clear that the Constitution has to be amended before elections can be held to a three-tier panchayat system in the GTA area but nothing stops the government from holding elections to two tiers in the hills,” pointed out a hill leader. The decision to clean the ballot boxes also comes at a time when the political landscape is rapidly changing in the hills. Gorkha leaders Bimal Gurung and his rival Binay Tamang have come closer to each other while another hill leader Anit Thapa is set to float a new political party. “The state government might just hold the panchayat elections to test the waters,” observed a hill leader. In the hills, elections to the GTA have also not been held after the term ended in 2017. The Darjeeling municipality is also being run by an administrator since 2019. “At a time when there are no elected bodies running local bodies, there is every possibility of the state holding elections to local bodies,” the hill leader said. The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (Elections), Rules, 2012, has provisions to hold elections to the hill body either through ballot boxes or EVMs. However, the 2012 GTA elections were conducted through EVMs. Municipality polls are also conducted with EVMs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
