15-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress: Matangini Hazra hailed from Bengal not Assam ||The Trinamul Congress on Sunday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has scant knowledge of history and demanded an apology from him for incorrectly saying that freedom fighter from West Bengal, Matangini Hazra, hailed from Assam. The BJP said that the TMC was unnecessarily creating a controversy over the gaffe made during the prime minister's Independence Day speech, and claimed that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had also made many faux pas in her speeches in the past. West Bengal TMC general secretary Kunal Ghosh said that the prime minister has scant knowledge of history and merely read out a written text in a "dramatic style". The TMC spokesperson tweeted, "@BJP4India Matangini Hazra from Assam? R u mad? U don't know history. U have no feelings. You just read a written speech (that also by others) with drama." "This is insult to Bengal. You must beg apology. Hope Your LOP from East Midnapore will also condemn such a mistake," Ghosh added, while attaching a purported clipping of the speech. The TMC leader sought a response from Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Assembly and Nandigram's BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari, who had often referred to the contribution of Medinipur, from where Matangini Hazra hailed, to the freedom struggle. The TMC tweeted on its official handle, "Matangini Hazra is a freedom fighter from Bengal, Mr. @narendramodi!" "With such scant regard for our glorious history, you have insulted all of #Bengal once again. Is @BJP4India committed to erasing our history? Mocking it as they please? SHAME," the party said, attaching a purported video with the post. Reacting to the controversy, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said, "It was a minor mistake on the prime minister's part and the TMC is deliberately highlighting it while trying to overlook other parts of his speech where he spoke about many projects initiated by the Centre." BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said, "It was a slip of tongue. What about the series of gaffes made by the chief minister on our freedom fighters and history? Did she ever apologise for those blunders?" Senior Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said, "It was a serious mistake by the PM showing his ignorance about Bengal's history and its contribution to the freedom struggle." State Left Front chairman Biman Bose said, "Things like these happen if someone who has grown up with RSS teachings does not care to read or find out on his own and depends on the text prepared by his office without even checking." Hazra (1869-1942), who lived in Tamluk in present-day Purba Medinipur district, was shot dead by the British Indian Police while she was leading a procession as part of the Quit India movement launched across the country by Mahatma Gandhi in 1942. Her death triggered widespread condemnation and steeled Indians' resolve against the British colonialists, giving more impetus to the freedom struggle. Hazra is a familiar figure across West Bengal and there is a statue of her in Maidan area in the heart of Kolkata. She is remembered while paying tributes to freedom fighters and both the TMC and the BJP had invoked her during the high-voltage campaign in Purba and Paschim Medinipur districts during the assembly elections this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Strengthen voices against those who try to stifle freedom, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday called for strengthening voices against all forces that try to stifle freedom. She unfurled the National Flag and took salutes from various police wings during a parade on Red Road in Calcutta on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day. The chief minister also awarded various police personnel for their gallantry and paid floral tributes at the Police Memorial and a statue of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, whose 125th birth anniversary was celebrated this year. Though Mamata did not address the people, she tweeted, "On the 75th Independence Day, let us all come together to strengthen our voices against all forces that aim to stifle our freedom. We must never forget the sacrifice of those who fought a long and hard battle for this day. Warm wishes to all my brothers and sisters. Jai Hind!" Colourful tableaux themed on various schemes and campaigns of the state government were taken out at the event. Many dignitaries, including Chief Secretary H K Dwidevi, Home Secretary B P Gopalika and Calcutta Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra, were present at the programme. Meanwhile, community clubs and social organisations also took out rallies, while the National Flag was hoisted at educational institutions and government offices. Various political parties also observed the day their offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: 90 more phones in e-wallet case||Bankura police on Saturday recovered 90 mobile phones dumped near a pond in Chhatna. The phones were allegedly used to receive OTPs (one-time passwords) issued via fictitious e-wallets to route money cheated from bank accounts of unsuspecting victims. Interrogation of nine persons arrested so far after the racket was busted on Wednesday also led the police to nab one Bibhas Karmakar on Saturday. He supplied forged identity proofs for SIM cards. “We suspect a few more involved in the racket have abandoned the basic mobile phones that used to receive OTPs. We have also arrested another person in this connection. Probe is to get to the root of the racket. We are waiting for forensic lab reports of some smartphones to get details of end-users,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the Bankura superintendent of police, on Saturday. Till Saturday, the police arrested 10 youths, including alleged mastermind of the e-wallet racket Abhishek Mondal, seized over 8,000 SIM cards and several computers and smartphones. Bankura police on Saturday recovered 90 mobile phones dumped near a pond in Chhatna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress to screen new entrants in Darjeeling ||The Darjeeling district committee of the Trinamul Congress has decided to screen people wanting to join the party from the block levels to the district, the decision coming as a part of an overall strategy to check the antecedents of new entrants to the ruling party. This is the first time such a process is being adopted by the party in the district, said a source, adding that the step is being taken to ensure that the public at large does not get any wrong signal at a time leaders from various parties are making a beeline to join the party even in a district where Trinamul has not fared well in polls. Election to the Siliguri Municipal Corporation is due and many expect the state government to conduct the same soon. Against this backdrop, the district committee’s decision is vital. Ranjan Sarkar, president, Darjeeling district committee (plains) of Trinamul, said there were allegations that people involved in “wrongdoings” had managed to get entry into the party at the grassroots. “There are allegations that people involved in wrongdoings have either managed to get entry or are trying to enter the party. We have decided to ask leaders right from the block level to district level to screen those wanting to join the party before they are inducted,” said Sarkar. The Darjeeling district committee has also started conducting inquiries on allegations raised against new party members. “We are carrying out necessary inquiries about new members against whom allegations have been raised. If we find the allegations have merit, we will showcause (them). None will be spared if found guilty,” said Sarkar. The leader said many people are joining the Trinamul after it swept the recent Bengal Assembly polls with three-fourths majority. Many in the party believe that some new members could have joined the ruling party just “for political shelter”. “If we are not careful the new entrants could do more harm than good to the party,” said another leader. Trinamul leaders said they “welcome everybody to our party” but added the district committee had decided to be more vigilant. “Everyone will have to go through a proper screening process. This will be carried out from the block to the district level and the report will be sent to the state leadership for final approval,” said Sarkar. In case of heavyweights from other parties joining, the final decision is always taken by the state leadership. The new decision seems to be aimed at screening local leaders and supporters. Trinamul has not fared well in elections in Darjeeling district. During the 2021 Bengal Assembly election, the party candidates lost from all the five assembly segments in the district. Gautam Deb, one of the well-known faces of the party from north Bengal and two-time minister, lost from Dabgram-Fulbari seat. “We are hoping for a better performance in the coming elections and for this we have to be vigilant and avoid sending out a wrong message to people,” said a leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Bid to keep Duare Sarkar camps free of politicians||The Mamata Banerjee government prohibited the distribution and receipt of forms in bulk at the Duare Sarkar camps set to start from Monday, making it clear that political interference won’t be entertained at the first mega public outreach of the Trinamul government after returning to power for the third time. “Bulk receipt of pre-filled forms and bulk distribution of blank forms is prohibited,” reads a minute of a video-conference conducted by the chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi with district officials and department heads on August 12. Government sources said the instruction clearly indicates the state government’s keenness to ensure no political party, including Trinamul, can interfere in the programme that would be entirely manned by government officials. “It is longstanding practice in Bengal that political parties help people particularly in rural areas where literacy rate is not high to fill up forms for government benefits. This is the first time the government is trying to prevent it,” said a senior government official. When political parties help beneficiaries by filling up forms, party members fill up forms and submit them in bulk. If forms can’t be given and received in bulk, political parties can’t get involved, sources said. The top brass of the government did not want political interference in the camps to keep them free of controversy, officials said. “Complaints often came up against local political leaders...of them asking for money from beneficiaries….The government wants to get rid of such complaints. Government officials in camps will help beneficiaries fill up forms,” said a source. A Trinamul insider said if complaints of “cut money” rear their head now, it could ruin the entire effort.  “It is expected that 2 crore women will register through the camps for the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme this time... If complaints come up against our local leaders, it may derail our government’s effort,” said a Trinamul MLA. Sources also said the effort to keep political parties away would also restrict Opposition parties in Bengal from extracting mileage. “If political parties were allowed in camps, the BJP would have taken the opportunity to reach out to the masses in some areas. The ruling establishment clearly wants to nip this probability in the bud,” said a source. Some government officials wondered if restricting political interference would create trouble for many people who can’t fill up forms on their own. “Though it is being said that the government officials would help people who can’t fill up forms on their own, practically it is impossible for those present in the camps to simultaneously run camps and fill up forms,” said a bureaucrat. He said the involvement of gram panchayats would have helped poor and illiterate people fill up and submit forms properly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul clears Congress air but adds reminders||Trinamul Congress mouthpiece Jago Bangla on Saturday published an editorial detailing the stand on national politics, saying the party was not espousing the idea of a non-Congress alliance. It also took care to send implied reminders on the singular role Mamata Banerjee played in defeating the BJP in Bengal, and that Trinamul and its leadership should be treated with the respect their stature deserves. The editorial in the Bengali daily, coming two weeks after Mamata’s Delhi visit, is being viewed as an attempt to bring to an end speculation over Mamata’s view of the Congress and its role in a pan-India platform of non-BJP forces ahead of the Lok Sabha polls of 2024. The crux of the editorial reflects what Mamata had repeatedly stressed during her four-day Delhi trip between July 26 and 30. “We are certainly not talking about an alliance excluding the Congress. Rather, instead of a third alternative, a direct alternative alliance should be the aim of those in the Opposition this time,” read the piece, a reassertion of Mamata’s call for a united fight against the BJP to make the next general elections “Hope 24”. “The Trinamul Congress is in favour of a consolidated alliance. We do not have to furnish new evidence of our good intentions,” added the editorial in the paper, which became a daily from weekly on July 21. The context, the editorial stated, was rampant speculation and even criticism of Trinamul’s absence from recent political exercises for the national Opposition, convened by the Congress, especially Rahul Gandhi. Mamata, during her Delhi trip earlier this month, visited the Congress chief’s residence and met both Sonia and Rahul. In the editorial, Trinamul stated it was trying to set the record straight, asserting it was in favour of unity of non-BJP, secular, democratic parties for the sake of the nation, but it was unwilling to be slighted or relegated to the role of a sidekick.  Bringing up Mamata’s visit to 10 Janpath, the editorial underscored the party’s anti-BJP credentials inside and outside the Parliament, and said Trinamul would not stand for being casually told over a phone to show up at a rally. Trinamul sources said this happened a few times in the recent past ahead of Opposition events conceived by the Congress. The editorial was peppered with swipes at the Congress, especially in the context of the part it played in Bengal in the run-up to the key Assembly election, obliquely accusing it of adding fuel to the fire of the BJP’s no-holds-barred offensive on Trinamul in Bengal. The editorial said how Trinamul, under Mamata’s sole leadership, defeated the BJP while the Congress-Left alliance drew a blank should not be forgotten. “Unlike in many other states, there was no alliance necessary here (in Bengal). But for the sake of the nation’s interest, we want Opposition unity. Here, Trinamul’s fight, victory, role ought to be remembered,” read the editorial, underscoring the Congress’s lapses in preventing the BJP’s rise nationally and the need to figure out what needs to be done to plug the previous chinks in the alliance  armour. “Trinamul is not thinking about the leadership of the alliance. The priority is to bring to an end the anti-people policies of the BJP,” it added. “Only because the Congress could not fulfil its responsibility nationally was the BJP able to form the government with so many MPs. Had the Congress been able to put up a fight as a suitable alternative, then even in the last Lok Sabha election, the BJP could not have won so many seats.” The editorial said Trinamul knows how the BJP’s supposedly invincible electoral juggernaut can be brought to a halt and its desire for Opposition unity should not be judged based on its attendance in a programme or two. “… it wants an Opposition alliance, and the All India Trinamul Congress also knows the formula for building it,” it concluded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Smuggled 250kg hilsa seized at border||Border Security Force personnel on Friday evening seized over 250 kilos of hilsa valued at Rs 4.25 lakh that were being smuggled into India from Bangladesh through a riverine border in Murshidabad district. The BSF sources in Calcutta said a patrolling team of the 141 Battalion attached to Dayarampur outpost in Murshidabad intercepted six small boats with 257kg of hilsa packed in bags brought through the Padma river. A BSF officer said: “Initially, it appeared some villagers were fishing. But since their body language appeared suspicious, we challenged them near the river bank. They fled leaving the six boats. The team seized 257 kilos of mature hilsa from the boats.” The consignment was handed over to Customs, officiating commanding officer of the 141 Battalion Arvind Kumar said. A major drop in the catch of the prized fish has been seen for the second consecutive year in Bengal, apparently owing to the rising level of the riverbed because of silt that has shrunk breeding space, trapping of juvenile fish and excessive harvesting through “bottom trawling” or scooping hilsa from the bottom of the sea with nets. Fishermen, who ventured to catch hilsa from Namkhana-Kakdwip fishing harbour, said the gross catch this year has been 25 per cent of the projected catch till August. This shortfall has created a huge demand for the hilsa. BSF officials said smugglers were trying to cash in on the demand by smuggling the hilsa from Bangladesh. Last year, the BSF had thwarted smuggling of the hilsa from around Bangladesh and seized about 800 kilos of the prized fish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 705 new cases and 15 deaths ||Bengal on Saturday reported 705 new Covid-19  infections, 721 recoveries and 15 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 31 to 10,078 with 55 straight days of a fall in active cases. Bengal has 2.64 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 82 new infections and one death on Saturday. With North 24-Parganas logging 88 new infections, Saturday was also the ninth day on the trot of no Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Fourteen Bengal districts reported two-digit figures of new cases. Kalimpong, North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Purulia and Jhargram reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.16 per cent, its highest this pandemic, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.43. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.63 per cent on Saturday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday, while Hooghly and Calcutta reported one. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.38 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes over 15.09 lakh recoveries and 18,291 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Ganga gulps health centre and homes in Malda||The rising Ganga gobbled up 40 houses in Malda district, including a concrete two-storey sub-health centre at Bhimagram in Kaliachak-III block on Friday night. Many families could salvage nothing but only watch helplessly as their houses disappeared one after another during the four-hour erosion. “The river gobbled one house after another in an incredibly short time,” said Rajib Sheikh, a local youth Trinamul leader. Bhimagram residents Akhtar Seikh, Khoka Seikh, Mainul Seikh and Nurul Sheikh said they could do nothing. These villagers had gathered in the area, some 30km from Malda town, to discuss plans for Independence Day when the erosion started at around 7.30 pm. All celebration plans have been put off now. Once the erosion started, many villagers ran out of their houses and gathered before the sub-health centre, which was built by the state government at an estimated cost of Rs 12.5 lakh in 2014. They watched with dismay as the building went under water too. Many villagers recorded this on their smartphones. Smriti Das, a nurse at the centre said they had sensed almost a month back that the building was in danger of getting submerged. “We had shifted all essential items from the centre,” she said. Kaliachak-III block has 43 sub-health centres but the one that was swallowed on Friday night catered to most patients in the area. “This was the most popular health centre for women and children from Lalutola, Durgaramtola, Hatichapa, Narayantola and Bhimagram villages. Apart from free treatment, medicines would also be distributed free of cost,” said Jiaul Hoque, a primary school teacher. Efforts are on to resume health services in the locality immediately. Rajarshi Mitra, district magistrate, Malda, said: “The health centre could not be saved but measures have been taken to resume health services in the locality immediately.” Malda has been battling erosion since June end and at the moment Manikchak, Kaliachak-I and Kaliachak-III are worst affected. There are 15 blocks in Malda district. Bhimagram is under the supervision of Farakka Barrage Project Authority (FBPA) which has now started anti-erosion work on a war-footing. “But nothing has worked,” said Chandana Sarkar, the Trinamul MLA of Baishnabnagar, who inspected the area on Saturday morning. Sources maintain that the FBPA has floated a Rs 80 crore tender for anti-erosion work in Baishnabnagar Assembly area. “However, this is not the right time to commence that work because of the monsoon. The work will probably start from November,” said a FBPA official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
15-08-2021||West Bengal||Erosion below rail line hits trains in Murshidabad||Incessant rain on Friday evening led to the sudden erosion of 70 metres of land below the railway line in Murshidabad’s Ahiran village on Saturday around dawn. The stretch from below the Azimganj-Farakka line of Eastern Railways’ Malda division, halfway between Sujnipara and Jangipur was hollowed out by a strong current or flood. Since Friday night, as rain pounded the stretch, trains got delayed. After Saturday’s erosion, at least 11 trains had to be rerouted from Farakka via Rampurhat and Burdwan. Farakka station hosts a dividing line. “On Saturday, Nabadwip Dham-Malda Express was cancelled and many special trains including the Kamrup Express and Teesta Torsa Express were rerouted,” said an Eastern Railways official on Saturday. These trains were to originate from Howrah station and operate on the North Bengal-Katwa route, for which Farakka is a vital cog. The Farakka-Azimganj line was also closed. “Repairs started at the crack of dawn and the target is to finish them by Sunday evening. Operations may resume on Monday at best,” said Malda division’s PRO Pawan Kumar. The development reportedly caused widespread distress to passengers hailing from Suti, Samserganj, and Jangipur, most of whom travel to suburban areas or to Calcutta on trains for their livelihood. "We will lose too much time trying to traverse this 250km to Calcutta by bus. It is impossible to keep up that routine daily, and moreover buses provide no guarantees of service. We hope things are back to normal by Monday," said Jangipur businessman Amal Biswas, 40.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
