16-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal allows all production units to function at full strength in normal working hours||The West Bengal government on Monday allowed all production units, mills and industries, including the IT and ITES sector, to function at full strength in normal working hours as part of its relaxations of the ongoing COVID-19 restrictions.  The order issued by chief secretary HK Dwivedi on Monday evening said the relaxations have been allowed provided employees are vaccinated and COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and protocols are fully maintained.  The additional relaxations also included the opening of museums, including ASI protected monuments and entertainment parks with not more than 50 per cent capacity at a time and compliance with COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and protocols.  The state government had extended the COVID-19 restrictions in the state till August 31 and allowed all shops and establishments, including restaurants and bars, to remain open up to the usual working hours but not beyond 10.30 pm.  The state has also allowed outdoor government programmes by maintaining physical distancing and health and hygiene protocols.  Theatre halls, auditoriums, open-air theatres, stadiums and swimming pools would be allowed to open with not more than 50 per cent of seating capacity at a time, the order said.  The relaxations were announced after a review of the COVID-19 situation by the state executive committee of the West Bengal state disaster management authority.  All outdoor activities including movement of people and vehicles shall be strictly prohibited between 11 pm and 5 am, except for health services, law, and order, essential commodities including agricultural products and other emergency services.  District administration, police commissionerates and local authorities shall ensure strict compliance of the directives.  The order has come into effect from Monday itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee cabinet approves formation of board to boost industrialisation||The Mamata Banerjee cabinet on Monday approved the formation of an industrial promotion board to facilitate the establishment of more factories in West Bengal, a senior minister said.  The chief minister will head the board which will look into issues related to power, water supply and land, and work out solutions through coordination among various departments, Industry Minister Partha Chatterjee said after a cabinet meeting.  Apart from the chief secretary and the chairman of the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, ministers and secretaries of the finance, industry and commerce, information technology, tourism, food processing and horticulture and power departments will be the board members.  "Although the state government has introduced a one-stop shop system for industrialisation, there are various problems in case of power, land and finance-related issues.  "This is why the chief minister took the decision to form the board where all departments concerned are included so that there is better coordination and work is expedited quickly and willing investors don't face hassles, bringing in more investments," Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta’s Kabuliwalas worry about kin back home as Taliban take over Afghanistan||With the Taliban taking control of Afghanistan, after sweeping into its capital city, Kabuliwalas (people of Kabul) in Kolkata are a worried lot, having not been able to get in touch with their family members back home. Afghans in Kolkata -- commonly known as Kabuliwalas -- usually visit from one door to the other selling wares from their country, mostly dry fruits, rugs and perfume, or deal in the business of lending money. Fifty-eight-year-old Omar Masood, a moneylender who has been living in the city for the past several decades, said that he hasn't been able to establish contact with his family and friends in Kunduz over the past two weeks. "It was in July that I last spoke to my younger brother and family. Since May, I have been asking them to leave Afghanistan and move to either India or any other country... I am clueless about their whereabouts now," Masood said. Taliban fighters, who were removed from power in Afghanistan by US-led forces in 2001, have resurfaced again, taking control of key cities including Kabul on Sunday, after the government there collapsed and embattled president Ashraf Ghani fled home, much like his fellow citizens. Thousands of people have died and millions have been displaced in the conflict. Mohammed Khan (49), who moved back to Kolkata from Kabul last year, said the situation in his country had been taking a turn for the worse for a while now. "I left Afghanistan in the mid-nineties after the Taliban took control of the country for the first time. But in 2017, I decided to return as everything seemed fine back home. I even opened a shop there. But after the US decided to withdraw its forces from the country, things started going downhill. I had no option but to move back to Kolkata with my immediate family, he explained. Khan further said that he had been spending sleepless nights with no news from his extended family on the outskirts of Kabul. "Many people from my family were killed by the Taliban in the nineties as we were opposed to their regime. I don't know what fate awaits my family there," he rued. Several Afghans living in the city expressed hope that the Indian government will take in the refugees who have fled their country. "We would request the authorities in India to look after the Afghan refugees as they have no place to go," 60-year-old Omar Farooqi said. Farroqi also said one of his relatives studying in Pune has decided to file an application for extension of student visa as he does not wish to return to the Taliban-controlled country. Kabuliwalas had been visiting Bengal since the late 19th century and early 20th century for door-to-door sale of merchandise, and the profits earned by them are usually ploughed into the money-lending business. Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore, in one of his iconic works written in 1892, immortalised the Kabuliwalas in a tale of friendship and sacrifice. Shortly after Independence in 1947, when formal trade between the countries began, the Kabuliwalas found their market for dry fruits shrinking, with most switching over to the business of money lending once and for all. Many of them had even procured a license for the business. According to some Afghan residents of the city, with the advent of the easy banking system, microfinance companies, Kabuliwalas are struggling to keep their business afloat. Such is the dismal state of affairs that the number of Afghans in the city has come down from 10,000 in 2001 to just around 1,000 at present. Many of them went back to Afghanistan after peace returned to the country, following its first parliamentary elections in 2005. Official sources said there are around 15-20 Afghan kothis or tenements left in the city where the Pathans live with their friends and families. Mullah Khan, who has been residing in the city for the last four decades, lamented that he wanted to spend his retired life in his hometown in Kandahar, but now that seems to be a distant dream. "After my father left for his homeland in 1981, I took over his dry fruit business in Kolkata. Later, I shifted to the money-lending business. I, too, had decided to return to my homeland by next year. But now it seems to be a distant dream," said Khan, whose relatives were killed by Talibans in 1999.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Former Congress MP from Assam Sushmita Dev joins TMC||Former Assam MP Sushmita Dev, shortly after quitting the Congress, joined the TMC in Calcutta on Monday, in the presence of the party's national general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee. Dev had been serving as the national spokesperson of the Congress and its women's wing chief. Taking to Twitter, the TMC welcomed the former parliamentarian to its camp. "We warmly welcome the former President of All India Mahila Congress @sushmitadevinc to our Trinamool family! Inspired by @MamataOfficial, she joins us today in the presence of our National General Secretary @abhishekaitc & Parliamentary Party Leader, Rajya Sabha, @derekobrienmp," the TMC wrote on its official Twitter handle. She visited TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's office at Camac Street in Calcutta earlier in the day. Sources in the TMC said Dev is likely to meet TMC supremo and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna later in the afternoon. Dev, who sent her resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Sunday, has offered no reason for quitting the grand old party. In her letter to Gandhi, Dev said she was beginning a "new chapter in my life of public service". "I cherish my three-decade long association with the Indian National Congress...I hope I have your good wishes as I begin a new chapter in my life of public service," she said in the letter. She had met the Congress president along with other leaders of the Assam Congress on Saturday. Her Twitter account was also temporarily blocked last week after she shared Rahul Gandhi's picture with the parents of the nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Modi refers to Matangini Hazra as a freedom fighter from Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday referred to Matangini Hazra as a freedom fighter from Assam, committing the latest gaffe by a BJP leader relating to a Bengal icon. Modi referred to “the courage of Matangini Hazra in Assam” while reeling off a list of freedom fighters during his Independence Day speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort. “(Whether it’s) respected Bapu who turned the fight for freedom into a people’s movement; or revolutionaries like Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Chandra Shekhar Azad, (Ram Prasad) Bismil and Ashfaqulla Khan, who sacrificed everything for freedom; Laxmibai, the Queen of Jhansi; Chennamma, the Queen of Kittur; Queen Gaidinliu; or the courage of Matangini Hazra in Assam... the country is remembering every individual,” he said. The gaffe drew protests from the Trinamul Congress and the CPM and also drew attention to the BJP’s disconnect from the freedom struggle. Hazra, often referred to as Gandhi Buri (Ma Gandhi), was a freedom fighter from Tamluk in what is now East Midnapore district. She was shot dead by the colonial police while leading a protest during the Quit India Movement, which the BJP’s forebears had opposed. Trinamul accused the Prime Minister of insulting and “mocking” Bengal while the CPM said Modi had hurt Bengalis’ feelings. “Matangini Hazra is a freedom fighter from Bengal, Mr @narendramodi! With such scant regard for our glorious history, you have insulted all of #Bengal once again,” Trinamul tweeted from its official handle. “Is @BJP4India committed to erasing our history? Mocking it as they please? SHAME.” Hazra was 72 when she led a procession of around 6,000 people, mostly women volunteers and activists, towards the Tamluk police station on September 29, 1942, in the face of police firing. The Biplabi newspaper of the parallel “Tamluk National Government” had reported: “Even after the firing started, she (Hazra) continued to advance with the tricolour, leaving all the volunteers behind. The police shot her three times. She continued marching despite wounds to the forehead and both hands. “As she was repeatedly shot, she kept chanting, ‘Vande mataram’…. She died with the flag of the Indian National Congress held high and still flying.”Many central BJP leaders had invoked Hazra in their campaign speeches ahead of the Bengal Assembly polls, especially while addressing rallies in the erstwhile undivided Midnapore, now split into West Midnapore, East Midnapore and Jhargram. However, through the campaign, BJP leaders had dropped clanger after clanger in their eagerness to appropriate Bengal’s historical and cultural legacy — from describing Santiniketan as Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace to mistaking a statue to an unknown hunter for one of Birsa Munda. A state BJP leader said he found it surprising that his party’s supreme leader had made such a “careless” error about a Bengal icon like Hazra. However, Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh claimed it was a “small mistake”. “There is no need to blow it out of proportion. Those who are pained (at the faux pas) today, what have they done for Matangini Hazra?” he asked. Trinamul state general secretary Kunal Ghosh took a dig at Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s Nandigram MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, who used to be a self-proclaimed Gandhian till his defection ahead of the election. “This is insult to Bengal. You (Modi) must beg apology. Hope Your LOP (leader of the Opposition) from East Midnapore will also condemn such a mistake,” Ghosh tweeted. Suvendu used to declare himself an ideological descendant of the Tamluk National Government of 1942 and its chief protagonists — all Gandhians — such as Hazra, Satish Chandra Samanta, Sushil Kumar Dhara and Ajoy Mukherjee. A native of Contai in East Midnapore, Suvendu represented the Tamluk Lok Sabha seat between 2009 and 2016. His brother Dibyendu is the current MP from Tamluk. Senior Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim took a swipe at the Prime Minister. “This isn’t really his fault --- they have been taught by the RSS, which doesn’t tell them about the real Indian culture. All they know is communal polarisation,” Hakim said. CPM central committee member Sujan Chakraborty said: “The ancestors of the people who are running the nation today made no contribution to our freedom struggle other than acting as the (British) police’s informants. The more they learn from the RSS, the more goof-ups they will make.” Several state BJP leaders, speaking on the condition of anonymity, expressed deep embarrassment at Modi’s gaffe. “This blunder, that too coming from Modiji himself, is so, so shameful. Our leaders keep proving to the people that they have no knowledge of Bengal’s history or culture,” one of them said. He underlined how, following the election defeat, the BJP had ignored Tagore’s death anniversary a week ago after having marked the occasion in a big way last year, ahead of the Assembly polls. “So, was all the fervent worship of Bengal’s icons and all things Bengal merely a bid to somehow appropriate them ahead of the polls?” he asked. Many state BJP leaders believe that the party’s patent ignorance and lack of connect with Bengal’s history and culture – highlighted by the star campaigners’ serial bloopers – had contributed to the rout in the Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Army boat race on Teesta-Mahananda Link Canal to celebrate 75th Independence Day||The Eastern Command of the Indian Army organised a boat race on the Teesta-Mahananda Link Canal at Gajoldoba on Sunday in commemoration of the 75th Independence Day. Gajoldoba is around 25km from here. The event was conducted in the Teesta-Mahananda corridor through which the army had launched operations to capture Hilli, Rangpur and Bogra, thereby facilitating the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971. The boat race witnessed participation by 18 teams from the army, air force, central armed police forces and the National Cadet Corps (NCC). Hundreds of people gathered along the canal’s banks to witness the boat race that started from Gajoldoba near the Teesta Barrage. Soldiers of the Kripan division of the army performed martial arts also. Along with common people, former army personnel, senior officials of the state administration and the forest and irrigation departments of Bengal and Sikkim were present at the event. Maj. Gen. Ritu Raj Raina, the Chief of Staff of Trishakti Corps, appreciated the camaraderie and sportsmanship displayed by the participants. He said the event was a befitting tribute to all those who sacrificed their lives in the struggle for independence and also reflected the synergy among the defence forces, the central armed police forces and the civil administration. As a part of the celebration of 75 years of India’s independence which is being named as “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav,” the armed forces have been conducting various events across the country. Teams of the army have scaled 75 mountain passes. Among these, teams of Trishakti Corps, which has its headquarters at Sukna, on the outskirts of Siliguri, scaled eight such passes and on Sunday, they unfurled the Tricolour in all these passes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Flood situation deteriorates in Malda as two of three major rivers flow over danger levels||The flood situation in Malda deteriorated in the past 24 hours as two of the three major rivers in the district were flowing over danger levels. As the Ganga, Mahananda and the Fulhar swelled up because of rains, fresh areas were inundated. There are apprehensions that major areas of Malda will get flooded in the next few days like it had happened in 2019. The Bhutni island on the Ganga was inundated and most areas in all three panchayats were under water. In the South Chandipur panchayat on the island, eight of 12 villages are submerged. Similar flooding has been reported from North Chandipur and Hiranandapur, the other two panchayats. Altogether, around one lakh people live in Bhutni and almost 30 per cent of them moved to safer places. Villages in Gopalpur and Manikchak panchayats of Manikchak block also face inundation. Sources in the state irrigation department said the Ganga was flowing at 25.71 metres, which was 0.41 metres higher than the extreme danger level. “In 2019, the water level of the Ganga had touched the 26 metre mark which had left vast areas of Manikchak flooded. We fear we have to face a similar situation again,” said Imran Sheikh, a Trinamul Congress leader in the block. Along with Manikchak block, the river spilled over its banks and inundated villages in the Parlalpur panchayat of Kaliachak 3 block also. The Fulhar, another major river in the district, was flowing at 27.85 metres, which was 0.42 metres above the danger level, on Sunday evening. The river has inundated vast areas of Bilaimari and Mahanandatola panchayats in Ratua 1 block. “If the Fulhar also keeps rising, it would flood different villages of Harischandrapur 1 and 2 blocks,” said a source in the irrigation department. The Mahananda, on the other hand, was flowing at 19.95 metres, only 1.05 metres below the danger level. “We are keeping our fingers crossed and hope the water levels of all these three rivers will recede in a couple  of days. However, we are keeping a close watch on the situation as further downpour in upper catchment areas of these rivers can lead to an increase in water levels,” said Pranab Samanta, an executive engineer of the state irrigation department posted in Malda. The situation has also put the administration on alert. “We have information that newer areas have been flooded. Officials at block levels are working in consonance with different agencies and rural bodies and extending all necessary help to the affected people. At the district and subdivisional levels, round-the-clock monitoring of the situation has been initiated,” said Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 673 new infections and 12 deaths||Bengal on Sunday completed eight straight weeks — 56 consecutive days — of a fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases as the state reported 673 new infections, 709 recoveries and a dozen deaths. The total of active cases fell by 48 to 10,030. “The last time the state reported a rise in the total of active cases was on June 20, nearly two months ago. This is yet another milestone to be proud of,” said a Bengal minister. “The total improved from 23,016 on June 20 to 10,030 today… by over 56 per cent, in these 56 days. We had then been getting around 2,200 new infections daily and 50-60 deaths. We have come such a long way since,” he added. With Calcutta logging 77 infections and North 24-Parganas 85, Sunday was the 10th consecutive day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Fifteen Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections detected. Kalimpong, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Purulia and Jhargram reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.16 per cent — the highest ever this pandemic — still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.43. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.56 per cent on Sunday. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday, while Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and South 24-Parganas recorded one each. Calcutta reported two. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.38 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes over 15.1 lakh recoveries and 18,303 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
16-08-2021||West Bengal||Couple and child killed in road accident on NH12 in Malda||A couple, their son and a fourth person died when an SUV they were travelling in collided with a dump truck on NH12 near Gazole in Malda district on Sunday afternoon. The deceased were Gopal Ghosh, 40, his wife Swapna, 35, their son Someswar, 6, and the couple’s friend Dulak Sheikh, 40. Swapna succumbed to her injuries while she was being taken to Malda Medical College and Hospital. The other three died on the spot. “The Mahindra Bolero in which they were travelling in is used by a state government department on rent. Preliminary investigation suggests that the driver of the vehicle was travelling with his family and a friend from Raiganj to Malda. They were using the vehicle as today was a holiday,” said a police officer. The accident occurred at Mashaldighi. Local residents said the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) was carrying out repairs along a stretch of the four-lane NH12. “So, one of the two lanes, along which vehicles should travel from Raiganj to Malda, has been kept closed for traffic. We suspect the driver overlooked the diversion and did not understand that he was travelling on a lane through which vehicles were coming from the opposite direction,” said Samir Pandit, a resident of Mashaldighi. After the incident, local people rushed for help. A police team also reached the spot. “The impact was so intense that it took a long time to extricate the bodies from the mangled SUV. The collision led to a halt in the traffic on the stretch for some time,” said the police officer. A herd of 20-odd elephants strayed out of the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri on Saturday night and entered the Kalipur Eco Village, an accommodation run by the state forest department. The herd damaged windows and walls of a number of rooms and also the kitchen. The water pipeline was also damaged. The property, sources said, is closed now and there were no guests. The herd left after some time. The department ordered an inquiry to estimate the loss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
