17-08-2021||West Bengal||Separate ‘North Bengal’ voice of the people of the region, says John Barla||Union Minister John Barla said on Tuesday that the creation of a separate state of 'North Bengal' is the voice of the people of the region. Addressing a press conference in Siliguri as part of the BJP's ‘Shahid Samman Yatra’, Barla said he would discuss the issue at the appropriate level to bring to fruition for creating a separate state. “Creation of a separate state of North Bengal is the voice of the people of the region. I will raise the issue at the appropriate level,” the minister said. Barla, a BJP MP from Alipurduar who is at present the Minister of State for Minority Affairs, said the Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal did nothing for the minority population of the state and used them for getting votes. "What work has the TMC government done for the minorities? You have taken their votes for your political advantage," he claimed. In the name of development, TMC is resorting to terror tactics and torture, Barla alleged. "See how post-poll violence erupted in West Bengal," he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to work along with the state government but the TMC government was always fighting with the Centre, he alleged. Referring to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's efforts to unite the opposition, Barla said, "Didi is dreaming to become the prime minister. It will never happen." In 2024, BJP will wrest all the 42 Lok Sabha seats from West Bengal and by good margins, he claimed. Raju Bista, the BJP's Darjeeling MP, alleged that more than 150 party workers were killed in "post-poll violence" across West Bengal and the 'Shahid Samman Yatra' was undertaken to remember them. "West Bengal is racing towards President's Rule and we urge the President, the prime minister and the home minister to save us from Mamata Banerjee's rule of oppression," he said. Meanwhile, several BJP workers, including party MLA Sankar Ghosh, were detained by the Siliguri Metropolitan Police for gathering without permission amid the COVID-restrictions, officials said. Bista said they gathered for taking part in the "Yuva Sankalp Yatra" to mark the 75th year of Independence. Union minister Subhas Sarkar, who was scheduled to lead one part of the 'Shahid Samman Yatra' from the BJP's state headquarters in Kolkata to Burdwan city, claimed he was stopped by police from travelling with party supporters. The Minister of State for Education continued his journey in his car and visited Belur Math on the way. "We were not violating COVID protocols. As the police did not allow BJP supporters to accompany me, I can only say that they are scared of democratic protests. We will continue to raise voice against atrocities by Trinamool," he said. Earlier, the police detained BJP workers at Birati in North 24 Parganas where they gathered to take part in another leg of the 'Shahid Samman Yatra', officials said. Union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Shantanu Thakur alleged that he was also detained by the police at Birati even though he was in the area to offer puja at a temple. Police claimed that the BJP leader himself boarded a police van. Speaking to reporters, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said one leg of the Yatra was scheduled in north Bengal, another at Birati and the third from the state party headquarters in Kolkata. "The Shahid Samman Yatra was aimed at letting the world know what was happening in West Bengal," Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Sushmita Dev ready to take on any responsibility given by Mamata||Former Congress leader Sushmita Dev on Tuesday said her joining the Trinamool Congress is unconditional and she will take any responsibility given to her by party president and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Dev, who was the chief of the women's wing of the Congress, joined the TMC in the presence of senior party leaders Abhishek Banerjee and Derek O'Brien in Calcutta on Monday. "I don't think I have compromised my ideology in joining the TMC My joining the TMC is unconditional and I will take any responsibility given to me by Mamata Banerjee, Dev told reporters here. "In my 30 years in politics, I haven't demanded anything from the Congress high command," Dev said. A former MP, Dev was the national spokesperson of the grand old party and the chief of the All India Mahila Congress. She sent her resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, sources said, but offered no reason for her quitting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Residents fear loss of homes, farms as Ganga gobbles up land of entire panchayat in Malda||Residents of nearly 40 localities in all 12 villages under Birnagar-I panchayat of Kaliachak-III block in Malda are fearing the loss of their homes and farms as the Ganga is fast gobbling up land of the entire panchayat. Students and teachers of the local high school and the attached primary school are also afraid that both educational institutions would be swallowed by the river. In all, around 70,000-odd residents of the panchayat, some of them homeless, are fearful that the entire panchayat area would be wiped off the map of Malda district. Residents said for the past five years, erosion has been a major threat for the panchayat, but the severity is more these past couple of years. “Residents of Lalutola, Hochatola, Bhimagram, Sarkartola, Chinabazar, Durgaramtola, Hatichapa and other villages can’t sleep at night as any time their houses might be swallowed by the mighty river. Some 14,000 families live in this panchayat and over the past few years, erosion has affected around 3,000 families,” said Rajib Sheikh, a local youth Trinamul leader. Rajib believes that the existence of all 12 villages of the panchayat area is at stake. “The way the Ganga is advancing, it seems that today or tomorrow, the entire Birnagar-I panchayat would disappear. All residents are now desperate to find safer places,” he said. “Most are marginal farmers or daily wage earners.” Villagers have sent requests to the administration and state government for initiatives to save land and homes. Jiaul Haque, the headmaster of the primary school, said the situation was critical. “In past two-and-a-half months, the river has devoured at least 250 houses. We are now concerned over the fate of the local high and primary schools as the Ganga is 100 metres away from the buildings,” he said. The primary school, set up before Independence, has 609 students now. The high school, set up in 1955, has around 4,000 students. The teachers, he said, have written to the state education department for alternative land for new buildings. Erosion has forced around 1,000 people to live in relief camps or makeshift shanties. District administration officials said they were aware of the situation. “The issue has been taken up with the Farakka Barrage Project Authority entrusted with anti-erosion work,” said a source. “Unless water recedes, no major anti-erosion work can be done.” Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda, said even last year, land was given to erosion victims. “We are in search of alternative land to be given for accommodation of those who recently lost their homes in erosion,” the DM said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid death prompts 'double suicide’ in Kalyani town||The death of a man suffering from Covid-19 on Sunday evening allegedly led his wife and daughter to end their lives in Nadia's Kalyani town late in the night. Bablu Das, 65, a retired Sahara India employee, had tested Covid positive and was admitted to Kalyani’s JNM hospital, where he died on Sunday evening. Police sources said Dipa Das, 59, and Swagata Das, 26, apparently hanged themselves with saris from separate ceiling fans in the bedroom a little after their relatives and neighbours left for the last rites of Das arranged by civic authorities. Dipa and Swagata were apparently unable to bear the pain of Das’s demise. The deaths came to light when relatives and neighbours returned after Das’s cremation and got no response on knocking on the door. They called up the police who broke open the door. The bodies were taken to the hospital where doctors declared them dead. Bimal Dutta, a neighbour, said: “Ever since Bablubabu was admitted to the hospital, the mother and the daughter went into depression.” A police officer said they recovered a suicide note apparently penned by Dipa on her fears of life as a widow. “Still, we are examining all possible aspects and waiting for autopsy reports,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 502 new cases, 691 recoveries and nine deaths||Bengal on Monday achieved its goal, in the wake of the devastating second wave, of getting its total number of active Covid-19 cases back to below 10,000, for the first time since April 3, 135 days ago. The state reported 57 straight days of a fall in active cases, by 198 to reach 9,832 on Monday. The state logged 502 new infections, 691 recoveries and nine deaths. A minister called this a major, much-awaited milestone. “We have covered a lot of ground from the peak of over 1.32 lakh active cases on May 21, the direct result of the eight-phase polls across two months thrust upon us by the Election Commission in collaboration with the Curbs imposed since mid-May played a crucial role (in reducing Covid spread),” he added. Bengal now has 2.68 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh on the list of states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 62 new infections and one death. North 24-Parganas logged 74 new cases. So Monday was the 11th straight day when no Bengal district reported a three-digit figure of new cases. Fourteen of 23 Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections detected. The state’s recovery rate was 98.17 per cent, its highest this pandemic and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.48. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.92 per cent on Monday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday, while Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Calcutta reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.39 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.11 lakh recoveries and 18,312 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh and Suvendu Adhikari arrested on charges of violating Covid protocol ||State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari were arrested on charges of violating Covid-19 protocol while staging a demonstration here on Monday to protest against the detention of party functionaries and workers during “Save Bengal Day” event earlier in the day. A few BJP leaders, including Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan and Shilbhadra Dutta, and party workers had gathered at Rani Rashmoni Avenue in Calcutta to march to the Raj Bhavan as part of their programme to observe “Save Bengal Day”. However, the leaders were taken into custody on charges of violating pandemic protocol. Angry with the detention of Khan and Dutta, the state BJP chief, along with Adhikari and former Union minister Debasree Chaudhuri, sat on a dharna near the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on Mayo Road. The police asked them to lift the agitation because of existing Covid protocol and when the leaders refused to oblige, they were arrested and taken to Lalbazar. Accusing the police of bias, BJP leaders said while Trinamul Congress workers were allowed to organise ‘Khela Hobey Day’ across the state, the same rule was not applicable for Opposition parties. According to the BJP, 150 party leaders and workers were arrested from various parts of Calcutta on Monday. They all were later released on bail. After his release, Adhikari accompanied BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh to meet party worker Sajal Ghosh who had been arrested last week by the police on charges of assaulting a man with deadly weapons and committing theft. He was released on bail on Monday. BJP’s ‘Save Bengal Day’ was held on the day which the state government celebrated as ‘Khela Hobey Day’ in all blocks and wards across Bengal. On July 21, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had declared that August 16 would be observed as ‘Khela Hobey Day’ in the state. To celebrate the occasion, the government distributed footballs to a large number of clubs and sports organisations, while the Trinamul Congress organised soccer matches at several places in the state. Trinamul claimed the event was observed in 12 states, including Tripura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Taliban takeover dismays Afghanis in Bengal||Tayyeb (name changed), in his 20s and from the Paktia province in eastern Afghanistan, cut a forlorn figure in central Calcutta on Monday, hours after his homeland fell to the Taliban. “I have a father, step-mother and nine siblings (in Afghanistan). When the war began, all were spending sleepless nights amid the bombing and shelling. Nobody trusts the Taliban despite their assurances of ceasing torture. I don’t know if I will meet them again,” he said . He said after a lot of effort, he could connect to someone over phone back home to learn his family was safe. “But I don’t know what lies ahead for them or my country,” he said, referring to the fast-paced developments in Afghanistan. Tayyeb felt a knot in the pit of his stomach on Sunday when news emerged that even the country’s president Ashraf Ghani left the country with thousands of diplomats and the well-heeled. There were images of clogged roads to the Kabul airport and a frenzy among people to get on the last departing aircraft. In Calcutta, home to hundreds of Afghans, many for generations, Tayyeb said he didn’t know whether to be happy with his privilege of being away from  it all or sad about the turn of events. Tayyeb came to India around five years ago and stayed on. “My family of farmers can’t go to the fields anymore, and the price of land fell drastically as soon as the Taliban started capturing the country. I am afraid for my two sisters who are schoolgirls…. Despite the Taliban’s assurance of not harming children and women, I can’t trust them,” he said, staring at his phone's news feed. Afghanistan has a special link with Bengal. For most Bengalis, the word Kabuliwala brings to mind the 1957 Tapan Sinha film based on a beloved short story by Rabindranath Tagore in 1892. Chhabi Biswas played a hawker of Afghani origin, who endears himself to a little Bengali girl who reminds him of his daughter back in Afghanistan. In Birbhum, real-life kabuliwala Rahaman Khan, 35, was in tears on Monday. With phones unreachable, he was clueless about his loved ones. Rahaman’s mother is Bengali. His grandfather came to India and chose to settle in Bolpur. “This state has always given us love since Tagore’s story Kabuliwala,” he added. Calcutta-based Yasmin Nigar Khan, president of the All India Pakhtoon Jirga-e-Hind, an association of Afghani citizens in India, and the great-granddaughter of Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan, also known as Frontier Gandhi, said the plight of simple Afghanis at the hands of zealots pained her. “My great-grandfather stood for women's education and empowerment, and humanity over religion. The Taliban are against all essential human values,” she said. “:I wonder how long the people of Afghanistan will have to bear their atrocities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Rumblings in Kabul cause sleepless nights to Afghan families in hills||Rumblings in Kabul are causing sleepless nights to many families in Darjeeling hills and neighbouring region with their near and dear ones stuck in this Afghanistan capital. The Taliban have taken over the country following President Ashraf Ghani’s departure from the country on Sunday. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista wrote to India’s external affairs minister S. Jaishankar about the “SOS call from Kabul” on Monday. “I am writing to you regarding an SOS call I received from Kabul in Afghanistan requesting for evacuation of stranded Indians in the wake of the ongoing violence and political turmoil. Many of the workers there are retired Indian Army personnel,” Bista wrote. In his letter, the Darjeeling MP has provided information about two persons from the region who are stuck in Kabul. Family members are worried for many residents of Darjeeling who are posted in Kabul but not working with the Indian embassy, fearing their return would be delayed. A relative of a person stuck in Kabul spoke about their fears. “My brother-in-law is in Kabul and on Sunday they were taken to the airport in a helicopter but their group could not board the flight,” said a relative of an ex-serviceman stuck in Kabul. The Indian passport holder used to work in the Indian Army and after retirement had gone to Kabul to work in an embassy, not Indian. “Given the nature of his job and his contract we cannot identify him or our family,” said the relative while talking to this paper. The ex-serviceman is in contact with the family at regular intervals. “However, you can imagine the anxiety that the family is going through right now. I know for certain that in his group there are a lot of people from Darjeeling, Northeast and even Dehradun,” the relative said. The relative said that the former army jawan had joined the posting in Kabul around a year back. “They can get leave once in a year and he had come here and returned to Kabul in March this year,” the relative added. “We have learnt that their embassy (where the jawan is working) did evacuate some employees on Sunday who were then reportedly flown to the United Kingdom and Qatar,” said the relative. The jawan in Kabul had reportedly told his family members that they were taken to the airport in a helicopter on Sunday. “However, we are worried by reports that the airport might be closed for a few days,” the relative added. Bista in his letter to the external affairs minister added “as informed to me, there are many Indians working in Kabul, including many from Darjeeling Hills, Terai, and Dooars, and are worried about their safety in the city”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Thousands of women queue up to register names under Lakshmir Bhandar scheme||Government officials across the state faced a challenge on Monday — the first day of the second session of Duare Sarkar camps — as thousands of women began to queue up from early morning to register their names under the Lakshmir Bhandar (Lakshmi’s treasure) scheme. A monthly assistance of Rs 1,000 each will be given to women of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families and Rs 500 each to women of general categories under the scheme. In Nadia’s Kalyani, the rush led to a stampede-like situation at a camp and six women had to be admitted to the JNM Hospital after they fell ill. “We apprehended there would be a rush as around 1,500 women were there in the queue outside a camp as early as 4am on Monday. It is 7pm now and the women are still in the queue. We need at least two hours more to wrap up work,” said a senior official in Bolpur and added that of all those who had turned up at the camp, over 70 per cent were women. Though the Lakshmir Bhandar beneficiaries, who have to be in the age group of 25 to 60 and do not get any other government dole, struggled in the sultry August weather to get themselves enrolled, Trinamul leaders saw in the rush a dividend that the party would reap in the polls to come. “There has been a huge rush at Duare Sarkar camps and most of them are women who want to register themselves for the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. The rush proves that our chief minister Mamata Banerjee understands the needs of women. We are sure women voters will remember this when they vote next time,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Birbhum. He added it was Mamata’s way of paying back women voters who had played a major role in ensuring her become the chief minister for the third consecutive time. “We were not prepared to face such a crowd on the first day. At a few camps we had to open additional windows to handle the rush for the Laxmir Bhandar scheme,” said a senior official in East Burdwan. Mita Biswas, 30, a resident of Bolpur said she had joined the queue at 7.30am on Monday and found herself behind at least a thousand women. “When I came here, I found the queue was too long. I managed to submit my form with all relevant documents at around 2.30pm,” said Biswas. The picture was the same in other districts like Nadia, East Burdwan or Hooghly and officials said the registration process was on even late Monday evening. Moumita Biswas Burman, a homemaker in Chakdah, said: “The Lakshmir Bhandar scheme is a kind of social recognition of homemakers that no other government had imagined to offer. I had joined the queue around 6am, and around 100 women were already ahead of me.” “We had 26 camps in the district and around 56,000 people visited those camps till 6pm. Around 38,000 of these registrations were for Lakshmir Bhandar scheme,” said Bidhan Ray, Birbhum district magistrate. Hooghly district magistrate Deepap Priya P echoed Ray and said around 70 per cent of the registrations were for the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. “We had 35 camps across the district and received around 75,000 applications. Till 6pm, over 50,000 applications were only for Lakshmir Bhandar and the count is increasing,” the Hooghly district magistrate said. To control the rush, government officials tried to reason with the women that the camp would continue for a month but they were not ready to listen. “I will get Rs 1,000 a month and it will help me buy books and other necessary things for my children. I didn't want to miss the chance and joined the queue at around 4am,” said Sumitra Kisku, a woman from Nanoor. Local people in many areas of Nadia and North 24-Parganas have, however, accused the administration of misleading campaigning about the camps. “During public campaign the local administration did not specify the areas or civic wards where the camps would be organised. Camps were organised only for four wards today, but people from other wards had arrived leading to the chaos,” said a Trinamul worker in Kalyani. Nadia district magistrate Shashank Sethi said: “People, particularly women, visited the Duare Sarkar camp in large numbers and the Lakshmir Bhandar counter drew the maximum interest. I don’t have the exact figure but the turnout was huge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||New industrial promotion board to ease hurdles to investment projects ||The state cabinet on Monday approved an industrial promotion board, to be headed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, to expedite the implementation of investment proposals in Bengal. “The cabinet today (Monday) approved a decision to set up the West Bengal Industrial Promotion Board to expedite implementation of investment proposals. The chief minister will head the 16-member board,” said state industries minister Partha Chatterjee. The board will have ministers and secretaries of departments such as finance, land and land reforms, industries, IT, MSME, tourism, and chairpersons of the WBIDC and WBIIDC. Chatterjee said though there is a one-window system in industries and MSME departments to handle investment proposals, implementing projects got delayed at times. “The problem is that even if the departments such as industries, IT or tourism clear investment proposals, they have to depend on several other departments such as land and land reforms, fire or finance departments to implement projects on the ground. This board will help us implement proposals on time as issues related to any proposal would be cleared at the board where (representatives of)  all related departments will be present,” said Chatterjee. Sources said there is a cabinet sub-committee where investment proposals are approved. “The cabinet sub-committee is basically a body that takes policy-related decisions. But this board will clear all hurdles in implementing investment proposals,” said a senior official. Sources in Nabanna said the board was started as Mamata wanted investment proposals to be implemented without much delay. “Ahead of 2021 Assembly polls, she promised 1.5 crore jobs. Now is the time to deliver. So she has taken it on herself to implement investment proposals on time to generate jobs,” a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Toy train services of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway resume after three months||Toy train services of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) resumed in the Darjeeling hills on Monday, after a gap of three-and-half months. Authorities of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) said that only joy ride services of the DHR has commenced from Monday. “We have started the joy ride services along the Darjeeling- Ghoom- Darjeeling route from today (Monday) morning. Passengers can avail the ride in first class and vistadome coaches and will also have the option to choose a train that is hauled by steam or a diesel loco,” said A.K Mishra, the DHR director. The joy ride also includes a stop at Batasia Loop and a visit to the railway museum in Ghoom. In December last year, the joy rides had resumed but were stopped in April 2021, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “There will be one first class coach and a general coach in a train. Passengers can enjoy the ride in vistadome coaches which will be run by steam locos,” said a source. Every day, the service will begin from Darjeeling at 9.25am and the final ride of the day at 2.20pm. “Enthusiasts can book tickets through IRCTC counters and website and the fare is around Rs 1,500 per head. Altogether, 37 passengers can board at toy train a time,” the source added. The DHR, however, are yet to resume the regular services — between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling stations — which was halted in March last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, along with the joy rides. Earlier, officials of the NFR had hinted that if there was no further surge in Covid-19 cases, they would resume the regular services ahead of the Durga Puja season. “It is good that the toy train services have started. Over the past few years, the joy rides have gained huge popularity among tourists and hundreds turn up at the Darjeeling station to take a ride. It will help in boosting the inflow of tourists in the hill town,” said a hotelier based in the hill town. On June 25 this year, there was a massive landslide near Tindharia. It had damaged a portion of the highway and also a portion of the DHR track. “The road has been restored and the track is also ready now. We are in e contact with the district administration. If the situation improves and the state gives us a go-ahead, we can also resume the regular services ahead of the upcoming festive season,” said an official of the NFR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul announces organisational changes in line with party’s 'one person, one post' policy ||The Trinamul Congress on Monday announced a slew of organisational changes in line with the party’s newly-adopted “one person, one post” policy and as a part of its bid to further consolidate its position in Bengal. The overall pattern of the changes, said several seniors in the party, has a discernible imprint of the party’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee, whose appointment to the post took place on June 5, the same day the policy was adopted. Attention, said sources, was paid to rewarding performers in the Assembly elections and sidelining of those who could not deliver even amid such a historic mandate in Trinamul’s favour. They said changes were also made to minimise conflict, a priority area for the supreme leadership. “This was easier said than done, which is why it took nearly two-and-a-half months,” said a Trinamul vice-president. “Inputs from Abhishek’s office were given importance in many of the changes,” he added. Several seniors in the party such as Jyotipriya Mullick, Malay Ghatak, Soumen Mahapatra, Pulok Ray, Arup Roy, Tapan Dasgupta, Gautam Deb, Akhil Giri, Mohammad Ghulam Rabbani and Biplab Mitra were excluded from key organisational posts in their districts or regions. Among the Young Turks, the likes of Mahua Moitra, Mausam Benazir Noor and Partha Pratim Roy were conspicuous by their exclusion from the list of organisational appointments. “Winning back most of the 18 Lok Sabha seats lost to the BJP in 2019, in the general election of 2024, is of foremost priority for the party. That was given pre-eminence in the decision-making,” said the party vice-president, attributing to that intent the division of the 23-district state into 35 organisational units for Trinamul, more in line with the 42 Lok Sabha constituencies. Ten new names were added to the state committee, with Subhasish Batabyal and Mohammed Sohrab being elevated as state vice-presidents, and the likes of Saokat Molla and Krishnendu Narayan Chowdhury appointed as state general-secretaries. “The focus was on decentralisation, on appointing people who can devote more time to the party organisation. Increased focus on districts was part of the strategy,” said Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee in the evening. The party implemented Mamata’s plan for dividing 11 districts — mostly those of south and central Bengal, where the party performed very well — into smaller organisational units. The small district of Kalimpong was included in the Darjeeling hills unit. North 24-Parganas is the only district that was divided into more than two units, under Dum Dum-Barrackpore, Barasat, Basirhat and Bongaon. The district is the state’s most populous, with 33 Assembly seats and five Lok Sabha constituencies. “In the new structure, every district got one chairman, one parent party president, one women’s wing president, one youth wing president and one labour wing president. Additionally, every major town of the district got a town president, and every key block got a block president,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. “To occupy these posts, a lot of new faces were brought forward. The young were also given importance. All the youth wing appointees are less than 40 years old,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
17-08-2021||West Bengal||Young faces appointed in important posts of Trinamul in north Bengal ||Fresh and young faces were appointed in different important posts of the Trinamul Congress in north Bengal as the party made sweeping organisational changes across the state on Monday. The changes hinted that Trinamul wanted to bank on communities like Rajbanshis, adivasis and Muslims in north Bengal. In north Bengal, the most discernible selections were of new district presidents of Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling (plains). While Mohua Gope, who hails from the small hamlet of Lataguri, was elevated as the Jalpaiguri district chief, Papiya Ghosh, the daughter of former minister Rabindranath Ghosh (who is based in Cooch Behar), will head Trinamul in the plains of Darjeeling. Papiya, who is in her mid-thirties, is a homemaker and stays in Bagdogra. Alok Chakraborty, a veteran trade union leader who had quit the Congress and joined Trinamul ahead of the Assembly elections, is now the Darjeeling (plains) district chairman. Only Kanhaialal Agarwala, the district president of North Dinajpur, could save his post. In Cooch Behar, the party has brought in Girindranath Barman, a researcher who has worked a lot on Panchanan Burma — the most revered statesman of the Rajbanshis — in the district president’s post. Partha Pratim Roy, who was removed from the post, has been made the chairman of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation, which is headquartered in Cooch Behar. “The selection of new office-bearers in Cooch Behar district clearly shows that the party is keen on reviving the support of Rajbanshis, whose support decides the results in around 20 of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal,” said a political observer. In Alipurduar district, the party has appointed Prakash Chik Baraik, a youth from Kumargram, in the president’s post, while Mridul Goswami, who was in the post, has been made the new district chairman. Also, youths like Louis Kuzur and Pasang Lama have been made presidents of different blocks in the district which has a sizeable tribal and Gorkha population. In the hills, however, the “one person one post” policy has not been applied. This is because Shanta Chhetri, who is a Rajya Sabha MP from the hills, has been made the new Darjeeling (hills) president. In South Dinajpur, Ujwal Basak, a retired schoolteacher, has been made the new district president. In Malda, Abdur Rahim Boxi, the Trinamul MLA of Malatipur, has replaced Mausam Benazir Noor as the district president. The party has also brought in Chandana Sarkar, a young MLA of Baishnabnagar, in the post of party’s youth president in the district. Additional reporting by Main Uddin Chisti in Cooch Behar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
