18-08-2021||West Bengal||Netaji's kin seeks DNA test of ashes kept at Japan’s Renkoji temple||Seven decades have passed since Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose went missing on this date in 1945, with many historians suggesting that he might have died in a plane crash, but the recurring demand to bring back his purported remains from a temple in Japan for DNA examination has not been met with thus far. The freedom fighter's grandnephew, Surya Kumar Bose, issued a statement on Tuesday, making a fresh appeal to authorities to facilitate DNA testing of the ashes that have been interred in Renkoji temple, in an attempt to put a lid on the controversies surrounding his "disappearance". Several theories have persisted since Netaji went missing, with some experts having claimed that he did not die in the crash and lived in disguise till death. Bose, who lives in Germany, said, "Almost two decades ago in the course of the Justice Mukherjee Commission of Inquiry (JMCI), a precious opportunity to conduct a DNA test, and to bring the remains of Netaji home to his beloved motherland, was sadly lost. According to the JMCI Report, the Renkoji authorities were not willing to allow a DNA test of the alleged remains." In his statement, he pointed out that the chief priest of Renkoji Temple, Reverend Nichiko Mochizuki, had written to Indian embassy in Tokyo in 2005 insisting that the remains be returned. Bose, an IT consultant, further quoted excerpts from a letter written by Mochizuki, whose father is known to have received the purported remains of Netaji in September 1945, to make his point. According to the excerpt, Mochizuki told the embassy, "I felt that if I accepted the proposal for DNA testing and the remains are eventually returned to India, my father's soul and spirit could finally be at rest. In this way, I agree to offer my co-operation for the testing." The translation of the chief priest's original letter was commissioned by Madhuri Bose, Netaji's grandniece. Renkoji Temple authorities were fully supportive of a DNA test on the remains, Bose maintained. "It is time to seize the opportunity missed by Justice Mukherjee to conduct a DNA testing procedure on the reported remains of Netaji. There is every reason to believe that this entire process would be fully acceptable to and supported by the Renkoji Temple authorities, as well as by the governments of both Japan and India, the IT consultant stated. Bose had in 2015 met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Berlin to raise the demand for declassification of all secret files related to the freedom fighter. "Subhas Bose did not belong just to his family. He had himself said that the whole country is his family," the grandnephew had said back then. Earlier, Netaji's daughter Anita Bose Pfaff had also requested the governments of India and Japan to make arrangements to bring her father's purported remains back home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
18-08-2021||West Bengal||Seven more homes eroded by Hooghly in Santipur||Erosion along a stretch of the Hooghly river bank claimed seven more homes in ward 16 of Nadia’s Santipur on Monday night, with victims demanding their immediate rehabilitation. With this, around 25 hous¬es have been lost to the Hooghly river this past one month in Santipur. Local sources said the latest spate of erosion began around 9pm on Monday. Raimohan Das, a farmer who lost his house, said: “It was so sudden and rapid that we lost everything before real¬ising the possible danger. We felt a tremor and the river gob¬bled up our houses one by one within a span of 10 minutes.” Erosion victims alleged that over the years both the Centre and the state govern¬ment had been making a moc¬kery of their plight as no per¬manent solution had been of¬fered to lakhs living in the ero¬sionprone district. “The state government’s protective measures have pro¬ved useless. We pay taxes to the government, but it has done al¬most nothing, except offering tarpaulin and dry food. It app¬ears the administration consid¬ers us flood victims. We need proper rehabilitation as we have been forced to shift homes several times in the past few years,” Raimohan added. Panicky over the quick erosion, at least 20 families liv¬ing close to the river bank in the Char Saragar and Gobar Char area of ward 16 disman¬tled their houses on Tuesday to shift to safer places. Till Tuesday afternoon, 40 families had taken shelter at a local primary school. On July 18, when five hous¬es and 30 bighas of farmland were lost to erosion, residents had blocked NH12 to protest the lack of protective measur¬es. The administration had th¬en assured them of starting work soon. Nothing has been done, the villagers alleged. A state irrigation official said: “Continuous rain affect¬ed our efforts. We will start taking temporary steps once it stops raining. Major work will be done after monsoon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
18-08-2021||West Bengal||150 BJP workers arrested for violating Covid protocols on first day of Shaheed Samman Yatra||Around 150 BJP workers, including eight MLAs, were arrested across Bengal and Union minister of state Shantanu Thakur was allegedly detained by officers of the Calcutta airport police station for violating Covid protocols on the first day of the party’s Shaheed Samman Yatra on Tuesday. Four MPs from Bengal, recently appointed ministers of state in the Union government, and party workers had gathered at three destinations — Calcutta party headquarters, Gouripur Kalibari Jessore Road and Bagdogra — to lead the Shaheed Samman Yatra held to remember BJP workers allegedly murdered by their Trinamul counterparts between 2018 and 2021. Police stopped them at various places. “It is clear that police are working as servants of Trinamul. If Trinamul can celebrate Khela Hobe Divas on Monday, why aren’t we allowed to do our work while abiding by Covid protocols,” said Bongaon MP Thakur, the Union minister of state for ports, shipping and waterways. While Thakur was allegedly detained, state BJP vice-president Joyprakash Majumdar, five MLAs and others were arrested by airport police from Gouripur on the northern fringes of Calcutta. According to Majumdar, they were kept at the police station for almost three hours. “All of us were arrested. They detained Shantanu (Thakur) illegally because one can’t arrest a Union minister for no reason,” Majumdar said. Thakur wrote a letter to the officer-in-charge of the airport police station alleging he had been detained illegally. Police sources claimed Thakur voluntarily sat inside the police van that took arrested BJP supporters to the police station. Two persons of the BJP’s youth wing were arrested in front of party’s headquarters at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane in Calcutta. Later, MLAs Anup Saha and Sushanta Ghosh were arrested from the same spot. They were to accompany Bankura MP and Union minister of state for education Subhas Sarkar on his yatra. Twenty-one members, each from BJP’s Barasat and Hooghly organisational districts, were also arrested. Siliguri MLA Shankar Ghosh and 30 BJP supporters were arrested in Siliguri. Around 45 BJP supporters attired like the Narayani Sena troops of erstwhile royals of Cooch Behar were on their way to Bagdogra airport to welcome Nisith Pramanik, the BJP's Cooch Behar MP and Union minister of state for home affairs and sports, when they were arrested from Bihar More there. As the news spread, a large number of BJP supporters came in front of the police station. Its gate collapsed under pressure and injured some cops. Those arrested were later released on personal bonds. Pramanik and John Barla, the Alipurduar MP and the Union minister of state for minority affairs, returned to north Bengal for the first time on Tuesday after becoming ministers, and started the yatra from Bagdogra. BJP’s Nandigram MLA and Bengal’s leader of Opposition, Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday said his party would move court next week, seeking immediate implementation of the anti-defection law against Mukul Roy. Roy, the former Trinamul de facto number 2, joined BJP in 2017 and became one of its vice-presidents and an MLA, but recently joined his old party. Since then, Adhikari and the BJP have been desperately trying to get the Assembly Speaker to reject Roy’s membership by invoking the anti-defection law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
18-08-2021||West Bengal||Three Bengal ministers removed as heads of boards at civic bodies||Three Bengal ministers were on Tuesday removed from the helm of board of administrators at civic bodies in keeping with the Trinamul Congress’s new policy of “one person, one post”. While Sujit Bose was removed as the head of the board at South Dum Dum, Rathin Ghosh and Arup Roy were divested of the charge at Madhyamgram and Howrah, respectively. The decision prompted speculation on the future of minister and senior Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim, who is at the helm of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators. The overall pattern of the changes, said several seniors in Trinamul, has a discernible imprint of the party’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee, whose appointment to the post took place on June 5, the same day the policy was adopted. While the list of members on the board of administrators at the Jalpaiguri municipality was announced on Tuesday, leaders of Trinamul and the BJP were all surprised. Subhajit Kar, who had left Trinamul and joined the BJP in February, was made a member of the board. According to Trinamul insiders, the list of prospective members of the board had been prepared and sent to the state leadership when Kar was still in the party. “It seems the state leadership did not cross-check whether he is still with the party. We think that is why his name is on the list,” a district Trinamul leader said. Kar himself was perplexed. “I have not yet received any formal letter, but yes, I have seen the notification. It is surprising as Trinamul hardly gives recognition to any leader or elected representative of other political parties,” he said. Former minister Rabindranath Ghosh has been nominated as the chairman of the North Bengal Development Council, while Binoy Krishna Burman and Sabitri Mitra, have been made the vice-chairperson. Both Burman and Mitra are former ministers. Former Trinamul district presidents like Ranjan Sarkar and Gautam Das and former MPs like Bijoy Chandra Burman were appointed as members of the council.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
18-08-2021||West Bengal||Smugglers across Bengal and northeast border use bartery system for illegal trade||The operatives engaged in smuggling of various items across north Bengal and Northeast, which share borders with Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar and China, have begun using barter system to carry on with their illegal trade at a time delivering cash on receipt of consignments has become difficult because of a host of factors. A senior BSF officer posted in Malda district said the force had come to know of the new modus operandi when it had intercepted some drugs consignments and arrested members of a racket that was engaged in sending illegal firearms and cough syrups to Bangladesh. “During interrogation, it emerged that the operatives have switched to a system of bartering these days. This change has indeed made surveillance difficult,” said an officer of a central intelligence agency posted in the district. Between north Bengal and Northeast, the BSF guards around 2,500km of the India-Bangladesh border. As the borders that India shares with Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Bhutan are porous and the areas adjoining the boundaries are densely populated, surveillance has always been a challenge as smugglers invent new ways to hoodwink security agencies. The basket of products that are illegally traded between north Bengal and Northeast with the neighbouring countries has also been expanding and a multi-country network has developed. “Earlier, it was cattle and fake currency which were smuggled along the India-Bangladesh border. But in recent times, the basket has expanded to include items ranging from gold to yaba tablets to cough syrups, firearms and of course, narcotics. The pandemic-induced lockdown, because of which normal border trade has suffered, may have been the reason behind the broadening of the basket and the emergence of the multi-country network,” said a source in the BSF. During conversation with multiple sources in BSF, the SSB and other state and central agencies, it was revealed that the system of barter — an innovation that has taken the agencies by surprise — has resulted in a sudden spurt in illegal trade across multiple borders. Researchers who have studied the new mechanism that the rackets have evolved elaborated on the issue, while underscoring the system is helping the smugglers handle less cash. “For example, a consignment of tablets and cough syrups is sent to Bangladesh. In return, the supplier receives a consignment of narcotics (see map). He is then sending the drugs through his own channels to places like Calcutta, Bihar and even to the neighbouring country of Nepal and in return, obtains some other items which are smuggled out to Bangladesh. This is how this system is functioning. It is not that they are not handling cash, but in lesser quantities,” said Abhijnan Sengupta, a researcher in economics who is based in Malda. He has said while transferring money to banks from anywhere in the world has become easy these days, those involved in illegal trade are aware of the hazards because of strict vigil on transactions. Sending huge amounts of cash through the Hawala channels, the researcher said, has become difficult these days and that’s why the barter system has evolved. “Operatives in multiple countries are involved and hence, the barter system works well as there are no worries about exchanging currencies... Once the product reaches the final recipient, that person can sell it in local currency and realise the gains,” explained Sengupta. As security agencies have learnt about the new method, they have also found that though there are certain limitations in the barter system — for example, ascertainment of prices — the smugglers have even evolved a process to overcome the problem. “There is a specific price for each of the items which they exchange illegally across the border. Messages are exchanged after each consignment is sent and calculations are done on quantities,” said an official of a central intelligence agency. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee and Avijit Sinha in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
18-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal records 547 new cases and six deaths||Bengal on Tuesday recorded 547 new Covid-19 infections, 637 recoveries and six deaths. The state’s total number of active cases fell by 96 to reach 9,736 on Tuesday, after a 58 straight days of a slide. Bengal now has 2.67 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth among states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 32 new infections and one death. The state’s recovery rate is 98.18 per cent, its highest ever this pandemic and fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.49 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.49 per cent on Tuesday. With North 24-Parganas reporting 77 new cases, Tuesday was the 12th consecutive day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Sixteen among Bengal districts reported a two-digit figures and Alipurduar, Kalimpong, North and South Dinajpur, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday, while Calcutta apart, Darjeeling, West and East Midnapore, Howrah, Hooghly also reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.4 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes over 15.11 lakh recoveries and 18,318 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
18-08-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung’s former aide Sanjeev Lama floats hill forum||The formation of an apolitical Hill Youth Forum was announced on Tuesday by a former aide of Bimal Gurung, one in a series of such initiatives in the hills which clearly points out that some in the hills are increasingly losing trust in political parties “to solve the issues of the land”. Sanjeev Lama, who was on the run with Bimal Gurung for more than three-and-a-half-years on Tuesday, said “aware youths” decided to form the apolitical forum to take forward “issues of the land” that are political in nature. “We announce the formation of Hill Youth Forum. People in the hills are confused why problems of the land have not been solved. Political parties have their own agenda,” said Lama. Lama was actively involved with Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha but in recent months distanced himself from Gurung. Many believe this is largely because Gurung decided to join hands with Trinamul in October 2020. Gurung decided to support Trinamul in the 2021 Bengal Assembly polls. Lama backed an Independent from Darjeeling. The seat, however, was won by Neeraj Zimba of GNLF who contested on a BJP ticket. “We will take forward our demands constitutionally. We will speak to aware youths and citizens to take forward our demands,” said Lama. The forum’s spokesman, Lochan Gurung, asked: “Why are panchayat elections not being held in hills? Why are various administrative interventions not taking place?” Panchayat elections were last held in the hills in 2000. This is however not the first “apolitical platform” trying to take forward political issues of the hills. Kishore Pradhan, who recently quit the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), a party currently in alliance with the BJP in Darjeeling, announced “an apolitical platform which will work like a political platform”. Pradhan is supported by former CPRM leader Bindiya Dukpa. After the Gorkhaland agitation in 2017, the highlight of which was the 104-day total shutdown with no concrete returns, another apolitical platform National Gorkhaland Committee is also trying to take up political issues of Darjeeling hills, which include creation of a separate state of Gorkhaland or “permanent political solution.” “It is obvious many in the hills perceive politics to be in complete disarray. This is why many, who can’t immediately float a political party, are trying to create space through these forums,” said an observer. Anit Thapa, who was Binay Tamang’s second-in-command for years, is set to form a political party in early September. Many in the hills say that after the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation, no leader has been able to establish himself where politics is governed by the emotive issue of Gorkhaland. “The decision of Gurung, Tamang and Thapa to join hands with Trinamul (for Assembly polls) did not go well with people if poll results are any yardstick,” said the observer. Even though BJP-GNLF and its allies have won three elections after 2017 they have not been able to assert themselves as the ruling party in the hills as Trinamul allies are still considered more powerful in solving local issues. “There is a complete vacuum in terms of political leadership in the hills now. The BJP-GNLF has been winning elections but they are yet to be seen as parties that rule the roost in the hills,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
18-08-2021||West Bengal||Alert on the stranded from Bengal in Afghanistan||The Bengal government has asked all district magistrates to inform Nabanna at the earliest if they receive any information on anyone from the state stranded in Afghanistan. The message was sent to the districts after Nabanna came to know that some persons from the state, particularly from the Darjeeling hills, were stranded in Afghanistan and desperately awaiting evacuation following the country’s takeover by Taliban. “We heard that some people from the state might be stranded in Afghanistan. But we have not received any official complaint from the family members. So, we have asked the district magistrates to play a proactive role to find out if there is anybody stuck in Afghanistan,” said a senior government official. Sources at Nabanna said if the state got any such report officially, the government would request the Centre to evacuate the stranded persons. The state government has told the DMs that in case they receive information of persons stranded in Afghanistan, they should send a report to Nabanna, along with details like phone number, current location and contact person in Bengal. The sources also said Nabanna had become active on the issue after reports came in that some family members in Darjeeling had approached local BJP MP Raju Bista to take initiatives to evacuate their family members in Afghanistan. “It was heard that the MP had already written to Delhi on the developments. It is uncomfortable for the state government that it has no such information yet. This is why the DMs have been asked to play a proactive role,” said a source. Bista, who reached Darjeeling on Tuesday, said a committee headed by a joint secretary in the ministry of external affairs was being formed to oversee the evacuation of Indians stuck in Afghanistan. “I am in constant touch with the MEA and also people from Darjeeling who are stuck in Kabul….Our priority is to ensure the return of every citizen of the country. The MEA has formed a committee and the Prime Minister is also looking into the issue,” said Bista. The Darjeeling MP admitted that there were some problems in the Kabul airport as “Taliban have taken control of some parts of the airport”. “However, we are trying to solve this issue….I request people to be patient and please don’t go by rumours but rely on government information,” said Bista. Senior officials said they would try to find out family members of people stranded in Afghanistan and persuade them to lodge complaints with the authorities. “It should be official between the state and the Centre. The state has to be kept in the loop for the benefit of the stranded people. Some states have already approached the Centre with a list of stranded people in Afghanistan,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
18-08-2021||West Bengal||CPM set to suspend Ajanta Biswas for penning article for TMC mouthpiece Jago Bangla||Ajanta Biswas, the daughter of former Left Front chairman Anil Biswas, is likely to be suspended from the CPM for penning an article for Trinamul Congress mouthpiece Jago Bangla, sources in the Left party said. The CPM area committee, which oversees activities of the party unit to which Ajanta belongs, has recommended her suspension for three months and the final decision will be taken by the Calcutta district committee. “The area committee has sent its recommendation to the district committee. When the district committee meets on Saturday, it will take a final call. However, traditionally, the recommendation of the area committee is never altered by the district committee,” a source in the party said. The article authored by Ajanta, who is an associate professor of history at Rabindra Bharati University in Calcutta, was titled “Woman power in Bengal politics” and chronicled the contributions of the likes of Basanti Devi and Sarojini Naidu. However, in the last part of the series, Ajanta heaped praise on Mamata Banerjee, who came to power in 2011 ending the Left Front’s three-and-a-half decades’ rule. The CPM had showcaused Ajanta and she replied that she had only tried to uphold the contributions made by women in politics without judging any political colour. Clearly, her answer didn’t go down well with the area committee which has finally recommended her suspension to the district committee. In the CPM’s course of things, a member can be suspended for a minimum of a month to a maximum of a year for antiparty activities. If the member continues with such activities even after suspension, those can lead to that person’s dismissal. On Tuesday, calls from this newspaper to Ajanta went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
