19-08-2021||West Bengal||SC Collegium elevates Calcutta HC judge caught in Mamata's crosshairs||Kaushik Chanda, an Additional Judge of the Calcutta High Court whom the Supreme Court Collegium has appointed as a Permanent Judge, was in West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's line of fire over his alleged proximity to the BJP and the TMC leader had even opposed his confirmation. Justice Chanda had on July 7 recused himself from hearing a petition by the Trinamool Congress chief challenging the election of Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram after she expressed apprehension of bias against her by the judge. The Collegium headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana met on August 17 and approved the proposal. The statement was uploaded on the apex court's website on Thursday. Besides Ramana, Justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar are part of the three-member Collegium which takes decisions with regard to the appointment of high court judges. Seeking reassignment of her election petition to another bench, Banerjee's counsel had also written to the Acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, saying the chief minister "had objected to the confirmation of the Hon'ble Judge as a Permanent Judge of the Hon'ble High Court at Calcutta", and as such, apprehends that there is a likelihood of bias on the part of the judge concerned. While recusing himself from the case, Justice Chanda had imposed a cost of Rs five lakh on Banerjee for the manner in which she had sought his recusal. He had noted in the order that Banerjee sought his recusal "since she apprehends that her objection against my confirmation as a Permanent Judge of this court is known to me", and maintained that in his view, such a ground cannot justify recusal. The petitioner cannot seek recusal based upon her own consent or objection with regard to the appointment of a judge, the bench said, adding that a judge cannot be said to be biased because of a litigant's own perception and action. "If such an argument is accepted, the election petition cannot be tried before this court since the petitioner, in her capacity as the Chief Minister of the State, has either objected or gave consent to the appointments of most of the Hon'ble Judges of this Court," Justice Chanda had said. In his order, Justice Chanda had noted that a letter by the petitioner's counsel to the Acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court on June 16 seeking that the election petition be reassigned to another judge "contained highly confidential information concerning the appointment of a Judge of the High Court, and the petitioner, being the Chief Minister of the State, who took the oath of secrecy, was constitutionally obliged to maintain the secrecy of such information." Releasing the election petition of Banerjee on an application by her for recusal expressing apprehension of bias, Justice Chanda said that he was doing so in order to thwart at the outset attempts by trouble-mongers to keep the controversy alive. He had noted that like any other citizen of the country a judge also exercises his voting rights in favour of a political party, but he lays aside his individual predilection while deciding a case. He had said that it is preposterous to suggest that a judge having a past association with a political party as a lawyer should not receive a case involving the said political party or any of its members. "The past association of a judge with a political party by itself cannot form apprehension of bias," the bench said. "This proposition, if allowed to be accepted, would be destructive to the long-lived and deep-rooted notion of neutrality associated with the justice delivery system and lead to the unfair practice of Bench hunting to resist a fair adjudication by an unscrupulous litigant," Justice Chanda observed. Noting that "the script was already prepared; the dramatis personae were ready to launch a well-rehearsed drama outside the Court," Justice Chanda said, "On the own showing of the petitioner in the recusal application, it appears that the chief national spokesperson and leader of the petitioner's party in the Rajya Sabha was ready by that time with two photographs of mine attending a programme of BJP legal cell in the year 2016." Justice Chanda said that another member of Parliament of the said party also by that time, apparently, "was ready with a purported list of cases where I had appeared for the Bharatiya Janata Party as a lawyer." Banerjee's lawyers had suggested that Justice Chanda should recuse himself from the case since he was associated with the legal cell of the BJP before his elevation as a judge and had appeared in a number of cases on its behalf before the high court as a lawyer. Congress leader and Supreme Court advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the TMC supremo, had submitted that "the Hon'ble Judge of this Hon'ble Court should be like Caesar's wife, above suspicion".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Boat capsizes in Ganga killing three brothers and their cousin||Three brothers drowned when a small country boat capsized in West Bengal's Malda district, an official said on Thursday. According to the official four persons including the three brothers and their cousin were travelling in the small boat to cut jute on the banks of river Ganga when it capsized in the middle of the river on Wednesday afternoon. Kartik Mandal (25) swam safely to the banks of the river while the three brothers - Subrata Mandal (18), Satyajit Mandal (22) and Satyaban Mandal (20) went missing. The bodies of Subrata and Satyajit were found on Thursday morning, Block Development Officer (BDO) Kaliachak, Mamum Akhtar said. The body of Satyaban was found in the afternoon, the BDO said. All the three brothers are residents of Arjun Mandal Para under Baishnabnagar police station, said Uday Mandal, Pradhan of the local Krishnapur gram panchayat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
19-08-2021||West Bengal||High court orders CBI probe into post-poll violence in Bengal ||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday ordered a CBI probe into violence that allegedly took place in the aftermath of the announcement of the West Bengal Assembly poll results on May 2, and also constituted a special investigation team comprising serving IPS officers of the state. A five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, that was ruling on a clutch of petitions seeking an impartial probe into alleged atrocities like murder and crimes against women, also clarified that the court would monitor the progress of investigations. "It shall be a court-monitored investigation and any obstruction in the course of investigation by anyone shall be viewed seriously,” the court added. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has vehemently denied occurrence of any  post-poll violence in the state and also accused the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), which had submitted a scathing report, of doing the bidding of the ruling BJP at the Centre. A committee set up by NHRC had also recommended a CBI probe into the complaints of murder and rape, adding that these should be tried outside the state. “All cases as per the report of NHRC committee where allegations are about murder of person or crime against women regarding rape or attempt to rape shall be referred to the CBI for investigation,” the court ordered. The court also asked the state government to hand over all documents and records related to the cases to the CBI. As per the court, the three-member SIT will comprise Suman Bala Sahoo, director general of police (telecommunication), Soumen Mitra, Commissioner of Police Calcutta, and Ranvir Kumar, additional director general of police (administration-I). A retired Supreme Court judge will be appointed by the court later to monitor the working of the SIT. The bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar passed three separate but concurring judgements. Following cases of alleged atrocities in which many supporters were allegedly forced to flee their homes with police refusing to step in, a PIL was filed before the Calcutta High Court. Acting on the orders of the Calcutta High Court, a seven-member team formed by NHRC chairperson Justice Arun Mishra visited a number of areas across the state to probe the allegations. The 50-page report submitted by the committee had said that the "law of ruler" had replaced "rule of law" in Bengal. But, Mamata and other Trinamul leaders had questioned the neutrality of the NHRC. The Court also said that the July 2, 2021 notice issued to the deputy commissioner of police (South Suburban) seeking an explanation why proceedings for contempt of court against him should not be initiated, would  be taken up at a later date. The case will now be placed before a division bench for dealing with other issues mentioned in the NHRC report. The next hearing of the case is scheduled for October 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul puts ex-BJP face at helm of Jaigaon Development Authority||A number of Trinamul leaders of Alipurduar district, including a former BJP face and a former MLA of its own party, have been nominated as office-bearers and members of two prominent development bodies of north Bengal. Ganga Prasad Sharma, a former district president of the BJP who deserted the saffron camp after the Assembly elections this year and joined Trinamul, has been made the new chairman of Jaigaon Development Authority (JDA). Formed during the Left Front era, the JDA is tasked with infrastructure development in and around Jaigaon, the town in Alipurduar at the India-Bhutan border. Alipurduar is one of those few districts where Trinamul could not win a single Assembly seat at the elections this year despite its historic majority. Sourav Chakroborty, the immediate past MLA of Alipurduar, will chair the Siliguri-Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) headquartered at Siliguri. “It seems the party leadership wants Chakraborty to play a prominent role, given his contribution in establishing the party’s base in Alipurduar,” said a party leader. Sharma, on the other hand, seems to have earned the berth of the JDA chairman as Trinamul intends to use him to revive its support base, observers said. “During his (Sharma’s) tenure as the district president, the BJP managed to bag the Lok Sabha seat and also all the five Assembly seats of the district. His decision to quit the party has caused some damage to the BJP,” an observer said. Sharma’s selection has also brought cheers among the business fraternity of Jaigaon. A local resident, he is perceived to be aware of the issues that need to be addressed for its development. “I will soon hold a meeting with different organisations of Jaigaon and prepare a list of infrastructure work required to be done,” said Sharma. Tribal faces like Birendra Bara and Jai Prakash Toppo have been inducted in the JDA. Mihir Dutta, a former councillor of Alipurduar municipality, is also included.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung faction to erect 11 martyrs’ statues killed during 2017 Gorkhaland agitation ||The Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided to erect statues of “11 martyrs killed during the Gorkhaland agitation in 2017” and has asserted that the party would move ahead with a Gorkhaland-centric agenda. Gurung chaired the central committee meeting held in Kalimpong on Wednesday, where many decisions to strengthen the faction were taken. Roshan Giri, general secretary of the faction, made it clear that it would once again use the Gorkhaland card to strengthen its base in the region. “It has been decided that the party will erect statues of 11 martyrs who died in the Gorkhaland agitation (of 2017)…. In the days to come we will move ahead with our issue, a Gorkhaland-centric agenda,” said Giri. The 2017 Gorkhaland agitation included 104 days of continuous strike in the hills. With the state government crushing the agitation with a heavy hand, Gurung along with Giri and his other senior leaders were on the run for over three years. Gurung returned to Darjeeling last year after dumping the BJP and joining hands with the Trinamul. Giri on Wednesday lambasted the BJP for “not being serious” about the hill issue and said any tripartite talk without taking the state government “on board” would be fruitless. “Our demand is Gorkhaland or Union territory. The other options of a hill body with legislative powers are Article 244A for which the Constitution has to be amended,” said Giri adding that the Sixth Schedule status had been rejected by the hill people. Observers in the hills believe Gurung’s faction, which did not fare well in the 2021 Bengal Assembly election in the hills, has little option but to “speak about the emotive Gorkhaland issue” to stay relevant. “In the present political landscape of the hills, I do not see the possibility of Gurung starting a movement for Gorkhaland but he may keep talking about the issue to attract supporters,” said an observer. Gurung’s rise in hill politics in 2007 was after he raised the Gorkhaland issue to oppose GNLF leader Subash Ghisingh’s demand for inclusion of hills within the Sixth Schedule of the Indian Constitution. At the meeting Gurung’s party also decided to bifurcate Kurseong subdivision committee into Kurseong 1 and 2 and two from subdivisional committees for Bijanbari area in Darjeeling and Gorubathan and Kumai-Jhaldhaka areas in Kalimpong district. The party also decided to form three committees for eastern, western and middle Dooars and appointed a number of leaders to oversee the party’s expansion in the plains including Siliguri and Terai, and decided to open a “human rights” cell. On Wednesday, Darjeeling MP Raju Bista of the BJP also visited Kalimpong to inaugurate an Aadhaar Seva Kendra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Presence of BJP faces at Visva-Bharati event raises questions||Visva-Bharati on Wednesday was mired in controversy yet again after the BJP’s Birbhum unit chief and other BJP workers took part in a varsity event with junior Union education minister Subhas Sarkar, the saffron party’s Bankura MP. The presence of BJP faces at the varsity event raised questions over whether it was another attempt by Visva-Bharati authorities in the tenure of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty to saffronise Rabindranath Tagore’s campus. Sarkar visited Visva-Bharati after his elevation as Union minister of state in the Narendra Modi government. He offered a floral tribute to Tagore’s chair at Rabindra Bhavana and visited sites connected with the polymath, before attending a lecture on the Centre’s National Education Policy organised by Visva-Bharati. BJP district chief Dhruba Saha, the party’s MLA from Birbhum’s Dubrajpur Anup Saha and other party workers accompanied Sarkar everywhere, including the varsity  lecture. The presence of BJP leaders in Visva-Bharati’s official event prompted Trinamul to question Chakrabarty’s alleged attempts to saffronise the central varsity with the Prime Minister as chancellor. BJP district chief Saha was on the dais of the lecture by Sarkar with VC Chakrabarty. “A minister may come, but why was the BJP district president in the programme? The VC is actively working to promote the BJP and has turned it (the varsity) into a camp of that party. Now, Trinamul will also organise a political programme inside the varsity,” said Trinamul’s Birbhum unit chief Anubrata Mondal. “The VC has no right to invite political leaders to a varsity programme.” Many varsity insiders said this was not a first at the varsity and the trend began in Chakrabarty’s time. In 2019, the alleged promotion of saffronisation began by allowing the Rashtriya Kala Manch, an RSS-backed outfit, to hold a workshop in the varsity’s journalism department. In August 2019, ABVP national-secretary Sunil Ambekar and then state tourism minister Gautam Deb of Trinamul, became the first political leaders to be invited to Halakarshana (ploughing ceremony), started by Tagore in 1929, on Sriniketan campus. In January 2020, Visva-Bharati organised a lecture to support the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act of the Modi government by Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, despite student protests. “Since Chakrabarty came here as the VC, he has been proactively trying to promote the saffron agenda... a desperate bid to ruin the inclusive, secular, cosmopolitan, global culture of Visva-Bharati, built painstakingly by Tagore,” said a senior varsity professor. Asked about the presence of BJP leaders in the varsity’s event, Sarkar said: “They are human beings too.” “They came to Visva-Bharati as human beings. Those who came here are educated and did not come here to do politics,” he added. BJP district chief Saha said he was a “lover of Tagore”, which is why he was there. The controversy over the presence of BJP leaders in educational institutions continued in Durgapur, where Sarkar went to inaugurate a digital classroom and a library of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) in the afternoon. Sources said a BJP leaders were there to welcome him, which was unprecedented for the national institution. Sarkar claimed all those who came to the NIT were involved in education and had no connection with politics. Additional reporting by Abhijeet Chatterjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Over 30 lakh already applied for cash assistance: Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said a total of 30 lakh women had already applied for Lakshmir Bhandar scheme that offers Rs 500 each to general caste women and Rs 1,000 each to SC/ST women every month through Duare Sarkar camps that started on Monday. “Thirty lakh women have already applied for the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme... In some areas, many are gathering to fill up forms. I would request all to have patience as the camps would continue till September 15,” the chief minister said after an administrative review meeting at Nabanna on Wednesday. Sources said the rush to apply for Lakshmir Bhandar was encouraging for the ruling establishment as it proved that the scheme could be a game changer ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, but at the same time the huge gathering at the camps was giving a headache for the state administration in the backdrop of the pandemic. “The main problem is that Covid-19 protocols have been thrown out of gear at many camps. We are concerned because we don’t want these camps to trigger the third wave of the pandemic in Bengal,” said a senior official. Considering the huge gatherings at the camps, chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi has asked district magistrates to increase the number of camps. Initially, it was planned that 17,000-odd camps would be set up under the month-long programme, but now it has been decided that 22,000-odd camps would be launched to avert large gatherings. The chief minister said 46 lakh applications had already been received in the first three days of the Duare Sarkar camps. “Maximum number of applications have been submitted seeking benefits under the Lakshmir Bhandar programme.... It is very natural that many people would apply for a new scheme,” she said. According to sources, the initial trend of the Duare Sarkar camps gives a clear trend that the number of applications under the scheme would surpass the state government’s initial assessment. “Initially, we had estimated that 1.6 crore beneficiaries would be registered under the new scheme. But now, it appears the number of beneficiaries would be much more,” said a senior official. Sources at Nabanna said the success of the Duare Sarkar camps clearly suggested that the target of the government to reach out to common people had clicked. “Now, the top brass of the government are keen on holding the programme twice a year,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Four drug smugglers held in Malda ||The special task force (STF) of Calcutta police has arrested four suspected smugglers and seized around 65kg of cannabis and about 10kg of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, in Malda district. With the arrest of the duo, the STF have detained four persons with narcotic in Bengal in the past 48 hours, including a resident of Bihar. On Tuesday, Jayanta Mahato and Ranjit Sarkar were arrested from Gazole and the cannabis were seized from them. On August 15 (Sunday), the STF nabbed Lalit Sahani, a resident of Samastipur district in Bihar, and Sumit Alipatra, who hails from Mirzapur in Murshidabad district, with the brown sugar. The duo were held from Adina, located under Gazole police station. Sources said the raids had been carried out following information from Ismail Sheikh and Avishek Salam, who were arrested by the STF from the Calcutta port area on August 12. The STF had recovered 1.291 kg of yaba tablets from Sheikh, a resident of Kaliachak, and Salam, who is from Manipur. In another incident, Kaliachak police arrested a person with counterfeit Indian currency amounting to Rs 6 lakh on Tuesday night. The seized notes are in denomination of Rs 2,000. The arrested Khudiram Mandal is a resident of Duishotobighi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Two dead in highway crash in North Dinajpur||Two persons died and three others were injured when an SUV collided with a bus on NH27 in Bastadangi under Dalkhola police station of North Dinajpur early on Wednesday. Police sources said the SUV headed to Kishanganj from Dalkhola collided with a private bus, which apparently was plying on the wrong lane on the highway, near Bastadangi. “Locals rescued the victims and rushed them to a hospital in Islampur. Two of them were declared brought dead and three are under treatment,” said a source. The deceased have been identified as Mohammad Ramzan, 37, and Mohammad Laden, 32, both residents of Lahasara, a locality in ward 13 of Dalkhola town. The police have seized both the vehicles and started a probe. In another incident, the body of a woman was found floating in a swamp near the Balurghat railway station in South Dinajpur district on Wednesday morning. Police suspect murder as there were injury marks on the body of the 40yearold housewife. According to sources, Pata Burman, a resident of Boaldar, had been missing since Tuesday. “She went out to get herself vaccinated at a nearby health centre but did not return home,” said a source. The police said they were waiting for the postmortem report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Union minister Subhash Sarkar courts controversy with remarks on Rabindranath Tagore's complexion||Union minister of state for education Subhash Sarkar produced a shocker on Wednesday when he dwelt on the skin tone of Rabindranath Tagore in public at Visva-Bharati, the central university founded by the Bard. Instead of discussing the woes facing the Indian education system or how to bridge the digital divide to ensure that more students could attend online classes, the minister gave a lecture on different types of fair skin and explained why Sarada Devi hadn’t purportedly taken her son Tagore on her lap in his childhood. “Tar maa ebong barir oneke kalo boley take koley niten na. Sei Rabindranath Thakur bharoter hoye biswa joy korechhen (His mother and some other family members didn’t take him on their lap because he was dark. That Rabindranath Tagore conquered the world for India),” Sarkar said at a lecture organised by the varsity during his first visit after his induction into the Narendra Modi cabinet. Sarkar was silent on where he sourced the titbits of racial discrimination in the Tagore family. Nor did he offer any correlation between Tagore’s success and skin tone, which he portrayed as a disadvantage. During his three-hour stay at the abode of Tagore, Sarkar, with Visva Bharati vice chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty by his side, spoke on several issues, ranging from the situation in Afghanistan to the New Education Policy. But the comments of the gynaecologist-turned-politician on the skin tone of the Bard and other members of the Tagore family stumped everyone. “Kabiguru Rabindranath Thakur samporke, eder barite sokoler chehara jodi dekha jai, sokoler gayer rong dhobdhobe forsha chhilo. Rabindranath Thakurer o gayer rang satyikarer forsha chhilo. Farsa sadharanato dui prokarer hoi — ekjon dekhben toktokey holdey, ar ekjon dekhben forshar modhyei kintu ektu laal bhab thake. Kabiguru Rabindranath Thakurer gayer rong dwitiyo dhoroner chhilo, (If I talk about Rabindranath Tagore, if we look into the faces of all his family members, everyone’s complexion was extremely fair. Tagore was also really fair. There are two categories of fairness — a person with extreme yellow skin tone and you may find the other type of fairness with a reddish tinge. Tagore belonged to second category),” said Sarkar. Several experts on Tagore drilled holes into his assessment of Tagore’s skin tone, but the bigger question was what prompted him to bring skin tone of the legend in public discourse. “When a BJP central minister talks about skin tone, it exposes the deep-rooted racism in his mind. The Prime Minister and other senior leaders of the party should condemn his statement,” said CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty. “They divide the country in terms of religion and caste.… Now, they have began bringing skin tone in the discourse,” he added, expressing his dismay at how the BJP was trying to divide the society. Later in the day, Sarkar told journalists in Bankura that he had documents to prove whatever he had said on the Bard’s skin colour. But some of his colleagues in the BJP expressed surprise over his comments. “The comments on skin tone of Tagore were unnecessary… We could have avoided this controversy at a time awareness of colour prejudices is growing at least in urban India,” said a senior state BJP leader on condition of anonymity. Last July, Hindustan Unilever had changed the name of Fair & Lovely, a skin-lightening product, to Glow & Lovely. The modification captured an attempt to do away with racial stereotyping against which worldwide protests erupted after the killing of George Floyd, a Black man, by Minneapolis police in the United States. More than a year after an FMCG behemoth made an effort to align its marketing policy towards a more inclusive vision of beauty, and several other brands followed suit, Sarkar’s comments were seen as regressive. “If a Union minister talks about skin tone and portrays someone like Tagore as dark and then refers it as a disadvantage, you can well imagine that he is reinforcing the racial stereotype,” said a professor of Visva-Bharati. Some Tagore experts said although the bard himself, and even his nephew Abanindranath Tagore, had often described themselves as ‘dark’, it was more in jest while referring to their childhood memories. “Tagore was very fair and handsome and there was no doubt that he was definitely a fair one. My father Bijan Bihari Bhattacharya worked with Tagore at least for 10 years from 1931 as he was one of the editors of Rabindra Rachanabali. I heard from my father that he was fair and handsome. I also heard it from many people who met Tagore personally,” said Amitra Sudan Bhattacharya, a Tagore researcher and author. According to him, the minister’s assessment of Tagore’s skin tone was wrong. Academic Pabitra Sarkar said word “dark” was very relative and it was very shameful when a minister discussed the complexion of Tagore in front of seniors at the varsity. “It is wrong that his mother or others did not take him on their lap. His mother used to cuddle the kids before they went to bed. Is there any relation with Rabindranath whom we know with his skin complexion? Did such issues stop Tagore from becoming a Nobel prize winner or a philosopher or polymath? It is shameful that a minister will speak about such things like a child in front of the matured people.” Trinamul vice-president Saugata Ray also criticised Sarkar. “This reminds of what Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar had said: ‘Murkheyr awshesh dosh (the faults of the idiot are endless)’. Subhash Sarkar, I don’t know him very well. He is a first-time MP, and a minister now… But if he does make such remarks, he should not be allowed to enter Visva-Bharati henceforth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Nearly 200 Bengal residents stuck in Afghanistan, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said nearly 200 people from Bengal were stranded in Afghanistan and her government was in touch with the Centre to evacuate them safely. “We have received information so far that about 200 people from the state are stranded in Afghanistan. Our chief secretary has written a letter to the external affairs ministry, urging the Centre to rescue them at the earliest,” the chief minister said after an administrative review meeting at Nabanna on Wednesday. The Bengal government had asked all district magistrates on Tuesday to take initiatives to find out whether any person from the state was stuck in Afghanistan. The directive came after the state did not receive any information officially about any such person even though social media platforms were flooded with details of many Bengal residents stuck in Afghanistan. “As soon as the DMs played proactive roles, the state government received information that more than 200 people were stranded in Afghanistan. The chief secretary wrote the letter to Delhi without any delay,” said a source. Sources said the message had been sent to the districts on Tuesday after Nabanna had come to know that some persons from the state, particularly the Darjeeling hills, were stranded in Afghanistan and they needed immediate evacuation following Taliban’s takeover of the country. The state government had told the DMs that in case they received any information of persons stranded in Afghanistan, they should send a report to Nabanna along with the details like phone number, current location and contact person in Bengal. The sources said Nabanna had become active on the issue after reports came in that some family members in Darjeeling had approached local BJP MP Raju Bista to take initiatives to evacuate their family members in Afghanistan. Bista, who reached Darjeeling on Tuesday, said a committee headed by a joint secretary in the ministry of external affairs was being formed to oversee the evacuation of Indians stuck in Afghanistan. A bureaucrat said on Wednesday: “Soon after the state received details of nearly 200 persons, steps were initiated to draw the attention of the Centre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Boat capsizes in swollen Ganga, 3 brothers missing||Three brothers went missing in the swollen Ganga after a small boat they had boarded to submerge jute stems for harvesting capsized at Krishnapur under Baishnabnagar police station of Malda on Wednesday morning. Although rescue operations of the state civil defence department and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are on, none of the trio could be traced till evening. Sources said around 10am, four sons of Lakshman Mandal, a farmer in Chor-Sujapur, Baishnabnagar, with fields in Krishnapur on the other side of the river, were in the boat on the Ganga. The small vessel with Indrajit, 25, Subrata, 22, Satyajit, 19, and Satyaban, 17, could not keep its balance in the severe current of the overflowing river and capsized. Only Indrajit, a farmer like his father, could swim ashore. Subrata is a third-year student of South Malda College while Satyajit and Satyaban have passed their higher secondary exams this year. “They went to harvest jute stems. We never expected such a mishap,” said the father. A civil defence team started a search operation with 12 country boats, trained swimmers and a speed boat. Later, an NDRF team joined in.“None could be traced till late evening,” said Mamun Akhtar, the BDO of Kaliachak-III block. Residents said many villages of Kaliachak-III block are flooded by the Ganga .The main road used by commuters in these villages to reach block headquarters is under water. “A boat is the only medium of transport. Nearly 20,000 people have been affected in floods,” said Jayanti Mandal, a local panchayat member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Nothing can stop Tripura win, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asserted that the Trinamul Congress would come to power in Tripura after the 2023 Assembly polls despite alleged efforts by the BJP government in the northeastern state to thwart her party’s rise there. “We cannot be stopped like this. Tripura, we will win next,” the Bengal chief minister said when she was asked at a press conference about alleged harassment of Trinamul leaders in Tripura. “Because we want the Bengal schemes to start in Tripura. Tripura’s people, too, should get the same benefits… we want the people of Tripura too to stay well,” she added. The questions at the press meet at Nabanna were in reference to the latest allegations from Trinamul youth wing chief Saayoni Ghosh. In a series of tweets, the actor-turned politician alleged hours of power cuts at a hotel where she and other Trinamul leaders stayed in Tripura, ill-treatment by the management, disallowing political discussions in its restaurant and even sub-standard food being served to Trinamul leaders. The Bengal chief minister said: “They are not even allowing them to stay in hotels, there too they are disturbing them.” “This is too much. There isn’t even the d of democracy, the l of loktantra … of law and order, neither is there order, nor law. Totally out of order. Goondaism, vandalism is on.” Mamata said former Speaker of the Tripura Assembly Jiten Sarkar — with stints in several political parties in the state — wrote to her, expressing his intention to join Trinamul, along with several others. She said the letter had been forwarded to her nephew, Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee. Referring to the alleged attack on Trinamul MPs Dola Sen and Aparupa Poddar in Tripura on Sunday — the latest in a series of such incidents in the northeastern state — Mamata said she didn’t want to get into all the details. “Whatever violence they have been perpetrating is for all to see. Head injuries to the (Bengal) police, head injuries to women MPs,” said the Trinamul chief. “Our party sought time from the governor (of Tripura, Satyadev Narayan Arya), which wasn’t given. It was said that time would be given after August 15. But the governor here (Jagdeep Dhankhar), the BJP’s leaders go and sit with him every day. Sorry to say,” she added. “Our governor (Dhankhar) gives more time to them (the BJP, the Opposition in Bengal). It has to be said that our governor is good. That is why he gives the BJP time every day. Every evening, he sits down for discussions with them.” On Wednesday, the High Court of Tripura refused to stay the operation of a suo motu FIR filed by Khowai police, accusing six Trinamul leaders, including Abhishek, of obstructing public servants from discharging their duty. A bench of Chief Justice A.A. Kureshi also directed the police to continue with their investigation but not to file the final report without the leave of the court. The court passed the order after hearing a petition filed by Subal Bhowmik to stay the investigation and also quash the case registered against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
19-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: 646 new cases, 7 deaths and 660 recoveries in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday recorded 646 new Covid-19 infections, 660 recoveries and seven deaths. The total number of active cases in the state fell by 21 to 9,715, after an uninterrupted 59 days of slide. Bengal now has 2.71 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth among states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 86 new cases and zero deaths on Wednesday. With North 24-Parganas logging 88 cases, Wednesday was the 13th consecutive day of no Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new cases. Seventeen districts reported two-digit figures, Kalimpong, North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.18 per cent, its highest ever this pandemic, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.51. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.47 per cent on Wednesday. Seventeen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Wednesday. Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Bankura, West Midnapore and Hooghly reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent now, while that of the nation is 1.34. Bengal now has over 15.4 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes 15.12 lakh recoveries and 18,325 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
