20-08-2021||West Bengal||Allegation of bias against NHRC panel not material, says Calcutta HC judge||Two judges on the five-member bench of the Calcutta High Court, which ordered a CBI probe into alleged cases of rape and murder during the post-assembly poll violence in Bengal, termed as "uncalled for" an NHRC panel making recommendations and expressing opinion over the incidents but dismissed suggestions that some of its members were biased against the government. One of the judges also observed that the Election Commission should have played a more positive role in directing the administration to register the complaints made by the alleged victims, while another said inclusion of two members in the panel could have been avoided as "it might raise reasonable likelihood of bias". The two members of the NHRC committee--Rajul Desai and Atif Rasheed-- had links to the BJP. Observing that there are "definite and proved" allegations that complaints of the victims of violence in the aftermath of the Bengal Assembly polls were not even registered, the court had on Thursday ordered a CBI investigation in all alleged cases of heinous crimes like rape and murder, while accepting the recommendations of the NHRC panel. The five-judge bench while passing the order on a batch of PILs seeking an independent probe into incidents of alleged violence after the polls which the ruling TMC won by an overwhelming majority, also ordered constitution of an SIT to probe all other cases. Justices I P Mukerji and Soumen Sen concurred with the order pronounced by the bench but raised some objections about the actions of the NHRC's fact finding committee. Penning his observations, Justice Mukerji noted the allegation of bias against the NHRC committee was not material but said the panel only had powers to report on facts as gathered by them during the investigation. "The allegation of bias against the Committee is not material because this court has considered not only the report of the Committee but other materials as well and arguments of learned Counsel based thereon. Therefore the part of the report expressing opinion, making recommendations etc. is non-est (does not exist) in the eye of law," he wrote. Justice Mukerji said the submission of the Election Commission is absolutely right that the conduct of elections was its responsibility but the administration was with the government. The Mamata Banerjee government had repeatedly said that the EC was in charge of administration since the start of the election process and its conclusion on May 5. "The Election Commission, in my opinion, is theoretically correct. But, it is also true that the Election Commission had directed the administration to transfer officials with administrative duties and post them according to its direction at the time when it was in charge of the election. "If offences had occurred as a consequence of the polls, it was also the duty of the Election Commission at least to direct or advise the administration to register the complaints which it did not," Justice Mukerji observed. He noted that between the polls and assumption of office by the new government, the Election Commission should have played a more positive role in directing the administration to register the complaints. "If the offence is established, the wrongdoers have to be brought to justice. Only then will the entire system be seen as fair, just and transparent by the ordinary people," the judge said. Justice Soumen Sen, making his observations, said, "It would be unfair to impute biasness against the members of the fact finding committee who otherwise have done a commendable job in collecting and compiling complaints." He said that in his view the inclusion of Rajulben Desai, Atif Rasheed and Rajeev Jain in the committee does not vitiate its report. "Although I felt that having regard to the antecedents of Rajulben Desai and Atif Rashid the inclusion of the said two members could have been avoided as it might raise reasonable likelihood of bias," Justice Sen observed. "Although the fact finding committee has made scathing remarks and made recommendations against politicians and police officers I am of the view that such remarks and recommendations were uncalled for and to that extent the committee has transgressed its limits," he said. Opposing the findings and recommendations of the NHRC committee report, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the state's DGP, had claimed during submissions that it was erroneous and biased. Claiming that a few members of the seven-member committee had links with the BJP, he had prayed that the report should be rejected by the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Facebook disables online group that rallies people against BJP||Facebook has disabled an online group that rallies people against the BJP and had spearheaded an anti-BJP campaign by civil society in the run-up to the Bengal Assembly polls. The “No Vote to BJP” Facebook group has over 33,000 members. Credited with playing a key role in the BJP’s crushing Assembly election defeat, the campaign has stayed active, both online and offline, after the polls. “Your group has been disabled because it doesn’t follow our community standards on . An admin has requested that we review this decision and we’ll send you an update soon,” read a message on the group’s profile, visible only to the administrators. There’s a space between “on” and the full stop that follows at the end of the incomplete first sentence, as though an undecided writer had left room for an appropriate word to be put in later. Members alleged that the group was disabled around Wednesday-Thursday midnight, with the administrators receiving the notification that said the group had not followed Facebook “community standards”. Till Thursday night, there had been no update from Facebook, the administrators said. A Facebook spokesperson refused comment when The Telegraph sought a reaction. An email from this newspaper had not brought any response till Thursday night. Sources in the company said “investigating such a complaint takes time and has to go through a process that involves multiple teams”. Among the members of the disabled group are the young actors who had conceived the music video, Nijeder Mawte Nijeder Gaan, that assailed intolerance and bigotry and made a splash ahead of the Bengal elections. Facebook’s move has triggered a flurry of protests on social media, with messages pasted on the pages of individual users as well as on the page of the No Vote to BJP campaign, which is still operative. “Shame on FB. You are like BJP,” a comment said. Many others said the campaign would go on. “The group admins are entitled to know on what basis the suspension came. How did the group violate Facebook’s community standards? What are these standards? It seems as if the Facebook community standards align with the BJP standards,” said Sabyasachi Mukherjee, one of the group administrators. “Just before getting the notification of disablement, group admins got notifications regarding the deletion of several posts of the group on the ground of community standards violation,” he added. “Although we are not able to see the deleted posts now, it can be anticipated that those were posts regarding political programmes organised by the group. As the name suggests, this group was clearly political and endorsed a specific campaign.” While the campaign had organised meetings, performed skits, distributed pamphlets and put up posters asking people not to vote for the BJP, it did not ask them to vote for any particular party. “We strongly suspect that complaints from Facebook users who are BJP supporters and Right-wing sympathisers have had a role in this,” Mukherjee said. Facebook, which counts India among its largest markets with over 300 million users, has been repeatedly accused of following content policies that favoured the ruling BJP. In August 2020, a report in The Wall Street Journal alleged that Facebook — the world’s largest social media company and the owner of WhatsApp, the most popular social messaging app in India — had ignored hate speech by BJP leaders. The report had added that in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha election, Ankhi Das, Facebook’s then public policy director for India, South and Central Asia, had kept it under wraps that Facebook had deleted fake news pages linked to the BJP. Das, who allegedly opposed the blocking of Right-wing hate content, quit the company in October last year. A member of the No Vote to BJP group said: “Aggressive comments from Right-wing sympathisers and fake posts abound on Facebook. The people behind them go scot-free but our voices get muffled.” Netizens and activists opposed to the BJP alleged that the disablement was not a one-off. Another group called the No NRC Movement — formed to “protest the Centre’s new citizenship thrust and expose and resist fascist forces” — was disabled by Facebook multiple times before and during the Bengal elections. “The No NRC Movement was disabled at least thrice on the same ground,” said Sagar Lahiri, an administrator of the group. “Each time, it was restored after many people protested on Facebook about the arbitrary action. The last time, the group was disabled for close to a month from the middle of May.” Lahiri added: “The curbs were lifted as Facebook could not provide a specific reason for disabling the group.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Verdict vindication of our stand: BJP||The BJP on Thursday said Calcutta High Court’s order to hand over probes into post-poll result violence to the CBI was a step towards the establishment of democracy again in Bengal. Barely an hour after the Calcutta High Court ruling,at least two Union ministers, three BJP MPs from Bengal, including state party chief Dilip Ghosh and leader of Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari hailed the judgment. They said the verdict was a vindication of the BJP’s stand that law and order was in a shambles in Bengal. Numerous other national and state functionaries of the BJP, including the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, his deputies Arvind Menon and Amit Malviya, and |the party’s national spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia followed suit. “We welcome the court’s decision. In a democracy, everyone has the right to spread their ideology but no one’s allowed to spread violence. There is no place for violence in democracy,” said Union minister Anurag Thakur, accused of fomenting tension through a hate speech during the campaign for the Delhi Assembly elections last year. Thakur’s cabinet colleague Smriti Irani said the judgment was “a concrete step on the path of justice”. “Despite everything that happened, the chief minister refused to accept the reality. We had no other option but to move court for justice…. The National Human Rights Commission’s team had submitted a 900page report…. They (Trinamul) questioned its veracity and accused the representatives in the team of being members of the BJP...,” said Ghosh. “There is no law and order in Bengal. Whenever we went to police to file complaints, they either refused to take our FIRs or said that they were helpless.…Today, with their judgement, the honourable high court has given a way out to establish democracy in the state again...” Trinamul turncoat Adhikari said the postresult incidents were in “gross violation of human rights” and were hitherto unforeseen in Independent India. Trinamul vicepresident Saugata Roy made no bones about his displeasure with the verdict. “Yes, of course, there is unhappiness with this verdict,” said Roy. “Law and order is fully a state subject. If, in that, the CBI keeps appearing repeatedly, that cannot be desirable,” added the Dum Dum MP. Sources in Trinamul said chief minister Mamata Banerjee was likely to end her public silence on the matter on Friday after a meeting of the national Opposition convened by UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi that the Trinamul chief will attend virtually. Roy said the state government would appeal against the verdict and attempts would be made to prevent its implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Five held for infiltration bid at Bangladesh border||The Border Security Force (BSF) intercepted five Bangladeshis, including a minor, in the past 48 hours from different locations of north Bengal while they were trying to infiltrate into India. The BSF said three had been sent back to their country through flag meetings held at the border with the Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB). The other two have been handed over to police. On Wednesday, a team of 61 battalion of the BSF, posted in Hilli of South Dinajpur district, apprehended a couple along the banks of ChhotiJamuna river while they were trying to cross the internation¬al border. “Indian and Bangladeshi currencies were recovered from Kalipada Saha and his wife Maharani, who hail from Aruapara village located under Kustia district of Bangladesh. Later, they were handed over to the police,” said a BSF source. In another incident, the border guards intercepted a woman and her six-year-old son from near the banks of Punarbhaba river, also in South Dinajpur, on Wednesday. “The two are inhabitants of Mymensingh district in Bangladesh. Later, they were handed over to the BGB who sent them back home,” the source said. On Tuesday, another Bangla national was intercepted at the international border. The person intercepted was a resident of Nilphamari district of the neighbouring country. Later, the BGB sent him back to his country. Faction clash One Trinamul supporter sustained a bullet injury while two others were hit by arrows in a clash between two factions of the party at Gitaldaha in Cooch Behar district on Thursday. Among them, one has. All are under treatment. in Dinhata. During the clash, some motorcycles and houses have also been ransacked. Police forces have reached the spot and are patrolling in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers refuse to show jab proof, attack cops ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||CBI told to probe Bengal post-poll result crimes||Calcutta High Court on Thursday asked the Bengal government to hand over to the CBI investigations into alleged murders, unnatural deaths and rapes that had taken place following publication of Assembly poll results on May 2. The five-judge bench of the court also formed a three-member Special Investigating Team (SIT) to probe alleged post-May 2 incidents of violence — except murders, unnatural deaths and rapes. A retired Supreme Court judge will monitor the probe conducted by the SIT that will have Calcutta police commissioner Somen Mitra and two senior police officers — Suman Bala Sahoo and Ranabir Kumar. The division bench presided over by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and consisting of Justice I.P. Mukerji, Justice Harish Tandon, Justice Subrata Talukdar and Justice Soumen Sen delivered the 124-page unanimous order. The court directed the state government to immediately process applications for compensation to victims of the post-poll violence. The bench accepted the report of the committee the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had set up on the direction of the court to probe the post-poll violence. The committee had submitted the report to the court on July 13 directing that the probe be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Sources in the state legal team said the Bengal government would move a special leave petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court to challenge the high court order as it was based on the “biased report” of the NHRC panel. According to the NHRC committee, 1,979 cases of post-poll violence had taken place in Bengal and 124 of those incidents were “heinous” and included criminal acts like murder, unnatural death and rape. The report marked out 72 of the 124 cases as “heinous” crimes that included murders and unnatural deaths, while there were 52 cases of rape. Specifying the jurisdiction of the CBI’s probe, the court said the central agency would investigate 124 “heinous” cases, while the remaining 1,855 incidents would be looked into by the SIT. The bench asked both the CBI and the SIT to file status reports before the court on October 4. The court also made it clear that it would monitor the investigations. Thursday’s order has its genesis in two separate PILs moved by aggrieved parties before the high court in mid-May seeking judicial intervention in the post-poll violence. A couple of days after Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress had emerged winner for the third consecutive time, the BJP and other parties, including the CPM and the Congress, complained of their workers being attacked and properties destroyed at various places in the state. When the case came up for hearing before a larger bench of the high court, the state government had argued that the incidents of violence had taken place between May 2 and 5 when the administration was under the control of the Election Commission. It further argued that after Mamata had taken over as chief minister on May 5, things were brought under control. The petitioners, however, continued to claim that post-poll clashes were still on and thousands of workers of Opposition parties had been rendered homeless and properties looted. Following the prayer, the five-judge bench ordered the NHRC to constitute a committee and probe into the cases of violence. Accordingly, an eight-member committee was formed and it filed its report before the court on July 13. The Bengal government, in an affidavit submitted to the court, rejected the allegations made by the committee and described them as “sweeping homilies, absurd, and false”. The government also questioned the panel’s formation and accused it of being biased against Bengal’s ruling dispensation. “I state that the members of the Committee have close association with the Bhartiya Janta Party and/or the Central Government,” the affidavit filed on July 26 against the NHRC report said. Last month, the chief minister had termed the NHRC’s committee as “a great liar” and accused it of distorting facts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 731 new cases, 12 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday recorded 731 new Covid-19 infections, 781 recoveries and 12 deaths. The total number of active cases in Bengal fell by 62 to 9,653 on Thursday with a continuous slide for two months or 60 days on the trot. Bengal now has 2.69 per cent of the national total of active cases and is seventh among states with the most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is 98.18 per cent, its highest ever this pandemic, ahead of the national rate of 97.51. Calcutta reported 89 new infections and zero deaths on Thursday. Bengal’s daily Covid-19 positive confirmation rate was 1.62 per cent on Thursday, compared to nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave. With a weekly average of 1.6 per cent, Bengal is now 15th among states with the highest positive confirmation rate. With Calcutta logging 89 new infections and North 24-Parganas 79, Thursday was the 14th consecutive day again of no Bengal district reporting a three-digit caseload in one day. Seventeen of the 23 Bengal districts reported two-digit figures, North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Purulia and West Burdwan single-digit ones. Fourteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Thursday. Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Murshidabad, East Midnapore, West Burdwan, Hooghly and South 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal is 24th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates. Bengal currently has nearly 15.41 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes close to 15.13 lakh recoveries and 18,337 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Landslide blocks NH10 traffic||Traffic on NH10 that connects Sikkim and Kalimpong with the rest of the country was disrupted for around 14 hours on Thursday because of a landslide which brought debris and boulders on the road at 29th Mile. Heavy rain triggered landslides elsewhere in the Darjeeling hills also. The downpour led to the swelling of the Mahananda and some rivulets flowing through Siliguri and the suburbs. The landslide at 29th Mile occurred around 2am. Traffic came to a halt and four excavators were engaged to clear the debris from the highway. Around 4pm, vehicles were allowed to move in a single file. This is the third landslide to occur on NH10 in the past 10 days. “Rubble and boulders fell on the highway because of heavy rains. Initially, we managed to open the road for traffic around 6am. But just after an hour, more debris came down and the road was blocked again. One-way traffic was restored in the evening,” said Subodh Chhetri, the executive engineer of the public works department (NH IX division). A source in the disaster management section of the Darjeeling district administration said houses had been damaged in landslides at Bara Sittong, Bimiray Taar, St Mary’s, Selim Hill tea estate and at Tindharia tea estate in Kurseong. Homes were also damaged at Phuguri and Lepcha Hill of Mirik block as debris came down from the hills. Sources in the PWD said they were apprehensive of more landslides as the Met Office had forecast heavy showers in the next couple of days. Sources said it had rained around 196mm in Siliguri in a 24-hour period till 8.30am on Thursday. Kalimpong, Kurseong, Darjeeling and Mirik received showers of around 70mm, 62m, 50mm and 40mm, respectively. The downpour led to water-logging at Ashoknagar, Millanpally, Hyderpara, Champasari and Ektiasal in Siliguri. Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, held a meeting and said three control rooms would be set up to keep a tab on the situation. In Malda district, the Ganga continues to flow above the extreme danger level. Officials in the state irrigation department said the river was flowing 0.68 metres above the extreme danger level on Thursday evening. The Fulhar, another major river of the district, is flowing 0.89 metres above the danger level. The Malda division of the Eastern Railway cancelled as many as 13 local trains and diverted 16 long-distance trains. Most of the trains bound for Bihar and Jharkhand or those which run through those states have either been cancelled or diverted. “Train services along the Calcutta-Malda-NJP route have not been affected but at some places, the Ganga has spilled over its banks and is flowing under culverts which are along the tracks. As the water is flowing in full force, it has been decided to divert and cancel some trains,” said an official. Bodies of all three brothers, who had gone missing when their boat had capsized on the Ganga on Wednesday, were fished out on Thursday afternoon. Subrata Mandal, 22, Satyajit, 19, and Satyaban, 17, had drowned in the river at Krishnapur in Kaliachak 3 block, after which the state civil defence department and the NDRF launched an extensive search.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Deb nabs youth at Duare Sarkar camp||Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Thursday nabbed a youth from the premises of a high school where a Duare Sarkar camp was on and the youth was allegedly filling up forms for applicants against cash. The corporation has been organising the camp at Shiumangal Memorial High School at Ektiasal in ward 40. Deb reached the school to find the youth collecting cash from applicants, mostly from prospective beneficiaries of “Lakshmir Bhandar (a monthly cash benefit scheme for women)”, in lieu of filling up their forms. Deb nabbed him red-handed. His security men handed the youth over to the police. “I am personally monitoring all these camps running under the borough offices of the SMC. I caught the youth who was doing such an act,” Deb said. In a similar incident, a woman was arrested for collecting money from applicants at another camp at a school in Rajganj block of neighbouring Jalpaiguri. District magistrate Moumita Godara Basu said that at  the Rajganj Bandar Junior High School camp, the woman from Belakoba was filling up forms and asking for money in exchange. A Rajganj police team arrested her. Some residents of Phansidewa block of Siliguri subdivision on Thursday alleged that some youths were filling up forms at a Duare Sarkar” camp at Chathat High School against money. A police team reached the school but by then the youths had fled. Police seized some documents from the spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
20-08-2021||West Bengal||‘Too tense to eat’ on flight back from Kabul||Former Indian army jawan Amrit Gurung, 47, reached Darjeeling late on Wednesday night via Kathmandu in Nepal and was part of the first group from the hills to reach home from the strife-torn Afghanistan capital. Gurung along with eight people from the region, including four from the hills, three from Siliguri and one whose location he did not know entered India after landing in Kathmandu on Wednesday. Gurung said he could reach home because of the efforts of “the embassy (not Indian) I worked with as a security guard in Kabul”, the US forces and the private company that hired him in Afghanistan. “The evacuation started on August 15, we were flown out of Kabul at 6am on August 16. I cannot recollect the exact timeframe, but I know I had proper food after three days,” Gurung told this paper from his Darjeeling home. He said he was offered processed food during the journey but was too tense to eat till he reached Qatar. “From the embassy I worked at we were taken by road to the Australian embassy in Kabul and after that the US forces flew us to Kuwait to deposit our arms and then to Qatar,” said Gurung. “In between we were offered processed food, but I was in no mood for food till I reached Qatar, three days after the evacuation process started.” Gurung and his colleagues did not fly from the civil airport in Kabul but from the “US army air force base” near the civil airport. The Indian embassy made efforts to contact them when they were at the Australian embassy, he said, but by then he had been cleared to fly. “From Qatar we were flown to Kathmandu and to the Bhadrapur airport (also in Nepal). From Bhadrapur we took a vehicle to enter Siliguri through Panitanki,” said Gurung. “We paid for the travel from Bhadrapur onwards.” He added that his first feelings on coming back home was noticing “how cool it was in Darjeeling compared to Kabul”. He added he was not scared to hear that the Taliban had taken over the country and that he and the others had to be evacuated. “I have spent my life in the battlefield and honestly I was not scared,” said Gurung, who retired from the Indian Gorkha regiment in 2018. The Darjeeling resident, however, admitted that they thought the Taliban would reach Kabul only after “two to three months.” The Taliban’s swift takeover meant that Gurung returned to Darjeeling with only “two bags of documents and nothing else.” Many Gorkha ex-servicemen opt for security jobs in Afghanistan and Iraq for the lucrative financial package. However Gurung did not want to divulge the name of the embassy “for security reasons”. “Around 100-odd people, mostly from Nepal and Dehradun (India) were working in the same embassy I worked. Around 40-odd could not be evacuated on time as they were caught in the traffic jam,” said Gurung. Life in Kabul was never easy, the ex-jawan who was in Kabul for three years, said. “Bombings are common, bombs are easy to buy.” We weren’t allowed to leave our embassies. We’d get a one month’s leave every year when I would return to Darjeeling. However, all facilities were provided to us inside the complex” said Gurung. He said some people from Darjeeling were still working at the “UN embassy in Kabul”. “It seems the threat perception for UN employees is less.” Gurung’s wife Sangita said she passed a harrowing week. “I would hardly sleep, trying to get information about my husband’s whereabouts.” Gurung explained that Internet connection was poor in Afghanistan. “Whenever we checked into places with Wi-fi we would send voice messages home.” In Jalpaiguri district, another family is distressed. Amanullah Khan of Odlabari in Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri is praying to hear from his sister. Baso Khan, his sister and a doctor by profession, has been staying in Kabul for 18 years now with her husband Samar Gul and two sons. “I last spoke to her five days back and she sounded tense. She said her entire family intends to return home. She vouched that they will never go back to Afghanistan even if they face economic hardships here,” said Amanullah. The phone got disconnected and he heard “someone banging on the door”.“I can only pray for their well-being.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
20-08-2021||West Bengal||Military base chefs back from Afghanistan, jobless ||Ratan Sarkar, then 44, had dreams of a good life as a chef when he boarded a flight from Calcutta to Kabul in 2012 amid the assurance of a “stabilising Afghanistan”. Nine years later, a “strategic decision” by the US to withdraw troops from Afghanistan rendered Sarkar, a chef at one of five US Air Force dining facilities at the Bagram base, and many like him jobless. Sarkar and around 200 of his peers — most from South Asian countries — were sent home in May, well in advance of the final fall of Afghanistan. “I’ve been sitting idle and am drawing from my savings for three months. I don’t know what I will do once this money runs out,” Sarkar told this paper from his home in Nadia’s Bagula village where he returned on May 16. “The agency which sent us to Afghanistan hasn’t found me a replacement job. I do not have any farmland. How will I feed my family?” asked Sarkar, father of three. He says he earned about a lakh a month in Bagram. “I've earned well and saved too. But how long can I survive like this?” he asked, adding he was even considering if he should apply for a job under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, a move “unimaginable” a few months ago. Like Sarkar, another chef at a US military base now back home in Begopara, Ranaghat, 31-year-old Silvestor Supriyo Maitra is also jobless. “The sudden change (in Afghanistan) created a threat to the lives of about 60 Indian migrant workers like us who worked at army bases as chefs. Our sole aim was to return home. I returned on July 31 with three others. Some others returned by August 5,” said Maitra, who used to earn Rs 60,000 a month. His US-based employment agency has ruled out any possibility of a job now.  “It is difficult in India because of the pandemic. Most companies associated with food and catering have stopped hiring,” he added, adding that his father, a chef at a star hotel in Bihar, also lost his job during the lockdown. Maitra said he would look for work for some months and then set up a food joint by the NH12 in Ranaghat. He is grateful to be back home, but his tone belied disappointment at having to take a “step back” in his career. The geo-political developments of the past week, which Sarkar and Maitra watched keenly on television, evoked what Sarkar called “a mix of nostalgia and pathos”. He said differences in culture, language and rank never came in the way of cordial relationships the chefs shared with soldiers at the military base. “The military base was our world... I feel bad for Afghanistan and also for people like us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
20-08-2021||West Bengal||A chance to offer a new future to children ||The Covid-19 pandemic ushered in a “new normal” — a world in which very little exists as we knew it just a year and a half ago. Experts warn us that the pandemic is far from over, and its impact on health, economies and societies around the world is yet to be evaluated. Empty classrooms bear witness to the loss of education to an entire generation of children. Yes, children incarcerated at home are learning. But only a privileged few, those with parents who have the time and means to support, supervise and supplement remote teaching. The digital divide has never been starker, the losses are incalculable, and the global community’s roadmap for humanity — Agenda 2020 and its Sustainable Development Goals — may have been set back by decades. Yet, the “new normal” lends itself to a ‘new future’. Co¬vid19 has forced us to think differently, to improvise, to break our entrenched patterns of thought and to do things differently, often with unexpected benefits.  One such innovation — in fact I will use the word “transformation” — is the Home based Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) programme implemented by the Department of Women and Child Development and Social Welfare, Government of West Bengal, through its 1.17 lakh anganwadi centres. The ECCE is not simply about teaching preschool children the 3R’s. It is a specialised playbased methodology through which children acquire emotional, cognitive, physical and social skills that ready them for entering primary school, and is considered to be a foundation for lifelong learning and wellbeing. According to Unesco, for disadvantaged children, the ECCE plays an important role in compensating for the disadvantages in the family and combating educational inequalities. In pre-pandemic times, the state’s anganwadi centres would be abuzz with activity, with children under the age of 6 and pregnant and lactating mothers receiving nutrition and other services in a safe space in the heart of communities. Like schools, anganwadi centres in Bengal have been closed since March 2020 for the safety of children. Since then, an army of anganwadi workers has provided doorstep delivery of a food basket of dry food rations to 73 lakh children and 15 lakh pregnant and lactating mothers, monthly, to compensate for the hot cooked meals they received daily at the centre. The numbers of the beneficiaries indicate the magnitude of the effort and coordination put into the exercise. The real challenge, however, was delivering the department’s ECCE curriculum, normally taught to groups of children between three and six years at the centres by trained anganwadi workers. Several questions arose while considering continuity of ECCE services to children locked in at home.  For one, although ECCE training materials are simple everyday objects, the training methodology is highly interactive. And second, how does one transmit this material to the families of over 35 lakh children, when many of these families don’t have basic mobile phones, let alone smart phones or other electronic appliances? Despite these barriers, on May, 11, 2020, just a few weeks into the lockdown, the department transformed its ECCE curriculum into a fullfledged home-based ECCE initiative and has been successfully delivering this to its beneficiaries. Weekly theme-based audio modules containing rhymes, stories, and activity calendars are provided to parents on their mobile phones (not necessarily smart phones), with instructions of how to use these materials with their chil¬dren. With positive parenting messages embedded in each activity, the programme has turned the challenge of lockdown into an opportunity. Not only parents, but all caregivers, including grandparents and older siblings, have involved themselves in the play-based activities, with the smaller children benefiting from the diverse bonding. The modules are available in the vernaculars, that is, Bengali and Hindi. All instructions are voice-based, ensuring that even parents/caregivers who are not literate can use it. The teaching/learning materials used are readily available in households — such as pots and pans from kitchens and twigs, stones and leaves from outdoors, with only 2030 minutes of a caregiver’s involvement each day. Till date, approximately 27.8 lakh children have received the homebased ECCE package, with the department increasing its coverage every month. Heartwarming stories abound about how neighbours, friends and employers have pitched in to ensure that all children receive their weekly inputs if their parents are technologically challenged. Community radio and cable TV have been commandeered in several areas to broadcast the weekly learning sessions. It truly does take a village to raise a child, and the silver lining in this pandemic cloud is perhaps the return to a time when learning was not bounded by physical walls and the written word, but the result of an organic exploration of life, relationships and the environment. This is as true for early childhood learning as it is for school and college education. Yes, children will return to the anganwadis one day, and they should, because homebased learning cannot provide that one critical ingredient, peer interaction that develops social and emotional skills. However, given the tremendous response of families and children, the new methods of communication between anganwadi workers and families will continue even when Anganwadi centres open, as will the content and method of teaching. To quote Amartya Sen, “Imparting education not only enlightens the receiver, but also broadens the giver — the teachers, the parents, the friends”. Anganwadi workers, the true heroes in this story, will remain a crucial link in the transmission of learning between parents, children and communities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
