21-08-2021||West Bengal||Rain in Bhutan leads to rise in streams||Incessant rainfall in the catchment areas of the Torsha that descends from the neighbouring country of Bhutan has swelled the river and its streams during the past 24 hours. While the river has started eroding away chunks of land from tea estates and has also flooded some hamlets and forest areas in Alipurduar district, one of its streams has snapped the direct connectivity between Alipurduar, the district headquarters and Falakata town as it is flowing over the road along the route. Sources said the Torsha has damaged a stretch of 250 metres of its embankment at Dalsinghpara in Kalchini block and is constantly gobbling land. It has also flooded the adjoining Narbahadurbusty and the Nilpara forest area. Sujit Bose, a resident of Narbahadurbusty, said it has rained heavily in the area and also in the Bhutan hills on Thursday which has led to the flood situation. “The administration should take up anti-erosion works on an emergency basis or else, Torsha will erode more land,” he said. Representatives of Dalsinghpara panchayat have also expressed their concern. Sambhu Jaiswal, deputy chief of the panchayat, said altogether, around 4,500 people have got affected in the sudden flood. “We have contacted the block administration for relief. Officials of the state irrigation department have also visited the spot,” he said. In past 24 hours, that is, till 8.30am on Friday, it has rained 70mm to 120mm in different places of Alipurduar district, said sources at the Indian Meteorological Department. “There is also a forecast of heavy to very heavy rain (70mm to 200mm) across the sub-Himalayan Bengal during next four-five days as the southwest monsoon is active in the region,” said a weather expert. The heavy downpour has also swelled Buri-Torsha, a tributary of the Torsha. Since early Friday morning, it has started flowing over the road in the Balurghat area along the Falakata-Alipurduar route. As a result, traffic movement along NH 31D – the direct route between the two towns – has stopped. Vehicles had to take a detour of around 25 kilometres via Pundibari to reach Alipurduar from Falakata and vice-versa. “The road condition along this route is poor and now, the situation has gone to such an extent that streams have started flowing over the road. The administration should look into it as taking a detour means we have spent additional time and money,” said Dipak Das, a daily commuter. Sources in the administration said they are waiting for the water to recede. “The damage would be assessed then and necessary work would be carried out to restore the route,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Electric shock kills youth during Muharram procession in Malda ||An 18-year-old got electric shock during a Muharram procession at a Malda village on Friday and later died while on way to Calcutta for treatment. According to sources, six boys, including two minors, received shock at Atgamar in Milki area during the procession as the steel pole, with a flag attached to it, being carried by them came in contact with an overhead power cable. “Initially, three people got electrocuted. Three others, who came to their rescue, also suffered electrical shock,” said Manirul Islam, the officer-in-charge of Milki police outpost. Later, Mohammad Hasinul Sheikh died on way to Calcutta. He and two others were referred from the Malda Medical College and Hospital (MMCH). The remaining three are under treatment at the MMCH. Sabitri Mitra, Trinamul MLA of Manikchak, said she would request the state to give compensation to the deceased’s family and also to the injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||TMC asks Cong to invite all anti-BJP parties to meetings||The Trinamul Congress on Friday nudged the Congress to invite all parties opposed to the BJP to Opposition meetings instead of making it a Congress-and-allies affair. Every Opposition party should be enlisted in the fight against the BJP, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said. Parties like the Aam Aadmi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM had not been invited to Friday’s virtual Opposition meeting, called by the Congress. Mamata is said to have batted for the CPIML too to be included at these meetings. Her suggestion for broad-basing Opposition unity apparently found support from Maharashtra’s Shiv Sena chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray. Mamata also said that who would lead the Opposition was a secondary question, and that all like-minded parties should keep their individual differences and personal interests aside. Her view was that the people would lead, and that a leadership would emerge once the joining of forces gained momentum. “Let us forget who the leader is; let’s keep our personal interests aside. The people of India will lead,” a Trinamul source quoted Mamata as saying at the meeting. “Every Opposition party should be brought in to fight the BJP. All Opposition leaders have to move fast, walk together and forget our ego to fight the BJP.” Mamata suggested that for better coordination, a core group be set up to meet at least twice a month while the larger group met monthly. This suggestion found takers, and a mechanism for regular coordination is likely to be set up. Trinamul also differed with the Congress approach of drawing up a joint statement with a long list of demands. “Going forward, we should restrict our agenda to only five issues of national importance,” Mamata said, according to a statement issued by Trinamul on the points she had raised at the meeting. The five issues Trinamul has identified are: vaccination for all, repeal of the contentious farm laws, a rollback of the petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices, a monthly payment of Rs 7,500 to all outside the income-tax bracket, and a judicial probe into the Pegasus snooping controversy. Mamata also brought up the subject of the autonomy of national institutions being allegedly compromised on the Narendra Modi government’s watch. She said the Centre had “misused” the National Human Rights Commission to “malign” states ruled by non-BJP parties, such as Bengal. Among those who participated were Uddhav, Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar, DMK chief and Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leader and chief minister Hemant Soren, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D. Raja and LJD chief Sharad Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 758 infections, 767 recoveries and nine deaths||The total of active Covid-19 cases fell for 61 days on the trot on Friday in Bengal as the state logged 758 infections, 767 recoveries and nine deaths. The total of active cases fell by 18 to 9,635. Bengal now has 2.7 per cent of the national total of active cases and is sixth on the list of states with most such cases. With Calcutta logging 88 infections and North 24-Parganas 89, Friday was the 15th consecutive day of not a single Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new cases. Eighteen of the 23 Bengal districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections detected. Kalimpong, South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.19 per cent -- the highest ever this pandemic -- still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.51. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.6 per cent on Friday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while Jalpaiguri, North Dinajpur, East Midnapore, North 24-Parganas and Calcutta reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal remained 24th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates. The state currently has nearly 15.42 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes close to 15.14 lakh recoveries and 18,346 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||22 children fall sick in Malda, doctors smell Covid aftereffect||Twenty-two children aged between two and eight years in Malda district have been detected with multisystem inflammation syndrome. Doctors suspect the disease is the aftereffect of Covid-19 the children had contracted. The children are under treatment in the paediatric wards of Malda Medical College and Hospital. Doctors suspect they have developed the syndrome as an aftereffect of Covid-19 infection during the second wave. “We suspect these children contracted Covid-19 during the second wave and didn’t manifest any symptom. That is why they might have got MIS-C. As they are not infected with Covid-19 now and MIS-C is not contagious, they have been admitted to the paediatric ward and not in the special Covid-19 ward,” said Parthapratim Mukherjee, the MMCH principal. He said the children were being treated with immunoglobulin and other medicines. “As so many cases of the syndrome have been detected, we are in the process of preparing a database of such children,” he added. A senior doctor at MMCH has said the MIS-C has definite risks as several systems of a child’s body get affected. “The children are responding to treatment. That is a relief. But there is a risk of their cardiac systems getting affected by the syndrome. This is like the Kawasaki disease of the heart. If complications get aggravated and cardiac problems start, we have to refer them to Calcutta for better treatment,” the doctor said. MMCH sources said none of the children has been found infected with Covid 19 after their admission. The paediatricians are, however, checking whether antibodies have development in them, which, they said, is essential for treatment. Sushama Sahoo, the head of the department of paediatrics at the MMCH, said the children were suffering from fever, cough and cold, acute throat ache and have rashes in their bodies. “They have problems in swallowing food. Additionally, some of them have breathing complications and there are a few who have pain in the abdomen with nausea and loose motion,” she said. Doctors have advised that any child with symptoms like fever, cough and cold and rashes for 72 hours, should be immediately taken to a doctor. “Any child suffering from such symptoms needs prompt treatment,” said a doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Royal Bengal tiger kills fisherman in Sunderbans||A fisherman was killed by a royal Bengal tiger in the Jhila 1 area of the Sunderbans when he was rowing home around dawn on Friday. Police and local residents said an adult tiger had swam around 200metres in pursuit of a small fishing boat and attacked Anna Das, 50, reportedly leaping into the vessel from its rear and then attempting to drag him off. Other fishermen on the boat, however, sought to thwart the attempt by beating the tiger with bamboo sticks even as the big cat had Das in a death-grip at the neck. But Das soon died. The boat returned with the mauled body of the victim to Atapur village in North 24-Parganas’s Sandeshkhali, from where they had all sailed two days ago. The body was sent for an autopsy to the Basirhat district hospital. The latest incident brings the fatality toll from tiger attacks in the Sunderbans to at least 26 over the past 14 months, an official of the state wildlife department said. Sources in Gosaba said the fishermen had ventured deep into the Jhila forest area in the hope of catching crabs and had seemingly gone as far as the prohibited zone. “They went deep inside the creeks which are the turf of tigers. The big cat attacked the team when they were returning through an unprotected stretch close to the muddy bank of a khal (canal),” a forest department officer said. “Anna dada was sitting on the edge of the boat when the animal jumped over the vessel and attacked him. It mauled him by the neck and tried to drag him away. We battled hard to resist it. But by that time, he had died from heavy bleeding,” said one of the fishermen. The Sunderbans constitute the world’s largest mangrove delta, crisscrossed by rivers and creeks. Most of the creeks are very narrow and at around 20feet wide, generally are lucrative to fishermen owing to the existence of crabs and fish. “But the fishermen in these creeks often come under attack from tigers. The tigers do not merely attack them once they try to come close to the bank, rather the big cats often jump over the boats once they come closer through the narrow creeks,” said one villager. Foresters blamed fishermen for “inviting danger” by entering the deep jungle. “There is a strong prohibition on entry inside the jungle. We have taken up awareness drives among fishermen and urged them not to risk their lives and to try an alternative source of income like apiculture. But it appears they hardly paid any heed to our appeal,” a senior official of the state wildlife department said. A senior official attached to a tiger reserve added: “The chances of an attack by a tiger have increased following Cyclone Yaas. Several stretches of the forest have been inundated, making for an adverse impact on tigers also. In many places, tigers have come out close to river embankments. In such a situation, the fishermen should be more careful.” Sandeshkhali’s Trinamul Congress MLA Sukumar Mahato said: “A survival crisis owing to Cyclone Yaas, coupled with Covid-19, compelled fishermen to risk their lives and flout official restrictions.” “I will take up the matter with the state government so that the victim’s family gets compensated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||CBI seeks details of all cases of post-election result violence in Bengal||The CBI has sought details of all cases of post-election result violence which were registered with different police stations in Bengal and the steps that the state government initiated based on those complaints. In a mail to the home department on Friday, a copy of which was sent to director general of state police Virendra, the CBI asked fore a list of cases of murder, alleged rape, violence and intimidation that were recorded in the aftermath of the Assembly polls results. Senior CBI officers said a separate case would be drawn up after the agency received the list of the complaints recorded so far. This would be the first step of starting a probe in accordance with the directive of Calcutta High Court. The high court had on Thursday directed the state government to hand over to the CBI investigations into cases of alleged murder, rape and unnatural deaths that had taken place across the state after Assembly results were declared on May 2. “In case of some of these complaints, the state police have even initiated probes and taken necessary action. We want all those details before drawing up a specific case for our investigation to begin,” said a senior officer of the CBI. Ahead of taking up the probe, senior CBI officers held several rounds of meetings at the headquarters in Delhi to finalise composition of the team after pouring over the report drawn up by the National Human Right Commission (NHRC) on the violence. Sources said the CBI was planning to set up four teams for Bengal, each headed by a senior officer of the rank of joint director and comprising eight members each. Officers from CBI’s different units in Dehradun, Patna, New Delhi and Lucknow have been asked to report as a part of the team building process. Each team will have a woman officer of the rank of superintendent of police and senior officers of the rank of deputy inspector general of police. The teams are scheduled to reach Bengal by next week. Senior officers will meet their counterparts in the state police to collect information and case details and subsequently, the CBI will draw up a “regular case” and begin its probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Lakshmir Bhandar scheme: Cash aid applicants set to cross estimate||The Mamata Banerjee government will have to spend much more than what it had planned earlier under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme as the huge rush in the first four days of Duare Sarkar camps hints that the number of beneficiaries will cross the initial estimate of 1.6 crore. The scheme offers Rs 500 each to general caste women and Rs 1,000 each to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe women every month. “In the first four days of Duare Sarkar camps, which were made operational on August 16, the number of applicants under Lakshmir Bhandar reached 41 lakh. It seems more than 2 crore prospective beneficiaries would register their names by mid-September when the camps wind up,” said a senior government official. The issue had come up during an administrative review meeting convened by the chief minister on Wednesday where top government officials apprised Mamata Banerjee of the ground reports. “The chief secretary said during the meeting that the state might have to spend more than Rs 16,000 crore under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. This makes the scheme biggest direct benefit transfer scheme in the state. The chief secretary had earlier said during video conferences with officials that a sum of Rs 11,000 crore could be required for the project,” said a source. Sources said the primary estimate on the number of beneficiaries went awry as the top brass of the government had initially considered the number of Swasthya Sathi cards issued in the state. “But later on, when the camps started, reports started coming up that a number of families have split and they don’t have Swasthya Sathi cards. As these families were not in consideration while primary estimate was made, the number of beneficiaries would definitely go higher than what had been estimated earlier,” said a source. Another official said the number of beneficiaries could not be estimated accurately as the ground reports suggest that many of the families who did not queue up for Swasthya Sathi cards now show interest in getting the benefits of Lakshmir Bhandar. The top brass of the government were worried over arranging the huge funds required to run the scheme. “It seems the government is set to cut the allotment for development projects. During the meeting on Wednesday, the departments were told that they had to follow austerity measures strictly,” said a source. According to sources, shouldering the burden of Rs 16,000 crore annually is a Herculean task for the struggling state coffers. “The main problem is that our revenue generation has dipped because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Till July, the state could generate only about Rs 2,500 crore a month compared to its usual revenue generation of Rs 5,000 crore a month,” said a source. Although finance department officials were hopeful that the situation would improve from August as majority of the Covid-19-related restrictions were relaxed and festive season is coming up. “But still, it would not be good enough to shoulder the huge burden of the scheme. It remains to be seen how the state manages the situation from September when the scheme would be launched,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Government Railway Police seizes 256 parakeets from Calcutta-bound train in Malda ||The Government Railway Police (GRP) seized 256 parakeets from a Calcutta-bound train at Malda town station on Thursday night. “We recovered the birds from near the lavatory of a sleeper coach of Jogbani Express. The parakeets were kept in three cages and covered with clothes. No one has been arrested,” said Bhaskar Pradhan, the inspector-in-charge of Malda GRP. “We suspect an organised racket is smuggling these birds through this route. Our men and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) are probing the case,” Pradhan added. Later, the birds were handed over to the forest department. In the past one month, this is the third such incident when hundreds of parakeets have been recovered from Jogbani Express. On July 27, the RPF had seized 510 parakeets and a hill mynah from Jogbani Express and arrested a person. On August 3, the RPF and the state forest department had recovered 124 parakeets again from the same train. “We suspect the birds are being brought from Nepal or Bihar and are smuggled to south Bengal,” said a source in the RPF. “We are also on alert as it seems to be an attempt to sell the birds in clandestine markets. It is completely illegal. In due course, the birds would be released in the wild,” said Sujit Kumar Chatterjee, a forest officer posted in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Plan to improve waste management system in Siliguri  ||The Bengal urban development and municipal affairs department will improve the waste management system of Siliguri in collaboration with the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA). The announcement was made by Nandini Ghosh, a joint secretary of the department, on Friday. Justice Saibal Dasgupta, an expert member of the National Green Tribunal, along with Ghosh, visited different areas of Siliguri to check out arrangements made to curb the Mahananda river’s pollution according to the directives issued by the NGT earlier. “During our visit, we took stock of the existing waste disposal system of the civic body (Siliguri Municipal Corporation). We want to improve the overall solid and liquid waste management of the city to mitigate pollution,” said Ghosh. She said at one of the yards at the dumping ground of the SMC – located off Eastern Bypass, it was found that 90 per cent of the waste had been cleared. “We plan to develop an eco-park in the area. A new waste disposal site will be developed gradually in collaboration with the SJDA by setting up treatment plants,” the official added. Sources at the SMC said 350 tons of garbage were disposed of at the yard daily. Ghosh, who is also in charge of the liquid waste monitoring cell of the department, said her department would work according to the instructions of Justice Dasgupta. The State Urban Development Agency (SUDA) has sanctioned Rs 63 crore for setting up three sewerage treatment plants (STPs) at different locations along the bank of the Mahananda that flows through the city to reduce pollution of the river. “There are plans to install three STPs on the bank of the Mahananda with the help of the SJDA for the liquid waste management of the city. We are trying to identify the land for setting up one of the plants. For the rest of the plants, the pump houses and civil structures are ready. Once the plants become operational, 40 million litres of liquid waste will be treated every day and then the water would be channelised into the river. This will considerably reduce pollution levels of the Mahananda,” said Ghosh. Sources said the SJDA had already put iron nets at 12 major outlets which release water into the river. The plan to install the STPs was drawn up under the Mahananda Action Plan that was mooted during the erstwhile Left Front rule. The project was taken up in 2011 when the Trinamul Congress came to power. The plan was stalled later after financial regularities had been found at the SJDA in connection with the project. On Friday, officials of the state pollution control board, Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, SUDA, SJDA and the SMC held a meeting with Justice Dasgupta and Ghosh. Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the SMC, was also present. Sourav Chakraborty, the new chairman of the SJDA, said the authority would carry out the modernisation work of Bidhan Market, the largest of the kind in Siliguri, and build alternative roads to ease traffic in the city. Chakraborty, who assumed charge here on Friday, said the SJDA would consult experts of Jadavpur University for the projects. “Next week, we will discuss details of the projects with Gautam Deb. We will expedite some of the ongoing projects, work of which had almost come to a halt because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Cracks develop between Mann Ghisingh and Ajoy Edwards ||Cracks have developed between Gorkha National Liberation Front president Mann Ghisingh and senior leader Ajoy Edwards at a time the political landscape of the hills is undergoing a rapid change because of recent developments in the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. A source aware of the developments in the GNLF said the fissures between the two childhood friends seemed to be “irreparable”. “Edwards and Ghisingh are childhood friends and there can be differences between leaders in the party. But unless something drastic happens, the differences seem irreparable this time,” said the source. Edwards is one of the most popular GNLF leaders at the moment, while Mann, who is the son of the party’s founder president, Subash Ghisingh, is seen as the uniting force within the GNLF. Given Edward’s popularity, many in the hills wanted him to contest from the Darjeeling Assembly seat. But the GNLF allowed Neeraj Zimba to contest the election on a BJP ticket. After initial dissent, Edwards decided to heed Mann’s decision in the overall interest of the party. “If I had contested and won, how could I see a pall of gloom descend on my president Mann’s house,” Edwards had then said. “That episode had been forgotten by Edwards. Everything was fine till even a few weeks back,” the source said. In fact, Edwards had left for New Delhi a few weeks ago to hold meetings with various stakeholders to take forward the “permanent political solution” (PPS) issue. On August 6, a delegation led by Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista called on Union home minister Amit Shah and announced that the Centre would soon hold an official level tripartite talks on PPS. The delegation included Mann Ghisingh, former Darjeeling MP and Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists president R.B. Rai, BJP MLAs from Darjeeling and Kurseong Neeraj Zimba and B.P. Bajgain, respectively, and BJP hill president Kalyan Dewan. Edwards, despite being in Delhi, was not part of the delegation. Edwards is presently the president of the GNLF’s Darjeeling branch committee but many acknowledge that his contribution and role in the party was much bigger than the post he holds. A few days ago, Mann decided to appoint Zimba as the secretary-general of the GNLF. The party also decided to appoint vice-presidents. There was no change in Edwards designation. The new appointments ignited sparks of Edwards being sidelined in the party among a section in the hills. Edwards who is currently out of Darjeeling could not be immediately contacted. Zimba said the party was not aware that Edwards had fallen out with Mann. Regarding the August 6 delegation, Zimba said given the Covid-19 protocol, only the party presidents were invited. “Even presidents of our allies, Dawa Pakhrin (of Gorkhaland Rajya Nirmal Morcha), Bikash Rai (SUMETE Mukti Morcha) and Pratap Khati (a faction of Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League) were not invited,” said Zimba. “I was allowed in the delegation as an MLA.” Many in the hills believe that tensions have developed between Edwards and Zimba also. “Regarding my appointment, the decision was taken by the party president after consultations in the core committee,” said Zimba. “No individual is above the party and its president.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
21-08-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati begins process of punishing two senior professors ||Visva-Bharati has begun the process of punishing two senior professors — known faces in the protests against several alleged wrongdoings of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty — apparently after the duo submitted a memorandum against the VC to junior Union education minister Subhas Sarkar. “Both of them were in a team to meet the Union minister and they submitted a memorandum against the VC. We suspect the move to punish them was taken because of that. The students who were suspended over the past six months also went with them and submitted to the minister separate letters with their demands on the same day. Now, we are waiting to see whether the VC goes after the students too,” said a senior professor. Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the suspended economics professor and president of the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association (VBUFA) received a letter from the varsity’s acting registrar Ashok Mahato on August 18 — the day he met Sarkar. Bhattacharyya was informed that a charge had been framed against him and a probe committee would be set up over allegations of leaking a show-cause notice issued to him to the print media. Bhattacharyya was suspended in January. He spearheaded many a protest against the activities by Chakrabarty, including the organising of a pro-CAA lecture, and the “insult” of Nobel laureate Amartya Sen over a land-related issue. Manas Maity, a senior physics professor who is also a known voice of protest against Chakrabarty’s alleged wrongdoings, received a letter on August 19, informing him about how a probe committee would be formed against him. The letter said he would not be allowed to enter his department, the central administrative office and the office of Siksha Bhavana, which houses the science departments. Maity had earlier been show-caused and charge-sheeted for various activities, including his role to “rescue” the teachers of varsity’s English department, who were allegedly confined in the central office. Both Bhattacharyya and Maity declined comments because of a gag order issued by the varsity. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar neither took calls nor replied to a text message from this newspaper. An official said both the decisions had been taken at the executive council meeting on August 14, four days before Sarkar visited the varsity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
