22-08-2021||West Bengal||Won't allow partition in Bengal, says TMC on Raksha Bandhan||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday greeted people of the state on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan She described the occasion as a celebration of the special bond between brother and sister. Mamata posted on her Twitter handle "My heartiest greetings to all on Raksha Bandhan. As we celebrate the special bond of brothers and sisters, let us resolve to protect each other always." Sisters tied threads of love on the wrist of their brothers as Rakha Bandhan was celebrated across Bengal. Both the Trinamul Congress and BJP also observed the day with women members and party supporters tying rakhi on the wrist of leaders and exchanged wishes. Trinamul Congress leaders and state ministers Firhad Hakim, Sujit Bose and Arup Biswas participated in the festival in Chetla, Lake Town, Netaji Indoor Stadium respectively. "We won't allow any partition of Bengal, there shouldn't be any division among people though many politicians may try to instigate and divide us before polls for political gains. Let us take resolve to remain united," Hakim said. Bose said "sisters from different linguistic and religious groups have come to tie rakhi on my hand. This is a special moment for me." Biswas wished everyone on the occasion at a programme in Netaji Indoor Stadium in presence of actor Raima Sen. BJP state President Dilip Ghosh tweeted wishing everyone on the pious occasion of Raksha Bandhan. As the party organised events across the state, state general secretary Sayantan Basu said "sister members of our Mahila Morcha, my friends from different walks of life, my siblings tie rakhi on my hand on this day." "My best wishes to everyone on this day of amity. Let's remember Tagore's famous song Banglar Mati Banglar Jol...," Basu said. Many clubs and organisations observed the day following covid protocols as patriotic songs were played.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal irrigation dept asks for detailed project reports on the permanent concrete embankments ||The state irrigation department has asked its divisional officials in Bengal’s three coastal districts — East Midnapore, North and South 24-Parganas — to send detailed project reports on the permanent concrete embankments that will replace those weakened by cyclones Amphan and Yaas. Sources said the initiative was taken after chief minister Mamata Banerjee directed the department to build permanent dykes and criticised officials for spending money on repairing earthen embankments in the aftermath of Yaas. The department has already identified a combined stretch of 193km along the Bengal coastline to build concrete dykes. “We have around 193km stretch of earthen embankment that has been found weak. All divisions have been asked to send detailed project reports. We will allot funds according to the finance department’s approval. We may complete the tasks in phases,” state irrigation minister Soumen Mahapatra said. Irrigation officials said this was the first time since Mamata came to power that such a massive drive had been undertaken to repair embankments. “If we get the funds at the right time, we will start work after the rainy season,” said a senior irrigation department official in South 24-Parganas. Kalyan Dey, executive engineer of Kakdwip irrigation division, said: “We have sent proposals to build embankments along a 55km stretch and are waiting for approval.” ONGC relief NGO Sandeshkhali Maa Saroda Women and Rural Welfare Society with ONGC’s aid on Saturday handed over battery-operated vans to eight victims of Cyclone Amphan at Sandeshkhali and Hingalganj blocks of the Sunderbans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Fake liquor unit busted in Darjeeling||A team of Phansidewa police station in Darjeeling district based on a tip-off raided Power House area of Phansidewa on Saturday and busted a spurious liquor-making unit. Five persons allegedly running the unit were arrested. The police team seized several items, including fake stickers and bottles of various IMFL (Indian-made foreign liquor) brands. “It seems that fake liquor was made at the unit and was sold across various parts of the district and even sent to the neighbouring state of Bihar where there is a complete ban on the consumption of liquor. All those arrested need to be interrogated to obtain more information,” said a source. During the raid, the police seized 130 bottles of fake IMFL, six plastic jars of spirit, around 10,000 plastic caps, four cartons of empty bottles, stickers of multiple IMFL brands, some food colours and a pick-up van.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt to recruit nearly 3,000 youths to run Bangla Sahayata Kendras||The Mamata Banerjee government is set to recruit nearly 3,000 youths to run the Bangla Sahayata Kendras — Internet hubs set up by the state government to help people with online related work — after complaints poured in that several such centres were not functioning properly. “There were complaints that many of the 2,500-odd centres were not functioning properly because of lack of manpower. The government is set to recruit nearly 3,000 youths to run the centres properly,” said a senior state government official. The youths will be recruited on contract and paid in the range of Rs 7,000-8,000 every month. Recently, chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi asked the district magistrates to send detailed reports on the centres. “The chief secretary made it clear that district magistrates concerned should mention the kind of problems the centres are facing, from Internet connection to lack of space or manpower,” said a source. An official said the state government was putting effort in running the Bangla Sahayata Kendras smoothly as rural people depend heavily on them to apply online for government schemes and facilities. “Computers, laptops or smartphones are not so easily available to many people in remote and rural areas. Rural reople rely heavily on these centres,” said a source. According to sources, the government can reach residents of remote parts easily with schemes and campaigns through these centres if they work smoothly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid jab list with personal details raises brows in hills||The decision of employees of a Covid-19 vaccination centre at the Gorkha Rangamanch Bhavan here to display exhaustive personal details of those on the priority list for jabs has created a furore in the hills. For around two weeks, the the centre has been bringing out a daily list of frontline Covid warriors and potential super spreaders with detailed personal information including name, the district they belong to, their job profile, PIN code of the workplace, gender, date of birth, age, mobile number, identification document being used and Aadhaar card number. The list is pasted outside the building. This “breach of privacy” has left many fuming. “I am not comfortable with my phone number and Aadhaar card details being displayed in public,” said a woman whose name was on the list. An employee at the centre said they brought out the list based on information provided by government offices “so that people can easily find out if their names are in the priority group for vaccination on a particular day”. The state government has been prioritising vaccination  of those who could be potential “super spreaders” such as medical professionals, hawkers, mediapersons, labourers, among others. The health department is under the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration but the list of priority groups is also prepared at the district magistrate’s office. The decision to display the list with personal details however seems to be an arrangement by employees at this specific centre. Other jab centres have not displayed such details. A senior district official conceded so many personal details should not have been published. “We will issue suitable instructions,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh defends John Barla for demanding north Bengal statehood ||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Saturday appeared to defend his party’s MP and Union minister of state John Barla for demanding statehood for north Bengal, contending that Mamata Banerjee would be responsible for such an eventuality because of development lacunae. “If Jungle Mahal or north Bengal eventually turns into separate states, it is only Mamata Banerjee who would be responsible for it. This is because both these areas have been deprived of development for decades now. People in Jungle Mahal still survive by selling saal and kendu leaves and from both these places, thousands migrate to other states in search of jobs,” said Ghosh. “John Barla has not made any illegitimate demand,” he added. “He has simply voiced the aspirations of the people who voted for him. There is nothing wrong in it.” Ghosh, who reached Jalpaiguri on Saturday and will be in Alipurduar on Sunday as part of his party’s statewide Shaheed Samman Yatra, surprised many with his remarks because the Bengal unit of the BJP had earlier distanced itself from the statehood call, keeping in mind the strong sentiment against any further division of Bengal. Alipurduar MP Barla, recently appointed the Union minister of state for minority affairs, had started harping on statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal after the Trinamul government won the Assembly polls. He accompanied Ghosh on Saturday. Ghosh said that in 2012, the state government had inked the tripartite agreement for the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). “The Bengal chief minister even allied with parties whose principal demand is Gorkhaland and no questions were raised. But when we speak about peoples’ aspirations, we are labelled as separatists. Our party will surely mull the demand,” he said. Kunal Ghosh, Trinamul’s state general secretary and spokesperson, said the BJP should have cited the “statehood issue” in its manifesto ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections. “Dilip Ghosh and his party should have mentioned that if voted to power, they will divide Bengal. They did not, as otherwise, not a single BJP candidate would have won… Now, they are playing the divisive card...,” he said. Minister and Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim said that as most BJP leaders in Bengal “are new in politics”, they “have no inkling of the condition of Jungle Mahal and north Bengal during Left rule and the development done by Mamata Banerjee and her government.” Samik Bhattacharya, the BJP’s chief spokesperson in the state, said Dilip Ghosh had not said anything new. “He has not spoken in favour of dividing Bengal. In the past, our leaders have said the BJP wants equal development in Bengal without disturbing its geographical boundaries. Some people in north Bengal might have demanded a separate state with the perception that it would contribute to their development and at times, elected representatives have to voice peoples’ demands. But that does not mean that such people have to be marked as separatists,” he said. Additional reporting by Avijit Sinha in Siliguri and Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Toy train to resume between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling railway stations from August 25||The regular toy train services of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling railway stations will resume from August 25, senior officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) said on Saturday. “Every day, one such train will run from Darjeeling and NJP. There will be 17 seats in the first class and 29 seats in the general class,” said Guneet Kaur, the chief PRO of the NFR. Regular service of DHR was halted with the onset of the pandemic last year. Recently, joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom stations were resumed. “We believe resumption of the service will benefit the tourism and hospitality sectors,” Kaur said. Passengers have to observe all preventive measures and guidelines related to Covid-19, added Kaur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Carcass of adult male rhino found on the banks of Torsha river||The carcass of an adult male rhino was found on the banks of the Torsha river near a hamlet close to the Chilapata forest in Alipurduar on Saturday. Senior forest officials suspect that the animal had died by drowning in the Torsha that had swelled over the past couple of days following heavy rain in sub-Himalayan Bengal and in neighbouring Bhutan from where the river originates and descends into India. “After inspecting the carcass, we could not find any external injury marks. Also, the animal’s horn was intact,” a forest officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
22-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 679 more cases, 709 recoveries and 10 deaths||Bengal on Saturday recorded 679 new Covid-19 infections, 709 recoveries and 10 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 41 to 9,594 after 62 continuous days of slide. Calcutta reported 70 new cases and two deaths. With North 24-Parganas logging 84 new cases, Saturday was the 16th straight day of no Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Sixteen districts also reported zero deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate is 98.19 per cent, its highest in the pandemic, ahead of the national rate of 97.5. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.42 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year, the figure including more than 15.14 lakh recoveries and 18,356 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
