23-08-2021||West Bengal||Will not fight if all political parties and states reach a consensus on caste-based census, says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she will accept a nationwide caste-based census if all political parties reach a consensus on the matter.  Banerjee's statement came at the backdrop of a 10-party delegation from Bihar headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi to push for a caste-based census.  "When there will be a discussion and if a consensus is reached, I will not have any problem accepting it. I will not fight if all political parties and states reach a consensus. Let political parties, the CMs and the Central government reach a consensus," Banerjee said.  She declined to say much on the issue, saying that sentiments differ from one state to the other.  Banerjee said, "Nitish-ji has put up his questions on this issue. Let's see how others react to it."  Statistics about different castes will help in formulating development schemes effectively as many of them have not benefitted so far in line with their actual population, the Bihar CM has said.  The BJP leadership has so far not taken a categorical stand on the issue which has been lapped up by a number of regional parties, many of them its rivals in different states.  With census being the Union's prerogative, it is now up to the Centre to take a call on the demand.  There is a view that a caste census will bring the Mandal politics to the centre stage of politics and can be an effective weapon in the hands of regional parties to counter the BJP's Hindutva and welfare planks, the twin issues used by the saffron party to make inroads into the OBC vote bank at the expense of state-based parties.  The caste-based census has not taken place in the country since British rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
23-08-2021||West Bengal||BSF arrests truck driver and assistant with foreign cash at Petrapole border||A truck driver and his assistant, both Indian nationals, were arrested by the Border Security Force allegedly for illegally dealing in foreign currency through the Petrapole international land port on Saturday evening. The BSF team attached to the 179 Battalion recovered 8,50,000 Saudi Riyal valued at over Rs 1.68 crore from driver Baki Billa Sahaji, 20, and his assistant Sahin Hossain Mondal, 19, while they were leaving the Petrapole check post after returning from Bangladesh in an empty truck. While Baki is a resident of Bongaon, Sahin lives in Petrapole. The duo were handed over to the Petrapole police along with the truck. The seized currency was deposited at Customs, a BSF officer said. The arrests happened on Saturday evening when a BSF team was checking empty vehicles returning from Bangladesh after unloading export items. “We had a tip-off about foreign currency being illegally brought into the country and our team was very alert to track it,” BSF sources said. “During the checking, the behaviour of the truck driver and his assistant seemed suspicious. We suspected foul play and our personnel thoroughly checked their vehicle to find nine packets of foreign currency from under the driver’s seat. The packets contained 17 bundles of foreign currency valued approximately at 8,50,000 Saudi Riyal. Asked about the source and reason behind the duo carrying the hefty amount of foreign currency, they failed to offer any reasonable reply,” said a spokesperson for South Bengal Frontier of the BSF in Calcutta. During police interrogation, Baki confessed he had gone to Benapole port in Bangladesh on August 12 to export clothing materials and while returning with the emptytruck , a Bangladeshi national asked him to hand over the packets to the latter’s Indian associate in Petrapole. “The driver claimed he was given Rs 300 for each of the 17 packets,” the BSF spokesperson said and added that the driver’s assistant claimed ignorance about the currency notes. Officiating commanding officer of 179 Battalion Ajay Kumar met Customs officials at Petrapole and urged them to help prevent smuggling and laundering of cash by people associated with export and import activities. BSF authorities suspect a major racket was behind the money laundering network. “Our intelligence inputs indicate big operators behind such incidents. We are coordinating with civil administration and customs authorities to bust this racket in national interest,” a senior BSF official posted in Petrapole said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress worker arrested for con and snatch in Malda ||A youth worker of the Trinamul Congress was arrested on Sunday after he had allegedly grabbed cash and cellphones from five migrant labourers by impersonating as a police officer at Malda Town station on Saturday night. Trinamul has sought to distance itself from Akash Saha, who hails from Ratua of Malda district. According to sources, the migrant workers, all residents of the district, reached the station by train from Bangalore. When they alighted, Saha, along with some of his associates, intercepted them. "A young man suddenly stopped us and claimed that police had information that we were carrying narcotics. He introduced himself as a sub-inspector of police. Accusing us of being drug peddlers, he started searching our luggage. We were too baffled to stop him. He then took our cellphones and around Rs 10,000 in cash from us and left the spot on a two-wheeler," one of the workers said. The migrants were doubtful about Saha's identity and went to Englishbazar police station where they filed a complaint. The police soon picked up Saha and brought him to the station. The labourers identified him as the person who had taken away their phones and cash. The police recovered the stolen items from him, said sources. A court here on Sunday remanded Saha in police custody for five days. Saha was often seen at events hosted by Trinamul, especially the youth wing of the party. "I do not know him (Saha). We never endorse such activities," Chandana Haldar, the newly-appointed district president of youth Trinamul, said when asked about Saha's arrest. Samar Mukherjee, chairman of Malda district Trinamul, said: "The law will take its own course. None from the party will stand by him." Trinamul insiders said there were allegations that Saha would click photos with senior party leaders and use them to convince others about his influence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal records 561 new infections and eight deaths||Bengal on Sunday recorded 561 new Covid-19 infections, 686 recoveries and eight deaths. The total number of active cases in the state fell by 133 to 9,461 with 63 successive days of a slide. Calcutta logged 74 new infections and two deaths. With North 24-Parganas reporting 79 new cases, Sunday was the 17th consecutive day again of not one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Sixteen of Bengal's 23 districts reported a two-digit figure of new infections. Kalimpong, North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Howrah, Hooghly and North 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s recovery rate is 98.2 per cent, its highest this pandemic, and fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.5. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate is now 1.53 per cent on Sunday. It was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.19 now, while that of the nation stayed put at 1.34 per cent. The state currently has nearly 15.43 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.15 lakh recoveries and 18,364 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Three held from Duare Sarkar camp for taking money from govt welfare beneficiaries||Three persons, including a woman, were arrested by Siliguri Metropolitan Police from a Duare Sarkar camp on Saturday for allegedly taking money from potential government welfare beneficiaries in exchange of filling up their application forms. The camp is underway at the Jyostnamoyee Girls High School in Babupara of Siliguri. Police are keeping a close watch on all Duare Sarkar camps across the city where in each hundreds of women are turning up to register for the Lakshmir Bhandar monthly cash benefit scheme. The arrested trio are Atindra Majumdar of Shantinagar and Nabab Roy Chowdhury and his wife Aparna from Hakimpara. “On Saturday, police found these three  filling up application forms of prospective beneficiaries against cash. The matter was immediately brought to our notice and they were arrested without delay,” said a police officer. This is the third arrest from a Duare Sarkar camp in and around Siliguri. Recently, Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the local civic body, nabbed a youth for a similar crime from another school. In another camp held at a school in neighbouring Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, a woman was arrested for taking money by filling application forms. Sources in Siliguri Municipal Corporation said there is a strict order from the district administration to the officials of all the borough (cluster of wards) offices – the camps are being held borough-wise – that there should be a steady vigil in all the camps across the civic area to prevent any malpractice. An officer of Siliguri Metropolitan Police said after the arrests, a case has been registered on the basis of a complaint filed by an official of the concerned borough office. “Charges under sections 420 (cheating), 465 and 468 (forgery), 471 (use a forged document as a genuine one) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC have been brought against them,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Rahul Sinha cites Rabindranath Tagore to ‘counter’ Dilip Ghosh||Former Bengal BJP president Rahul Sinha on Sunday obliquely spoke against statehood for north Bengal and urged people to remember Rabindranath Tagore’s call for unity through “Rakhi Bandhan” to protest the British government’s decision to divide Bengal in 1905. His comment comes a day after BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh defended fellow MP and Union minister of state John Barla’s call for statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal as “nothing illegitimate”. Sinha, in a video message posted on social media, said Tagore had taken up the onus for promoting unity through the Rakhi festival in 1905 when the British rulers had first planned to partition Bengal. “These days, we find some people are again talking about partition of our state. They want to finish off the rich cultural heritage and history of Bengal and want to change its name. We should all stand united,” said Sinha. These contrasting voices, political observers feel, may be the BJP’s strategy to try and retain their support in all quarters of Bengal. Most in the state are vehemently against any division, but some in north Bengal, where the BJP has tasted poll success, want it. “As the BJP won 30 of  its 77 Assembly seats and seven of 18 Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal, it seems it is not ready to antagonise either side. This may be why different leaders are coming up with different statements,” said an observer. Speaking to the media in Jalpaiguri, Ghosh had said if Jungle Mahal or north Bengal becomes states, chief minister Mamata Banerjee would be responsible because of lack of development. “John Barla has not made any illegitimate demand but has simply voiced the aspirations of people who had voted for him,” Ghosh had said. The remarks seemed to have nudged Sinha to voice his views. “Those who want to change the geographical boundaries of Bengal and its history should realize that it is incongruent to Rabindranath Tagore’s thoughts and principles. We should all uphold our rich heritage and   strive to conserve our history. It would then be a real manifestation of honour to the poet,” Sinha said. On Sunday, the state BJP president held a meeting with party leaders of Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts at a private resort in Murti on the fringes of Gorumara National Park. Specific instructions were given to the leaders to prepare for the civic elections, sources said. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Shyama Prasad Mukherjee held for 'misappropriation' of civic  funds||Police on Sunday arrested Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, who was a member of the first Mamata Banerjee cabinet and chairman of the Bishnupur municipality for over 30 years, for allegedly misappropriating civic funds of around Rs 10 crore. Mukherjee had left the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP last year, along with Suvendu Adhikari. But having faced stiff resistance within the saffron camp, Mukherjee had been pleading with the Trinamul leadership to let him rejoin the party. The arrest was made after Bishnupur subdivisional officer Arup Kumar Dutta had lodged an FIR with Bishnupur police on August 20. “Following the complaint of misappropriation of government funds, we first detained him for interrogation yesterday. As he did not satisfy police with his answers related to the financial scam, we had to take him into our custody to inquire into the case and track the money trail by probing his property deals,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the superintendent of Bankura police. Mukherjee, 70, was produced in the Bishnupur subdivisional court which remanded him in police custody for four days. “He had embezzled Rs 10 crore by floating faulty tenders for 30-odd projects already completed by the Bishnupur municipality. We will interrogate Mukherjee to know where he spent the money. We will look into his movable and immovable properties and find out whether the politician gave the illegal money to others,” said a police source. While he was being taken to Bishnupur court, Mukherjee said he was in the dark regarding the charges against him. Mukherjee, a known face in Bankura politics as the longest-serving chairman of Bishnupur municipality, was the housing minister in the first Trinamul government in 2011. He later became the minister of women and child welfare and eventually of textiles. The former minister started looking to switch to the BJP as a follower of fellow Trinamul turncoat Adhikari after he had been removed as the chairperson of the board of administrators at the Bishnupur municipality in March last year. Trinamul leaders said they suspected that a share of the money was used in political activities after he joined the BJP. “He is accused of defalcating taxpayers’ money and the arrest of Mukherjee proves that our government does not spare anyone involved in financial scams. He is now with the BJP and we want a thorough probe to find out whether there are any other beneficiaries of the money, including politicians or officials. We hope the police will expose all those who benefited and none will be spared,” said Alok Mukherjee, Trinamul’s Bishnupur organisational district. BJP leaders suspect there is a political conspiracy behind the arrest as Mukherjee is now in their party. “The arrest appears to be the outcome of a political conspiracy as it was made today though the allegation had cropped up over a year ago. Anyone can understand why such a complaint was lodged,” said Sujit Agasty, the BJP chief of the Bishnupur organisational district. Mukherjee had joined the BJP in December last year in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah. Sources in the BJP said the inclusion of Mukherjee in their party had been a headache for them since local leaders and workers did not accept him for his long connection with Trinamul. BJP workers openly protested Mukherjee’s induction and he was driven away when he turned up at the party office in Bishnupur. Later, posters were put up, allegedly by BJP old-timers, warning the party of trouble if Mukherjee was nominated from Bishnupur in the Assembly polls. Sensing the mood, the BJP did not make him a candidate and Mukherjee has not been active since the summer. Left in the lurch, Mukherjee made a futile attempt to meet Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee on March 15 during her visit to Durgapur. He was refused an audience. “He joined the party with Suvenduda, but he was not with us politically. He also tried to join Trinamul before the elections and attempted to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Durgapur. However, we are sympathetic towards him as he is a veteran politician,” Agasty added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
23-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal govt announces new precautions to rein in possible third wave ||The Bengal government on Sunday announced new precautions aimed at containing a possible third wave of Covid-19 in the state, following a spike in new cases across several districts. Sources said updated precautions would include the enforcement of micro-containment zones “with strict vigilance” and the relaunch of “a massive awareness drive”. “Crowds are flouting Covid protocols, perhaps emboldened by partial vaccination, and inviting a possible third wave,” said a Nabanna official. Districts like South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah, and East Midnapore, apart from the metropolitan areas of Calcutta have reportedly raised concerns again owing to the recent surge although the overall number of positive cases in the state has been dropping. Sources at Nabanna and health department stressed on distribution and wearing of face masks. “Contact tracing and doorstep awareness drives by grassroots health workers will go on,” a state health directorate official added. The state government has announced special vigilance at river jetties and tourist spots and will time schedules at local markets are obeyed. Separate control rooms at the sub divisional level and district headquarters at Alipore will monitor the overall situation 24/7, a district official added. A senior official of the state health directorate said there was no room for risks at this juncture. “We must try to contain the surge at the earliest,” he said, adding that micro-containment zones, awareness drives and a mask-positive culture are steps towards this. “We have started micro-containment zones at South 24-Parganas, which topped the chart of positive cases on Saturday with 89 cases,” the official added. South 24-Parganas administration on Sunday announced 56 micro containment zones, mostly in Maheshtala, Bishnupur, Bhangar, Rajpur-Sonarpur, Narendrapur, Canning, Gosaba, Kakdwip, Sagar, Namkhana, Patharpratima, among others. District magistrate P. Ulaganathan said: “There were some micro-containment zones, to which we have added areas from where new cases were traced, for instance Gosaba and Bishnupur-II.” The objective of creating micro-containment zones is to cause minimal disruption to public life and economic activities, while at the same time containing the outbreak of Covid-19, an official of the South 24 Parganas district administration explained. Sources said many health officials had recently attributed decreased contact tracing as a reason behind the recent spike. “We have told health authorities to avoid complacency regarding contact tracing as it could turn fatal”, a health official said. South 24-Parganas district administration has announced plans to vaccinate the entire population in Sagar island before the Ganga Sagar pilgrimage scheduled for January next year. “Our target is to ensure two jabs for all people on the island, particularly those associated with the fair,” said BDO Sudipta Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
