24-08-2021||West Bengal||Five contractual teachers drink 'poison' outside Bengal education dept head quarters ||Five female contractual teachers of primary schools allegedly consumed poison on Tuesday while demonstrating before the state education department headquarters here seeking immediate fulfilment of their job-related demands, a senior police officer said. Four of them "drank some liquid from bottles" as soon as they were arrested for forcefully entering the premises of Bikash Bhavan and shouting slogans in violation of the disaster management act, the officer said. The fifth woman, who tried to follow suit, was stopped by a woman constable before she could gulp down much of the liquid, he said. "All five were taken to a state-run hospital, where the condition of four was stated to be serious. The fifth woman is out of danger," the officer stated. The agitating teachers, all members of a platform for contractual school teachers, 'Sikshak Oikyo Manch', had been seeking regularisation of services and revocation of transfer orders that have forced some of them to move to places that are far from their homes. The five teachers had earlier this month demonstrated before the residence of education minister Bratya Basu seeking to know why their demands were not being met with. Strongly reacting to the incident, BJP state vice president Jaiprakash Majumdar said, "Lack of concern on the part of the education minister prompted the teachers to consume poison." Kunal Ghosh, the ruling TMC's spokesperson, wished the teachers a speedy recovery. "It has to be looked into if there was any provocation from any quarter. A proper investigation will reveal the details," he added. The education minister and his department officials were not available for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy defection case leaves Trinamul in a bind ||A division bench of the Calcutta High Court comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj on Tuesday iterated that the disqualification of an  MLA under the anti-defection law rested with the office of the Speaker and not the court while hearing a PIL filed against the appointment of Mukul Roy as chairman of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC). Roy, elected on a BJP ticket from Krishnagar North, as the PAC chairman would have been in consonance with parliamentary traditions where the key position that holds the government accountable is entrusted to a member from the Opposition benches. Complications arose when Roy was welcomed back into the Trinamul fold with much fanfare on June 11, little over a month since Mamata Banerjee returned as chief minister for a third time. Since then the question whether Roy is with the Trinamul or the BJP has been hanging in the office of the Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee. Never before in over two decades since it came into being has the Trinamul faced such a quandary over engineering defections of which the party is a past master. Trinamul insiders say any adverse ruling from the court on the appointment of the PAC chairman will bring a bad name to the government, a move that could have been easily avoided. “If the PAC chairman has to be removed on the court’s ruling it won’t go well with Mamata di’s attempt to portray herself as a national leader. By convention the PAC chairman is from the Opposition, it would have been better to leave the post to the BJP,” said a Trinamul source. Over the last couple of weeks, Roy has embarrassed himself and his party twice with his comment that the BJP stood a better chance of winning the bypolls in the state, including his own, though Roy is yet to resign as an MLA. His son Shubhrangshu attributed the repeated faux pas to Roy’s mental state sine he was grieving the passing of his wife in a Chennai hospital over a month ago. Trinamul sources said Mamata had advised her oldest confidante in the party to get treated earliest after an MRI revealed the presence of a fluid in Roy’s brain. Roy’s inclusion in the Trinamul has put both the government and the Speaker’s office under pressure. “The problem is she cannot remove him now on health grounds as that would be construed as an escape route for the government to avoid legal embarrassment,” said a Trinamul legislator. A section of the BJP pointed to a compromise candidate from the party who could have helped salvage the situation for the government, namely, the former chief economic adviser to the Union government and Balurghat MLA Ashok Lahiri, who would have been acceptable to Mamata as well. “Lahiri would not have made life difficult for the government as PAC chairman. For the BJP getting the post was more important than anything else. Now it has become a prestige battle,” said a BJP leader. There is a buzz that Mamata could try to lure Lahiri to the Trinamul fold to replace the incumbent state finance minister Amit Mitra, who is not keen on continuing in office.  The leader of the  Opposition and BJP MLA from Nandigram Suvendu Adhikary is firm on taking the fight on the defection to the court if necessary. Speaker Biman Banerjee has scheduled the next hearing in the matter on September 17. In the high court today, senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan appearing for the petitioner and BJP MLA Ambika Roy said the disqualification petition against Roy had been filed before the Speaker on June 17. “The Speaker has made an incorrect assumption that Mukul Roy belonged to the BJP at the time of filing his nomination papers for chairmanship (of the PAC),” said Vaidyanathan. Roy was appointed chairman of the PAC on July 9. Vaidyanathan reminded the bench that the Supreme Court had set a time limit of three months to decide cases of defection. In January 2020, a three-judge bench comprising Justice Rohinton F Nariman, Aniruddha Bose and V Ramasubramaniam had ruled that Speakers of Assemblies and the Parliament must decide on disqualification pleas within a period of three months. “I will proceed on the assumption that Mukul Roy has defected from the BJP and has joined the TMC during my arguments. Thus, constitutional convention has been breached,” he said. “Disqualification petition filed in June should not be delayed unnecessarily.” The court reminded him, “That is not before us, it is before the Speaker.” The matter has been adjourned till September 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Four illegal immigrants from Bangladesh held in Murshidabad||Four illegal immigrants from Bangladesh, who had allegedly entered Bengal to smuggle cattle to their country, were arrested from Suti in Murshidabad on Sunday evening. Karim Sheikh, 25, Mannan Sheikh, 50, Alamin Sheikh, 20, and Joharul Sheikh, 26, were produced at Jangipur ACJM court on Monday and remanded to three days of police custody. “We arrested four illegal Bangladeshi immigrants, who entered India without passports, from Suti. We don’t yet have the necessary evidence to prove if they were involved in cattle smuggling. We have taken them into three days custody for interrogation,” said Y. Raghuvamshi, the SP, Jangipur police district. An officer of Suti police station said the accused were residents of Shibganj in Chapainawabganj district of Bangladesh. Shibganj and Suti are situated on opposite sides of the Ganga. “These accused had crossed the river to India to smuggle cattle back home. They took advantage of the high water-level of the Ganga to swim to India,” a police source said. In the past week, eight Bangladeshi immigrants including these four, have been arrested in Murshidabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal State Transport Corporation plans to launch 60 buses and new routes before Durga Puja||The North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC) plans to launch 60 buses and introduce bus services in some new routes of north Bengal before Durga Puja. Partha Pratim Roy, the new chairman of NBSTC, said they also sought to engage more manpower. Roy, who recently assumed office at the state-run NBSTC headquarters in Cooch Behar, said: “We have asked for 60 new buses from the state and hope the government provides them before Durga Puja. These buses would be introduced in some new and old routes.” As of now, NBSTC has a fleet of around 600 buses in over 350 routes. For the new buses, NBSTC has also sent a proposal to the state transport department, seeking approval to hire drivers and conductors. “It will be a new job opportunity for youths of north Bengal and the state as a whole,” said Roy. The NBSTC, sources said, will seek advice from experts to augment revenue collection. “Collections have gone up in the past 10 years…we want more to ensure that the (now-profitable) corporation does not incur losses. We want to modernise the ticketing system and come up with a mobile app for online ticket booking. The official website will also be improved,” an official said. Ahead of introducing the new buses, authorities have also taken up the task to survey some prospective routes. “Roads have improved and many bridges and culverts have come up to improve connectivity. We are surveying these routes to check their economic viability,” added the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal chief secretary issues order on assistance for filling up forms of Lakshmir Bhandar in rural areas||Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi has asked district magistrates to ensure that elected panchayat members, clubs and villagers are kept out of assisting women in filling up application forms of Lakshmir Bhandar in rural areas and asked the DMs to use Kanyashree beneficiaries, members of self-help groups and college students for the purpose. “Some instances have come to notice that some local villagers etc are assisting women to fill up LB (Lakshmir Bhandar) forms. This is leading to undesired problems. We should rope in Kanyashrees in a big way for filling up forms,” a WhatsApp message sent to the DMs by the chief secretary reads. The instruction from Dwivedi is considered to be significant in the backdrop of reports that Opposition parties like the BJP, CPM and at some places, Trinamul workers are helping women fill up forms for the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. The state government from the very first day wanted to keep away political interference from the Duare Sarkar camps. That is why the state government had restricted issuance and receiving of forms in bulk at the camps that had started on August 16. “Elected panchayat functionaries/clubs etc should be scrupulously kept out DS (Duare Sarkar) programme. Kanyashrees/SHGs/College students may be used generously,” reads the fresh instruction from the chief secretary. The Telegraph had pointed out that it was not possible for the government to keep political parties away until a system was put in place to fill up forms for poor women in rural areas. “No such arrangement could be made to help the poor women and general beneficiaries to fill up the forms in the areas where literacy rate is low. So, the beneficiaries were forced to go to political parties to seek help,” said an official. At several Duare Sarkar camps in south Bengal, workers of the CPM and the BJP are seen explaining to people the details of the schemes and helping them in filling up forms. They are also offering them a glass of water as they stand in long queues for hours. Despite Nabanna’s missive to the district magistrates, both the CPM and BJP leaders said they were helping common people avail themselves of the government scheme using taxpayers’ money. “The government is offering several schemes for the people using taxpayers’ money. We are performing as a watchdog at the camps so that the ruling party cannot misuse them and people are not deprived of the scheme,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a CPM West Burdwan district secretariat member. Sources also said the state government wanted to keep away political interference from the camps only to ensure that complaints of demanding cut money did not raise its head. “Now, the Trinamul Congress may not like that Opposition parties are using the programme to reach out to common people. Keeping an eye on the 2023 panchayat polls and 2024 Lok Sabha polls, the ruling party would not like to leave any open field for the Opposition,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Jaldapara wildlife division celebrated 25th birthday of Raja||The Jaldapara wildlife division of the state forest department on Monday celebrated the 25th birthday of Raja, a royal Bengal tiger from the Sunderbans and brought to the rescue centre in South Khayerbari, Alipurduar district. The event was organised to create awareness on tiger conservation, said foresters. Sources said back in 2008, Raja was brought to the rescue centre on August 23, after being treated by vets in Calcutta for his wounds from a crocodile attack in the Sunderbans. THe was 12 years old then. “In India, Raja is probably the senior-most tiger in captivity. We have information that there is a female tiger that is at a zoo in Texas, the US, which is 25 years and 319 days old,” said a forest officer. On Monday, a picture of Raja was put at the entrance of the rescue centre with details about his life. “We also organised an online drawing competition and quiz . Many children participated in the events,” said Deepak M., the divisional forest officer of Jaldapara wildlife division. The forest department also uploaded pictures and video footage of the tiger on its official website. “We however, did not disturb the tiger,”  the DFO said, adding Raja was inside his enclosure and in good health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||John Barla breaks silence on plots but could not show any document to prove ownership||Union minister of state for minority affairs John Barla made a feeble attempt to defend charges of land encroachment against him but could not show any document to prove his ownership of the two plots on which he has properties. Barla, the BJP MP from Alipurduar, but hails from the Lakhipara tea estate near Banarhat of Jalpaiguri, had recently demanded statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal. Barla built a house where he used to stay at a worker’s quarters on a plot leased out to the tea company that runs the tea garden in Lakhipara. He is also building a multi-storey commercial complex at Chamurchi More in Banarhat on a plot owned by the PWD. The charges had first been levelled by the Trinamul leadership of Jalpaiguri. Then, the district administration held a probe. “It was found he does not own either of these plots,” said a source. The parliamentarian, who was in Delhi for a prolonged time after his induction into the Narendra Modi cabinet, was silent for weeks. He broke his silence on Sunday evening. “I built the house at the tea estate as I need to accommodate my security personnel (after becoming an MP in 2019)…. the earlier quarters were inadequate....I have taken permission from garden authorities,” he said. However, representatives of the tea company earlier had told the Jalpaiguri district magistrate earlier that they said they had not given any land to Barla to build a house. On the commercial complex at Banarhat, Barla said: “There were a number of shanties on the land and none was bothered. As I started constructing the complex, I got electricity and drinking water connections from authorities concerned. The panchayat charges tax for the property. It is only recently that Trinamul started raising the issue with political interest in mind,” said Barla, but could not furnish any ownership papers. Trinamul district leaders have asked the state government to take suitable action. “It is unfortunate that being an elected representative and a member of the Union cabinet, he has indulged in an illegal activity and encroached on (government) land in two locations. Instead of admitting his fault, he is coming up with weak clarifications. We want the state government to take necessary steps against him,” said a district Trinamul leader. Sources in the administration said they had forwarded all relevant details to state secretariat Nabanna. “As he is an MP and a Union minister of state, the state government will have to take the call,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Wrong selection of Assembly poll candidates did us in: Bengal BJP workers lash out||A Bengal BJP meeting at the party’s Hastings office here on Monday on how to politically exploit the Calcutta High Court order of a CBI probe into post-poll result violence turned into an open session where ground-level workers aired their pent-up anger against the “wrong” selection of Assembly poll candidates. BJP’s joint national general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, state general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty, state general secretary Sayantan Basu, vice-president Pratap Banerjee and others were present at the meeting, the first-ever since the party’s poll debacle. The party could win only 77 seats when its biggest names like Amit Shah had predicted over 200 seats. Sources in the party said the chiefs of several mandals, BJP’s smallest organisational unit, said how unpopular leaders, including Trinamul turncoats, were made candidates without anyone consulting party workers. “This was the first opportunity to speak to our leaders, which we got since the poll results. We couldn’t let it go,” a party member from the Mathurapur organisational district said. “Many of us told Shivprakashji that we lost in most seats because those fielded were the very people we had campaigned against when they were in Trinamul.” A mandal chief from Calcutta North Suburban district also had a heated argument with Ghosh. “Dilipda asked the leader why his mandal committee had not been set up. The leader replied that under the current circumstances that wasn’t possible,” a source said, adding that when Ghosh tried to silence the mandal chief, the latter exploded and demanded he be heard first. Shivprakash handed out an email id and a phone number for party workers to share suggestions on how to “revive the organisation” after the poll debacle. Workers can also share their ideas about upcoming civic and panchayat polls, a BJP leader said.“Our suggestions will be shared with the party’s election board in Delhi, Shivprakashji assured us,” said a leader. On CBI probe into post-poll result violence, the party has appointed a convener, a co-convener and a lawyer for each of the 39 organisational districts of the party who will get in touch with CBI investigators and inform them about the party’s grievances. “The conveners will provide investigators with all the details they need,” a source present at the meeting said. Party leaders also pointed out that the revival of the party's organisation in the state was the need of the hour. Thousands of booths remain unmanned by BJP. The post-poll result violence allegedly unleashed by Trinamul goons had affected the organisation further. Several party workers from Mathurapur, Diamond Harbour, Baruipur East, Calcutta North, Calcutta South and Calcutta North Suburban organisational districts were absent at the meeting. A source from the Mathurapur organisational district said only about 60 of the 112 mandals of the district were represented at the meeting. “Some mandal presidents have been jailed in trumped-up cases. Some are homeless. Many of them are still scared of being tortured by the ruling party,” the source alleged. Shivprakash reportedly said: “There are many states in India where either our party or some other has formed a government with about 38 per cent votes. But that didn't happen in Bengal. However, that shouldn't depress us. We have to work to rebuild our organisation for the civic and panchayat polls.” He also asked the state leadership to draw up a plan to ensure that unlike 2018 the party could field candidates in all panchayats of Bengal. A ward-level committee at each municipality will also be set up with an eye on the civic polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress daily’s pat for Anil Biswas to slam CPM||The Trinamul Congress in an editorial in Jago Bangla on Monday mounted a scathing offensive on the CPM over its decision to suspend academic Ajanta Biswas, daughter of deceased Left Front chairman Anil Biswas, for penning a series of articles for the ruling party’s Bengali mouthpiece. In the editorial, Trinamul lavished praise on the deceased Left leader — anathema to Mamata Banerjee while he was alive — and lambasted Alimuddin Street for being unable to recover from its allegedly insular mindset. The CPM’s Calcutta district committee had suspended the 41-year-old Ajanta from the party for six months. “You cannot win hearts through punishment. The new generation does not want the CPM. The party is being taken from shunyo (zero) in the direction of mohashunyo (outer space) by its failed leaders,” read the editorial in Jago Bangla in firm support of Ajanta. “… a strange party, the CPM. It sank itself. It sank its allies. No lessons learnt, despite going down to zero (seats in the Bengal Assembly),” added the editorial in the mouthpiece. The series of articles authored by Ajanta was titled “woman power in Bengal politics”. It chronicled the contributions of the likes of Basanti Devi and Sarojini Naidu. In the series finale, Ajanta praised Mamata, who came to power in 2011 ending the Left Front’s 34-year hegemony. The editorial underscored the fact that the series was based on history, not politics, and mentioned many Left leaders as well and that in the present, keeping the Bengal chief minister out of the ambit of such a topic was impossible. Trinamul asked that if Jago Bangla could accept the author’s freedom and, without omitting even one word, could publish the names of Leftist leaders in the series, why the CPM was unable to recover from its “narrow” mindset of a “well-dwelling frog”. Jago Bangla also demanded answers on why the CPM did not take Ajanta’s articles for Ganashakti, its Bengali mouthpiece. When the CPM had showcaused Ajanta, she had replied that she had only tried to uphold the contributions made by women in politics without judging any political colour. Clearly, her answer didn’t go down well with the leadership. “Hence, frantic fury from a section in the CPM. Ajanta must be punished. Which Ajanta? Anil Biswas’s daughter,” read the editorial. The CPM politburo member, deemed instrumental in replacing Jyoti Basu with Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee as Bengal chief minister in 2000, passed away from cerebral haemorrhage at the age of 62 in the run-up to the 2006 Assembly election. “Without whom (Anil Biswas), Ganashakti would not have run. Without whom, the party would not have returned to power in 2001. Without whose convincing, nobody would have been able to get Jyoti Basu to retire. Without whom, Subhas Chakraborty would’ve quit the party. Riding the sympathy-wave of whose untimely demise the CPM won again in 2006,” it added. The editorial asserted that the disagreement within the CPM, over this, was clear. “Despite that, some unknown, irrelevant leaders, who dragged the party down to zero seats in the Lok Sabha (from Bengal) and in the Assembly – having taken a suicidal decision regarding Ajanta, in the name of discipline – want their names in the media for a day,” it read. “… they have to catch the feet of the Congress and a controversial force (the ISF) to contest elections, their discipline!” it added, touching what would be a raw nerve in the CPM. The editorial kept rubbing salt into the smarting Sanjyukta Morcha wound of the CPM. “None of those who worked as the BJP’s B-team to split (anti-BJP) votes, got rejected by the people by taking the “BJmul (implying that the BJP and Trinamul are two sides of the same coin)” line, got condemned within the party by upholding the Bhaijan-Salimbhai (ISF leader Peerzada Abbas Siddiqui and CPM politburo member Mohammed Salim) partnership, were punished or removed. Ajanta was punished,” read the editorial. “It was proven that there is no personal liberty in the CPM,” it added, going on to list a slew of past examples of the Marxists distancing themselves from leaders in Bengal, which were proven later to be mistakes. It cited the instances of Somnath Chatterjee, Nripen Chakraborty, Saifuddin Chowdhury, Samir Putatunda, and even Sujit Bose, stating that now Ajanta’s name was added to the list. Asserting that Ajanta would not suffer in the least because of the CPM’s decision, the Jago Bangla editorial claimed that there were strong, latent currents within the Marxist party. “Instead of making the party more liberal, in keeping with the times, games of factional equations underway,” it read, attacking the CPM over the duality of some of its leaders allegedly reaching out to Mamata and accepting benefits, yet coming down heavily on Ajanta over the series. “Eventually, when the time comes, the CPM will get a fitting response to Ajanta Biswas’s punishment,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Four teenagers engrossed in phone games mowed down by train||Four boys, including two minors, were mowed down by a speeding express train in North Dinajpur district late on Sunday evening when they were huddled on tracks and glued to games on a cellphone. The deceased were Rahul Singha, 16, Rahul Singha, 17, Sourav Singha, 18, and Prashanta Singha, 19, of Dhumdangi-Kanagach of Haptiagach panchayat under Chopra block. The two boys with identical names as well as Sourav and Prashanta were hit by the Deoghar-bound express train from Agartala, police said. The four friends, sitting on railway tracks, were so engrossed in playing games on Sourav’s new phone that they did not notice the speeding long-distance train. They were instantly killed. “One of them (Sourav) had recently bought a cell phone. His friends assembled to check out the phone and all four walked up to the rail tracks. They sat on tracks to enjoy a game on the cell phone and got so engrossed that they did not notice the train. All four died instantly,” said a police officer. Their bodies have been recovered from the site. The district police as well as the Northeast Frontier Railway are conducting inquiries. As the news spread, police and residents rushed to the spot. The mutilated bodies and remnants of clothes, slippers and the cell phone and earphones were also recovered. Rabilal Singha, the father of the 16-year-old Rahul, said the teen was home till called by his friend to check out the cell phone. Abina Tudu, the pradhan of Haptiagach panchayat, said they had alerted people, especially youngsters, to stay away from tracks. “There is no point in taking such risks. We are with the bereaved families,” said Tudu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati rusticates 3 students for three years for ‘gross indiscipline and misconduct’||Visva-Bharati on Monday night rusticated three students for three years for alleged “gross indiscipline and misconduct” in January this year. The three students — Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan of the economics department and Rupa Chakraborty of Hindustani classical music — received letters about their rustication on Monday night. The letter stated the decision was taken following an inquiry report by a varsity committee set up to look into the role of the trio during a campus protest on January 9. They had been under suspension for the past nine months. Varsity authorities had accused them of “forcibly” breaking a lock at the faculty chamber of the economics department during the protest against the suspension of economics professor and varsity teachers’ body president Sudipta Bhattacharyya. The three students have been the face of protest on campus against the “wrongdoings” of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his alleged attempts at saffronising the varsity. While Sow and Chakraborty are active members and leaders of the CPM-backed Students’ Federation of India (SFI), Pan represents the Left-wing Students’ Unity for New Society. The letter addressed individually to the three states: “The consideration of the said enquiry report (on allegations against the students), the competent authority of the University proposes to impose upon you the punishment of rustication of your studentship in Visva-Bharati for a period of three years.” These three students had lodged dozens of complaints against the VC for his “moves to saffronise the campus” that began with the varsity organising a lecture by BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta in support of the Narendra Modi government’s controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in January last year. Sow and Pan were among students who had lodged police complaint against the VC after he was allegedly found in a purported video (the authenticity of which has not been checked by The Telegraph) plotting an attack on students who had gheraoed him and Dasgupta. Reacting to the varsity’s decision, Sow said: “He (VC) rusticated us only because we had raised our voice against his wrong doings...” Varsity authorities on Monday night also suspended two teachers of the physics department — Arani Chakravarti and Pijush Kanti Ghosh — for lodging police complaints against the VC for allegedly confining a dozen of English teachers during a meeting in February. The varsity’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a text message from this correspondent. “The VC is ruining the culture of Santiniketan and punishing teachers and students who protested against Visva-Bharati authorities. Interestingly, ministers are visiting the campus but have failed to react to Chakrabarty’s undemocratic ways. Now the time has come to launch a mass protest against the VC to stop him from ruining Rabindranath Tagore’s legacy,” said a senior varsity professor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt to form inquiry panel if it gets complaints of false SC, ST applicants||The Mamata Banerjee government will set up an inquiry commission if it receives complaints that ineligible people were among the recipients of 21 lakh caste certificates issued during the first edition of the Duare Sarkar drive rather than cancel such papers. The issue of issuing caste certificates to ineligible people came up during a meeting of the West Bengal Tribal Development Council that the chief minister convened at Nabanna on Monday. “Junior forest minister Birbaha Hansda raised the issue first and informed the chief minister that scores of non-tribal people had been provided with caste certificates and some of them even secured government jobs based on the fake papers. The junior minister had brought some fake certificates with her and showed the chief minister the same,” said a source. Before Mamata Banerjee could intervene, sources said, tribal development department secretary Sanjay Thade said the fake certificates could be cancelled if the complaints were true. “The chief minister stepped in and said caste certificates couldn’t be indiscriminately scrapped based on complaints only. The department can set up an inquiry commission if such complaints are lodged,” said an official. Bengal has a sizeable population of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and they are eligible for benefits like cash scheme, scholarships for students and reservation in jobs among others. Sources in the tribal development department said complaints of issuing fake caste certificates couldn’t be ruled out particularly after the rules for the process had been eased during the Duare Sarkar camps held between December 2020 and January 2021. “Earlier, an inspection was required to be carried out before issuing caste certificates. But since a huge number of people applied through the Duare Sarkar camps, the chief minister asked district authorities to ease the standard practice and issue caste certificates based on the certificates of the applicants’ family members,” said a source. The issue was discussed at length at the meeting on Monday. If there is any delay in issuing caste certificates in the name of procedure or formalities, it goes against the government as the potential beneficiaries consider it as an attempt by the administration to deny them what they deserve. At the same time, if certificates are issued to ineligible people, it also goes against the government as it means depriving genuine people of their dues. “That is why the chief minister initiated a cautious step by asking the department to set up an inquiry commission before cancelling any certificate,” said a source. The state doesn’t have the history of setting up a commission to tackle the issue of false caste certificates. “The liberal distribution of caste certificates helped the ruling party in the Assembly polls... That’s why the chief minister is treading with caution,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Voice clip on GNLF president Mann Ghisingh’s ‘betrayal’ surfaces||A voice message in Nepali, purportedly by estranged GNLF leader Ajoy Edwards and sent to the party’s WhatsApp group, alleges how GNLF president Mann Ghisingh betrayed and sidelined him. The 37.21-minute-long voice message, supposedly by Edwards to the “GNLF parivar (family)”, says he has nothing against others. Edwards, currently in Ladakh, purportedly says: “My grouse is with Mann Ghisingh.” One of the most known faces of the GNLF, entrepreneur and social worker Edwards, in the purported message, said Mann betrayed him despite their friendship of “32 to 33” years. “I feel I was only used (by Mann),” the message says. Edwards alleged Mann asked him to prepare for MLA elections given the purported “unpopularity” of Neeraj Zimba (Darjeeling MLA) almost a year back. But Zimba was again asked to contest in the 2021 polls, said Edwards. Edwards’ purported voice message claims that their relationship took a nosedive in August. “I was told to go to Delhi (in early August) but from the day before which I was to leave for Delhi, Mann stopped taking my calls or responding to my messages.” Edwards, who has not yet resigned as the GNLF Darjeeling Branch Committee’s president, also purportedly says that while he was in Delhi, Mann came to the capital to meet Union home minister Amit Shah on August 6 but neither contacted Edwards nor met him. Instead, Edwards alleged, Mann repeatedly changed his number, told other leaders not to give them to Edwards, and held a central committee meeting in Darjeeling on August 15 without telling him. Zimba was made the new secretary general in the meeting. “Sometime back he (Mann) had told me to be the secretary,” the voice message says. The GNLF is now an ally of the BJP. Edwards in the purported voice message claimed Mann in 2015 had asked him to request chief minister Mamata Banerjee to give him (Mann) a “government post”. “She smiled at my request…I am not someone to beg, but within seven days, she did make the appointment.” Mann was made a vice-chairman of a sports body for north Bengal in 2015. Mann refused. Edwards alleged Mann felt it was too small for him. Edwards alleged “money has changed hands”, but he would give details later. He added he had not “rejected the GNLF parivar but they left no road for me to return”. He said he would not join any party, but would be “in politics.” Mann did not respond to the allegations. Zimba said they had not got any official letter from Edwards. “This is an issue between Ram and Laxman of our party, how can Hanuman comment,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Tiger drags away fisherman in the restricted zone of Sunderbans Tiger Reserve||A 50-year-old fisherman, Niranjan Kayal, went missing after he was dragged off by a tiger while catching crabs in the restricted zone of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve at Gosaba’s Satjelia in South 24-Parganas early on Sunday. This comes on the heels of another incident where fisherman Anna Das, 50, was killed by a tiger at Jhila (1) area of the Sunderbans while returning home in his boat on Friday. Forest and local officials said four fishermen, including Niranjan, had got down from their small boats to collect crabs, violating the forest department’s caution not to venture into the restricted zone. A tiger pounced on Niranjan and took him inside the forest, eyewitnesses said. “We are yet to spot him (Niranjan) and going by our experiences we fear he may not be alive,” a forester said. “However, search is on,” added the forester at the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Niranjan’s sister-in-law Anita Kayal, who lives in Satjelia, said the fisherman was the second person in their extended family to be a victim of tiger attack. Anita’s husband Anathbandhu was also killed by a tiger in 2015 while he was collecting crabs. “The tiger was probably waiting inside a bush for hours to catch its prey. The four fishermen, along with my brother-in-law Niranjan, were collecting crabs at two different locations. Suddenly a tiger pounced on him and took him away inside the jungle,” said Anita. Foresters in the Sunderbans said that since a large number of migrant workers had lost their jobs during the pandemic since last year and have had to come back home and remain jobless, the number of people venturing into the tiger reserve to catch crabs for a livelihood had increased manifold. After Sunday’s incident forest officials have started an extensive campaign in the vicinity of the tiger reserve, asking people not to move enter the restricted zones to catch fish or crabs. In 2020, five persons were killed in tiger attacks whereas this year the count is two so far. “We have started an extensive campaign requesting local residents not to enter the restricted zones illegally to catch fish or crabs. The fisherman, who has gone missing, had ventured into the restricted zones illegally. We are also intensifying our vigil to prevent such human intrusion into tiger reserve areas,” said Jones Justin, the deputy field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
24-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid ‘under control’, Mamata Banerjee seeks pending bypolls to seven Assembly seats||Bengal on Monday recorded 64 straight days of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, with chief minister Mamata Banerjee again demanding that the pending bypolls to seven Assembly seats be held at a time “the Covid situation was totally under control”. With 510 new infections, 628 recoveries and seven deaths in the state on Monday, active cases fell by 125 to touch 9,336. “Again, our request to the Election Commission (of India) would be that four months are already over, and our Covid-19 situation is totally under control. The people have the right to cast their votes, and they have the right to be elected to the Assembly…. They (the EC) have already sought the opinions from all the political parties (on the bypolls),” said Mamata, adding the last day for the parties to reply was August 31. “I think the Election Commission must announce the by-elections immediately. Because we should not curtail the democratic rights of the people,” she added. These bypolls assume more importance than usual as Mamata lost a contentious election from Nandigram to the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari by a margin of 1,956 votes or 0.85 per cent of vote share, a result being challenged in court. However, she led her party to win 213 of 292 seats and returned to power for a straight third term.. Having taken oath as chief minister on May 5, she needs to get elected to the House before November 5. She is now likely to return to her home turf Bhowanipore, vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay for her. Mamata and her party have repeatedly underscored that if the Bengal polls  could be held in eight phases during a viral peak, when the positive confirmation rate of Covid-19 cases reached 33 per cent by phase eight of the polls, there was no ground to stave off pending Assembly bypolls in seven seats when that rate is below 2 per cent, 1.88 on Monday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.2 per cent now, its highest ever this pandemic and ahead of the national rate of 97.62. Mamata said the impact of Covid-19 wasn’t very strong in areas of scheduled bypolls. A day after the Assembly poll results of May 2, the commission suspended all bypolls indefinitely, with dates for Jangipur and Samserganj Assembly by-polls already announced, following the deaths of candidates before polling. Besides these, bypolls will be in Dinhata and Santipur, where BJP MPs Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, resigned from the Assembly to continue as members of the Lok Sabha, and Khardah, where Trinamul’s victorious candidate Kajal Sinha died of Covid-19 before results, and Gosaba, where Trinamul’s victorious candidate Jayanta Naskar died of post-Covid-19 complications in June. On Monday, Calcutta logged 77 new infections and two deaths. No district has reported a three-digit figure of new Covid cases in a day for 18 days on the trot. Twenty Bengal districts have reported zero deaths on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 now, while that of the nation stayed put at 1.34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
