25-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata slams Centre over National Monetisation Pipeline policy||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday slammed the Centre over its National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) policy, claiming that it is a ploy to sell assets that belong to the country and not to Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the BJP. Terming the NMP as a "shocking and unfortunate decision", the Trinamul Congress supremo alleged that the money raised by selling those assets will be used during elections against opposition parties. "We condemn this shocking and unfortunate decision. These assets belong to the country. It is the property of neither Modi nor the BJP. They (central government) can't just sell a country's assets as per their whims and fancies," Mamata told reporters at the state secretariat Nabanna. The entire country will stand together and oppose this "anti-people" decision, she said. "The BJP should be ashamed. No one has given them the right to sell our nation's assets," she said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Class 10 syllabus to reduce by up to 35 per cent||The syllabus for the class 10 board exams in 2022 will be substantially reduced, the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education announced. Teachers said that the decision was taken as no classes were held on school campuses for over a year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement, the board said on Tuesday there will be 30-35 per cent reduction in the curriculum of all seven subjects for class 10 students who will appear in the Madhyamik Pariksha next year. The decision has been brought to the knowledge of headmasters, teachers and students of all affiliated schools, it said. The headmaster of a state-run school in Jadavpur said students were facing difficulties due to the suspension of classes on campus, and online classes were less than adequate for an average student to complete the entire syllabus. "In such a situation, the board has taken a pragmatic decision," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||February 17 Nimtita railway station blast aimed to kill then minister Jakir Hossain: NIA||The blast at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad on the night of February 17 was aimed at killing Jakir Hossain, the then Bengal minister of state for labour, and explosives used were high-grade IEDs, the National Investigation Agency said in its chargesheet. The NIA has slapped charges under the UAPA on the two prime accused. The blast occurred around 10pm when Jakir and 26 others were about to board the Sealdah-bound Teesta Torsa Express from  Nimtita station. All the injured, including Jakir, had received multiple splinter injuries and were rushed to Calcutta’s SSKM hospital. In its chargesheet submitted to Bankshall court here on Tuesday, the NIA said Shahidul Islam  and Abu Samad, the two prime accused, had “hatched a criminal conspiracy” to kill Jakir and his supporters “in order to strike terror in the minds of the people” and to derail the Assembly elections between March and April, 2021. Immediately after the incident, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had set up a special investigation team while handing over the probe to the state CID. The CID arrested Shahidul and Samad and recovered pieces of iron containers, capacitors and parts of batteries used in two-wheelers from the site. The NIA, which took over the probe on March 2, said in its chargesheet that improvised explosive devices were used in the blast. Shahidul allegedly procured items for making the IED from shops in Suti, Murshidabad. “He held several meetings with Samad for the final selection of the site for executing the conspiracy,” the chargesheet said. “Both the accused persons had also unsuccessfully tried to destroy the phones used by them for misleading the investigating agency.” Officers said the two had tried to destroy a mobile phone and, unable to do so, had dismantled it and hidden the parts in a tree in a mango orchard in Suti. The NIA also sought the court’s permission to continue with the probe and unearth the bigger conspiracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Torsha river erodes homes in Cooch Behar town ||Residents in two municipal wards of Cooch Behar town have been spending sleepless nights for the past couple of days because the Torsha river that skirts the district headquarters has started eroding land from these two wards. In the past 24 hours, at least 55 houses have been damaged in erosion in wards 16 and 18. The dwellers have moved to safer places with their belongings as the river is continuously gobbling up chunks of land. “A few days back, the water level of the Torsha river increased with consistent rainfall. Since Sunday, the water level receded but simultaneously, erosion started in wards 16 and 18. The river damaged my house and I became homeless overnight. We could save some of our belongings. The way the river is eroding land, it seems a considerable portion of these wards will vanish from the town’s map,” said Harish Roy, one of the affected residents. He said erosion was the worst in Phansir Ghat of ward 16, where he stayed. From Phansir Ghat, some take boat rides to the district headquarters, he said. Rapid erosion has also damaged a portion of the embankment that guards the town from the river. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, most of us have lost our earnings considerably and somehow run our families with difficulty. Now we have lost our homes too and don’t know where to go with our families. The district administration should help us so that we can set up at least a hutment at a safer place,” said Minati Roy, another affected resident from ward 16. In Cooch Behar town, hundreds of families live along the banks of the Torsha and face floods during monsoon. This time, erosion is a fresh poser. Officials of the district administration said they were keeping watch. “We are extending all possible help to the affected families. Our officers are vigilant to ensure there is no mishap because of erosion,” said Sheikh Rakibur Rahaman, Cooch Behar SDO. The other major town by the Torsha is Phuntsholing in Bhutan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Four students’ associations back Visva-Bharati’s rusticated trio||At least four students’ associations in Bengal have called for rallies in support of three students rusticated by Visva-Bharati authorities on Monday night. Old-timers of the varsity also dubbed the rustication as part of an “anti-student” environment being created during the tenure of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, who allegedly has saffron leanings. The three students — Somnath Sow and Falguni Pan of the economics department and Rupa Chakraborty of Hindustani classical music — were rusticated on Monday night for their alleged “gross indiscipline and misconduct” in January last year. The rustication letters stated the decision was taken based on an inquiry report by a varsity committee set up to look into the role of the trio during a campus protest on January 9, 2020. They had been suspended nine months ago. CPM’s students’ wing SFI called for a two-day protest across the country from Tuesday. The Bengal chapter of the All India Students Association (AISA) called for statewide protests for two days from Wednesday. The Progressive Democratic Students’ Federation (PDSF) has called a protest rally at the Shyambazar five-point crossing in Calcutta on Wednesday. The Presidency University Students’ Council demanded the rustication be rescinded and announced a protest rally on Wednesday. Srijan Bhattacharya, SFI state secretary, said: “On Tuesday, our unit at Jadavpur University campus held protests. They will also start a campaign to boycott a book written by Bidyut Chakrabarty, which is part of the syllabus. Protests will be held at Presidency University. We will wait till August 27 for Visva-Bharati to come up with a solution.” The three students have been asked to appear before the varsity authorities on August 27 in case they have anything to say on the rustication. Old-timers on campus pointed out several instances of alleged anti-student measures by the varsity during Chakrabarty’s tenure. In January 2020, Visva-Bharati evicted a student from his hostel on the charge of video-recording vice-chancellor Chakraborty’s Republic Day speech, in which he made comments on the Constitution in the backdrop of protests against the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Sow and Pan were among students who had filed a police complaint against the VC, after a purported video had him remarking that students who gheraoed him and BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta in a January 9, 2020 lecture to support the citizenship matrix of the Narendra Modi government should be given a dose of medicine. “It is really rare to see students being rusticated here since Rabindranath Tagore’s time. I can hardly recall if any one of our students was rusticated even in the early 1970s (a tumultuous time of unrest for Bengal),” said Sabuj Kali Sen, former officiating vice-chancellor and an old-timer. “Is this how Rabindranath Tagore envisaged the institution he founded?” asked Sudripta Tagore, a member of the Tagore family and principal of an English medium school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Heritage tag worry for ‘privatised’ toy train ||The Centre’s plan to lease out the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway — a world heritage site recognised by the Unesco — to private players under its National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) project has raised concerns on whether its heritage status would be preserved though some tourism stakeholders think the move may result in bettering the services. “What concerns us is whether the heritage status of the DHR can be maintained if handed over to a private company,” said Raj Basu, secretary general, DHR India Support Group, adding the Centre has to ensure the private group concerned does it. Set up in 1879, the DHR is the sole heritage property of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) zone. In 2017, when the statehood agitation had rocked the hills, the world heritage committee of Unesco had expressed concern about the DHR and had written to Indian Railways. The railways signed an agreement with Unesco for a comprehensive conservation and management plan (CCMP). “Now, the railways should confirm if the private company concerned will adhere to the CCMP. Also, it will be odd if in due course, billboards and banners of products hang outside coaches or at the century-old stations,” said a tourism stakeholder in Siliguri. The DHR apart, other signature mountain railways such as Nilgiri (Tamil Nadu), Kalka-Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) and Matheran (Maharashtra) are up for grabs as part of the NMP that Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Monday. According to the broad contours of the NMP project, the Centre intends to provide the four mountain railways of India under the OMDA (operation, management and development agreement) based private-public partnership mode. Rolling stocks as well as the stations and adjoining land of these mountain railways will be offered to private players for 30 to 50 years. Private firms can earn revenue from passengers and rents from tenants on sub-leased land. Private players may improve the quality of services of DHR, some tourism stakeholders feel. “A major complaint against the toy train is irregular services. If run by a private party, services will improve,” said a tour operator. However, the Centre’s plan to monetise public assets has drawn flak from the Opposition. On Tuesday, Trinamul MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said: “The (central) government is behaving like the East India Company and handing over Indian Railways to private players.” Additional reporting by Avijit Sinha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Attempts to polarise electorate on basis of religion didn’t work in secular Bengal: Shivprakash||A key backroom strategist of the BJP for Bengal Assembly elections reportedly admitted at a closed-door meeting of the party on Monday that the central leadership had made a mistake by not heeding advice that the state couldn’t be won by replicating the Uttar Pradesh model. Shivprakash, the joint national general secretary (organisation) of the BJP, made the admission more than two-and-a-half-months after the Bengal election results had surprised the party, which was bullish about bagging over 200 seats. Shivprakash, multiple BJP sources said, even went to the extent of admitting that attempts to polarise the electorate on the basis of religion didn’t work in “secular” Bengal as the “Hindutva brand of politics” didn’t appeal to most of the voters. “Bengal has to be won in its own way,” Shivprakash was quoted to have said at one of the multiple meetings of the BJP he presided over at its Hastings office here on Monday. “We were told that Bengal couldn’t be won in the UP model, but we refused to believe that.…Now we realise that it is true....People here are mostly secular and hence, didn’t fall for the Hindutva brand of politics...,” a source quoted him saying at the meeting. One swallow doesn’t make a summer, but the realisation of Shivprakash — a senior leader in the saffron camp in terms of the resources deployed in Bengal, but a minnow in the national hierarchy — is bound to intensify the debate in the BJP on its political strategy in the state that the party is desperate to win. Even after the poll debacle, scores of central and state leaders had indicated that the party would pursue the path of communal polarisation in Bengal to ensure that it bags the majority of votes of the Hindus, who comprise around 70 per cent of the electorate, in future poll battles. “In some of the internal analyses, it was stressed that the party’s polarisation agenda did work and that was why it got around 2.38 crore votes in a state where Muslims comprise around 30 per cent of the electorate... Some leaders had felt that if more efforts were given at polarising the voters along communal lines, the party would get at least six to eight per cent more votes and that would be enough to beat Trinamul,” a source in the state BJP had said in the immediate aftermath of the elections. The fact that the strategy of pursuing the Hindutva line even after the poll drubbing had the blessings of Delhi leadership became clear in recent months as Trinamul Congress turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, who is the leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly, became more aggressive in toeing the Hindu-Muslim line. Against this backdrop, Shivprakash’s comments have added to the confusion prevailing in the state unit on how to go about expanding the BJP in Bengal. “We are confused. So long, we were under the impression that our leaders are happy how polarisation has worked in the state. But now Shivprakashji came up with a different opinion,” a state BJP functionary said. Shivprakash’s comments have come at a time when he is the sole representative of the central leadership in the Bengal unit. The party’s minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya has not been to the state since May 2. One of his two deputies, Arvind Menon, has recently tied the knot and believed to be busy with his family life. “For the workers at the grassroots like us, Shivprakashji is the man representing Delhi at the moment. When he says something contrary to what we have been asked to do so far, it gets very confusing,” said the chief of a mandal, the BJP’s smallest organisational unit, present at the meeting. Another group of leaders strongly objected to Shivprakash’s comments later while speaking to this correspondent. They said he was trying to deviate focus from the original reasons behind the poll debacle, which was faulty candidature. “Many of us in the state BJP don’t believe in fiery Hindutva politics. People would have voted for us if the candidates were alright,” a state BJP vice-president said. Some other leaders present at Monday’s meeting, such as Trinamul turncoat Sabyasachi Dutta, purportedly argued that the BJP failed to establish its Bengal connect and lost because of the inability to comprehend the complex Bengali ethos, which considers “Jai Shri Ram” chants alien. “Sabyasachi suggested that we invoke deities like Durga and Kali, who are essential to Bengal, more than Ram.…He was not allowed to speak much after that,” a source present at the meeting said. He also purportedly suggested that the party continue with the Durga Puja it had begun last year. Otherwise, people would think that last year’s Puja celebrations were only with an eye on the polls and the party had little respect for the goddess.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 613 new cases, 720 recoveries and 12 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday recorded 65 straight days of a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases, with 613 new infections, 720 recoveries and 12 deaths. Active cases fell by 119 to touch 9,217 on Tuesday. Calcutta logged 95 new infections and no new death. For the 19th consecutive day, no Bengal district reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure of new cases. Calcutta apart, 15 other Bengal districts also reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.21 per cent now, its highest this pandemic. The national rate is 97.65 per cent. “Measures are being put in place so that the outbreak does not get out of hand in some zones in certain districts that have reported a bit of a spike in the past couple of weeks,” said a minister. “We are being very cautious, leaving no stone unturned to keep the (potential) third wave from assuming the devastating proportions of the second.” The state's daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.49 per cent on Tuesday. Bengal is currently 15th on the list of states with the highest positive confirmation rate based on a weekly average. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation stayed put at 1.34 per cent. Bengal is currently 24th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates. The state currently has over 15.44 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year, including more than 15.16 lakh recoveries and 18,383 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court seeks affidavits on Mukul Roy’s Public Accounts Committee post||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday asked Krishnagar North MLA Mukul Roy and Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee to file affidavits stating their stand with regard to the BJP’s contention that the appointment of the former as the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee was “invalid and illegal”. A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal fixed the next hearing on September 6 when Roy and the Speaker would have to clarify their stand. Roy, formerly Number Two in the Trinamul Congress, had switched to the BJP in 2017 and was its national vice-president. He returned to Trinamul after the Assembly elections this summer and won from Krishnagar North. BJP MLAs, led by the leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, had walked out of the Assembly soon after Roy’s appointment had been announced by the Speaker. The BJP’s Kalyani MLA, Ambika Roy, moved the case on behalf of his party. His lawyer C.S. Vaidyanathan argued that in the past 54 years, Opposition leaders had been  appointed chairpersons of the PAC. Roy rejoined Trinamul and yet, he was appointed to the post, said Vaidyanathan. The lawyer claimed that by that, the ruling establishment had violated the convention and said the court should immediately strike down the appointment. Vaidyanathan also claimed the BJP had approached the Speaker and requested him to take proper action, but there had been none till date. The state government’s lawyers were present in court but did not take part in the argument. “Whatever we have to say, we will tell the court in the next hearing of the case,” said a government lawyer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal labour department holds virtual meeting on tea garden staff pay revision||The state labour department on Tuesday held a virtual meeting of tea garden owners and trade union leaders to discuss the salaries of the staff and sub-staff, about 10,000 of whom work in the brew belt of north Bengal. “Our salaries have not been revised since 2015. As the state government has not yet fixed the minimum wage of workers and our salaries, an agreement should be inked for revision,” said a representative of the West Bengal Tea Garden Employees’ Association. In January this year, the state government had announced an interim hike in wages and the salaries of workers, staff and the sub-staff. While the daily wage was raised to Rs 202 from Rs 176, the staff and the sub-staff got a hike of 15 per cent in their salaries. “It is true that there had been an interim salary hike. But if we consider the rate at which our salaries were revised till 2015, what we earn today is much lower,” said a clerk serving in a tea garden in the Terai. The state government, sources said, wants stakeholders of the tea industry to reach on a consensus and fix the minimum wage of workers and salaries of the staff and sub-staff soon. “On August 31, the labour department will hold a meeting of the minimum wage advisory committee in Calcutta. It would be the 15th meeting of the committee. We hope some decisions would be made there as five years have passed since the committee was formed and till now, the minimum wage has not been fixed,” said Alok Chakraborty, a senior trade union leader and the Trinamul Congress’s Darjeeling (plains) district chairman. Frequent meetings convened by the state labour department to discuss the wages and the salaries of tea estate workers and employees indicate that Trinamul has recast its focus on the north Bengal tea belt, a region from where the party has failed to draw support in back-to-back elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
25-08-2021||West Bengal||Message on Gorkha unity on Balidan Diwas today||Forty-six apolitical organisations from Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Bangalore and Gurgaon will come together to mark “Balidan Diwas” on Wednesday to tell politicians and all Gorkhas to stay united at a time political parties in the hills are falling apart at the seams. Indian Gorkhas across the country mark August 25 as Balidan Diwas, the day freedom fighter Major Durga Malla of the Indian National Army (INA) was sent to the gallows by the British in 1944. Malla’s statue had been unveiled on Parliament premises in 2004. “Twenty-four apolitical organisations are coming together in Darjeeling, 12 in Kalimpong, three in Bangalore and seven in Gurgaon to mark Balidan Diwas,” said Anjani Sharma Bhujel of the event’s organising committee. Blood donation camps will be organised at all four places. Asked about the aim behind bringing together 46 organisations under one platform, Sharma clarified a twin purpose. “The first reason is to promote our unsung heroes. If we don’t have the courtesy to remember them then what is the worth of freedom,” said Sharma. “The second reason is to underscore that all Gorkhas have to come together shedding their differences, whether political, cultural or geographic. It is a message for all politicians, too,” she said. The organising committee has listed out 20 Gorkhas and their contributions to India’s struggle for independence. The list includes leaders like Dal Bahadur Giri, who died in prison in 1924 after his anti-British activities in the hills. Mahatma Gandhi on Giri’s death termed it a national loss and wrote an article in his famed weekly journal Young India. Gandhi had also called Giri’s family to Sabarmati Ashram. “In Darjeeling we will also felicitate the family members of freedom fighters Gaga Tshering Dukpa and Pratiman Singh Lama,” said Sharma. Gaga Tshering from Sukhiapokhri was a teacher in Sukhiapokhri and Mirik but following his role in the freedom movement, his job was terminated by the Britishers and he was jailed. Pratiman is also credited for being the first India Gorkha novelist with Mahakal Jasoos. In Darjeeling, apart from the blood donation camp, a run for children and members of Darjeeling Hill Runners association will also be organised. “From 10am, a bike rally led by Darjeeling Enfielders will also start from Ghoom. We plan to start the blood donation camp by 10.30am tomorrow (Wednesday),” said Sharma. While apolitical organisations are coming together, political parties are disintegrating in the hills. The Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League is divided into three factions, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha into three, the Gorkha National Liberation Front has also split and some Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM) leaders have resigned and are floating a new platform for hill issues. A similar platform called Hill Youth Forum has also come up. Anit Thapa who is currently heading a faction of the Morcha will float a new party in the first week of September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
