26-08-2021||West Bengal||Elocutionist Gouri Ghosh dies at 83||Eminent Bengali elocutionist Gouri Ghosh died on Thursday at a private hospital in the city due to severe neurological problem after suffering a brain stroke, family sources said. She was 83. Ghosh, wife of another critically acclaimed elocutionist Partha Ghosh, died at 9 am after being in ventilation for several days since her admission to the hospital on August 1, they said. She is survived by her husband and son Ayan Ghosh. Ayan told reporters his mother suffered a brain stroke in March but recovered well after being treated at a hospital and returned home. However she had convulsions on August 1 and got admitted to hospital again. Condoling Ghosh's demise, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said: her unique recitals will always be remembered by the countless listeners, poetry enthusiasts." Banerjee recalled the long stints of Gouri Ghosh with All India Radio Kolkata as announcer-presenter of programmes, her recitals aired and the bestowing of Kaji Sabyasachi Samman on her by the West Bengal government in 2018. Another popular elocutionist Bratati Bandyopadhyay said "she was like my mother. I recall how she had repeatedly cautioned me about maintaining safety protocols when COVID-19 first struck. We used to talk over the phone regularly." She added Ghosh's pronunciation of words and the way she expressed the spirit of a poem was motivational for elocutionists of next generations. Gouri Ghosh's recital of Tagore's timeless Karna Kunti Sangbad with husband Partha Ghosh had been one of the hugely popular albums of the couple for over a decade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
26-08-2021||West Bengal||CBI registers nine cases related to post-poll violence in Bengal||The CBI has registered nine cases related to post-poll violence in Bengal, sources said on Thursday. All the four special units of the investigating agency tasked to probe the cases of violence have moved their units from Calcutta to crime scenes across the state, they said. More cases are under the process of registration with some of them being handed over by the state government, sources said. The CBI has taken over the cases on the instruction of a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court that had entrusted the agency with the task of investigating the alleged murder and rape incidents reported during post-poll violence in West Bengal. The High Court directives came after a committee of the National Human Rights Commission submitted a report on the violence in the state after Assembly poll results on May 2. The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress achieved an astounding victory humbling the BJP in a bitterly fought eight-phase electoral battle. Passing a unanimous judgement on a batch of PILs seeking an independent probe, the High Court Bench also ordered the constitution of an SIT of state police officers to probe all other cases. The SIT will include Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the West Bengal cadre. The bench will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT and asked the two agencies to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. The bench said there are allegations that the complainants are being threatened to withdraw the cases and a number of cases of murder being claimed as natural death without recording FIRs and conducting probes according to the procedure established by law. Noting that the West Bengal police have not properly responded to the allegations of inaction and tried to downplay them, the bench said, "It certainly needs investigation by an independent agency." It said three months have lapsed since the matter was taken up by the court, but "no concrete action has been taken by the state, which could inspire confidence except filing affidavits and placing on record thousands of papers." A couple of days after Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress had emerged winner for the third consecutive time, the BJP and other parties, including the CPM and the Congress, complained of their workers being attacked and properties destroyed at various places in the state. When the case came up for hearing before a larger bench of the high court, the state government had argued that the incidents of violence had taken place between May 2 and 5 when the administration was under the control of the Election Commission. It further argued that after Mamata had taken over as chief minister on May 5, things were brought under control. The petitioners, however, continued to claim that post-poll clashes were still on and thousands of workers of Opposition parties had been rendered homeless and properties looted. Following the prayer, the five-judge bench ordered the NHRC to constitute a committee and probe into the cases of violence. Accordingly, an eight-member committee was formed and it filed its report before the court on July 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
26-08-2021||West Bengal||BJP attacks state govt on contractual teachers consuming poison ||Bengal BJP on Wednesday went to town against the Mamata Banerjee government over five contractual teachers consuming poison in front of Bikash Bhavan in Bidhannagar on Tuesday to protest their transfer orders. While two of these teachers are being treated at the NRS Medical College and Hospital, three are in RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. All the five are in critical care and intensive care units of the respective hospitals. BJP state general-secretary Sayantan Basu led local leaders to the NRS. Later, Union minister of state for education Subhas Sarkar also went there. “Education minister Bratya Basu must take care of his department… Nowhere under the BJP did teachers have to consume poison for their rights,” he said, demanding the minister’s resignation. He said since the teachers were in CCU, he couldn’t meet them, but said he was satisfied at the treatment the teachers were receiving in the hospital. Sarkar later claimed police prevented him from meeting the patients. “The police blocked the road... I’m a Union minister of state, I have a hospital of my own and know the protocols one must follow to enter the CCU, yet I was stopped,” he said. State Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in a social media post said: “... The incident of teachers trying to commit suicide... has shamed Bengal before the nation. I demand your (Mamata’s) direct intervention...” CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty and Citu’s Anadi Sahu visited NRS on Wednesday and spoke to doctors and police there. Bratya on social media dubbed the protesters as “BJP cadres”. He said the Mamata government had hiked the stipend of these teachers and brought them under the Swasthya Sathi health scheme. He added that a one-time pension of Rs 3 lakh had been started for those who have decided to retire at the age of 60. “Yet, those who are still protesting aren’t teachers. They are BJP cadres,” posted the state education minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
26-08-2021||West Bengal||‘Sand smuggler’ arrested in West Burdwan||The enforcement branch (EB) of the Asansol-Durgapur police commissionerate on Tuesday night arrested Sujoy Pal, a businessman with alleged links to sand smuggling in West Burdwan. Police seized over two dozen trucks with sand illegally mined from the Ajay and the Damodar rivers, from various locations across the district. Sources said the move came in the wake of a directive by the additional director-general of police (law and order) last week, asking all district police chiefs and commissioners to carry out daily raids against illegal mining, storage and transport of sand, stone chips and coal. The directive also asked the police to submit daily reports, with case details and action-taken reports to Nabanna and the DGP. Raids to catch sand smugglers are also on in Birbhum, Bankura, Hooghly and East Burdwan. “We are conducting raids to take on the illegal sand business,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, Birbhum police chief. As excavation of sand is halted for the monsoons till mid-October, district-magistrates in sand-rich areas have been asked to draw up a list of genuine leaseholders. “Besides police records, a daily report will be kept with the district as well, stating how much stockpiled sand was legally sold, so we can identify illegal sand stockpiled by smugglers,” said a senior police official in Birbhum. Birbhum police are also commissioning drones to keep a vigil on embankments more prone to such illegal activities. “We have registered two specific cases of sand smuggling and have arrested three persons from Goghat and Arambagh over the past few days,” said Amandeep, the police chief of Hooghly (rural). Police sources said Pal, in West Burdwan, was forcing sand-dealers to purchase coupons against a payment of Rs 4,000, in addition to Rs 3,000 per truck for ensuring the smooth transportation of illegally-mined sand. “Acting on a tip-off, we have arrested Sujay Pal from the New Township police station area in Durgapur on Tuesday night. Several cases of sand smuggling were lodged against him at Kanksa and Andal police stations. We will seek his custody for further interrogation,” said an EB official. Pal was produced before the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Durgapur on Wednesday. He denied all allegations. “I am a businessman and have no such links. I stand falsely accused,” he said. The BJP and the CPM had accused the ruling party of patronising illegal sand smuggling. Ruling Trinamul, however, said the chief minister had taken a strong stand against sand and coal smuggling. The Bengal government has recently changed its policy, approved by the cabinet, for sand mining, and has decided to install a centralised system for the auction of sand quarries, after allegations emerged that local political leaders were controlling the auction system and hurting the state’s financial interests. According to the new system, the auction of sand quarries will be done by the West Bengal Mineral Development and Trading Corporation, under the industry department, instead of district magistrates. The CBI has been carrying on separate probes into coal smuggling in the region since November last year. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
26-08-2021||West Bengal||Alarm over Covid curb flout in Digha hotels ||District authorities in East Midnapore’s Digha are reportedly set to resume raids on hotels in the wake of reports that Covid-19 safety protocols were being flouted by some in exchange for inflated room tariff. Following partial ease on statewide Covid curbs from August 16, Digha this weekend recorded over 25,000 tourists, well over the average weekend footfall in a regular year. However, sources said that many tourists were neither fully vaccinated nor carried with them a negative Covid test, but were still being allowed into a few hotels in violation of rules by brokers. “Brokers have always been there in Digha. Now, they have turned their trade into a seedy one where they are leading unvaccinated guests into hotel rooms,” said a district official. In mid-July, a strict Covid protocol was started when the Contai SDO issued an order mandating outstation residents entering Digha to show proof of full vaccination (both doses) or a negative test report. Strict police vigilance, including raids on hotels, followed, but the trend is petering out in the last couple of weeks, said sources. “We heard some brokers are flouting norms again, so we will resume raids and fine hotels accordingly,” said Ramnagar-I BDO Bishnupada Ray. On Tuesday, managers of three hotels were arrested in this connection. “We estimate at least half of the tourists this weekend violated norms. But we will not allow this to happen again,” said a New Digha hotelier. “We think some hoteliers caved in to the sheer financial duress from the past year (to violate Covid rules),” he added. Bipradas Chakraborty, joint secretary of the local hoteliers' association, concurred. “There is a certain kind of hotel owner who we suspect does this, but by and large, most reputed Digha hotel owners won’t,” he said, adding the spectre of a possible third wave was “on everyone's mind”. “The financial toll on our industry has been immense. But we cannot cut corners on public health,” he added. Police sources said on Wednesday that guests from Calcutta and suburbs could also have driven in on nights this past weekend, hoping to evade strict police checkpoints that had made the news until late last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
26-08-2021||West Bengal||One held with 45kg silver in North 24-Parganas||A BSF team patrolling the India-Bangladesh border in Bithari of North 24-Parganas’ Swarupnagar on Wednesday seized 45.9kg of silver ornaments being smuggled into Bangladesh. BSF officers said the market value of the seized ornaments was around Rs 23.06 lakh. The BSF team, attached to 112 Battalion, nabbed the tricycle-van peddler allegedly carrying the silver inside the frame of its wooden carrier. The accused, Suban Dalal, 31,  is from Hakimpur-Uttarpara village of Swarupnagar. He handed over to Customs authorities along with the seized ornaments for further legal action. A BSF spokesperson from the South Bengal Frontier said that the team had been acting on a tip-off by its intelligence wing and had intercepted the tricycle van as it was approaching the border fencing in Bithari village around dawn on Wednesday. Narayan Chand, commanding officer of 112 Battalion, said: “Our personnel became suspicious after observing the movement of the tricycle van. They halted it and began checking the van when they noticed a hollow channel inside the frame of the wooden carrier. They unscrewed it and found the silver ornaments, which were hidden in 47 packets and wrapped in brown paper." BSF sources said that during their interrogations, the accused confessed that he had received the packets from one Hamal Seikh of Bithari, and had been instructed to hand over the same to Bablu Mollah, a smuggling racket operator who would send the items on to Bangladesh. “He confessed to having received Rs. 5,000 to operate as the carrier (of the silver),” a BSF spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
26-08-2021||West Bengal||Ambulance delay costs Covid patient’s life in Jalpaiguri||An 18-year-old detected with Covid-19 died at the superspecialty hospital here on Wednesday as the ambulance supposed to take him to the Covid hospital at Biswa Bangla Krirangan took four hours to reach, by which the teenager had breathed his last. The distance between the two hospitals is a mere 2km and should have taken 15 minutes to cover. But scarcity of ambulances led to the delay, service providers admitted. Patient Samir Munda’s death prompted around 100 people to demonstrate at the superspecialty hospital, alleging gross neglect. Police brought the situation under control. Samir’s family filed a complaint with Kotwali police and with the office of the chief medical officer of health. Sources said on Tuesday night, the youth of Joypur tea estate on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town got fever. As his illness got worse, his family members brought him to the superspecialty hospital around 5am on Wednesday. Doctors at the emergency wing did his rapid antigen test and found him Covid positive. They referred him to the Covid hospital and asked the family to dial 102 for an ambulance. The ambulance reached at 9am, but Samir had died, his uncle Joseph said. “We approached the doctors at this hospital but they said that as he was Covid positive, he could not be admitted. He died in front of the emergency wing. It is complete negligence on the part of the district health authorities that we lost him,” said Joseph. As the news spread, hundreds of angry residents from the tea estate reached the hospital and demonstrated for around five hours. They also confined a number of hospital officials. Arghya Sarkar, the inspector-in-charge of Kotwali police station, among other cops, spoke to demonstrators and persuaded them to withdraw. Pradhan Hembram, chief of the Trinamul-run Patkata panchayat of Jalpaiguri Sadar block, had also joined the protest. Joypur is under this panchayat. “The state government is spending crores for free treatment of Covid patients. Only because of irregular ambulance service, a youth lost his life. The district health department is responsible for his death,” said Hembram. “If no corrective steps are taken within two days, we will launch a movement on the issue along with workers of Joypur tea estate and their families,” he said. Protesters also demanded removal of Sushanta Roy, the officer-on-special-duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal. Contacted, Roy said he has sought a report of the incident. “An inquiry has been ordered and if any negligence is found, appropriate steps would be taken,” he said. Sources in the district health department said as the number of Covid cases have declined during past few weeks, the number of ambulances engaged earlier were slashed. “As of now, there is only one ambulance in Jalpaiguri town and the Sadar block for Covid 19 patients. This ambulance, too, has not been working for the past 10 days because of mechanical problems. We are somehow managing with two other ambulances designated for Rajganj and Maynaguri blocks. Today, we asked for the ambulance for Rajganj but by the time it reached the hospital, the patient had died,” said Bablu Mohammad, the coordinator of Covid ambulance service in the district. Amid the demonstration, ward master of the superspecialty hospital Pulin Singha fell ill and was admitted to the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
26-08-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar minor girl rescued from Uttar Pradesh||Police have rescued a minor girl of the district, who went missing nearly a year ago, from Uttar Pradesh. Last year, the 16-year-old girl had befriended some youths based in Delhi in the course of playing online games on her cell phone. Last September, the girl suddenly left for Delhi without telling her parents. The parents informed the police who sent a team to Delhi. The team nabbed one of the youths but before they could raid the spot where the girl was staying, the other youths managed to flee, taking the girl along with them. Recently, the police got another tip off that the girl was at a village in Hamirpur district of Uttar Pradesh. “A team was sent and the girl was rescued with help from the local police. On Tuesday, they reached her home town. She was handed over to the child welfare committee,” said Kuntal Banerjee, the additional SP of Jaigaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
26-08-2021||West Bengal||UN’s Darjeeling rail stamp highlights heritage tag||The United Nations (UN) on Wednesday issued a commemorative postage stamp on the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) simultaneously from the UN offices in New York, Geneva and Vienna, underlining the importance of preserving world heritage sites at a time the Narendra Modi government is looking at monetising it. This is the first time that the DHR has been featured since the UN first issued a stamp in 1951. “The DHR had the rare distinction of being featured as one of the six stamps,” said Udaya Mani Pradhan, a philatelist from Darjeeling nominated by India Post as an honorary member of Calcutta Philatelic Club. Along with the DHR, the UN has recognised the Rideau Canal (Canada), the Grand Canal (China), the Rhaetian Railway in the Albula/ Bernina Landscapes (Switzerland/ Italy), the Forth Bridge (Scotland) and the Old Bridge Area of the Old City of Mostar (Bosnia and Herzegovina). “The DHR stamp is valued at 1.50 Swiss Franc with the words Chemins de fer, French for railways and literally means iron path,” said Pradhan. The UN has said the Mountain Railways of India has three units; the DHR and the railways of Nilgiri and Kalka-Shimla. “They are still fully operational as living examples of the engineering enterprise of the late 19th and early 20th centuries,” the UN said. In 1999, DHR was inscribed in the world heritage list by Unesco. The hill railway system has also been the subject of stamps of three countries. “The DHR has been the subject of stamps issued by Gambia, Tuvalu and by the neighbouring country of Bhutan,” said Pradhan, adding that the Indian government had also featured the DHR on postage stamps on two occasions, in 1982 and again in 1993. “In 1976, the Batasia Loop featured on the first day cover on assets of the Indian Railway,” said Pradhan. Given the DHR’s international recognition and importance, the Centre’s suggestion that mountain railways in the hills “may be” monetised has come as a major surprise as heritage structures have to maintain most of its original characters or else may lose that status. Railway enthusiasts argue maintaining heritage status would be difficult if the mountain railway is leased out to a private group. “Everything concerning the DHR, from railway stations to workshops, is part of heritage. Private players obviously will go after profits instead of investing in maintaining the heritage structures. Many changes (for modernisation) cannot be brought in world heritage sites,” said a DHR enthusiast. “One has to bear in mind that the status might be removed if Unesco feels the site has lost its originality.” In another development, the regular toy train service resumed from New Jalpaiguri to Darjeeling on Wednesday after a gap of one-and-a-half years. A diesel loco ascended to hills from New Jalpaiguri with passengers in a vistadome coach, a first class coach and a parcel van. Senior railway officials, who flagged off the train from New Jalpaiguri, said a number of initiatives have been taken to increase passengers and popularity of the heritage train. “We will introduce the Jungle-Tea-Safari by toy train from August 30. Apart from that, the parcel carriage was also added in toy trains for the first time in the past 30 years,” said Subhendu Kumar Choudhary, the divisional railway manager of the Katihar division of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR). NFR sources said the safari is a two-hour journey. A steam loco will haul a vistadome coach from Siliguri Junction to Rongtong every day at 4pm and return. Passengers can enjoy refreshments at the dining car of the train. “During lean seasons (January-February and July to September), passengers can enjoy a 20 per cent discount in ticket prices of all rides, including joy rides, in toy trains,” said a source. The parcel van, with the capacity to carry five tonnes of goods, can be booked for Rs 5,000. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
26-08-2021||West Bengal||As many as 1 crore turn up at Duare Sarkar camps||The second edition of the state government’s Duare Sarkar outreach touched the 1-crore footfall mark on Tuesday morning, the eighth day of the programme, people’s interest making it clear that direct cash transfer schemes such as Lakshmir Bhandar are a necessity amid the pandemic. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Wednesday: “It gives me immense joy to announce that as of 24th August '21, more than 1 Crore people across the state have visited the #DuareSarkar camps. This year we have included more schemes & initiatives like #LakshmiBhandar, #StudentCreditCard, #KrishakBandhu (New) among others.” “I assure all that we will continue working tirelessly to ensure doorstep delivery of government services and benefits. The Government of West Bengal remains committed to the welfare of the people of Bengal,” she added. Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi also congratulated the district magistrates on Tuesday for helping the state achieve this milestone. “We have hit one crore registrations in Duare Sarkar around 10.52am today (Tuesday)... In the first edition it had taken 18 days to achieve this number. This time it is nine days. But if we count that one day was totally off this time (on Muharram), then we have done this in 8 days,”he wrote on WhatsApp to the DMs. Sources said the huge registration in the Duare Sarkar camps was primarily because the government launched the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme to offer women aged between 25 and 60 years a minimum of Rs 500 a month. While women from the general caste will get Rs 500 a month, those from SC/ST sections Rs 1,000. Beneficiaries during the first Duare Sarkar initiative were a mixed bag. This time, women turned up in droves and estimates suggest that 65 to 70 per cent of the visitors at the camps across the state registered for the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. Sources in the government said record footfall in the camps clearly captures the distress in rural economy and the need for cash to survive amid the pandemic. Economists like Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee have repeatedly said that providing cash to common people during the pandemic should be the only way to help the flailing economy of the country. It is clearly visible from the government data that the scheme is most sought after in the districts with high migrant labour concentration, most of whom had to come back after losing their jobs, and downtrodden people. Districts such as South 24-Parganas, which always sent a large number of workers to other states as migrant labour, recorded a registration of 12,76,500 people out of its total population of 81,61,961. “If 15.64 per cent population of a district register themselves primarily for cash benefit schemes within just eight days, it has to be accepted that the scheme is a hit. The central government should take a cue from this (the Bengal government’s initiative) and focus on cash transfer schemes,” said an official. The picture is no different for districts such as Cooch Behar and Murshidabad, which also have high migrant labour population, where more than 15 per cent of their total population have registered for the scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
26-08-2021||West Bengal||Funds set aside for Siliguri elevated road ||The Centre has allocated Rs 1,150 crore to build a 13.4km-long elevated four-lane corridor between Balason and Sevoke to ease traffic congestion in Siliguri and another Rs 800 crore for the protection of landslide-prone NH10 that links Sikkim with the rest of the country, Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista has said. Bista made the announcement after a meeting with Nitin Gadkari who heads the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). The allocation of funds for the improvement of connectivity in north Bengal follows a meeting between Gadkari and chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her Delhi trip last month. Mamata had urged Gadkari to release funds for several pending projects for the state, especially in north Bengal. Even as the central grant followed Mamata’s meeting with thoe Union minister, Bista sought to claim credit for the central assistance. Bista said he had stressed during the meeting with Gadkari the need to expedite the development of Darjeeling More, the principal entry point to Siliguri and the junction of NH31 and NH55. “The minister has told me that the project has been included in the annual programme of his ministry for the 2021-22 fiscal. He said the ministry would build a 13.4km-long elevated four-lane corridor (along NH31) between Balason (located at the northwest end of Siliguri) and Sevoke and will spend around Rs 1,150 crore on the project,” the MP said. There has been a long-standing demand to decongest Darjeeling More and the elevated highway will be a step in that direction. During the meeting with Bista, Gadkari said the MoRTH had planned the expansion, redevelopment and construction of protection walls at around 20 locations though which NH10 passes with an estimated cost of around Rs 800 crore, claimed Bista. The NH10 is the principal highway that connects Sikkim and the hill district of Kalimpong with the rest of the country. During monsoons every year, traffic gets affected along the highway – especially in the Bengal part – because of recurring landslides. “We also discussed the proposal for an alternative bridge at Sevoke that is parallel to the Coronation Bridge. The minister said the 1.34km-long bridge would be built over the Teesta and the group of ministers has already granted the lease of a small parcel of railway land needed for the project,” said the MP. The Coronation Bridge that was built in 1941 is on the principal route that connects the Dooars with the hills and Siliguri. As the bridge has grown old, residents of the Dooars have time and again demanded a parallel bridge downstream the Teesta. Gadkari’s ministry, the MP said, is also working on two other projects. One of these is the construction of a 60km-long NH717A that would connect Kalimpong with Siliguri via Gorubathan. The National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) is building the alternative highway to Kalimpong and the work is expected to end by April 2023, he said. “Also, the ministry has issued a tender for conducting a feasibility study of building a ring road in Siliguri. It has received 18 bids and is examining the same,” added Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
26-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 708 new cases, 10 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged 708 new infections, 730 recoveries and 10 deaths. The state’s active Covid-19 cases fell by 32 to touch 9,185, making Wednesday the 66th uninterrupted day of a slide. Bengal currently has 2.8 per cent of India's active cases and occupies sixth spot among states with most such cases. With Calcutta and North 24-Parganas logging 89 new infections each, Wednesday was the 20th consecutive day again when no Bengal district reported a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Six of the 23 Bengal districts reported single-digit figures. Fifteen districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.21 per cent, its highest yet, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.61. Its daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.66 per cent on Wednesday. Its mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal remains 24th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates. The state currently has nearly 15.45 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.17 lakh recoveries and 18,393 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
26-08-2021||West Bengal||Assets Centre seeks to monetise are owned by country, not PM: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the assets that the central government was seeking to monetise were owned by the country and not the Prime Minister or the BJP, her comments making it clear that Trinamul would amplify its criticism in the coming days. “We condemn this shocking and unfortunate decision. These assets belong to the country. It is neither the property of (Narendra) Modi nor the BJP. They (central government) can’t just sell a country's assets as per their whims and fancies,” the chief minister said at Nabanna. “The BJP should be ashamed. No one has given them the right to sell our nation’s assets,” she said. Her comments came while she was replying to questions on central teams visiting the state to inquire about state government schemes. The chief minister’s comment is significant as this is the first time she commented on the Centre’s plan of putting infrastructure assets on the block to generate revenue from private players under the National Monetisation Pipeline scheme. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had already upped the ante against the Centre for its alleged attempt to hand over the national assets to a select few industrialists. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday had announced the Rs 6 lakh crore NMP scheme that seeks to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to roads and railways. Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha chief whip Sukhendu Sekhar Ray issued a statement on Tuesday claiming the Centre was surrendering helplessly to corporate entities. On Wednesday, Mamata started from where Ray had ended and said the entire country would stand together to oppose this “anti-people” decision. She also explained why she considered the decision anti-people. “It is not a BJP affair... It is important for the entire country...nobody can do whatever they wish,” she said. Mamata juxtaposed the issue with the visit of the central teams, which are in the state to check whether the National Rural Livelihood Mission and several other rural development schemes are being properly run in Bengal. Sources in Trinamul said her comments on the monetisation of public assets were important as they hinted that she would use the NMP as an issue to attack the BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “The chief minister is eyeing the 2024 Lok Sabha polls and this particular issue could be a strong weapon for her to launch an attack on the BJP as people also have reservations against the privatisation of public assets,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
26-08-2021||West Bengal||Nodal officers to keep tab on Covid surge in Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has asked district magistrates to deploy area-wise and hospital-wise nodal officers to prevent abnormal rise in Covid-19 cases amid apprehensions of the third wave of the pandemic. In an instruction sent to all the district magistrates in Bengal, chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi made it clear that they should deploy area and facility-wise nodal officers soon. “This will help the state government get real time figures in case any area is showing abnormal rise in positive cases. The area would be defined by the district authorities while deploying the nodal officers,” said a senior state government official. Another official said facility-wise deployment of nodal officers was important because that would help know whether people with Covid-19 symptoms were visiting the hospitals. “All these would help in keeping a tab on the positive cases daily. The idea is that in case any area reports higher positive cases for a few days, immediate steps could be initiated,” said a source. According to sources, the state government has plans that if any nodal officer reports unusual rise in positive cases, the first step would be to isolate the area. Then, testing and contract tracing would be done in the area. The state may also lay stress on vaccination in the area and it’s surrounding areas to prevent further spread of the virus. The sources also said the state government had also laid stress on installing equipment at hospitals on time. “At some hospitals, oxygen supply facilities are being installed and the work has to be completed on time. Certain facilities for children at some hospitals are also being installed considering the warning that children could be affected more if the third wave comes,” said a source. The state government has recently asked the district magistrates to set up micro-containment zones in case any area reports a number of positive cases. “All these steps are being initiated to ensure that the state can fight the possible third wave in an effective manner,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
