27-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI registers 11 FIRs||The CBI has so far registered 11 FIRs related to incidents of murder, gangrape, and attempt to murder reported during the post-poll violence in Bengal with 99 people being named in them, officials said. Some of the FIRs made public on Friday showed that one case pertained to the murder of a TMC worker, three were related to the murder and attempt to murder of BJP workers while four cases did not specify any party affinity of the victims or accused. According to the FIRs, some of the victims were hacked to death, bludgeoned, bombed, strangulated by mobs and gangraped during the violence reported across Bengal. The agency has so far registered crimes reported from Bankura, Nadia, Kolkata, Cooch Behar, 24 North Pargana, Murshidabad among others. In one case of murder, the women of the victims' family were sexually assaulted by a murderous mob, the FIR alleged. The FIRs contained gruesome details of the crimes reported between May 2 and June 14, 2021. On May 4, 2021 TMC supporters Sahinur Ahmed and Prosenjit were having dinner when four BJP supporters joined them. After the meal, Ahmed and Prosenjit were attacked resulting in severe injuries, the FIR alleged. They were dragged to a nearby maize field and left there. While Prosenjit survived, Ahmed died, it said. In a separate incident, the family of Arup Das, a BJP worker, was allegedly attacked at their house by a mob of 30 people who arrived in a pick-up truck at 3 am on May 5. Their leader, who is the prime accused, put a gamcha' around Das's neck and dragged him onto the vehicle as the mob beat his family and sexually abused the women of the house. Das was killed and his body hanged on a tree, the FIR alleged. Meanwhile, three accused have been booked on the allegations of gangrape in Murshidabad, CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said here. The CBI has taken over the cases according to the instructions of a five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court that had entrusted the agency with the task of investigating the alleged murder and rape incidents reported during post-poll violence in Bengal, they said. The High Court directives came after a committee of the National Human Rights Commission submitted a report on the violence in the state after Assembly poll results on May 2. The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress achieved an astounding victory humbling the BJP in a bitterly fought eight-phase electoral battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
27-08-2021||West Bengal||ED files chargesheet against Kunal Ghosh, journalist Suman Chattopadhyay in Saradha scam case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED), as part of its probe into the multi-crore Saradha ponzi scam, filed a supplementary chargesheet on Friday against TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh and senior journalist Suman Chattopadhyay, agency sources said. The Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court has taken cognisance of the charges framed, the sources in the directorate said. "The ED has filed supplementary chargesheet against Kunal Ghosh, his company Strategy Media Plus Communications, and Suman Chattopadhyay and his companies Disha Production and Media and Ekdin Media, before the Special Judge (PMLA), Kolkata, with the prayer for awarding punishment to the accused for committing offence of money laundering and confiscation of attached assets worth Rs 96.55 crore, including Rs 2.67 crore owned by Ghosh and Rs 1.72 crore owned by Chattopadhyay," one of the sources said. Chattopadhyay is also an accused in the ICore chit fund scam. Both Ghosh and Chattopadhyay faced arrests in the past and are currently out on bail. Sudipto Sen, the owner of the now-defunct Saradha group, is serving his time in jail along with his aide Debjani Mukherjee. According to the source, Ghosh, who was the CEO of Saradha Media Group, allegedly helped Sen launder proceeds worth over Rs 2,500 crore. Chattopadhyay reportedly laundered money through bogus transactions via his two companies. The Saradha group of companies has allegedly duped lakhs of people to the tune of Rs 2,500 crore, promising higher rates of returns on their investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta University waives fees for all postgraduate students ||Calcutta University has waived fees for students of all postgraduate courses and two institute-run undergraduate programmes for the academic year 2021-22, taking into account the financial constraints families have been facing due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The institution, in a notification, also said that final-year students need not pay their outstanding dues to collect mark sheets. "This is for the information of all concerned that in view of the present pandemic situation, the university has waived off all fees like Admission fees, Tuition fees and Examination fees of the students (PG and University UG students) for the academic year 2021-2022 for different semesters. It is not required for the students to pay fees for collecting the Mark sheets/Grade sheets of different semester examinations," said the notification undersigned by acting registrar Debasis Das. Talking to PTI, the vice-chancellor of the 164-year-old varsity, Sonali Chakraborty Bandyopadhyay, said the decision was taken in the interest of students. "We want to be on their side. We wish to ensure their studies are not affected in any way due to the pandemic," she asserted. Asked about other undergraduate courses, she said affiliated colleges are run by their own governing bodies and the university cannot take any such decision for them. "Only two undergraduate courses -- B.Tech and Home Science -- are directly run by the CU on its campus. Students who have enrolled for these courses would also get the fee waiver benefit," she pointed out. Welcoming the move, the Students Federation of India (SFI) said the decision was preceded by its mail to VC, highlighting the financial plight of people amid the pandemic. "Over the past one-and-half years, many families have faced financial setbacks. This decision will be of some help to them," the CPI(M) students' wing added in its statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Nov 5: With EC holding the bypoll  card, where does it leave chief minister Mamata||For the last few days, everyone in the Trinamul is talking about November 5, the deadline for Mamata Banerjee to be elected to the state Assembly to remain chief minister, with the party's rank and file dwelling on the immediate future. What if the election commission of India doesn't announce by-elections by then? Since Mamata lost to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikary from Nandigram in the Assembly elections, she has time till November 5 to get elected to the Assembly. For that to happen, the election commission must announce the date for holding by-elections --  as of now,   seven Assembly seats in Bengal are without elected representatives. In Murshidabad’s Shamshergunj and Jangipur, elections could not be held along with the rest of the 292 seats because of the deaths of two nominees in the respective seats. Vacancies have come up in five other seats — Dinhata, Santipur, Bhabanipur, Khardaha and Gosaba — caused by either deaths or resignations. According to  Article 164 (4) of the Constitution: “A minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of the Legislature of the State shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a Minister.” Mamata has expressed her displeasure over the Election Commission's reluctance to hold the Assembly bypolls multiple times in the last few months. “They held the Bengal assembly elections in eight phases when the Covid-19 positivity rate went up to 33 per cent. Now, when it is down to three per cent, they cannot organise the bypolls,” Mamata said while interacting with newspersons on Monday. ECI under pressure? Many within the Trinamul see the reluctance of the election commission as a fallout of pressure from the ruling BJP which is using the excuse of Covid to delay the by-elections. While the chief minister’s claims on lower Covid numbers are true, the state government has done a lot to cut down most restrictions to allow the local economy to flourish. While public transport has been allowed to function, there is still a bar on running local trains. Educational institutions are yet to open. Between August 24 and August 26, the number of new cases has jumped from 613 to 717. No one can predict how the Covid situation will unfold in the coming months when more relaxations are allowed. In such a scenario, BJP leaders of Bengal are advocating a solution that no one in the Trinamul dares to even think about. Who else but Didi? “What’s the problem? She can step down once and give a chance to the 213 MLAs (a couple of them have died in recent months) who actually got elected. In Uttarakhand a  BJP-ruled state a non-MLA chief minister has resigned,” said Dilip Ghosh, Bengal BJP president. Leader of the  Opposition Suvendu Adhikary, who has become the second person after CPM’s Malini Bhattacharjee to defeat Mamata in any election, said, “I don’t know if there is any other example of a losing candidate occupying in the chief minister’s chair in Bengal or anywhere else.” For polls to be held in the seven seats,  the election commission has time only till the end of September. The following month of October is when the festive season kicks off in Bengal, and all things political are pushed off the calendar. And however desperate Mamata may be in getting her rightful chair in the Assembly, even a festive-minded chief minister like her would not like to disrupt the mood of voters of Bhowanipore or elsewhere. “This is why we are actually counting days when the election commission will announce the dates. Otherwise, what is going to happen? Nobody has ever given a thought to anyone other than Didi occupying the chief minister’s chair from our party,” said a senior Trinamul leader. The SC view The option of Mamata resigning and taking oath for another six months is bound to be frowned upon by the apex court. In a 2001 ruling,  the Supreme Court had rejected the re-appointment of Tej Parkash Singh, son of the slain Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, without being re-elected in 1995-96. It had also drawn attention to the late Tamil Nadu chief minister, J Jayalalithaa, who became chief minister despite having been disqualified to contest elections. The Supreme Court is clear that no person can be reappointed for two terms without becoming a member of the legislature either as MLA or MLC. Bengal does not have a legislative council yet though the Mamata Banerjee government has initiated the process. It is unlikely the legislative council will come into shape by early November. Two names A section of the Trinamul feels in case she must resign even if for a few days, two of the senior-most ministers in the government --  both Mamata -- loyalists could take her place. The names of Subrata Mukherjee and Partha Chatterjee are doing the rounds. Mukherjee, a minister in the cabinet of S.S. Ray in the 1970s till the Emergency, has the drawback of being arrested by the CBI in connection with the Narada sting operation. Chatterjee on the other hand has been moved from one ministry to another and so far has survived newly-appointed Trinamul all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s one-man, one-post diktat. Chatterjee continues to remain a high-profile minister and also the secretary-general of Trinamul. “There is no doubt Mamata di will win the by-election and return as chief minister. What will happen to the substitute in that case? After being a chief minister, can anyone continue as a cabinet minister? Everything is possible in our party. Whatever Mamata di says will happen,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha to protest against DHR’s monetisation bid||The Anit Thapa faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha will demonstrate at all Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) stations on Friday to protest the Centre’s decision to include the world heritage railway in its recently announced National Monetisation Pipeline plan. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, secretary-general of the faction, said protesters would wear black armbands but not use its flags so as to make the event an all-inclusive protest of the region. “This government is trying to sell the country in the name of monetisation to cover their faulty economic policies. The DHR is a pride of our place and we protest the Centre’s decision to include it in its monetisation plans,” said Pokhrel. “We want the Centre to delist DHR from the monetisation plan. If our plea falls on deaf ears and blind eyes we will decide on our future course of action.” The protest will start in all the 10 railway stations from Darjeeling to Sukna between 11am and 1pm. A signature campaign and an online petition will also start. “We will send the petitions to the railway ministry and Prime Minister’s Office. I also appeal to Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, who won the election on the identity card, to ensure that one of the identities of our place is preserved,” said Pokhrel. The DHR was inscribed as a world heritage by Unesco in 1999. The world heritage status may be revoked if the authenticity of the site is lost. The Centre has identified the DHR, the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (Tamil Nadu), the Kalka Shimla Railway (Himachal Pradesh) and Matheran Railway (Maharashtra) among the public assets that “may be monetised through the OMD (operation, management and development) based PPP (private-public participation) model”. The policy papers outlined by the Centre suggested that “the station and adjoining real estate on the railway land may be bundled along with train operations to bring in viability and commercial attractiveness”. It has also  suggested that “the heritage nature and project assets and aesthetics” be “preserved by the Concessionaire”, meaning the private player who will use the property to earn revenue. Unesco had come up with a project to develop a Comprehensive Conservation Management Plan (CCMP) for DHR as they felt that Indian Railways “has been confronted with several issues concerning the conservation, maintenance and management of these (world heritage sites)”. A senior official of the DHR said that CCMP work had been completed. “The recommendations have come to us, we have made our recommendations(observations) and sent it to Unesco, which will put it up to their advisory committee for approval,” the official said. “After the approval the final recommendations will be made to us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri hospital serves showcause notices to 5 employees in Covid death case||Authorities of Jalpaiguri superspecialty hospital have served showcause notices to five hospital employees on Thursday in connection with the death of an 18-year-old Covid patient on Wednesday allegedly from neglect. Those showcaused are a ward master, two ward boys and two security men on duty when patient Samir Munda was brought to the hospital. The teen from Joypur tea estate was diagnosed Covid-positive at this hospital and referred to the Covid hospital at the Biswa Bangla Krirangan, barely 2km away. But it took four hours for the district health department to arrange an ambulance. By then, Samir had died. Hospital superintendent Gayaram Naskar said they started a probe and “found some lapses at the ward master’s office”. That is why we served showcause notices to the ward master and some others. We are also trying to find out why it took so much time for an ambulance to reach at the hospital,” Naskar said. District health department sources said those showcaused were asked why they did not inform the superintendent and other senior health officials that the ambulance was so late. “An alternative arrangement could have always been worked out,” said a source. A senior health official said the ward master, the ward boys and the security men appeared to have dealt with the patient “casually”. “A Covid care centre for women patients is running at a night shelter just opposite the superspecialty hospital. Most beds are empty there. The ward master and others should have guided the patient to this centre where he would have been treated till the ambulance came,” the official said. The sole ambulance that carries Covid 19 patients in Jalpaiguri has technical glitches and is not running for past 10 days. The health department is using ambulances meant for Covid patients of Maynaguri and Rajganj blocks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal State Transport Corporation to decorate buses with personalities, heritage sites pictures||Authorities of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC), the state-run transport company headquartered here, have decided to decorate the buses with pictures of prominent personalities and heritage sites of the district. NBSTC chairman Parthapratim Roy said on Thursday that in each bus, they will put up pictures of Jagaddipendra Narayan, the last king of erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar, and Panchanan Barma, the most revered statesman of the Rajbanshis. In the colonial era, Jagaddipendra Narayan had opened this bus service in his princely state and named it the Cooch Behar State Transport. In Independent India, the bus service was renamed the NBSTC by then Bengal chief minister B.C. Roy. “Initially, we will put up their photographs and those of different heritage sites of Cooch Behar such as the royal palace, famous temples and old buildings in the 50-odd buses of our existing fleet. The buses would be painted afresh in blue and white colours and the official logo and the name would be shown in a more prominent manner in each bus,” said Roy. As of now, NBSTC has around 400 buses which run on 350-odd routes. The reason for seeking to show the logo and the name on NBSTC buses with more prominence is because during the past few years, a number of private bus owners have also painted their buses in colours similar to the NBSTC’s blue and white. “These private buses also run with initials similar to NBSTC to draw passengers. We will not let it happen. A passenger should have a clear choice before him in case he intends to board an NBSTC bus,” the chairman said. Roy said the transport corporation will also take up the task to repair 100-odd defunct buses. “We are also surveying some routes where bus services were earlier withdrawn. There are plans to reopen some closed NBSTC depots across north Bengal,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Tea Act tweak triggers fear of oversupply and reduce profitability in the sector||A recent move by the Union commerce and industry ministry to amend a 68-year-old central act that used to restrict tea cultivation without clearances has caused many in the brew belt to believe that it would result in excess supply and reduce profitability in the sector. On August 23, the ministry issued a notification suspending seven sections of the Tea Act, 1953, “in public interest”. Sections 12 to 16 were about restrictions on tea cultivation and rules such as permission from the tea board, to plant tea in normal or special circumstances, or run a tea nursery. Section 39 was on penalty of up to Rs 5,000 in case of violation of the earlier sections. Section 40 said in case of violation, tea bushes planted in an area without permission can be removed from the plot. As these sections have been suspended, representatives of tea planters’ associations fear unbridled mushrooming of tea plantations, especially in rural areas of tea districts. “These sections used to safeguard the interests of the industry. Now that these sections will no longer be in force, we apprehend more tea plantations will come up across the country. This will lead to an abrupt rise in production of tea leaves and oversupply that can bring down tea prices,” pointed Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India. A senior tea planter in Siliguri said the decision was a fresh challenge for the industry beset with many existing problems. For the past few years, the tea board stopped paying subsidies to tea estates for jobs such as rejuvenation of plantations, field mechanisation and improvement of factories. “Many tea gardens invested in these jobs but haven’t got subsidies. In addition, in Bengal, there is pressure from the trade unions and state government to revise workers’ wages. In such a situation, many tea estates have financial problems. Now if tea prices start coming down, operations will not be sustainable,” he said. Some tea planters feel this may be one of the first reforms by the Narendra Modi government as it indicates reduced power and responsibilities of the tea board. “A few days back, the tea board relaxed the norms for obtaining licences of tea distribution and export. This is also significant,” said a planter. The decision to suspend the seven sections has also led  small tea growers, who contribute close to 50 per cent of India’s tea production, to worry. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations, said they also dreaded oversupply. “Even after the tea board’s decision to fix a minimum price of tea leaves, we often sell tea leaves at lower prices and at times, it does not even cover our cost of production. Now if fresh tea plantations start coming up in rural pockets, it would only worsen the situation for us,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Three children go missing in Ganga in Murshidabad||Three children were reported missing in the surging Ganga in Murshidabad over Wednesday and Thursday, a few weeks after Jangipur police district had officially barred those aged under 15 from bathing in rivers until the end of the monsoon. The order, which the police said on Thursday had fallen on deaf ears, had underscored that children were being pulled away in currents and losing their lives in the absence of swimming skills. On Thursday, a 6-year-old and a 3-year-old went missing in the Ganga at two spots in Samserganj. In the first incident, Rudra Ghosh from Dhulian had reportedly stepped into the waters for a swim and was reported missing shortly after. In a separate incident that occurred at nearby Kamalpur, Rahid Sheikh, 3, was seen to have “toppled” into the rushing river where his mother was bathing. Rahid had reportedly been placed on a brick near the edge of the bank. On Wednesday, Class IX student Neha Khatun, 13, had been pulled into a current in the Ganga near Suti while she and her friends had gone to take a dip together. None of the three was found till late on Thursday. “Police are conducting searches in the river. We will conduct further awareness drives for parents in the area to disallow monsoon swimming,” said superintendent of the Jangipur police district, Y. Raghuvamshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Flash floods hit Jalpaiguri after heavy monsoon downpour||Heavy monsoon downpour led to flash floods in Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri district on Thursday, snapping connectivity between the block headquarters and a number of villages. Sukhani, a stream flowing through Nagrataka block, has washed away a makeshift bridge and damaged a culvert at Manmohandhura locality in the block. The stream’s impact also caused cracks to appear on an anganwadi and a Sishu Siksha Kendra in Manmohandhura and is flooding the area in full force. “It started raining heavily since Wednesday morning, with many streams across Nagrakata block, including Sukhani, swelling. This morning (Thursday), we found the makeshift bridge has been washed away. Around 50,000 people of different villages of Sukhani and Sulkapara panchayats and some adjoining tea gardens move through Manmohandhura to the block headquarters. That direct connectivity has snapped,” said Feroze Nur Patowari, the chief of Nagrakata panchayat samiti. Sources at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that in past 24 hours till 8.30am on Thursday, it rained around 80mm in Nagrakata. “The southwest monsoon is active across north Bengal. There is forecast of more rainfall in the region during next three-four days,” said a weather expert. Residents of Manmohandhura said they have time and again demanded a permanent bridge over Sukhani. “However, our elected representatives have not listened to our requests over the years. Also, no anti-erosion work has been done on the banks and hence these two buildings (anganwadi and Sishu Siksha Kendra) got damaged,” said Apu Hossain, a youth of the area. With roads being flooded, residents are taking risky detours via farmlands to go to the highway or to the block headquarters. “We had to trudge through muddy fields to reach NH31 and enter the block headquarters,” they said. Sources in the block administration said they had prepared an estimate for a permanent bridge over Sukhani. “The estimate has been sent to the district administration. Once we get approval, work will start through proper process,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri cricketer Richa Ghosh in Team India for Australia tour ||Promising Siliguri cricketer Richa Ghosh has received her first call from the Indian cricket team for Test and one-day international (ODI) matches against Australia. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has announced the women’s cricket squad team for the upcoming Australia tour, where the team will play a Test, three ODIs and an equal number of T20 matches. Richa, a wicketkeeper and attacking right-hand batswoman, is in the team in all three formats. Richa will appear in the entire tour of Australia as the second wicketkeeper of the team in the Test squad and stand behind the stumps as the sole wicketkeeper of the team in the ODI and T20 matches. “It is for the first time that she got selected in the Test and the ODI squads for Team India. It is indeed an achievement for her,” Richa’s father Manabendra Ghosh told this paper on Wednesday, adding that he would join his daughter at the National Cricket Academy, Bangalore, where she is participating in a conditioning camp, later this month. The team is likely to leave for Australia on August 30 and the Test will be played at Perth from September 30 to October 3, said sources. Richa debuted in international cricket in the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup held in Australia in 2020, where she appeared as a concussion-sub, meaning a substitute for a player who may retire hurt, in the final. At the recently held England tour, she stood behind the stumps for all three T20 matches. Manoj Verma, secretary of the cricket committee of Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad, the sub-divisional sports body of Siliguri, hailed Richa’s inclusion in all three formats as a “major achievement”. “We have all seen her perform at the T20 matches in England in July. Her ability to attack the bowler and her quickness behind the stumps perhaps impressed the selectors,” said Verma. Siliguri’s most famous cricket export, Wriddhiman Saha, is currently touring England with the Indian Test team. “Wriddhiman’s and Richa’s successive selections in the national teams will definitely attract more budding talents of Siliguri to join cricket. We also want the infrastructure for cricket in the city to improve,” Verma added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 717 new Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths||Bengal on Thursday recorded 717 new Covid-19 infections, 726 recoveries and nine deaths. Active Covid cases in the state fell by 18 on Thursday to reach 9,167. Calcutta, however, logged 118 new infections, ending a 20-day streak of no Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. North 24-Parganas reported 97 new cases. Four districts logged a single-digit figures. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported one. The state now has 2.7 per cent of India’s active cases and is sixth among states with most such cases. Its recovery rate is 98.22 per cent. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Thursday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34. The state currently has over 15.45 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.18 lakh recoveries and 18,402 deaths. Among the deaths, 69.7 per cent were attributed to comorbidities. Over 12,360 or 67.2 per cent of the deaths were of infected males.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court appoints 5 new judges, strength reaches 35||Five judges were appointed at Calcutta High Court on Thursday, raising the total number to 35 against the sanctioned strength of 72. Even after the appointment of the five, the posts of 37 judges will remain vacant at the court. The new judges are Kesang Doma Bhutia, Rabindranath Samanta, Sugato Majumdar, Bivas Pattanayak and Ananda Kumar Mukherjee. They would be sworn in soon. Pattanayak and Majumdar have been appointed as additional judges for two years from the date of their taking oath of office. Bhutia, Samanta and Mukherjee will retire on May 4, June 23 and August 4, 2022, respectively. Pattanayak and Majumdar were advocates, while the other three were in the higher judicial services. Filling the vacancies of judges has been a long-pending demand of high court lawyers. The court has never had its full strength of judges. In 2017, the court had its highest-ever strength of 48 judges. According to estimates, around 3.52 lakh cases are lying pending in the high court which has circuit benches in the Andamans and at Jalpaiguri. Four judges are sent to the circuit benches by rotation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul MPs urge Election Commission for bypolls in seven Bengal’s Assembly seats||A delegation of Trinamul MPs met the top brass of the Election Commission of India in New Delhi on Thursday, urging it again to hold pending bypolls to seven Bengal’s Assembly seats now when the Covid-19 situation in the state is under control. The bypolls assume importance as chief minister Mamata Banerjee needs to win an Assembly seat before November 5, 2021, six months from the day she was sworn in, to stay on as chief minister. Mamata had lost Nandigram to Suvendu Adhikari, her former cabinet minister who joined the BJP last December. Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, Uluberia MP Sajda Ahmed, Krishnagar MP Mahua Moitra, Rajya Sabha members Jawhar Sircar and Sukhendu Sekhar Ray visited Nirvachan Sadan and submitted the party’s third memorandum since July 15, urging for bypolls without delay. “The meeting with the commission was quite cordial. The commission said their purpose is to hold the elections and not withhold them,” said Roy later. In Thursday’s memorandum, Trinamul attached a graph comparing Covid-19 cases in the seven Assembly seats between April and now. “We told them the situation right now is conducive for polls as the number of Covid-19 cases has declined drastically across the state. We gave them specific Covid-19 statistics for the seven constituencies. The commission said they would consider it,” Roy added. The BJP, labelling Mamata as a “non-MLA CM”, has steadfastly opposed the bypolls. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh on Thursday claimed there was “no suitable environment” for bypolls in Bengal. A day after the results of May 2, the EC had suspended all bypolls indefinitely in view of the pandemic. The decision came at the end of an eight-phase election for Bengal that took over two months, apparently desired by none of the key stakeholders other than the BJP. Trinamul fears that the EC, despite its assurances on its willingness to hold the bypolls, might cite the third wave of the pandemic as an excuse to defer the process further, something that has been the BJP’s persistent demand, apparently because it does not want Mamata to be able to shed the “non-MLA CM” label. However, the BJP at the same time has been pushing for elections to the 120-odd civic bodies in the state. Mamata Banerjee and her party have repeatedly asserted that if the Bengal polls over an unprecedented eight phases could be held during a viral peak, when Covid-19 positive confirmation rate reached 33 per cent by phase eight, there was no ground to withhold the pending bypolls now when that rate is below 2 per cent. Mamata, who lost to Adhikari by a margin of 1,956 votes, however led her party to a historic 213-seat victory in the 292 seats that went to polls. She is now likely to return to her home turf of Bhowanipore, vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May for her. Bhowanipore apart, the bypoll seats are Samserganj, Jangipur, Dinhata, Santipur, Khardah and Gosaba. “If the commission does conduct the polls, we will participate. But we have already written to the commission, detailing under several points why bypolls in Bengal cannot and should not be conducted now. We are against the idea,” said Ghosh. Several sources in the BJP state unit admitted on the condition of anonymity that the party also fears a “0:7 result” in the bypolls if they are held now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
27-08-2021||West Bengal||ACJM court in Ranaghat issues arrest warrant against Mukul Roy||The additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Ranaghat has issued an arrest warrant against Mukul Roy for failing to appear before it personally as it had directed in connection with the murder of Trinamul MLA Satyajit Biswas in 2019. Roy, who left Trinamul to join the BJP and rejoined Trinamul recently, was with the saffron party at the time of Biswas’s murder on February 9, 2020. The arrest warrant signed by the ACJM Protyai Chowdhury was served on Thursday with the directive to execute it by September 27. The ACJM court twice directed Roy to come in person, the last on August 16. He did not, which prompted the arrest warrant. “It’s a legal course and none can avoid it. Roy should have appeared before court to surrender, complying with the ACJM's direction and appeal for bail,” a Trinamul leader in Nadia said. Roy’s lawyer Suman Kumar Roy said they came to know about the arrest warrant today (Thursday). “It is a bailable warrant. I will talk to my client and decide on the future course of action. Krishnaganj MLA Biswas was shot near his home on February 9, 2019. Five persons including Roy, who was a BJP leader then, were named in the FIR lodged by MLA’s close friend and party activist Milan Ghosh. The CID in a supplementary charge sheet filed on December 5, 2020 had accused Roy of conspiracy and murder of the Trinamul MLA. To avoid the arrest Roy had appealed to the Calcutta High Court for bail. The court had granted him protection for four months, directing him to co-operate with the investigating agency. The protection extended a number of times amid the Covid situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
27-08-2021||West Bengal||Durga Puja momentum eludes BJP this year in Bengal ||The Bengal BJP seems to have no interest in organising its Durga Puja this year as no prominent leader is keen on shouldering the responsibility of conducting the four-day affair launched virtually by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2020. Multiple sources in the BJP have said as of now, there is no confirmation on whether the party’s Puja will be held this time or not. “Even small local clubs have begun preparations for the Puja. We have not as yet and that’s what I can tell you as of now,” said a state BJP leader. During the Assembly election campaign, several central and state BJP leaders promised that they would take the autumn celebrations to a global scale after coming to power in the state. At meetings after meetings, Modi and Amit Shah shed tears on how the Mamata Banerjee government had compromised with Bengal’s sentiment by imposing restrictions on idol immersions in a few years when the ritual and Muharram coincided. Sources in the BJP said a section of state leaders, such as those close to Trinamul turncoat Sabyasachi Dutta, thought that discontinuing the Puja would be a blunder, but that realisation hadn’t led to any action at the ground level. According to a state office-bearer, informal discussions on whether the BJP would organise a Puja this year did take place, but no decision could be reached as no senior leader was willing to take the ownership of the Puja. “We know Dilipda (state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh) is against this Puja. But some of us have spoken to other leaders about the need to organise the Puja this year as well.… Let’s see what happens...”, a state BJP functionary told The Telegraph. The uncertainty about the Puja is primarily because of the sudden decline of the faction — one of several in the bitterly divided party — led by Bengal BJP minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and Mukul Roy as they were behind the Puja last year. The BJP had held its Puja in 2020 at Eastern Zonal Cultural Complex in Salt Lake, near Calcutta. “Kailash-ji has not been seen here since the election results on May 2, and Mukul-da has gone back to the Trinamul Congress.… So, the leaders in their faction have lost prominence and are in no position to organise Puja,” said a source. Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari is yet to reveal his stand on the issue, but sources in the party said he was unlikely to take charge of an event that was started by Mukul Roy. The change in the mood about Durga Puja in the BJP can be linked to the electoral debacle that created a kind of despondency in the party. Multiple middle-level leaders in the BJP, most of whom are old-timers, told this correspondent that discontinuing with the Puja would further damage the party as several questions would be raised about what the senior leaders had been saying in public. “Until a few months ago, we had been trying to prove the BJP’s Bengali credentials.… This approach led the party to organise last year’s Puja and if we discontinue it this year, it will look so odd,” said a source. Sayantan Basu, a state BJP general secretary said: “It isn’t a political party’s job to organise a Durga Puja.… But nothing has been decided by the party as yet.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
