28-08-2021||West Bengal||CBI arrests two in Bengal post-poll violence case||The CBI, which is probing post-poll violence cases in West Bengal, arrested two persons on Saturday for an alleged attempt to murder in Nadia district, officials said. The two accused -- Bijoy Ghosh and Asima Ghosh -- were briefly detained before being arrested by the probe agency, they said. The CBI has carried out searches at 15 locations in connection with the case related to attempt to murder of Dharma Ghosh who suffered serious injuries after his family was attacked on May 14 night at their home in Nadia district's Chapra, they said. The CBI had booked eight persons in the matter, they said. It has registered 10 more FIRs in post-poll violence cases taking the total to 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Congress defeated in Bengal polls but hasn't fled battlefield, says Adhir||Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday said that the grand old party might have been defeated in the West Bengal assembly elections but hasn't fled the battlefield or been vanquished. Chowdhury, the state Congress chief, was addressing a gathering in Calcutta on the foundation day of the party's student wing Chhatra Parishad. "There might be victory or loss in polls but that shouldn't be reflected in the mindset of the activists. We have been defeated but haven't fled the battlefield or been vanquished," he said. The Congress leader in Lok Sabha recalled the role played by the Chhatra Parishad in the student's movement to protect democracy in the country. "The Chhatra Parishad has always fought against communalism and stood for secularism," he said. The Congress, which had ruled the state before the Left Front came to power in 1977, drew a blank in the elections to the 294-member assembly held earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata takes on 'Tandaviya' Centre over ED summons to Abhishek||Summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate on Saturday to Trinamul MP and all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife cast its long shadow over the annual celebration of the Trinamul’s students wing’s foundation day. While Abhishek has been asked to appear before the central agency team members on September 6, his wife has been summoned on September 1. Before the Bengal Assembly polls, ED officers had interrogated the MP’s wife and her sister. The Enforcement Directorate took up the case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act following an FIR lodged by the CBI in November 2020 related to illegal activities in the Eastern Coalfield mines in Asanasol’s Kunustoria and Kajora. The ED summons comes within months of the CBI’s arrest of two Bengal ministers and a Trinamul legislator along with a former leader in connection with the Narada sting operation. “Coal is under the CISF, the ministry is with the Centre, not the state. What were they doing? I know dozen (central) ministers have robbed Asansol. When they came for campaigning in Asansol, they stayed in hotels owned by the coal mafia. Should I bring out the list?” Mamata asked. “If you point one finger at us, remember we have 10 fingers pointing towards you. I have not been vindictive thus far. Many BJP leaders have been involved with women, I have not arrested anyone yet,” Mamata said, addressing leaders and students. On August 28, 1954, the Congress’ students’ wing Chhatra Parishad (affiliated to the National Students Union of India) came into being, which threw up generations of leaders including Mamata. However, since the formation of the Trinamul, the day along with most of the Congress in Bengal has been under Trinamul’s domination. The chief minister’s claim does beg the question why being the administrative head of the state with the Home department under her, Mamata remained silent all this while on these serious allegations and no actions were taken. “If any woman has lodged a complaint against a BJP leader why did the chief minister not take any action? Was she trying to use the complaint as a bargaining tool?” asked a Congress leader. Mamata dared  the BJP at the Centre to fight her party leaders politically and and not look for skeletons. In his address, Abhishek too displayed the belligerence that has been the hallmark of his aunt’s politics. “Threatening us with the CBI, and ED is not going to stop us,” Abhishek said. Since the spectacular return to power for a third term, Trinamul has taken an aggressive posture against the BJP with Mamata projected as the chief architect of any meaningful Opposition to the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah combine. Mamata warned the BJP that she too had “sacks of papers” which she would send to the ED. “If our complaints are not entertained by the central agencies we will knock the court’s door,” she said. The chief minister said since she entered politics at the age of 12-13, she had never come across a government as vindictive as the BJP. “They tried to kill me in Nandigram,” Mamata said referring to the alleged injury she suffered during the campaign that restricted her movement to a wheelchair. Though Mamata has denied any post-poll violence in the state, on Saturday she claimed 16 Trinamul workers were killed. “I have no problem with CBI. Let the NHRC work impartially. They had sent a BJP leader with the team. While the report says five people from BJP were killed in post- poll violence, 16 other victims were from Trinamul Congress. Did you send a human rights team to Hathras (in Uttar Pradesh), to Tripura?” Mamata asked. The chief minister also called for a conclave of all non-BJP chief ministers in the country to discuss the Centre's  attack on the federal structure. “They don’t disburse funds collected from GST or disaster relief. BJP is muzzling the voice of  students, teachers, IAS and IPS officers as well as social media. It is a Tandaviya government, monstrous, inhuman government. They are selling everything, it is the responsibility of the students to raise these issues everywhere,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
28-08-2021||West Bengal||ED summons Abhishek Banerjee, wife Rujira in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee and his wife for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in the state, officials said on Saturday. Abhishek Banerjee, 33, represents the Diamond Harbour seat in Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamul Congress (TMC). He has been summoned to appear before the investigating officer of the case here on September 6, while his wife Rujira has been sent a similar summon under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for September 1. Rujira had earlier been grilled by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the case. Some Indian Police Service (IPS) officers and a lawyer linked to Abhishek Banerjee have also been summoned to appear on different dates next month in the same case, the officials said. Reacting to the development, Mamata later in the day said that the BJP was using central agencies against them and challenged it to fight against her party politically. "Why are you unleashing the ED against us. Against your one case, we will raise bagfuls. We know how to fight back. We know the history of Gujarat," Mamata was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. Addressing an event of the foundation day programme of TMC, she noted that allocation of rights for natural resources like coal comes under the ambit of the Union government. "No use pointing fingers at the Trinamul for corruption in coal. It is under the centre. What about its ministers? What about the BJP leaders who looted the coal belt of Bengal, the Asansol region," she said in her attack. This case, registered under criminal sections of the PMLA, was filed by the ED after studying a November, 2020 FIR of the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd. mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case. The ED had earlier claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade. He has denied all charges. The agency has made at least two arrests in this case. One of them is Vikas Mishra, the brother of TMC youth wing leader Vinay Mishra. Vinay Mishra is stated to have left the country sometime back and probably has also renounced his Indian citizenship. The second person arrested by the ED in the case early this year is former Inspector in-charge of Bankura police station Ashok Kumar Mishra. The ED had earlier claimed that the Mishra brothers received "proceeds of crime worth Rs 730 crore on behalf of some influential persons and for themselves" in this case involving an estimated amount of Rs 1,352 crore. A "deep system" of political patronage and a "well-oiled" machinery was used to brazenly carry out certain unlawful coal mining in Bengal, the ED has claimed before a court while seeking the remand of Inspector Mishra in April. A charge sheet was also filed by the ED in May this year. Quoting the recorded statement of an unidentified "close associate" of Majhi, the ED had earlier alleged that prime suspect Majhi had been running his "illegal coal mining business smoothly by managing senior functionaries of political party of West Bengal though Inspector Mishra." The statement of this unidentified "witness" furnished by the ED in the remand note stated that "it is known fact that Vinay Mishra collected money from illegal coal mining of Majhi and his associates for his closely associated political boss in present ruling party; that Vinay Mishra is youth leader of TMC and he is very close to Abhishek Banerjee and that he (Vinay Mishra) is the eyes and ears of Abhishek Banerjee."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
28-08-2021||West Bengal||CU professor booked for allegedly threatening to kill Mamata||A case was lodged against a professor of the Calcutta University for allegedly threatening on social media to kill Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, police said on Saturday. The case was registered against Arindam Bhattacharya, a professor of the Zoology Department, by the Hare Street police station on the basis of a complaint filed by PhD scholar Tamal Dutta, a senior police officer said. Bhattacharya was booked under IPC sections 505 (1B) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public), 506 (threat be to cause death or grievous hurt) and 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy), said Murlidhar Sharma, the joint commissioner of police (crime). The professor is yet to be taken into custody, police said. When contacted, Bhattacharya said, "I didn't make any comments against the chief minister. The complainant is a Trinamool Congress supporter. I am waiting for the police to take steps and only after that I will seek legal advice on this." The TMC-backed West Bengal College and University Professors Association condemned Bhattacharya's social media posts. In April 2012, Chemistry professor Ambikesh Mahapatra of Jadavpur University was arrested for allegedly forwarding a cartoon, lampooning the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid health centre for infants and children at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital ||An excellence centre with state-of-the-art healthcare facilities for infants and children will be developed at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH), the principal state-run referral hospital of the region. The decision, health officials said, has been made in view of the predicted third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and because of the apprehension of experts that this time, the contagion will affect the children more than adults. As of now, there is a 31-bed infrastructure for treatment of children affected with Covid-19 at the NBMCH. “We have four units for infants and children at NBMCH. The idea is to augment medical facilities the units and develop a comprehensive unit which has been named as an excellence centre,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal. Among these units include a paediatric intensive care unit (PICU), a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), a sick neonatal care unit (SNCU) and an intensive care unit (ICU). According to Roy, they have started making preparations to ensure that the centre — a combination of these units — with appropriate treatment facilities, starts functioning before the third wave hits the region. A source in the NBMCH said as a part of the plan, they have decided to increase beds in different units for children and infants. “There will be four beds with ventilators at NBMCH. These beds will work as ICU for children. Also, six beds in NICU and 40 beds in SNCU will be there to treat children infected with Covid-19,” the source said. Along with NBMCH, the state health department is also readying paediatric intensive care units in some other hospitals of north Bengal. Among these include the Kalimpong district hospital, the sub-divisional hospital of Islampur and the super-specialty hospitals in Malbazar and Falakata. “Infrastructure works for these units have started,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa to float new party on September 9||Anit Thapa on Friday said he would float a new party on September 9, the announcement coming hours after his resignation from the post of the “general secretary” and the “primary membership” of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha came to light. Thapa said: “We today announce that the new party will be launched on September 9. Many figures from the medical profession, literary field and sports, and intellectuals will be present during the launch.” The announcement comes soon after the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha made public Thapa’s resignation as the “general secretary” and from the “primary membership” of the party on July 16. The date of resignation has bemused many as it was on July 16 that majority of the leaders in Thapa’s camp had selected him as the “working president” of the faction. A day earlier, Binay Tamang had quit as the president and as a primary member of the same faction. “The fact that Thapa was selected as the acting president on the same day he resigned from the party defies logic,” said a hill politician. Thapa had addressed the resignation letter to Satish Pokhrel, a vice-president of the faction. Thapa admitted that he had quit the Morcha. “In fact, I sent a copy of the resignation letter to Calcutta High Court,” said Thapa. According to the hill leader, it was decided by leaders associated with him that they would float a new party in the coming days. “However, since there is a case in Calcutta High Court, I wanted to inform it (about my resignation) so that there are no obstacles in forming a new party,” Thapa said without directly explaining why he had to quit the party the very day he had been appointed as the acting president. A case is pending in the high court over the recognition of the true representative of the Morcha. Binay Tamang formed a faction of the Morcha in 2017 after Bimal Gurung had gone into hiding during the violent statehood agitation in the same year. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and 2021 Bengal Assembly elections, the high court had allowed the factions to describe themselves as “Binay faction” and “Bimal faction” of the Morcha at the hustings. A final judgement has not been delivered yet in the case. With both Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa resigning and the latter set to float a new party on September 9, it is now certain that there will be no challenger for Bimal Gurung’s claim to be the president of the Morcha. Ajoy Edwards, who had not yet “officially” resigned as the GNLF’s Darjeeling branch committee president was removed from the party’s official WhatsApp group on Friday. Earlier, Edwards had created his media WhatsApp group after a rift between him and GNLF president Mann Ghisingh had surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt asks ration dealers to start pilot project on Duare Ration from September 15||The Mamata Banerjee government on Friday asked ration dealers in the state to start a pilot project on Duare Ration (ration on the door steps) from September 15 amid demands from them to increase their commission to run the scheme smoothly. “The food and supplies department held a meeting with various organisations of the ration dealers. They have been asked to start the pilot project from September 15. The dealers have some demands, which would be looked into,” said a senior government official. Sources said the dealers had been informed that 15 per cent of the 22,000odd ration dealers would take part in the pilot project. Based on the experience of the pilot project, the government wants to launch the scheme in a larger part of the state during the festive season in October. The scheme, a pet project of the chief minister which she had promised ahead of the Assembly polls, is likely to benefit the ruling party in regions like Jungle Mahal and north Bengal, where a large section of people need to travel a long way to collect food-grains from ration shops. “The Trinamul Congress is trying to strengthen its base in these areas ahead of the 2023 panchayat polls and the 2024 Lok Sabha polls through the scheme. The BJP had won some seats in these areas in the last Assembly polls. Trinamul might turn the tables if the scheme is launched successfully,” said a source. While the scheme would actually help several poor people as they face trouble to reach ration shops located at faraway places and carry the food-grains back to their houses, implementing the scheme would be easier said than done. The ration dealers flagged several practical problems and demanded support from the government before launching the pilot project. “The dealers demanded that they be given commission of Rs 200 per one quintal foodgrains and another Rs 40 per quintal for packaging, which is quite high compared to what they get these days — Rs 75 a quintal,” said a source. The amount demanded by the dealers, sources said, is considered to be quite high as it could cost the state exchequer nearly Rs 3,000 crore every year. “The government has proposed to give Rs 75 a quintal in addition to their existing commission of Rs 75 a quintal. But the dealers are refusing to accept the government proposal,” said an official. Ration dealers have said they want a better commission and the additional packaging fee only because they have to spend a handsome amount to reach the consumers. “We need to engage more workers and hire vehicles to carry the food-grains to villagers’ doorsteps. If we are not compensated, the scheme cannot run,” said a ration dealer from North 24-Parganas. According to some dealers, the government had initiated a similar effort in early July in some areas where traders had reached the doorsteps of consumers. “All ration dealers had pointed out that they incurred a loss of Rs 3,500 to Rs 4,000 during the exercise. If our commission is not hiked and packaging charges are not given, the additional expenditure cannot be covered,” said another ration dealer. Some ration dealers also demanded that the government arrange for vehicles to carry the foodgrains to the villages from where they could distribute grains. Biswambhar Basu, national general secretary of All India Fair Price Shop Dealers’ Federation, said they hoped the government would consider their demands. “We will take part in the pilot project even if the government does not give us additional commission to prove that we can do it. But the state has to consider our demands if it wants to run the scheme properly,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||IRCTC to run special train to Goa for tourists from Northeast and north Bengal||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited will run a special train to Goa for tourists from the Northeast and north Bengal. The train will leave Agartala on September 30 for the Vibrant Goa tour spanning 11 nights and 12 days, IRCTC officials said here on Friday. “The special train will have sleeper and AC-III coaches. It will head for Goa via Assam and north Bengal. The trip will end on October 11 when the train will return to Agartala,” said Madhab Saha, an IRCTC regional manager in Guwahati. The train will halt at Badarpur, Guwahati, New Bongaigaon, New Alipurduar, New Cooch Behar, New Jalpaiguri and Malda Town. “People from these places can also board this train. However, beyond Malda, the train will not have any more scheduled stoppage from where people can join the trip,” he added. In recent times, this is the first tour to Goa that has been organised by the IRCTC. Those who wish to travel in sleeper coaches will have to pay Rs 11,340 per head. “Tourists planning to travel in AC-III coaches will have to pay Rs 18,900 per head,” said Biswajit Das, the tourism in-charge of IRCTC in Guwahati. “Due to the pandemic situation, booking would be allowed only in 60 per cent of the total berths of each coach. Altogether, there will be 10 coaches. We will also provide travel insurance to each passenger,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Roads snap, homes damaged in North Bengal rain||Continuous rainfall across the sub-Himalayan Bengal on Thursday and Friday triggered landslides that damaged houses and snap in road communication in the Darjeeling hills and water-logging in Siliguri. According to administrative sources, the rain triggered minor landslides at Toongsoong in ward 14, Bhotay Dara in ward 28, Singmari (below the ropeway station) in ward 29 and in ward 9 of the Darjeeling town. “Three houses were damaged because of rain and landslides at Kailapani, School Dara and Ghayabari in the Kurseong subdivision. Some houses were damaged at School Dara (different place) and Murmah in the Mirik subdivision. There are reports of houses being damaged at Liza Hill, Bara Pattabang and Gairigaon in the Pullbazar block (in the Darjeeling subdivision) as well. We are collecting details of the extent of the damage,” said an official. The rainfall also led to a cave-in on NH55 near Chunabhatti of Kurseong. “Only light vehicles are being allowed to move along the route as a portion of the road has subsided. The Sepi road that connects Srikhola in Pulbazar block and another road in Lepchakha of Badamtam panchayat and the road to Rimbik High School were damaged in the rain,” the official added. Some low lying areas of Siliguri had been under water since Thursday night. The water receded on Friday afternoon. “There is a forecast of more showers in the next few days. We are monitoring the situation. All arrangements have been made to help people in case any fresh water-logging or flood-like situation occurs in and around the city,” an officer of the sub-divisional administration said in Siliguri. Like Siliguri and the hills, it also rained in Alipurduar district. According to sources in the Met office, it rained around 110mm in Alipurduar during the 24-hour period till 8.30am on Friday. Taking advantage of the torrent which kept people indoors, a gang of thieves broke into a number of shops at Newtown in Alipurduar on Thursday night. “Altogether, they tried to break into 11 shops, including jewelleries. They could eventually burgle five shops. We are gathering details of the loot,” said a police officer. Local people said it was raining heavily on one hand and there was a power cut in the area on the other hand when the crime was suspected to have taken place. Thieves made an attempt to steal cash from an ATM at Samanagar in Siliguri also on Thursday night. Although the cash wasn’t lost, the machine and the CCTV cameras were damaged. On Friday, a male elephant calf was swept away for a few metres while it was crossing a swollen stream in the Dooars. Sources said an elephant herd had entered the Karbala tea estate near Banarhat in Jalpaiguri district from the adjoining Reti forest on Friday morning. When the calf tried to cross the stream, it lost balance and was swept away to some distance. Foresters pulled the animal out of the water after four hours of efforts. Later in the day, they released the calf into the Reti forest where it rejoined the herd. “We had apprehended that the herd would not accept the calf. We are happy that it has returned to the herd,” said Seema Choudhury, an honorary wildlife warden in the Bengal forest department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 703 infections, 719 recoveries and eight deaths||Bengal on Friday completed 68 successive days of fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases with 703 new infections, 719 recoveries and eight deaths. The total of active cases fell by 24 to reach 9,143. The state currently has 2.58 per cent of the national total of active cases and occupies the sixth spot on the list of states with most such cases. Calcutta logged 112 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 88. Six of the 23 Bengal districts logged single-digit figures of new infections on Friday. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.22 per cent — the highest ever this pandemic —still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.53. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.62 per cent on Friday. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta recorded one. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal currently has over 15.46 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.18 lakh recoveries and 18,410 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||CM Mamata Banerjee set to visit Siliguri for north Bengal scan ||Mamata Banerjee is slated to be in Siliguri for five days next month to hold administrative meetings for five districts — Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar. It will be Mamata’s first trip to north Bengal after assuming the chief minister’s office for the third time in May. “She is likely to reach here on the afternoon of September 5 and will stay at Uttarkanya (north Bengal branch secretariat). She will review the progress of social welfare schemes as well as infrastructure projects of five districts. On September 9, the chief minister is likely to return to Calcutta,” said a source. The chief minister, who is also in charge of the north Bengal development department that was formed by her in 2011, is likely to focus on the region’s growth in the backdrop of changes in the political landscape after the Assembly polls. First, most leaders of the BJP have started playing the card of separate statehood in the region and there are chances that the demand may find resonance among people. The Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO) — a banned militant outfit constituted in the nineties by a section of Rajbanshi youths over the demand of a separate Kamtapur state — has already started renewing its demand. Even on Friday, a video was released by a self-styled leader of the KLO, who introduced himself as Pavel and reiterated that the outfit would renew the armed struggle for the separate Kamtapur state. “The chief minister will try to address the statehood demand with development,” said a source. Besides, Binay Tamang had quit the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Anit Thapa, Tamang’s former deputy, on Friday announced that he would float a new party on September 9 when Mamata would be touring north Bengal. “The chief minister will surely try to address the issue of leadership vacuum in the hills,” said the source. The visit is significant from the administrative point of view as well because Mamata had earlier announced several projects like free housing for tea garden workers and setting up of Rajbanshi medium schools. She would review the progress made in this regard. “That the chief minister intends to focus on north Bengal, a region from where BJP bagged 30 Assembly seats, was evident when she kept the north Bengal development department with herself. She will obviously review the progress of development work in the region, keeping in mind the Rajbanshi and tribal population of the region,” said a state government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
28-08-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu-Dilip feud casts cloud on BJP committee||The BJP is yet to form a committee for coordination between the legislature party and the state unit even after almost four months passed since the Assembly poll results were out apparently because of a feud between the factions led by Dilip Ghosh and Suvendu Adhikari. In every state where the BJP is either in power or in the Opposition, a coordination committee is mandatory to maintain liaison and communication between legislators and state leadership of the party. Although the BJP’s Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari was elected the leader of the legislature party in Bengal on May 10, the coordination committee has not been constituted. Sources attributed the delay to the rift between the factions led by Adhikari and state unit chief Dilip Ghosh. That Ghosh and his lobby don’t see eye to eye with Trinamul Congress turncoat Adhikari and his team, more so since the latter’s rise in importance within the BJP after the elections, is perhaps the worst-kept secret in the saffron camp. “The coordination committee is crucial in our party’s scheme of things because it is a bridge between the two arms. Any sort of policy decision, grievance or problem is addressed and sorted out by this committee,” a state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity. Ghosh has repeatedly iterated at closed-door meetings that the legislators must consult the party before taking a decision or making a public move. His comments, party sources said, were directed at Adhikari, who made multiple visits to Delhi without consulting Ghosh. According to the sources, leaders close to Ghosh intend to maintain a distance from Adhikari and his team, which has caused the delay in the setting up of the committee. “Suvenduda’s meteoric rise in the BJP, despite his desertion from Trinamul only in December last year, has not gone down well with Dilipda and his associates. The formation of the committee has been delayed because of Dilipda’s dislike and other factors,” said another source in the BJP. Sayantan Basu, a state general-secretary, admitted that there had been a delay in setting up the coordination committee. “We know there has been a delay…. This committee is prioritised in states where we are in power. We will do it here too, at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
