29-08-2021||India||Bengal logs 650 new Covid-19 cases, 6 fresh fatalities||West Bengal's Covid-19 tally rose to 15,47,548 on Sunday as 650 more people tested positive for the infection, while six fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 18,423, a health bulletin said. North 24 Parganas district registered the highest number of new cases at 88, followed by Calcutta (87) and South 24 Parganas (59). Two fresh fatalities were recorded in Hooghly, and one each in Calcutta, North 24 Parganas, Nadia and Kalimpong districts, it said. The state now has 9,070 active cases, while 15,20,055 people have been cured of the disease so far, including 683 in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said, adding that the recovery rate improved to 98.22 per cent. Bengal has tested over 1.69 crore samples for Covid-19 to date, it said, adding that the positivity rate stood at 1.58 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata launches attack on Centre for looking after self-interest||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday drew a distinction between her governance model and that of Narendra Modi, saying her government was “for all”, and launched an attack on the Centre for looking after only self-interest. The chief minister’s stress on the contrasting styles of governance came at a time the Bengal chief minister is playing a lead role in bringing together non-BJP parties for a united fight in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. “When I run the government, I am for all. I am not like the BJP, which always looks after only their interest…. I get Trinamul Congress men arrested if they are in the wrong. Please don’t forget this,” Mamata said during a virtual rally from Calcutta on the foundation day of the Trinamul students’ wing. Although the programme was meant for students supporting her party, Mamata scaled up the scope of her address — occasionally switching to Hindi — as she spoke extensively on issues of national interest, besides talking about her government’s plans for youths in the state. The stress on the apparent inclusive character of her government came in reference to the alleged post-poll violence in Bengal, which is now being probed by the CBI and a special investigation team of the state police following a high court order that took cognisance of a report submitted by the National Human Rights Commission. “The BJP has made all commissions, including the National Human Rights Commission, political units and all the members (of the commission) are members of the BJP…. I am saying that the person who submitted reports in the court is a BJP man,” Mamata said, adding that her government had filed chargesheets in all cases of post-poll violence. Mamata wondered why the NHRC was not sent to Uttar Pradesh to probe allegations of atrocities against women. Suggesting that the Centre was going about in a planned manner to demean her government, Mamata also broached the controversy over questions on the post-poll violence in competitive exams conducted by the UPSC for recruitments in central forces. “It never happened earlier in our country. I demand the resignation of the person who set the question papers, and he should beg pardon from the people of our country,” she said. Mamata broadened her argument and slammed the Centre for using the Enforcement Directorate to settle political scores. Within hours of the ED sending summons to Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife in connection with a money laundering and coal scam case, Mamata said: “When the BJP government in Delhi cannot compete with us in politics, they use agencies.” All these developments are taking place under BJP rule, Mamata stressed, referring to the Centre’s constant frictions with other non-BJP chief ministers like Uddhav Thackeray of Maharashtra and Arvind Kejriwal of Delhi and indicating that the federal structure of the country had been demolished. “The federal structure has gone. They have taken everything (rights) of the state governments. I want to call a conference with all the chief ministers regarding the federal structure…. Everyone is facing the injustice of the Centre,” Mamata said in Hindi. She also referred to the national monetisation plan of the Centre and accused the BJP of selling the country. “The government is trying to sell off the country. Railways, airports, PSUs.… They want to sell everything off. Can you sell the soil of the country?” Mamata asked. Keeping with the wide-angle theme of her address, Mamata attacked the Modi government for its response to the unfolding situation in Afghanistan since the Taliban captured the seat of power in Kabul. She spoke up for the entire country, not just Bengal. “Why are all the people of my country who are stuck in Afghanistan still not back? What is your policy? Where are you standing now (on the Afghanistan issue)?” Mamata asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
29-08-2021||West Bengal||NFR introduces vistadome coach on train from New Jalpaiguri||The special train service with a vistadome coach for tourists who seek to enjoy the spectacular beauty of forests in the Dooars was introduced by the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) from New Jalpaiguri on Saturday. John Barla, the Union minister of state for minority affairs and Alipurduar MP, flagged off the train from New Jalpaiguri. In north Bengal, this is the first time that such a service has been introduced on the broad gauge. Earlier, the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) introduced vistadome coaches in its toy train service. The train, NFR sources, said, between New Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar junctions along the Dooars route will run thrice in a week, from Friday to Sunday. Leaving New Jalpaiguri in the morning, it is set to  reach Alipurduar in the afternoon, covering 169km. After an hour, it will depart for the return journey and reach New Jalpaiguri in the evening. Halts are at Siliguri, Sivok (the station that serves Sevoke town), New Mal, Chalsa, Madarihat, Hasimara and Rajabhatkhawa. “The train will have a vistadome coach with 44 seats. Also, there will be two AC chair car coaches, two general chair car coaches and two power-cum-luggage vans. The IRCTC will provide refreshment on board,” said an official of NFR. The fare, sources said, is Rs 85 for general chair car, Rs 310 for AC chair car and Rs 770 for the vistadome coach. Along the route, the railways will also make arrangements in some of the stations where tourists can have various experiences to enrich their journey. “Selfie points have been developed in Sivok and Hasimara stations where passengers can also enjoy tea tasting. Arrangements have also been made for folk dances at Chalsa and Hasimara stations during the return journey to New Jalpaiguri,” the official added. “Response is good. People are enthusiastically booking tickets for the vistadome coach. We hope in due course, it will turn out as a major attraction for tourists visiting north Bengal,” said Guneet Kaur, the chief public relations officer of the NFR. Parthapratim Roy, a train enthusiast on board the inaugural journey, said: “I believe this new train service will attract more tourists to enjoy the beauty of the Dooars on the foothills of the Himalayas .” The DHR authorities announced the launch of a “Steam Jungle Tea Safari” from August 30, that is, Monday “It will run between Siliguri Junction and Rongtong every day. Passengers can board vistadome dining cars and enjoy a ride in the toy train. It will be a four-hour-long return journey with stops in Sukna and Rongtong,” said a source. As part of the trip, tourists can visit the DHR gallery in Sukna. “Complimentary refreshments would be served on board. A trip per person will cost Rs 1,200, with some discount during lean seasons (winter and monsoon months),” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Police name only teen in Malda family murder case||Police on Saturday submitted the chargesheet of the family murder case reported from Gurutola village in Kaliachak in June. The police named Mohammed Asif, 19, as the sole accused in the murders of his parents, sister and grandmother. “It is a 273-page long chargesheet, uncommon in murder cases. In all, 44 persons have been named as witnesses,” said a police source. On June 19, bodies of businessman Jawad Ali, 53 his wife Ira Bibi, 36, their daughter Rima Khatun, 14, and Jawad’s mother Alek Noor Bewa, 73, were recovered from the basement of their house in Gurutola village under Kaliachak. Allegedly, Asif, Ali’s younger son, sedated and murdered them by drowning in February this year, and buried them in trenches on the premises of the family home. The crime was reported by his elder brother Mohammed Arif, 21, who claimed he was also his brother’s target but somehow fled. When Asif got desperate to sell off his parental property and asked Arif to return to start the process, the latter reported the murders to the police. Malda SP Alok Rajoria said a special public prosecutor was appointed for the case considering its rare nature. Asif, he said, was booked under IPC Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender). Asif was allegedly active on the dark web, said to be useful for illegal activities, and stored firearms with two friends. Police are probing these angles too. “Once the probe is complete, we might file a separate chargesheet later,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP leader’s nephew arrested with firearms ||Three persons, including the nephew of a local BJP leader, have been arrested in Malda for allegedly peddling illegal firearms. Malda police acted on specific information to nab the trio from Old Malda and recover from them two improvised firearms and five rounds of live bullets. The arrested have been identified as Akash Mandal, the nephew of Ukil Mandal, a BJP leader and chief of Sahapur panchayat of the district, and his close associates Nayan Saha and Tapas Mandal. “During preliminary investigation, we have come to know that they used to procure and sell illegal firearms,” said a police officer. The district BJP leadership distanced itself from the case. However, Ajay Ganguly, a district vice-president of the saffron party, said they needed to find out if Akash, in his late 20s, was falsely implicated at the behest of Trinamul leaders. “We don’t shield anyone. If the offence is proved, the law should take its own course. But if the arrest (of Akash) is made to humiliate our party leader (Mandal), we will act differently,” Ganguly said. ‘Infiltrator’ arrested A Bangladeshi national who allegedly infiltrated the international border a week ago and was staying at a hamlet under Baishnabnagar police station was arrested on Saturday. The police arrested two villagers who sheltered him . Police said the Bangladeshi was identified as Salmah Shah, 24, from Thakurgaon district of the neighbouring country. “He reached Natun-Sikosti village of Baishnabnagar and had been staying at the house of two brother, Ataur and Lutfar Rahaman. We need to interrogate them to know why Salman entered India and why the duo provided him shelter instead of informing us,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to Centre: Send NHRC to Tripura||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday dared the BJP-led Centre to send the National Human Rights Commission to Tripura over attacks on her party supporters “every day”. Her reaction came on a day a Trinamul joining event in Badharghat, 6km from Agartala, was attacked by suspected ruling BJP members, leaving three Trinamul workers injured. Three Trinamul student activists also received minor injuries at a college in Unakoti, some 150km from Agartala, when they were celebrating the foundation day of the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad. “Will you send teams of National Human Rights Commission only to Bengal? Why were such teams not sent to Tripura...? Our people are attacked by goons there every day,” she said. Tripura BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharyya dismissed the allegations. Mamata alleged in her virtual address from Calcutta that even cops posted for the security of Trinamul leaders had not been spared. “They received injuries and were not allowed medicines or injection,” she said. She also predicted “khela hobe (her successful Bengal poll cry) in Tripura. She reminded BJP leaders that they did not allow her MPs to visit Assam during the NRC protest there. Her nephew and Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee warned the BJP that Trinamul would come to power in Tripura in 2023. “Trinamul will form the government in Tripura under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee. We will give development to the people of Tripura. There will be no goons... but a government on the doorsteps of people of Tripura,” said Abhishek. “The allegations are baseless and have been made only to remain in the news,” Tripura BJP spokesperson Bhattacharyya said. “It has been over a month but Trinamul has not been able to form the state committee. Nobody knows who is in charge. This reflects the actual strength of the party (in Tripura),”he added. At Badharghat, the attack “by 15-20 armed BJP goons” was carried out at the house of Trinamul member Mujibur Islam Mazumdar 20 minutes before the joining event, senior party leader Subal Bhowmik in Tripura said. The injured were identified as Mujibur, Rony Mia and Subhankar Debnath. Subhankar was flown to Calcutta in the evening for treatment. Trinamul student activists were injured at Kailashahar College in Unakoti district. All eight districts of Tripura celebrated Trinamul Chhatra Parishad foundation day. Earlier in the day, Trinamul in Agartala also took out a 6km rally attended by Trinamul MP Santanu Sen, which flagged spiralling prices, unemployment and worsening law and order. The BJP came to power in Tripura in 2018 defeating the Left Front. Trinamul has intensified its activities in Tripura with an eye on the 2023 Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 661 fresh cases and seven deaths ||Bengal on Saturday completed 69 successive days of fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases with 661 new infections, 688 recoveries and seven deaths. The total of active cases fell by 34 to 9,109. Calcutta logged 109 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 78. Six of the 23 Bengal districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.22 per cent — the highest ever this pandemic — still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.53. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.61 per cent on Saturday. Twenty Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday. Calcutta reported three. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.46 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.19 lakh recoveries and 18,417 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Students should know how BJP saffronising educational institutions across India: Mamata ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said students should know how the BJP was saffronising educational institutions across the country, including Visva-Bharati, by replacing governing body members with BJP party members. She also said one could protest in Visva-Bharati as the varsity was in Bengal. Since Friday late evening, some Visva-Bharati students  have gheraoed VC Bidyut Chakrabarty’s residence to protest the rustication of three students who were faces of dissent. The VC allegedly has saffron leanings. “It is very important for students to know how the BJP is handling institutions in the country, including Visva-Bharati,” Mamata said. “Visva-Bharati is in Bengal and that is why you can sit here (in protest). There are many institutes where you (BJP) changed the governing body and replaced the members with BJP party members,” Mamata added in her virtual address to students on the foundation day of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad. Mamata’s comments came when a group of students have been gheraoing the Visva-Bharati VC at his residence since Friday night to protest the rustication of three students who had raised their voice against his “whimsical” actions. Somnath Sow, one of the rusticated students and a member of the CPM’s students’ wing SFI, welcomed Mamata’s comments. “She is our chief minister and we want her on our side. We kept the dais open for all who wanted to protest against VC and his move to ruin Tagore’s legacy by making the campus a club of the BJP. We hope as chief minister she understands what is going on here.” A Trinamul insider added: “In universities in BJP-ruled states, no one can protest wrongdoings of the saffron cadre.” A group of Visva-Bharati students have gheraoed his residence, forcing him inside, since late Friday evening. Protesting students said the gherao would continue till the VC revoked the rustication and withdrew all vindictive decisions against teachers and employees who had raised their voice on campus. A student has lodged a police complaint against three Visva-Bharati officials who allegedly heckled and threatened them when they came to protest. Police said they are inquiring into the incidents. On Saturday a group of teachers including members of Visva-Bharati faculty association officially announced that they would be with the students in this movement. “We are also facing the vengeance of the VC for protesting against his activities. The time to flout the gag order has come. We will be with this movement till the end,” said Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the president of VBUFA. He had been suspended for daring to raise his voice against the VC. “We demand immediate revocation of the rustication of these three students who has been the victims of the VC’s revenge. We have started a statewide movement and several students’ unions across the country are with the students here. On August 31, there would be a rally here and we would fight all the way against such vindictive varsity administration,” said Pratikur Rahaman, state president of SFI who met the protesters on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
29-08-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee goes after Amit Shah for narrative on Trinamul leaders and coal scams||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday went after the BJP-led Centre, especially Union home minister Amit Shah, for its narrative that Trinamul leaders were involved in coal scams. The statement came within hours of the Enforcement Directorate summoning her nephew and national general secretary of Trinamul Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira in connection with a money laundering case involving a coal scam in the state. “You want to catch only Trinamul (leaders) in cases related to coal scam.... But don’t forget that coal is not the responsibility of Trinamul at all. The responsibility of coal belongs to central government forces, like CISF. Remember it is not a matter of state. What was your CISF doing? I can tell you the names of a dozen BJP leaders who looted the Asansol area,” said Mamata. “Do you think that forcing someone to name someone will prove guilt? That will not happen, Amit Shah (Union home minister),” Mamata said in her virtual address on Saturday on the occasion of foundation day of Trinamul’s students’ wing in Calcutta. Then, she asked the BJP to fight Abhishek “politically.” “Remember Amit Shah, all of your leaders or ministers who came during the election (campaign) stayed at hotels of coal mafias from Asansol. I have all the proofs,” thundered Mamata. Sources in Trinamul said Abhishek and his wife were unlikely to respond to the summons. While Abhishek has been summoned on September 6, Rujira has been asked to appear for questioning on September 1. Unlike the CBI, which had questioned Rujira at her Calcutta residence in February, the ED has summoned Abhishek and his wife to appear at its New Delhi office. The CBI has drawn up an FIR against Anup Majhi, three senior officials of the Eastern Coalfield Limited (ECL) and with a few others for allegedly extracting coal from the mines in parts of Asansol and Ranigunge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
