30-08-2021||West Bengal||Another MLA ditches BJP to return to Trinamul fold ||Another BJP legislator adopted the Trinamul flag on Monday, his return to the TMC coming amidst a controversy surrounding Mukul Roy’s "ghar wapsi"  and the BJP’s efforts to bring the anti-defection law into play in Bengal. Forty-two-year-old Tanmay Ghosh was elected for the first time to the Assembly from Bishnupur this May and took barely three months to return to his former party. Unlike the case of other Trinamul turncoats who lost the elections _  like Sonali Guha, Rajib Banerjee, Prabir Ghoshal, and Vaishali Dalmia _   Ghosh’s return was hastened by the fact that he actually won a seat, and his defection would help bring down the number of BJP legislators in the Assembly. Turncoats who lost are unlikely to be welcomed back into the party. Ghosh did not give a direct reply to whether he would resign from the Assembly seat or  seek  re-election. "The party leadership will decide that,” Ghosh answered. Replying to the same query, state education minister Bratya Basu, who inducted Ghosh into the party, said, “Everything will be done following the rules.” But as per Trinamul’s track record,  switching political camps is done more at the whims of the party bosses than the rule of law. Basu himself admitted to it indirectly. “Many of them (from BJP) are in touch with us and we are calling them to join us. Though their inclusion will be decided by the party,” he said. The BJP had won 77 seats in the Assembly elections. Since then two of its elected representatives have resigned and now two have defected, bringing down the strength to 73. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikary left for Bishnupur Monday afternoon soon after Ghosh's defection. The Bishunpur development comes a little over a week after the arrest of Trinamul turncoat Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, the town’s former MLA and civic body chairperson for over 30 years (he was  a minister in chief minister Mamata Banerjee's first cabinet), over graft charges. Mukherjee is accused of being involved in financial irregularities to the tune of Rs 9.91 crore related to e-tendering during his days as the chairman of the Bishnupur municipality. Last December, Mukherjee joined the BJP along with Suvendu Adhikary in the presence of Union Home minister Amit Shah. BJP workers in Bishnupur did not take kindly to his switching camps and he faced protests in the town that he had served for 30 years. After the BJP denied him a ticket, Mukherjee tried to lobby with the Trinamul and hitch back to the wagon but was refused entry. His arrest on August 22 brought Mukherjee back into Bengal’s political scene where a fierce battle is on between Mamata  and her former trusted minister Suvendu Adhikary. BJP leaders in Bengal suspect Mukherjee is a pawn in a bigger political game that has Adhikary as the target. “Complaints against Mukherjee date back to when he was with the Trinamul. Why did the government, the police and the chief minister turn a blind eye then? Police claim that Mukherjee has revealed some names. Maybe it is an attempt to corner Suvendu but nothing will come out of it,” said a BJP leader. “Tanmay’s joining Trinamul at such a juncture could be a part of a larger political conspiracy," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Krishna Janmashtami to be celebrated on Monday||Krishna Janmashtami will be celebrated on Monday. Devotees mark this auspicious occasion by observing a fast and praying to Lord Krishna. People adorn their homes with flowers, diyas and lights. Temples are also beautifully decorated and lit. The festival to mark the birth of Lord Krishna is also known as Gokulashtami, Ashtami Rohini, Sri Krishnashtami and Srikrishna Jayanti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||John Barla promises to urge Jaishankar to take up closed Bhutan gate issue ||Union minister of state for minority affairs John Barla, also the Alipurduar MP, on Sunday promised to urge Union external affairs minister S. Jaishankar to take up the issue of Bhutan gate in the middle of the bordering town of Jaigaon (Alipurduar district) and Phuentsholing (Bhutan). Since March last year, Bhutan has closed the gate, the principal entry point to India, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, commercial activities have drastically declined in Jaigaon, which largely depends on Bhutan. Thousands of Bhutan residents would cross the gate to enter the local market of Jaigaon every day. Barla, who visited Jaigaon for the first time after he was included in the Union cabinet, spoke with members of the local business community and residents. “I will go to Delhi next month. There, I will meet the external affairs minister and will request him to take up the issue with Bhutan. The pandemic situation has improved in both India and Bhutan and if the gate is reopened, it would help the people of both countries,” said Barla. He said that traders apart, many transporters and even people in general of Jaigaon depended on Bhutan. “Many people would walk to Bhutan every day from Jaigaon to serve as daily-rated workers. They are sitting jobless now. Most traders have kept their shops closed for months now. Jaigaon used to buzz with commercial activities but over the past one-and-a-half years, such activities have considerably reduced,” said Barla.. In Jaigaon, there are around 2,000 shop owners and suppliers dependent on Bhutan. There are another 5,500-odd small traders and stall owners, who did brisk business before the pandemic. Goods worth between Rs 1.5 crore and Rs 2 crore would transacted in the local market daily, said sources. Ramashankar Gupta, secretary, Jaigaon Merchants’ Association, said almost 80 per cent of shops were closed now. and many traders, who had come from other states to Jaigaon, were planning to return after selling their shops, houses and belongings. “If someone can’t find even a couple of customers for months, how can he survive,” Gupta added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records 10 weeks of fall in active Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Sunday recorded 10 consecutive weeks or 70 successive days of a fall in its total number of active cases, with 650 new infections, 683 recoveries and six deaths. The total of active cases fell by 39 on Sunday to reach 9,070. The last time the state saw a rise in its total of active cases was on June 20, when it reached 23,016. Over these 70 days, there has been an improvement of nearly 61 per cent. “Around June 20, we were still recording around 2,200 new infections (a similar number of recoveries) and 50-60 deaths daily. Now, we get 600-700 new infections (a similar number of recoveries) and five-10 deaths a day. That is remarkable improvement, and a total turnaround from the devastation of the second wave,” said a minister. “Before the dreaded third wave arrives, this is a very decent stage for Bengal,” he added. Calcutta logged 87 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 88. Sunday was a day, again, of not one of the 23 Bengal districts reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.22 per cent -- the highest ever this pandemic -- still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.51. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.58 per cent on Sunday. “On June 20, the recovery rate was 97.28, while the positive confirmation rate was 4.12,” said the minister. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta reported one. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.47 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.2 lakh recoveries and 18,423 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Jawhar Sircar accuses Narendra Modi of running one-man show||Jawhar Sircar, recently elevated to the Rajya Sabha by Trinamul, on Sunday compared the three Prime Ministers that he worked with as a civil servant and launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government on issues ranging from corruption and the rise of “omnipotent oligarchies” to the subservience of the bureaucracy “as courtesans”. “Whenever I compare the three Prime Ministers (he has worked with), Mr (Atal Bihari Vajpayee) Eloquent, Dr. Manmohan Singh, whom I served rather closely, not eloquent, and the third person (Modi) — I won’t describe and leave it to you — only one has claimed that he would purge dishonesty from India and all that. But he is the one who has taken the maximum pains (not to),” Sircar said in a virtual address organised by Manthan, an international think tank based in Hyderabad. The 69-year-old was speaking in a session titled “The State of Civil Services in India”. Sircar, who retired as the Union culture secretary and was the Prasar Bharati CEO till 2016, alleged that important directorial positions in major private companies, “aided and assisted” by financial institutions, were determined on the basis of whether the person is useful to the Prime Minister or not. Sircar accused Modi of running a one-man show, where civil servants are appointed or discarded at the will of one person or people close to him.. He added while political persons would pull strings to appoint civil servants close to them in posts they preferred earlier as well, the matter has become more “acute” now. “During Dr Manmohan Singh’s period, any minister could have his swagger and say that this is my man and I want him... here, I want him there. Finished. But right now it's a one-man show,” said Sircar. He alleged that Modi amended the TRAI Act only to remove legal hurdles in the way of appointing Nripendra Misra as the principal secretary to the Prime Minister. Misra is a former TRAI chairman and the Act, before its amendment, prohibited him from taking up a government job. In his 42-year stint as a bureaucrat, Sircar worked in the Bengal government before taking central deputation to Delhi, during which he served under Vajpayee, Singh and Modi. Sircar resigned as the CEO of the Prasar Bharati in November 2016, owing to his differences with the Modi government. In one of his Facebook posts — one he wrote after being nominated to the Upper House of Parliament — Sircar said that he decided to resign since he couldn’t “carry on with PM Modi’s Hindutva, his autocratic style of functioning and the economic mess he is creating”. Sircar is a prominent member of a section of India’s civil society firmly standing its ground against the saffron regime and its alleged machinations against the core elements of India’s ethos, such as plurality and democracy. This was one of the primary reasons why Trinamul chief and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee nominated him to the Rajya Sabha. In the address on Sunday, Sircar said that India has moved from “liberalisation to oligarchisation”. Taking a dig at the BJP government at the Centre, he said that India is ruled by “omnipotent oligarchies” these days and that the government of India has become “much more impersonal” in the past few years. Elaborating on this, Sircar said the Union government’s recent decision to monetise public assets is actually the Modi regime’s initiative to “repay” the people who gave the BJP money during the polls. “From liberalisation, we went to the loot and scoot regime, where people like Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi would loot the nation and scoot.... Now there is a schematic handover of key assets and key infrastructure to a handful of people whose wealth has multiplied under the Modi regime,” Sircar said. Invoking the conscience of Indian civil servants, Sircar said: “We joined willingly as courtiers. But we must not continue as courtesans.” He referred to two incidents to explain what happens when civil servants fail to perform their duties or go overboard. First, he referred to the district magistrate of Hathras in Uttar Pradesh as a “criminal”, who colluded with a “terrible” administration. Sircar highlighted how the district administration was busy stopping journalists and arresting Muslim scribes instead of taking necessary action. Second, he spoke of the recent incident of Karnal in Haryana where, in a video, the SDM was purportedly found directing policemen to “break heads” of anyone who wanted to cross barriers in the wake of the farmer protests. In both cases and others like these, the court must take umbrage, Sircar said. He believes none of the governments in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, or the Centre will take action against these civil servants and hence the judiciary must be “hyperactive”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Nine-member team from Bengal to visit Delhi for Ghatal funds||A nine-member team from Bengal comprising four ministers, MPs and MLAs is slated to meet Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar next week to demand funds to implement the Ghatal Master Plan and four other similar projects designed to mitigate the damage from natural disasters. Sources said the outreach would take place at the chief minister’s direction. “The Ghatal Master Plan is the main issue for which we will meet the Union minister of Jal Shakti and the vice-chairman of NITI Aayog on Tuesday as directed by our chief minister. We have already received the appointments in Delhi. We will also place proposals for Digha and the Sunderbans master plans, and others pertaining to the erosion of the Ganges as well as desiltation of various barrages, including the DVC,” state irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra said. Apart from Mahapatra, ministers Manas Ranjan Bhunia, Humayun Kabir and Srikanta Mahato will be in the team travelling to Delhi. After touring the flood-hit areas of Ghatal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said she would send a team to Delhi to pursue the Centre in approving the project. During her visit to Ghatal to survey damages from widespread flooding, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said senior Bengal ministers and Trinamul Congress MPs would seek an appointment with Shekhawat to demand funds for the implementation of the Ghatal master plan.Ghatal, where thousands have been rendered homeless, was among the districts that were badly hit by continued floods. After touring the flood-hit areas of Ghatal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she would send a team to Delhi. The Ghatal master plan is a cluster of projects that includes the dredging and widening of riverbeds, strengthening of embankments, and widening of the confluences of at least 10 large rivers, including the Kansabati, Rupnarayan and Shilabati in addition to around 40 channels and subchannels, passing through East Midnapore and West Midnapore. In 2012, the state government had sent to Delhi a detailed project report of the plan, estimated at Rs 1,200 crore, and received administrative and financial approvals from the Narendra Modi government in 2015. The Centre had agreed to pitch in 75 per cent of the project cost but later reduced its share to 50 per cent. However, no money has been sent till date, prompting the chief minister to criticise the Narendra Modi government during her recent visit to Ghatal. The state government has already dredged a large part of the Durbachati, Khiraibaksi and New Koshi rivers using its own funds. “The Ghatal Master Plan was a project in which the Centre had given every required approval but did not give us the money. Our chief minister even wrote to the Prime Minister several times. We expect our visit to Delhi next week will be successful,” said Manas Ranjan Bhunia, water-resources investigation and development minister, and Trinamul MLA from Sabang. State government officials said the Ghatal Master Plan was crucial to save the area from annual floods and to mitigate yearly expenditure on the same from the state coffers. “The assessed expenditure stood at Rs 1,200 crore in 2012 and now it will cost more. However, state government has executed a portion of the project. Still, the problem needs permanent solution for which funds from the Centre are mandatory,” said a senior official of the irrigation department. The state government has also prepared a set of proposals for the Sunderbans and Digha. “The issue of Ganga’s erosion is also a serious one, mainly for Malda and Murshidabad. We will also ask the Centre to desilt the basins of the Damodar, including its barrages,” Mahapatra said. In several administrative meetings, she has reportedly expressed her concern about how back-to-back cyclones such as Fani, Amphan and Yaas had disrupted normal life in the Sunderbans and that large stretches of embankment were destroyed. Mamata had reportedly also emphasised on the progress of the Digha Master Plan after visiting the tourist town in the wake of Yaas this May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Former MLA Sikha Mitra back in Trinamul ‘after a hiatus’||Sikha Mitra, a two-term Trinamul MLA in the past, on Sunday joined the party, claiming she never left, although she resigned as the Chowringhee MLA in 2014 amid allegedly testy ties with Mamata Banerjee. She is the wife of deceased Bengal Congress stalwart Somen Mitra, who returned to the Congress after quitting as Trinamul’s Diamond Harbour MP around the same time as her. “My husband became the state president of the Congress, but I was on a hiatus from active politics. I was profoundly touched by the warmth and simplicity of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. She personally called me and asked me to be an active worker of Trinamul. I decided that if I rejoin active politics, it must be under her leadership,” she said. “I had never quit the party (Trinamul). I had resigned as MLA,” she said at a news meet after her joining at Trinamul Bhavan. This summer, she was fielded as the BJP’s Chowringhee MLA candidate, after BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari met her. She later said she had not been asked before the announcement, that Sonia Gandhi had called her up and she could not quit the Congress. An embarrassed BJP changed the Chowringhee candidate. Congress’s state unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said: “She was with Trinamul in the past. She had joined the Congress. Now, she has returned to the ruling party. It is her decision, her choice… we have always accorded her respect.” Shikha Mitra said sometimes differences emerge, referring to the 2014 falling-out with Mamata, but they now stood resolved. “Mamata Banerjee had called me up after my husband’s demise (on July 30 last year), and we have always shared cordial ties,” she claimed on Sunday, despite having developed a reputation for being one of the chief minister’s most unsparing critics. Her son Rohan stepped down as a state general-secretary of the Congress last month, attributing it to his differences with Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
30-08-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur Projects Limited coke oven plant pulled down to free plot||Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) has begun the process of dismantling a defunct coke oven plant occupying nearly 200 acres as part of the Bengal government decision to monetise unused land in a bid to offset losses of the state-owned power utility. Sources from DPL said they plan to finish the dismantling of the plant, not in use since 2016, within a month. “We have hired an agency to dismantle the coke oven plant and work is on in full swing. We are expecting to finish it within a month and free up around 200 acres,” said a DPL official, adding its scrap would be auctioned off. The DPL’s coke oven plant had five batteries and would produce coking coal, coke-oven gas, and coal tar from its inception in 1961. DPL was the brainchild of then chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy. As many as 1,400 permanent employees and over 900 contract labourers worked at the plant until 2015, before the government started the process to close the unit. “Employees were transferred to various state departments when the plant closed in 2016,” said a DPL official. The Mamata Banerjee government then decided to sell or lease the unused plots of the DPL to clear its debts. Sources said during a survey on unused plots, DPL found over 200 acres were occupied by illegal settlers. As removing them would have been problematic, it was decided to dismantle the coke oven plant. Citu, however, is unhappy with this move and will launch a protest, said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a Citu district committee member in West Burdwan. The chief minister in 2015 had promised to revive the plant, but her government announced its closure next year and now they are dismantling it to free the land and sell it, he added. Sources said it had been decided that the vast township built for its employees on 1,045 acres would be restructured to free around 600 acres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
