31-08-2021||West Bengal||25 injured in stampede at Covid vaccination centre in Bengal||At least 25 people were injured in West Bengal's Jalpaiguri district on Tuesday after hundreds of local residents tried to enter a vaccination centre together, leading to a stampede, police said. Six of them were critically injured in the incident, and they are undergoing treatment at Jalpaiguri Sadar Hospital, a senior officer said. "As soon as the main gate of Dhupguri Health Centre was opened, several people tried to get inside the facility pushing each other. A stampede-like situation arose there. Several women were injured. We are probing the matter," the officer said. Locals claimed that hundreds of people queued outside the vaccination centre since morning and social distancing protocols went for a toss. Asked about what led to the stampede, the officer said, "We are probing the matter. According to a preliminary investigation, those who were in the queue tried to enter the centre in the apprehension of a shortage of vaccine doses." The inoculation programme at the facility has been stopped following the incident, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
31-08-2021||West Bengal|| Amid Centre-state shadow boxing, another BJP MLA returns to Trinamul||Trinamul Congress continues with its unhinged poaching of BJP MLAs amidst an administrative tussle that seems to be brewing between the Centre and the state government. On Tuesday, another former Trinamul leader who had switched to the BJP before the polls and won on a saffron ticket from Bagdah in North 24-Parganas, Biswajit Das,  made a formal return, albeit without resigning from his constituency, taking the count of deserters to three till now. At least another seven to eight are expected to quit the BJP in the coming days. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari shot off letters to both the MLAs Ghosh and Das to clear their stand within one week. In the event of no-response to the letter, it will be presumed that they have defected to TMC. This is the second consecutive day when the BJP has lost a legislator to the Trinamul outside the state Assembly. Inside,  how the anti-defection law will play out is anybody’s guess. Das, known for his proximity to Mukul Roy, the first BJP legislator to defect, was perceived to have been negotiating his return since his mentor quit the saffron fold. On that day in June, Das had skipped a meeting called by state BJP  president Dilip Ghosh. While the poaching of elected representatives is on, the state government is likely to be without a full-fledged Director General of Police as the UPSC is yet to submit the panel of names to the state. Late on Tuesday evening, an order was issued by the government that stated: “Manoj Malaviya, Director General and Inspector General of Police (Organisation) and the senior most officer in the IPS cadre in the state, will in addition to his normal duties, hold the charge of Director General of Police… until further orders.” Tuesday happens to be the last day in office for the incumbent DGP Virendra. According to sources, the UPSC was supposed to submit the names on Monday but did not. Even a video conference scheduled between the state and UPSC officials was cancelled at the last moment. “The chief minister is livid at the delay. The state government had submitted the list of 21 officers as the Centre had demanded yet the process has been delayed,” said a source close to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Mamata, however, is not in any mood to leave Virendra, who was appointed as the chairman of the West Bengal Police Recruitment Board on August 18. Caught in the tussle between the state and the Centre is another IAS officer Naveen Prakash, who is also retiring on Tuesday. The former PWD secretary who is perceived to be close to Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was re-employed as principal advisor (infrastructure) to the state government for a period of one year. The order was issued on Tuesday afternoon. According to sources, the government is keen to send the IAS officer to the state administrative tribunal where two posts of administrative members are vacant. “For the appointment to the SAT, the Centre’s sanction is required which is still awaited. While political quibbling is on, such administrative tug-of-war will also continue,” said a senior officer in the state administrative headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri eyes traffic revamp before festive season||The state transport department plans to use its expertise to improve the traffic management system in and around Siliguri ahead of the festive season, Gautam Deb, the chairman of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), said here on Monday. According to him, the State Transportation Planning and Traffic Engineering Directorate (STPTED), under the state transport department, will be engaged for the job. For many years now, traffic congestion has been a headache for residents of Siliguri and nearby. Every day, thousands who visit the city also face the problem. “We will get the expertise of STPTED to improve the existing traffic system of Siliguri ahead of the festive season. On Tuesday, I will hold a meeting with officials of the directorate in Calcutta in this regard,” said Deb. Recently, the civic body has also engaged RITES, another expert agency, for identification of alternative roads and prospective alignments of alternative bridges to reduce traffic from principal thoroughfares of the city like the Hill Cart Road, Sevoke Road, Burdwan Road and Station Feeder Road. On Tuesday, Deb spoke about more plans to decongest the city. “The existing Tenzing Norgay Central Bus Terminus will be shifted to Mallaguri for which the state government has identified an eight-acre plot adjacent to NH31 and we have spoken with the National Highways Authority of India so that necessary space for entry and exit of vehicles is given onsite,” he said. Other proposals include shifting some buses to the PC Mittal Bus Terminus in Sevoke Road and developing a new bus stand at Tinbatti More on the city's southern tip. Sources said that on September 4, a joint inspection would be carried out in these sites. “An alternative road will be developed behind the bus terminus in Sevoke Road to connect with NH 31 and avoid traffic overload on Sevoke Road. All long-distance buses will be shifted to Paribahan Nagar in Matigara,” said a source in the administration. The Darjeeling district administration has also identified a five-acre plot near Ghoshpukur on NH27 on the outskirts of Siliguri to set up a truck terminus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Raids on illegal sand and coal mining gain pace||Police are cracking down on sand and coal smugglers before chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s scheduled inauguration of an industrial unit in West Burdwan’s Panagarh on Wednesday. Sand smuggling kingpin Sujay Pal a.k.a. Kebu was arrested on August 25 from Durgapur. Between then and Monday, police have arrested three dozen sand smugglers and seized over 10,000 cubic feet of sand mined illegally from Damodar and Ajay rivers from across West Burdwan. Two dozen trucks with smuggled sand have been seized from across the district. Around 20 tonnes of smuggled coal were also seized at Salanpur near Asansol. Police said they had set up a joint action team comprising police from West and East Burdwan, Bankura, Purulia, Birbhum and Hooghly where sand smuggling is rampant. The teams are holding raids at Damodar, Ajay, Bhagirathi and other river banks. “Large police contingents are posted where we received complaints of illegal sand mining. We are also keeping vigil on highways to catch trucks with smuggled sand and coal,” said a police officer at the Asansol-Durgapur commissionerate. Sources said Mamata had issued a stern message to stop illegal coal and sand mining. Allegations of involvement of some Trinamul leaders in sand and coal smuggling had prompted Opposition parties to attack her party in the run-up to the Assembly polls this year. “Police chiefs of West Burdwan, Purulia, Bankura and Birbhum were specially alerted from Nabanna to stop coal and sand smuggling” said a police officer. The ADG (law and order) on August 18 instructed police chiefs of all districts and commissionerates for daily raids against illegal sand and coal mining and daily updates to Nabanna. Sources said when the ADG’s instruction was not obeyed properly, the chief minister stepped in to crack the whip. Asansol-Durgapur police commissioner Ajay Thakur was “unexpectedly” transferred to Barrackpore commissionerate on August 27 within three months of his posting in Asansol. He was replaced by Sudhir Kumar Neelakantam. Sources said the sudden transfer was linked to growing sand pilferage in West Burdwan though officials termed it routine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Malda Trinamul Congress feuds show ‘new trend’||A section of representatives of Trinamul in Malda with the two lower rungs of the three-tier panchayat system are teaming up with other parties, mostly the BJP, to table no-confidence motions against panchayat chiefs from their own party and remove them. In Malda, where Mamata Banerjee’s party won eight of the 12 Assembly seats, feuds in Trinamul are showing “a new trend”, said a senior party leader. “This time, panchayat members of Trinamul are removing party pradhans and backing BJP representatives.” In 2018, Trinamul got a majority in around 80 of 146 panchayats in Malda. “As a no-confidence motion can’t be started against an elected panchayat head in the first two-and-a-half years after the boards, it seems these people were waiting for this time to pass,.” said an observer. “Now that the time has passed, they are upping their ante,” said an observer. During the past couple of weeks, a number of such cases have surfaced. Trinamul members of Birnagar–II panchayat in Kaliachak-III block, along with BJP members, have started the process to remove the Trinamul head. “Despite knowing that the BJP will capture the post amid the rift among us, they are determined to remove me,” said pradhan Soma Roy. Trinamul members of Chowki-Mirdadpur panchayat of Manikchak block replaced the Trinamul pradhan with a BJP member. Trinamul expelled them immediately. In Kaliachak–II block, the sabhapati of the Trinamul-run panchayat samiti had to step down when Trinamul and BJP members together voted against him. Trinamul and BJP members of Rathbari panchayat of Manikchak block and some other panchayats of Ratua-I, Habibpur and Harishchandrapur blocks recently joined hands to place no-confidence motion against the pradhans. “Such anti-party moves will not be tolerated. I will submit a report to the state leadership soon, said Krishnendu Choudhury, a state general secretary of Trinamul who hails from Malda. Malda Trinamul chief Abdur Rahim Boxi said a closed-door meeting would be held on Wednesday on this. “Strict steps will be taken against these people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Murder cuffs on father-in-law in Alipurduar||A 30-year-old homemaker was stabbed to death allegedly by her father-in-law at Ramgaon in Alipurduar district on Sunday night. Police sources said Dilip stabbed Bidya Gurung with a dagger during an altercation over the sale of his house. He also attacked Bidya’s mother and sister who had come to meet Bidya. Dilip has been arrested, the police said. In another incident, a resident of Bhupendranagar in Siliguri was arrested with three firearms and six rounds of bullets at Eastern Bypass on Sunday. Police suspect Nitesh Sha to be associated with a racket that deals with illegal firearms. In Cooch Behar, two children drowned at Majhertari village of Dinhata sub-division on Monday. The victims, who are cousins, have been identified as Hasidul Haque, 7, and Mostafa Hossain, 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Ownership of Darjeeling’s legacy hotel Windamere comes under legal scrutiny||Windamere Hotel, considered one of the best colonial accommodations in the country and a landmark in Darjeeling, is caught in an ownership struggle which, tourism industry stakeholders say, has cast a shadow of uncertainty on the future of the heritage property. Sources told The Telegraph that Tenki Tenduf-La Davis, sister of Sherab Tenduf-La, who had been the managing director of the hotel until his demise in February 2015, approached the National Company Law Tribunal, Calcutta, on the ownership issue. Sherab died in Canada. “The Tenduf-la family has approached the tribunal seeking to be recognised as the rightful majority shareholders of the company owning the hotel,” said a source. Elizabeth Jane Clarke is currently the “managing director” of the hotel. Clarke doesn’t belong to the Tenduf-La family, which according to the source, is “claiming” that she is a minority stakeholder. The petitioner has also “apprehensions” regarding the present management dealing with the assets of the hotel. The Telegraph reached out to the Tenduf-La family in the United States as well as a director of Windamere Hotel Limited in Darjeeling. But both the sides refused to comment citing legal constraints. However, both the parties did not deny that a case was being heard at the NCLT and a hearing might take place on September 7. The Tenduf-La family had been associated with the Windamere Hotel from the late 1930s till Sherab’s death in 2015. The iconic 38-room hotel had announced a lockout from July 5 this year, citing pandemic-induced financial stress. The management, however, changed its decision a few days before the lockout was to come into effect following a meeting at the additional labour commissioner’s office in Siliguri. At the meeting, various conditions on wage payment to 50-odd staff members were agreed upon. Windamere Hotel is an attraction by itself carrying Darjeeling’s rich history and is also an important component of the tourism sector in the region. “Good hotels are needed to promote tourism.… We hope the dispute will be resolved,” said a travel agent. The place started as a cosy boarding house for bachelor English and Scottish tea planters — first building was built around the 1880s — was converted into a hotel just before the outbreak of the Second World War. A glance through the names of the 38 rooms at the hotel provides an insight into its rich history. Prince Peter of Greece and Denmark had stayed at the hotel and a room at the main building is named after him. Another room is called the Princess of Siam (as Thailand was previously known) as she had stayed there. Another room is named Chogyal of Sikkim and it was at this hotel that the former king of Sikkim had met his second wife Hope Cooke. The hotel is also famous for its “Christmas Week at Windamere” from December 18 to January 1, which is being celebrated in the same way since 1939. Performers from London’s West End Theatre District had also taken part in this event. In fact, the millennium Christmas of 1999 drew guests from 15 countries, including Brazil, Britain, USA, Canada, Germany, Switzerland, Australia, South Africa, Thailand, Japan and China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Funds crunch in state a blow to road projects||The public works department may be forced to drop several road projects as the state development fund (SDF) is likely to be cut drastically in the backdrop of the government’s plan to reduce expenditures heavily to finance the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme which would cost the exchequer Rs 17,000 crore annually. The south zone of the PWD that looks after roads and bridges in districts like Murshidabad, Nadia, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Calcutta has already been asked to keep its expenditure within Rs 140 crore under the SDF this year. “It is now clear the SDF would be cut drastically throughout the state. The south zone has already been informed about the cut and remaining two zones, North and West, would be intimated soon about the slash,” said a senior government official. Last year, a sum of Rs 640 crore was allotted to the south zone and there are hints that allotment for two other zones — which also used to get Rs 600-odd crore each —would be cut heavily, said officials. “The south zone will now only carry out strengthening and patchwork of the stretches that need urgent repairs,” said a source. The sources said an instruction in the regard had already been sent to the engineers in the districts that fall under the jurisdiction of the south zone. The sources said the cut in the SDF could deal a blow to the PWD’s plan to widen nearly 1,000km of road across the state and work on at least 20 bridges. The chief minister had recently told officials during meetings that no new development project could be taken up as the state did not have enough money. However, Mamata Banerjee has laid stress on maintaining the infrastructure projects set up in the past 10 years. According to the sources, the state is facing difficulty in approving new infrastructure projects as the government’s revenue generation has been hit badly in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Moreover, the state government would be forced to cough up at least Rs 17,000 crore annually to run Lakshmir Bhandar scheme which is set to be launched from September 1. “Initially, it had been estimated that a sum of Rs 11,000 crore would be needed to run the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. But as a huge number of women is registering their names for the scheme, the estimated expenditure has been revised to Rs 17,000 crore a year,” said a source. The additional Rs 6,000 crore is being considered to be huge as the government was yet to generate enough revenue even if Covid-related restrictions were relaxed to some extent. “We were generating about Rs 2,500 crore monthly between May and July this year. In August, the revenue would increase to some extent but it would be nowhere near the Rs 5,000 crore mark that was used to be generated before the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati ‘temporarily suspended’ admission process and publication of results||Visva-Bharati authorities on Monday, through a notification, “temporarily suspended” the admission process and publication of results, citing vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty was under “siege”, a move many dubbed an attempt to thwart the ongoing students’ protest. Students owing allegiance to Left-backed unions, including the SFI and the Students’ Unity for New Society, have been staging an indefinite demonstration outside the VC’s home since August 27 night, urging the rustication of student leaders Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty be scrapped. The three, along with others, had become faces of protest against the “whimsical” actions of the VC and his alleged bid to saffronise the campus. The notice on Monday by the coordinator of admission coordination cell of Visva-Bharati states: “I am directed to notify that, because the Hon’ble Upacharya, Visva-Bharati is currently under siege, the admission process in various courses of Visva-Bharati cannot proceed as usual.” It adds that the VC chairs the admission committee and admission coordination cell and the admission cell “needs the physical presence” of the VC “in his office”. “Given these unfavourable circumstances... the admission process stands temporarily suspended,” it read. A separate notice cited the varsity’s inability to publish results citing the same reason but did not specify the exams. Many students and teachers saw in the twin moves a ploy to derail students protesting the rustication. Students said both admissions and release of results were to be done online and the VC’s “physical presence” was not needed. A varsity official agreed that the VC’s role as chairman of the admission cell was a mere formality and a team does the actual job. Two protesting girl students filed a complaint with Santiniketan police around 11pm on Monday accusing the VC and officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar of directing male security persons to pounce on them when they were putting up a festoon. This paper sent a text to Sircar asking for a reply, but none had come when the report was filed close to midnight. The SFI called for a rally on Tuesday that its leader Aishe Ghosh may attend. Earlier in the day, several residents of Santiniketan, including Visva-Bharati teachers, took out a rally to back the protesting students on Monday. In the evening, around 300 teaching and non-teaching varsity staff owing allegiance to the VC took out a rally near the site of the student dharna. Students raised slogans, forcing them to retreat. “The twin notices and the rally by the VC's sympathisers are a ploy to break our movement and we protested with slogans,” said Shreya Chakraborty, a protesting student. Refuting the anti-student charges, Manju Mohan Mukherjee, the VC’s nominee in the executive council, said: “We went to discuss and find a solution to the impasse.” Shreya, however, did not buy Mukherjee’s argument. “If they really wanted talks with us then they should have conveyed that to us before arriving here. Even when we started raising slogans on their arrival, none of them said they had come for talks.” To this Mukherjee said: “We did not inform them earlier as they are our students.” As Chowdhury and some varsity teachers apparently close to the VC claimed around 300-350 of them had marched to the site of the student protest, students accused them of violating Covid protocols. “Students are protesting by adhering to Covid protocols. The sympathisers of the VC assembled in large numbers at the protest site in violation of Covid norms. We will file a police complaint against them on Tuesday,” said a varsity teacher who is known as a critic of the present Visva-Bharati administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||MLA Tanmay Ghosh leaves BJP and returns to Trinamul Congress||Tanmay Ghosh, who had left the Trinamul Congress in March and won the Assembly election from Bishnupur on a BJP ticket, on Monday returned to his old party. Ghosh’s candidature was announced by the BJP within 18 hours of his induction amid intense protests from old-timers in the party. Ghosh is the second BJP MLA after Krishnagar North legislator Mukul Roy to return to Trinamul after the Assembly election results. The BJP’s strength in the 294-member Assembly has come down to 73 with the latest desertion. It also re-ignited fears within the saffron camp of en masse defection of lawmakers. “The BJP is practising vindictive politics in Bengal. During the Assembly elections, they even tried to win Bengal by force. The BJP is using (Union) government machinery to meddle with matters of the state and to ruin the history, heritage and culture of Bengal,” said Ghosh, who is also a former councillor of Bishnupur municipality. Ghosh also said irrespective of political inclinations, all public representatives of the state must work to strengthen chief minister Mamata Banerjee and stand by her pro-people initiatives. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “He (Ghosh) was being linked to the cases lodged against Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, and hence, he joined Trinamul under pressure.” Mukherjee, a member of the first Mamata Banerjee cabinet and former chairman of the Bishnupur municipality, was arrested on August 22 on charges of misappropriation of around Rs 10 crore given to the civic body. BJP’s Nandigram MLA and Opposition leader, Suvendu Adhikari, postponed several programs, including a Janmashtami event in his own constituency, and rushed to Bishnupur to hold a news conference regarding the defection. “He had joined the party suddenly, shortly ahead of the polls and was chosen to fight the polls for us.… Anybody would’ve won from this seat because people here were with the BJP,” said Adhikari. Another Trinamul turncoat Saumitra Khan, the BJP’s Bishnupur MP and chief of the party’s state youth wing, said on social media that the Bishnupur MLA made the choice to save his crores of rupees. A section of the BJP’s old-timers asked that if the leaders had known of the defector’s alleged corruption, why he had been inducted into the party. Trinamul spokesperson and Bengal’s education minister Bratya Basu, in whose presence the MLA’s ghar wapsi took place, said: “It is difficult for Bengali MLAs to work in the BJP because they’ve no connection, whatsoever, with the complex, exceptional ethos of Bengal and its people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Ajoy Edwards to resign from Gorkha National Liberation Front||Politician, entrepreneur and social worker Ajoy Edwards on Sunday evening released a video on his Facebook and to the media on WhatsApp where he is seen on the banks of Pangong Lake in Ladakh and announcing his plan to resign from the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) on his return to Darjeeling on September 5. One of the most popular faces in the GNLF, Edwards in the video is heard saying in Nepali that he would “ride a bike” alone to the GNLF office at Dr Zakhir Hussian Road in Darjeeling to submit his resignation. Differences between him and GNLF chief Mann Ghisingh had cropped up recently. “I am resigning from the present post of president, GNLF Darjeeling Branch Committee, and also as a primary member… I will be arriving on September 5... the way I had once driven alone in my bike to help my friend (Mann Ghisingh) I will go alone in my bike and submit my resignation paper,” he said in the video shot at Pangong Lake, made famous in the Bollywood blockbuster 3 Idiots and its equally famous song, “All Izz Well”. Edwards, however, said all is not well. “I had made an address to the GNLF pariwar (family) and that message create a storm on social media. Even then I waited but no directive came to me (from the GNLF leadership). I had thought of remaining an ordinary member but I now feel there is no place left for me in the party,” he said in the video. In that voice message posted in the GNLF WhatsApp on August 23, Edwards had alleged that his friend of “32 to 33 years” and GNLF president Mann Ghisingh had betrayed him not once but on several occasions, sidelined him and bypassed him for Neeraj Zimba. Edwards, however, said he had no grudges against anyone now though in the voice message he had stated his “grouse” against Mann. “I do not have any grouse against anyone now, the GNLF helped me in gaining popularity” Edwards said in his latest statement. Edwards said he would be active in public life. “I will definitely work for the public. I am not someone to keep quiet and stay home. I have been doing one thing or the other since I was a kid,” Edwards said, adding that politics for him was the highest form of social work. Edwards did not make it clear if he would float his own political party or join another party. Edwards, however, made it clear that he would not averse to working both with the state and the Centre. “The permanent political solution (for the hills) is something for the Centre to work out but issues like municipality and panchayat are state issues. Time has come to work with all for the betterment of the hills. Diplomacy at one end should not mean that the other party is an enemy,” said Edwards. “None of us working for the good of us is an enemy.” The BJP promised a permanent political solution for the hills in its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto but has not defined it. While expressing hope on the issue, Edwards said time was running out for the BJP. Edwards said he was the one to seek votes for the BJP but reminded all alliance partners of the saffron party that it was the “silent majority” that helped the BJP win the Lok Sabha seat in Darjeeling thrice in a row. “I will stand by the silent majority. I know the silent majority will also not come on the streets to stage a dharna but I will continue to work for them,” said Edwards. The GNLF has also upped its political activities in the hills. Anit Thapa is also set to float a new political party on September 9 but as of now the focus is on Edwards’ entry to Darjeeling hills on September 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
31-08-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid-19 cases fall below 9,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Monday recorded 510 new Covid-19 infections, 647 recoveries and 11 deaths. The state’s total number of active cases fell by 148 to 8,922, below 9,000 for the first time since April 3, 149 days ago. Monday marked 71 consecutive days of a fall in active cases. “These milestones are timely morale-boosters, more so ahead of the pan-India fears of a third wave,” said a minister. Calcutta logged 81 new infections and two deaths. Monday was again the second consecutive day of none from Bengal's 23 districts reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure. The state’s recovery rate was 98.23 per cent, the highest ever this pandemic, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.5. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.85 per cent on Monday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34. The state currently has over 15.48 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.21 lakh recoveries and 18,434 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
