29-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan High Court seeks Centre’s response on Covid-19 vaccine pricing||The Rajasthan High Court has sought responses from the Centre, state and vaccine manufacturers on a petition challenging the liberalised pricing and accelerated national Covid-19 vaccination strategy which offers differential pricing for the central and state governments to purchase vaccines from the manufacturers, HT has learnt. The court has set May 12 as the next date of hearing.The division bench of Justice Sabina and Justice MK Vyas passed the order while hearing a PIL filed by the petitioner Mukesh Sharma.“After the new strategy was introduced, the vaccine manufacturers announced their new rates. Serum said in its statement that the vaccine will be given to the central government at the prevailing rate but the vaccine will be given to the state government for ₹400 and private hospitals for ₹600. Bharat Biotech announced the rate to be ₹600 for the state and ₹1200 for private institutions, which is against the spirit of Article 14 and 21 of the constitution, Sharma said.The petition stated that the emergency approval to the vaccine manufactured and supplied by Serum Institute of India under the name of Covishield was granted on January 3 by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO). It was reported that the vaccine would be sold to the central government at the rate of Rs. 150/- per dose. The vaccine indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited was also approved for emergency use. It was stated that the vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech shall also be sold for Rs. 150/- per dose to the central government.Initially, the process of vaccination was opened to healthcare workers of the country from January 16 as part of the national Covid-19 vaccination strategy. Subsequently, the vaccination drive was extended to those above the age of 60 years and also for those above the age of 45 years with comorbidities.The vaccination coverage was extended to all persons above the age of 45 years from April 1. Recently, the central government has announced liberalized pricing and accelerated national Covid-19 vaccine strategy, whereby, it was stated that from May 1, vaccine manufacturer would be bound to supply 50% of their monthly doses to the Government of India and the remaining 50% can be supplied to the different state governments and other private channels.The petition pointed out that the prices quoted by manufacturers are not just higher but extremely discriminatory and arbitrary. The rate quoted by Serum Institute is the highest it has quoted in the world. Under the new strategy, which is coming into effect on May 1, people ageing 18 years and above will be eligible for vaccination but not under the Government of India vaccination programme.If a person above the age of 18 years is to be vaccinated, they have to pay hefty amounts for vaccination or remain at the mercy of the state government for providing free vaccination, the petition stated. The state government, in turn, has to pay exorbitantly higher rates for every dosage of vaccination, it added.Recently Rajasthan’s chief minister announced that the state government shall bear the cost of vaccination of all those above the age of 18 years. Contrary to the cost borne by the Government of India at ₹150 per dose, the state has been thrown in the turmoil to vaccinate more than 75% of the population at ₹400 and ₹600 per dose.The Mumbai High Court had earlier in the day declined to hear a similar petition, pointing that this issue should be placed before the Supreme Court since vaccine pricing impacts all states and not just one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-high-court-seeks-centre-s-response-on-covid-19-vaccine-pricing-101619695002549.html
29-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot tests positive for Covid-19, is ‘fine and asymptomatic'||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced on Thursday his test report for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was positive, a day after he said he was going into isolation as his wife Sunita Gehlot was found to have contracted the infection.Also Read | Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot goes under isolation after wife tests Covid +ve“I underwent testing for Covid-19 and my report has come positive. I am asymptomatic and feeling absolutely fine. I will follow all Covid-19 protocols and continue to work from isolation,” a rough translation of Gehlot’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read. Rajasthan, which is currently under a month-long curfew till May 21, on Wednesday registered an unprecedented 16,613 new Covid-19 cases and 120 related fatalities, pushing the infection tally to 563,577 including a death toll of 3,926, as per a health department bulletin.कोविड टेस्ट करवाने पर आज मेरी रिपोर्ट भी पॉजिटिव आई है। मुझे किसी तरह के लक्षण नहीं हैं और मैं ठीक महसूस कर रहा हूं। कोविड प्रोटोकॉल का पालन करते हुए मैं आइसोलेशन में रहकर ही कार्य जारी रखूंगा।The western state is also observing a 15-day “Jan Anushasan Pakhwada” which will be in force till May 3.Also Read | 'Jan Anushasan Pakhwada': Rajasthan announces curbs to contain Covid-19On Wednesday evening, Gehlot announced that his wife tested positive, tweeting, “My wife, Mrs. Sunita Gehlot, is Covid-19 positive but is asymptomatic. As per the protocol, she is receiving treatment in home isolation. As a precaution, I will now chair the Covid-19 review meeting with doctors and officials, which takes place daily at 8:30pm, from isolation.”मेरी पत्नी श्रीमती सुनीता गहलोत कोविड पॉजिटिव आ गई हैं (असिम्प्टोमैटिक)। प्रोटोकॉल के अनुसार होम आइसोलेशन में उनका ट्रीटमेंट प्रारम्भ हो गया है। अब मैं एहतियातन आइसोलेशन में रहकर चिकित्सकों एवं अधिकारियों के साथ सांय 8.30 बजे रोजाना होने वाली कोविड समीक्षा बैठक लूंगा।In recent days, a number of leaders from Gehlot’s party, the Congress, have tested positive for the viral disease. Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor, West Bengal unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and senior leader Anand Sharma are some of the leaders who have contracted the virus.Also Read | Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury test Covid-19 positiveGehlot's chief ministerial counterparts in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, Yogi Adityanath and Pinarayi Vijayan, too, recently contracted Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-tests-positive-for-covid-19-is-fine-and-asymptomatic-101619670057966.html
