01-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra health minister allays concerns over Omicron variant||Seeking to allay fears over the transmission of Omicron – the new variant of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, public health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said no confirmed case of the strain had been detected in the state so far. “In Maharashtra, there is not even one patient who has tested positive for Omicron,” Tope said on Wednesday. A resident of Dombivali, who had returned from South Africa, had tested positive for the Covid-19 virus, his swab samples have been sent for genetic sequencing to the genome sequencing laboratory in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC’s) Kasturba Hospital for analysis. The health minister said till the time that the report was not received, there was no cause for panic. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has not yet specified if the new strain is virulent and leads to a rise in hospitalizations. He, however, stressed on the need for Covid-appropriate behavior by the people. Maharashtra on Wednesday, recorded 767 new Covid-19 cases, marginally higher than 678 on the previous day. Wednesday also saw 28 deaths due to the virus, and the number of active cases stood at 7,391, with 74,812 people in home quarantine and 923 in institutional quarantine. “Experts from the Maharashtra Task Force (of doctors) got in touch with experts from South Africa. Their opinion is that the virulence factor, which leads to the patient needing hospitalization and oxygen support, was not present. The RT-PCR test can identify the Omicron strain. The WHO is, however, yet to express its opinion on whether the strain can escape vaccine (antibodies). This is expected to take a fortnight,” explained Tope. Issues like the need for the existing vaccines to be upgraded would be decided upon subsequently. Tope said local authorities in many urban areas had decided to reopen schools on 15 December. By then, the behavioral pattern of the new strain in countries across the world would be clear. The education department has allowed schools to reopen from Wednesday and some educational institutions in rural areas have begun functioning. The pediatric task force had said that the present outbreak was under control, which led to the public health and education departments decide on reopening schools after adhering to safety protocols. The minister added as per the updated protocols, international passengers who arrive in Maharashtra, will have to get a RT-PCR test done on arrival, and would be immediately hospitalized for treatment if found to be positive. Those traveling from the 11 high-risk nations will have to compulsorily quarantine themselves for a week either in hotels or in institutional facilities. They will have to undergo a RT-PCR test after seven days and will be allowed to go home if they test negative. The samples of those who test positive will be sent for genomic sequencing. The state government is also working on increasing the number of genetic sequencing laboratories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-health-minister-allays-concerns-over-omicron-variant-101638383176264.html
01-12-2021||Delhi||NDMC nod for multi-storey shopping centre and bus terminus near Shivaji Stadium||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has decided to set up a multilevel bus terminus and commercial complex near Shivaji Stadium, Connaught Place, as part of a ₹50 crore revamp project for the existing terminus there. Kuljeet Chahal, council member, said the decision was taken in a council meeting on Sunday. The Shivaji Stadium project will be a first of its kind in Delhi-NCR — one that will integrate commercial space with a large transportation hub and parking facility. “The multilevel bus terminal building will have a commercial space of more than 30,000 square feet. Our goal is to recover the initial input cost within the first three years of the project execution. The council plans to raise a revenue of ₹.5-3 crore a month from renting out the commercial space,” he said.He further said the capacity of the existing parking area will be doubled. “This will be a complete green project with installation of solar panels to sustain the power demand of the integrated facility. Currently, passengers are forced to stand in the open area and we have decided to create covered waiting areas with provision of drinking water and cafeteria,” he said. The whole complex will be differently-abled friendly and this prestigious space at the heart of the NDMC area will be showcased with international level facilities. A model of the integrated complex shows that the facility will have two basement levels for parking, a ground floor for the bus terminus and two upper floors for commercial space. Chahal said the parking area will be equipped with charging points for electric vehicles as well.An NDMC official said the transport hub will have seamless integration of public transport as well as bicycle sharing stations, autorickshaws and taxis. The council on Sunday also cleared the redevelopment and maintenance of Hanuman Vatika at Hanuman Mandir and the mechanised cleaning of Connaught Place corridors, prominent markets and business hub areas. Satish Upadhyay, NDMC vice-chairman, said the redevelopment of Hanuman Vatika is of great importance to devotees who visit the temple every week. “An aesthetic look, in keeping with the religious dignity of the area, was needed to make the temple a prominent religious place in New Delhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ndmcnod-for-multi-storey-shopping-centre-and-bus-terminus-near-shivaji-stadium-101638383118440.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||Omicron scare: Lucknow’s SGPGIMS on alert||The Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) convened a high-level meeting of experts to counter the threat of a possible Omicron outbreak. The meeting was convened by the director of the institute, professor Radha Krishna Dhiman, to discuss the preparation of the institute in such a situation.The meeting is significant especially after reports of a number of foreigners in Mathura and Agra testing Covid-19 positive.Professor Dhiman said, “We don’t know what the situation will be after one month but at least we can prepare ourselves for saving lives from any more mutations occurring in the Sars-CoV-2. Lucknow and Varanasi are two cities of the state which have international flights coming in; people from other countries come to the city directly through the airport, that’s why it is essential to plan in advance for any such emergency. We were operating 254 beds at the Rajdhani Covid hospital during the peak of the pandemic. However, in the first stage we will prepare for opening 72 beds if the need arises in the days to come. Heads of various departments have been asked to remain on alert and spare manpower if required.The PGI is a place where patients from Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Afghanistan, come for medical treatment. All patients coming from these countries will be expected to carry a Covid-19-negative report.”Not only this, patients coming from other states like Bihar, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh will also have to carry a Covid-19-negative report for OPD, admission and treatment.Recently, a patient from Nepal had tested positive, besides a nurse who returned from Hyderabad reported positive, samples of both have been sent for genome sequencing.The doctors and staff of PGI have been put on alert to tackle inflow of patients in the days to come. All the heads of departments have been alerted to get ready for emergency duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/omicron-scare-lucknow-s-sgpgims-on-alert-101638382816049.html
01-12-2021||Delhi||Denied food at wedding, man threatens waiter, opens fire in outer Delhi||A 27-year-old man was arrested for allegedly threatening the waiter and opening fire in the air after he refused to serve him food at a wedding at a resort in outer Delhi’s Mundka, police said on Wednesday.Police said that the incident occurred on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, and the suspect, identified by his first name Manish, a resident of Dichau Kalan village, was overpowered by the resort staff.Resort owner Chirag Khurana, told police that he was in his office when one his waiters, Bittu, informed him that the suspect fired his gun in the air and threatened to shoot him too if he was not served food.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh said that during questioning, Manish allegedly said that he had drinks with friends and had approached the waiter for food which, when denied, he reportedly fired in the air and threatened to shoot him.In a separate incident, a woman and her six-year-old son were injured when 30-year-old man allegedly fired a gun in the air at a wedding in outer Delhi’s Mundka.Police said the bullet pierced through the woman’s leg and hit the boy’s chest. The latter‘s condition is critical, police said.The suspect, who was subsequently arrested, told police that he fired the gun as he was reportedly getting disturbed by the sound of the dhol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/denied-food-at-wedding-man-threatens-waiter-opens-fire-in-outer-delhi-101638382756241.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid deaths: UP chief secy for quick disposal of ex-gratia claims||Lucknow: Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Wednesday directed all the district magistrates (DMs) to ensure that all the claims received for the grant of ex-gratia for Covid-19 victims’ family members were necessarily disposed of in the next two days, a government spokesman said. Holding a video conference with DMs here, he said that 22898 compensation claims had been registered on the Covid Tracks Portal so far and asked officials to launch a special drive to dispose of all of them in the next two days. “The dependents of all people who died within one month of being Covid positive must be provided an amount of ₹50,000 each as ex-gratia as per the government policy,” he said, asking the DMs to plan how to provide relief to maximum number of people in the least possible time. He said the government had made adequate funds available to districts for this purpose. Tiwari also said that the NIC was developing a state-level portal after which it would become very easy to apply for the claim and track the same. “Till the portal is ready, DMs should issue advertisements in local newspapers, telling people whom to contact to file claims,” he said. Earlier, in the meeting additional chief secretary, revenue, Manoj Kumar Singh presented details on the district-wise distribution of ex-gratia of ₹50,000 each to Covid victims’ families. Vaccination review Reviewing the progress of vaccination, the CS told the DMs that there was need to give further push to the vaccination drive in the state, especially in rural areas. He asked them to prepare a list of villagers who had not taken even a single shot of the vaccine so far. “All eligible people must be given the first dose by December 2021,” he said with emphasis. He further stressed the need for identifying people whose second dose was overdue and asking them to take the second shot without any further delay. Lauding Azamgarh for impressive vaccination progress, he asked other districts to emulate. Expressing concern over onset of a new variant of the Covid-19 in many countries, the CS told DMs to enforce guidelines with regard to masking and social distancing apart from educating people. He said extra alertness was needed on airports, railway stations and bus depots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-deaths-up-chief-secy-for-quick-disposal-of-ex-gratia-claims-101638382636109.html
01-12-2021||Delhi||Long queues at Delhi airport as checks to keep Omicron at bay kick in||Passengers witnessed long queues and lengthy waiting times at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport on Wednesday as new international travel guidelines to keep at bay the Omicron variant of the coronavirus kicked in for those arriving from “at-risk” countries.Also Read | Centre issues FAQs for international passengers amid Omicron variant scareAs a part of the new set of rules to prevent the spread of the new variant, passengers flying into the country from 12 Omicron-hit regions -- including all of Europe -- will now have to undergo a mandatory RT-PCR test on their arrival at the Delhi airport, and, if negative, undergo a week’s home quarantine. If a person tests positive, they will be taken to a hospital for treatment and further tests.According to an updated list, the countries designated as “at-risk” are European countries, the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Prachi (single name only), arriving from London, said she was travelling with her three-year-old child. “There were a few people without masks on the flight. However, the testing process at the airport was smoother than I expected. I opted for the rapid PCR test. It cost me around ₹4,000 but provided us with reports in less than an hour,” she said.Also Read | WHO confirms Omicron Covid-19 variant in 23 countries. Here’s the full listKaran (only first name), a passenger from Frankfurt, said, “I had planned my trip to Delhi long back. I obviously did not foresee something like this happening. I expected the situation at the airport to be better, but it just so happened that the rules were to kick in from today. There were many people in queues. I even saw a few people arguing with the authorities, but none of that could expedite the process. I left the airport five hours after landing.”Some passengers said there was a long wait to get the mandatory on-arrival Covid-19 test results, while some complained that a few officials seemed unclear about the new guidelines. However, an airport official, who did not want to be named, said the process was smoother than they expected it to be given the volumes.“Of the 1,013 passengers who arrived until Wednesday evening, 792 opted for the rapid PCR test and 221 opted for the RT-PCR test. The results for the former were given in less than 90 minutes, while those of the latter took about four to six hours,” an airport official said.Also Read | Serum Institute seeks DCGI nod for Covishield booster shot amid Omicron scare“A few Indian nationals tried to create a ruckus because they had no clarity on how long would they have to wait, but our teams managed such situations well and made everyone understand that everything was happening according to government guidelines and we were making efforts to prevent a possible spread of the new Covid-19 variant,” said the official.“Provisions were made to provide incoming travellers with sufficient seating, vending machines and also currency exchange centres,” the official said.A passenger has to pay ₹500 for the RT-PCR test and ₹3,900 for the rapid PCR test. The passenger will not be allowed to leave the airport premises before their report comes in.“There is no choice, even if the passenger has a connecting flight,” said the official.On Wednesday, four passengers from the Netherlands and the UK tested positive for Covid-19. Officials sent their samples for genome sequencing. All of them were Indian nationals and had flown in during the early hours of Wednesday.Also Read | Amid Omicron scare, 3 Covid positive foreigners in Vrindavan leave India without informing authorities: ReportAn official said that after testing positive, they were all admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital, where a dedicated ward has been set up for isolating and treating international travellers. “Four flights originating from Amsterdam and London and carrying 1,013 passengers landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport between 12am and 6am. Of these passengers, four tested positive,” the official said.Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder and director of Genestrings Diagnostics, the lab conducting tests at IGI Airport, said, “We have been testing passengers with utmost precaution while complying with the government regulations. The samples of the four travellers from London and Amsterdam, who landed at the airport early Wednesday, have been sent to the NCDC (National Centre For Disease Control) for genome sequencing. Five passengers have tested positive in two days and we are running approximately 2,000+ tests at the airport every day. Genestrings is ensuring utmost care in handling the samples to stop the spread of the new Omicron variant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/long-queues-at-delhi-airport-as-checks-to-keep-omicron-at-bay-kick-in-101638382456186.html
01-12-2021||Delhi||Two injured in bike collision in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri||A 23-year-old courier delivery person and his 22-year-old cousin were injured after the motorcycle they were riding was hit by another motorcycle in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri late Tuesday night, police said.The errant motorcycle rider fled the accident spot but was arrested on Wednesday. He was identified by his first name Anil. Both the motorcycles involved in the accident were impounded. A case of rash and negligent riding causing injuries was registered against Anil, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh said that the police had received information from Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital regarding the admission of two persons who were injured in a road accident. The two were identified as Sunil Sahwney and his cousin Om Prakash.Sahwney, in his statement, told the police that he was riding a motorcycle with his cousin when another motorcycle hit their vehicle at P-block in Mangolpuri. Both of them suffered injuries to their legs and were rushed to the hospital. The cousin was later shifted to Safdarjung Hospital, the police said.“We identified the ownership of the motorcycle and arrested Anil who was riding it at the time of the accident,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-injured-in-bike-collision-in-outer-delhi-s-mangolpuri-101638382337386.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||None can doubt existence of Ram or temple that’s coming up now: Yogi in Ayodhya||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday hit out at detractors and said now none can question Lord Ram or doubt the grand temple of his that is coming up in Ayodhya. “Only those who have doubts about themselves would now doubt the existence of Ram temple,” Yogi Adityanath said in Ayodhya. Yogi Adityanath, who was in Ayodhya to attend a function at Maharishi Ved Vigyan Vidyapeeth, also hit out at previous governments. “Back then, the governments used to be pseudo secular,” he said, adding that a misinformation campaign was carried out about the Vedas. “Facts were distorted,” he said, adding that the temple town has witnessed a long struggle of over 500 years.“From time to time, the temple city and all that it stood for were targeted, but Ayodhya never accepted injustice,” he added. He also said that Lord Ram neither did injustice nor tolerated any. “That simply meant Lord was indicating that one should neither do ‘adharm’ (unreligious act) nor tolerate it,” he said and talked about how his government has consistently focused on Ayodhya’s development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/none-can-doubt-existence-of-ram-or-temple-that-s-coming-up-now-yogi-in-ayodhya-101638382336169.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad high court dismisses PIL against ‘sugam darshan’ in KV temple||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad High Court has dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) petition challenging the ‘sugam darshan’ system in Kashi Vishwanath Temple at Varanasi. Dismissing the PIL filed by one Gajendra Singh Yadav, a division bench comprising justices Manoj Misra and Sameer Jain observed,” Having considered the rival submissions and having noticed the statutory provisions, we are of the view that once the Board of Trustees are vested with the power to fix fees for the performance of any worship, service, rituals, ceremony or religious observance in the temple and in exercise of such power, they take a decision to provide a facility of ‘sugam darshan’ for those who, on account of their disability, be it physical or otherwise, cannot wait in a queue and, while taking such decision, they do not exclude the common class from exercising their right of worship or perform Puja as per religious practices. In our view, the decision of the Board of Trustees does not fall within the ambit of judicial review.” The petitioner had filed the present PIL with regard to the decision of the Board of Trustees to have a system of ‘sugam darshan’ (easy holy glimpse), which, according to the petitioner, violates the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 14 (right to equality), 15 (Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth) 25 (Freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion) and 26 (Freedom to manage religious affairs) of the Constitution of India. It was further submitted by the petitioner that Sri Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust, is constituted under the provisions of UP Sri Kashi Vishwanath Temple Act, 1983 (for short the1983, Act) had certain duties cast upon it by Section 14 of the 1983 Act. One such duty was to provide facilities for the proper performance of worship by the pilgrims and worshippers. It was the case of the petitioner that by providing a special facility of ‘sugam darshan’ on payment of certain charges, in effect, the Board of Trustees had excluded the common man from exercising his right of worship and performing necessary religious practices. However, while opposing the writ petition, it was submitted by state counsel that section 15 of the 1983 Act provided that the Board shall exercise all such powers, as are necessary for or incidental to the performance of its duties and functions under the Act and in particular shall have power to fix fees for the performance of any worship, service, ritual, ceremony or religious observance in the Temple. The court gave this decision on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-high-court-dismisses-pil-against-sugam-darshan-in-kv-temple-101638381915952.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||No mandatory RT-PCR test for domestic flyers in Maha||Mumbai A day after the Maharashtra government issued orders for stricter air travel curbs to contain the spread of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that it has deferred the point mandating negative RT-PCR test 48 hours prior to entering Maharashtra for domestic travellers. This move came after the union health ministry asked Maharashtra to “align” its orders with the union government’s guidelines. The state government, however, is not going to scale down its orders, which includes seven-day institutional quarantine and compulsory RT-PCR for all international passengers. A letter dated December 1 from Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan to the additional chief secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas said that the state’s order was in “divergence” with the guidelines issued by the union health ministry.“At present, we have deferred the clause which mandated negative RT-PCR tests for domestic passengers. The necessary order will be issued in the immediate future. I don’t think there is any logic in keeping this clause...I think we have to fall in line with the Government of India’s guidelines,” Tope told HT.Maharashtra chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty, who signed the order on Tuesday, said that the Centre’s letter was an “advisory” and that the Centre’s guidelines can’t restrict the state from including additional conditions. Chakrabarty said that the Centre’s advisory would be “considered as would be required in the context of a specific situation in the state.”“We have received a letter from the union health secretary which is an advisory that says we should modify our orders in accordance with directions of the Government of India. It is an advisory but that does not prevent the state government to include certain conditions which may be necessary for the containment of the new variant. For now, we will continue with the guidelines which were issued yesterday,” Chakrabarty told HT. Senior bureaucrats said that Dr Vyas is expected to respond to the letter stating that the orders issued by the State were in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines. Meanwhile, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a circular on Wednesday said the Maharashtra government’s order making institutional quarantine of one week compulsory for all international passengers from risk countries landing in Mumbai, will be effective from 11.59 pm of December 2, 2021 (Thursday night). However, all international fliers will still have to undertake mandatory and self-paid RT-PCR tests at the airport upon arrival, effectively immediately, as per a separate order issued by the Government of India on November 30. BMC has decided to give a window of two days for all international fliers before implementing the state guidelines. In its circular on Wednesday, BMC said that since many fliers will have already finalised their plans of travel, maybe on the move, or might even be airborne and unaware of these guidelines, a window of two days shall be given to all passengers arriving in Mumbai from at-risk countries. This will avoid major inconveniences to passengers and also give them time to recast their travel plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-mandatory-rt-pcr-test-for-domestic-flyers-in-maha-101638381195942.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||No RT-PCR for domestic travellers, state updates rules||Mumbai The Maharashtra government on Wednesday clarified that its rules related to RT-PCR test and quarantine for flyers are only limited to those arriving from high-risk countries and not for domestic travellers. The clarification came hours after the Centre wrote a letter to the state government. Speaking in Jalna, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, said, “The state has drafted its guidelines as per Centre’s notification. A fully-vaccinated local domestic passenger, who has taken both doses of vaccine, can travel without RT-PCR. However, those coming to India from high-risk countries and then taking connecting flights to travel within Maharashtra will have to undergo quarantine and also RT-PCR tests.” Tope said that as per the updated protocols, international passengers who arrive in Maharashtra will have to get an RT-PCR test on arrival, and would be immediately hospitalised for treatment if found to be positive. Those travelling from the 11 high-risk nations will have to compulsorily quarantine themselves for a week, either in hotels or in institutional facilities. They will have to undergo an RT-PCR test after seven days and will be allowed to go home if they test negative. The samples of those who test positive will be sent for genomic sequencing. Seeking to allay fears over the transmission of the Omicron variant, Tope said that no confirmed case of the strain had been detected in the state so far. Tope said that till the time they don’t receive the report of the genome sequence of the sample of the Dombivali man, threre was no cause for panic. However, he stressed the need for Covid-appropriate behaviour. Meanwhile, Maharashtra recorded 767 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, marginally higher than 678 on the previous day. Wednesday also saw 28 deaths due to the virus, and the number of active cases stood at 7,391, with 74,812 people in home quarantine and 923 in institutional quarantine. “Experts from the Maharashtra task force got in touch with experts from South Africa. They said that the virulence factor, which leads to the patient needing hospitalisation and oxygen support, was not present. However, the World Health Organisation (WHO) is yet to express its opinion on whether the strain can escape antibodies. This is expected to take a fortnight,” explained Tope. Tope said local authorities in many urban areas had decided to reopen schools on 15 December. By then, the behaviorial pattern of the new strain in countries across the world will be clear. The paediatric task force had opined that the present outbreak was under control, which led to the public health and education departments deciding on reopening schools after adhering to safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-rt-pcr-for-domestic-travellers-state-updates-rules-101638380956002.html
01-12-2021||Pune||Serum Institute seeks DCGI nod for Covishield booster shot amid Omicron scare||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has sought approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for Covishield booster jabs. In an application to DCGI, Prakash Kumar Singh, director of government and regulatory affairs at Pune-based SII, referred to the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products regulatory agency giving a go-ahead to the booster doses of AstraZeneca ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine.Singh, according to news agency PTI, wrote in the application that Indians as well as citizens of other nations, who have already been fully jabbed against Covid-19 with two doses of Covishield, are “continuously requesting” the SII for booster shots.He also cited several countries that already commenced administering Covid-19 vaccine booster shots to their citizens.The application, which according to PTI, was sent by Singh to the DCGI on Tuesday, comes at a time the world is combating the Omicron strain of coronavirus, classified as a ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organization (WHO).Also Read | Amid Omicron scare, 3 Covid positive foreigners in Vrindavan leave India without informing authorities: ReportSingh also mentioned in the application that there is no shortage of Covishield in India now and the demand for booster dose is rising by each passing day in wake of the emerging new strains of the coronavirus.Notably, the central government has informed Parliament that the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 are currently thinking about and considering the evidence for the requirement and justification of a booster jab.India is yet to detect an Omicron variant of Covid-19. However, the country has laid down strict guidelines and revised norms in wake of the variant that was first discovered in South Africa, and has since spread to at least 15 nations.On Tuesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a review meeting with the officials of all states and Union territories (UTs) to plan ahead lest the variant enters India. During the meeting, states and UTs were asked to ramp up testing and vaccination coverage, and also intensify the surveillance system. Meanwhile, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) also extended the existing Covid-19 protocols in the country till December 31. The ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ (door-to-door) vaccination programme, which was launched in October as a month-long initiative, has also been extended till December 31 amid Omicron Covid-19 variant threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/serum-institute-seeks-dcgi-nod-for-covishield-booster-shot-amid-omicron-scare-101638377402192.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||Half of eligible Lucknowites fully vaccinated against Covid||Half of the eligible Lucknowites are now fully vaccinated against Covid (taken both doses), says the health department data.Besides, the state capital crossed the 52-lakh (5.2 million) mark in the total Covid vaccine doses administered since January 16 when the inoculation started nationwide.Against a target of over 37.4 lakh (3.74 million), the number of Lucknowites who have taken both doses of the Covid vaccine stood at 18.82 lakh (1.88 million) till 7pm on Wednesday.Till now, 33,35,779 people in Lucknow have got their first dose, which is over 87% of the target population.During the day, over 18,000 beneficiaries took their second dose in the state capital on Wednesday.Health officials say they are making efforts to administer at least one dose to all the eligible people by December-end. Several campaigns are being run to motivate people for taking the Covid vaccine jab.“People are coming on time for their second dose. This is increasing the vaccination coverage in the state capital,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, the chief medical officer of Lucknow.He also said, “Apart from running Covid vaccination centres till 10pm, mobile vans facilitate vaccination under the cluster model for those who are unable to move out of their homes.”“With a major chunk of the eligible population taking their second dose now, we can cross the 90% mark by January,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, association of international doctors.Lucknow tops all 75 districts in Uttar Pradesh and experts say vaccination coverage in the state capital is essential to check the spread of the Covid infection.“Lucknow has a major floating population that visits it for a day or two for some work and goes back. If all Lucknowites are vaccinated, they will remain safe and will not spread the infection,” said Dr PK Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/half-of-eligible-lucknowites-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-101638380355837.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||New Uttar Pradesh assembly’s sanctioned strength set to go down by one after polls||The Uttar Pradesh assembly’s sanctioned strength is set to go down by one from 404 to 403 members when the 18th assembly is constituted following the 2022 polls in the state as the new house will not have a nominated member from the Anglo-Indian community.This would happen in view of the fact that the 126th Constitutional amendment that extended reservation for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes in Lok Sabha and state assemblies for 10 years did not provide for extending reservation for a member of the Anglo-Indian community. In fact, it will be the last session of the 17th assembly when the state government convenes the winter session of the state legislature later this month. The assembly polls are due early next year.“Yes, Uttar Pradesh assembly’s strength is set to come down to 403 at the end of the term of state assembly, if no steps are taken to extend the term of reservation for the Anglo-Indian community for another 10 years. The provision for reservation to the community ended on January 25, 2020 after 70 years,” said those aware of the development.The Uttar Pradesh assembly has a seat reserved for a nominated member of the Anglo-Indian community. Denzil Godin is the nominated member from the community in the state assembly and his term expires in 2022. The state assembly had on December 31, 2019 ratified the Constitution (126th Amendment) Bill 2019, providing for extension of reservation of seats to scheduled castes (SCs) and scheduled tribes (STs) in the Lok Sabha and the state assemblies for a period of another 10 years, up to January 25, 2030.Godin said several all India associations of the Anglo-Indian community have petitioned the Prime Minister, the Union law minister and at various other levels of the Union government to reconsider the decision and extend reservation for the community for another 10 years.“We have met personally at various levels and hope the Union government will take a decision soon to extend the reservation in the interest of the nation,” said Godin.“The Constitution provided for reservation initially for 10 years only. It has been extended again and again up to now. Reservation is not the need of the community. The government may think for measures that help the community than giving reservation,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.The state assembly’s strength was 431 members before 1967. This included one nominated member of the Anglo-Indian community. The strength was later revised to 426 members, including a nominated Anglo-Indian community member. On November 9, 2000, the strength of the UP legislative assembly was reduced to 404, including one nominated Anglo-Indian member, following the creation of the new state of Uttarakhand from the undivided Uttar Pradesh.VOTE ON ACCOUNT MAY BE PASSED IN WINTER SESSION With the winter session of the state legislature, likely to be convened later this month, set to be the last one before the 2022 UP assembly elections, the state government proposes to get a vote on account for a part of the financial year 2022-2023 passed in the house. There are also indications that the state government may present the second supplementary demands of grants for 2021-2022 in the state legislature to make some populist announcements ahead of the polls. 
01-12-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav embarks on yatra in Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday embarked on the fifth leg of his Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra in the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh, where he asked people if they wanted a Yogi sarkar (Yogi government) or a Yogya sarkar (able government). “Those who cannot operate a laptop cannot give it to the young people either,” he said, apparently taking pot shots at chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Akhilesh Yadav was addressing a rally at Banda’s Government Inter College in Uttar Pradesh. “You are just getting assurances for the last four years and a half from the government for laptops. Now, when elections are approaching, they are promising laptops and tablets. He will not give them,” the former chief minister said. He also countered the dynastic jibe being thrown at him from time to time. Yadav alleged this government did not help people during the Covid lockdown and left them to fend for themselves. “We have families and know the pain of families. Those who do not have families, how can they relate to the pain of those with families?” he said. Trying to reach out to BEd, TET (Teachers’ Eligibility Test) and Shiksha Mitra aspirants, Akhilesh Yadav claimed the BJP government did nothing for them in more than four years. The government’s advertisements were all a lie, he claimed. They had promised that people wearing slippers would be able to undertake air travel, but the fact is farmers are not getting fertilizers on the ground, the Samajwadi Party chief alleged. “The farmers are spending days in the field to save their crops from stray cattle,” he further said, assuring the farmers that they would be given free irrigation if the SP was voted to power. He said the double engine government had failed in Bundelkhand where nothing was done since 2017. The people here supported the BJP in the general elections in 2014 and 2019 and the assembly elections of 2017, he said. All that happened, he pointed out, in the name of development was a change in the name of projects that the SP government had initiated for Bundelkhand. About 32 lakh people were below the poverty line in Bundelkhand, he said, adding this government has run bulldozers on the people who, in turn, will “bulldoze” the BJP government in this election. The region where the BJP has 19 assembly seats and four Lok Sabha seats has seen intense political activity in the past fortnight. Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed public meetings in Mahoba and Jhansi on November 19 and chief minister Yogi Adityanath made three visits. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has already visited the region twice for interaction with women in Chitrakoot and a big rally in Mahoba. Akhilesh Yadav would remain in Bundelkhand for three days in a bid to help his party regain the ground it lost in the region in 2017. In response to Akhilesh Yadav’s remarks, UP BJP secretary Chandramohan said, “A political party which has never looked beyond its family and caste, and whose political chief openly talks about love for Jinnah, can hardly be deemed trustworthy. Naturally, fearing rejection, the SP leadership appears to have lost the plot altogether. The 2022 UP polls would establish this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-embarks-on-yatra-in-bundelkhand-region-of-uttar-pradesh-101638379155478.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||UPTET paper leak: Printing job given to Delhi firm in violation of norms: STF probe||LUCKNOW Investigations into the UP Teachers’ Eligibility Test-2021 (UPTET) question paper leak case revealed that the suspended secretary of Exam Regulatory Authority (ERA), UP, Sanjay Kumar Upadhyay, had given the job of printing question papers to a Delhi firm in violation of norms set for the purpose, said STF officials here on Wednesday.Upadhyay, a 1995 batch PCS officer, had overlooked four other printing firms to give the work order to Rai Anoop Prasad’s firm – RSM Finserv Ltd, Badarpur, New Delhi, said an official. He said Prasad’s firm did not fulfill security criteria required for printing question papers of an exam to be conducted on such a large scale. A total of 19,99,418 examinees were supposed to write the UPTET scheduled in two shifts at 2,736 centres across 75 districts of UP on Sunday, but the exam was cancelled after the paper leak.The official said that investigation clearly hinted that Upadhyay preferred Prasad’s firm for the job despite being aware that it was not suitable for the work. Serious lapses on the security front came to fore in printing of question papers, following which the examination process was compromised, he added. He said Upadhyay, who was arrested on Wednesday morning, had been taken to Gautam Buddh Nagar for initiation of further legal proceedings in connection with a case registered against him after the arrest of the printing firm director on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uptet-paper-leak-printing-job-given-to-delhi-firm-in-violation-of-norms-stf-probe-101638379035814.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||KV Corridor inauguration to be broadcast live in 20000 temples across India: Chugh||VARANASI The programme for the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor on December 13 will be broadcast live in 20,000 temples across the country while BJP workers in 15,444 mandals (a mandal comprises many mohallas) would also watch it simultaneously, said Tarun Chugh, BJP national general secretary on Wednesday.“We are all fortunate that we are seeing a grand temple being built at the birthplace of Lord Ram in Ayodhya and Vishwanath Dham has been built in Kashi,” he said.He said Kashi, the oldest city in the world, was also called the city of salvation and was the land of Sant Tulsi Das, Sant Kabir Das and Sant Ravidas. “Our saints and great men have done the work of making Kashi divine. And the work of adding grandeur to divine Kashi is being done under the leadership of Kashi MP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Chugh at a meeting with BJP leaders regarding preparations for the inauguration of KV Corridor by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and programs to be held post inauguration for about a month. He emphasized that the entire country would celebrate the inauguration of KV Corridor by the Prime Minister on December 13.“Along with Kashi, programmes will be organised all over the country. Cleanliness drives and ‘prabhat pheris’ will be organised on December 9,” added Chugh.Apart from the inauguration of KV Corridor on December 13, a convention of BJP-ruled chief ministers and deputy chief ministers would be held in Kashi on December 13-14, a conference of mayors from across the country would be held on December 17 while an organic farming conference and a national seminar on cow-based farming will be organised on December 23, said the BJP leader.KV Corridor inauguration to be celebrated like Diwali Meanwhile, divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said that the three-day inauguration ceremony of KV Corridor on December 12, 13 and 14 will be celebrated like Diwali and Dev Deepawali with huge participation by people.He urged people to decorate their homes and create a festive environment so that the “good image of Kashi” can be seen by visitors and its message goes to the world.Special decorations of ghats and prominent buildings of Kashi would be done as part of the ‘Bhavya Kashi, Divya Kashi’ programme on December 13.“There will be cash awards for the best decorated commercial complexes, hotels and government buildings. ₹51,000 will be given to the best, ₹21,000 to the second best decorated building and ₹11,000 to the one which gets the third place. Incentives worth ₹11,000 will be provided to the ward, which has the best cleaning and decoration,” he said while reviewing preparations for the inauguration of the KV Corridor at a meeting with senior officials. After December 13, ‘prasad’ of Kashi Vishwanath temple and a booklet on the history of the temple would be distributed from house to house, he said.Officials said the inauguration of KV Corridor on December 13 would open avenues of economic progress in the region. While a campaign had been launched to cleanse the entire district, various programmes will be organised to celebrate Diwali and Dev Deepawali on December 12, 13 and 14 as part of the inaugural ceremony. Besides, boats on the ghats will be decorated with lights, they said. According to a press statement, the architect of the KV Corridor project, Bimal Patel, informed that facilities for tourists had been enhanced without tampering with the original structure of the temple.“The work includes construction of temple chowk, Varanasi city gallery, museum, multipurpose auditoriums, hall, devotee facilitation centre, public convenience, salvation home, Godowlia gate, Bhogshala, shelter for priests and sevadars, spiritual book space, and others. About 70% of the 5.50 lakh sq ft area of the project would be kept open for the green cover,” informed Patel.“We worked to fulfil the PM’s vision of reorganizing the temple premises to restore its grandeur,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kv-corridor-inauguration-to-be-broadcast-live-in-20000-temples-across-india-chugh-101638378495546.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||Devotees motivated to cast votes during UP polls at nine-day Ramkatha in Prayagraj||To motivate people to vote in the upcoming UP assembly polls next year, an awareness programme was held during the nine-day Ramkatha in Dhumanganj area of Prayagraj that concluded on Tuesday.On the last day of Ramkatha, devotees turned up in large numbers and took oath to use their voting rights during the 2022 UP assembly polls. The Ramakatha was organised at Har Har Mahadeo Shiv Mandir where Katha vachak from Vrindavan Shri Ankit Krishna Ji Maharaj is narrating Katha.The manager of the event Katha Rahul Singh said “Not only devotees are listening to Ramkatha but are also being made aware of their duty of casting their votes in the upcoming UP assembly polls. The voters are being given oath for using their voting rights for a strong democracy and making a strong government.” Singh said the aim behind the move is to increase voting percentage in the polls. The devotees are also being offered help in sorting out problems regarding voter list and voter identity card etc. Meanwhile, district election office will also launch a campaign to motivate people to use their voting rights. “Under the drive, voters will be approached at their doorsteps. District Election department has identified localities with low voting percentage and will lay focus on such areas. The campaign will continue till December 31 and stress will be laid on Allahabad North assembly constituency where voting percentage was comparatively low than other constituencies,” ADM (administration) Harshdev Pandey said.The campaign will be launched soon after review of voter lists. Similar drives will be launched in constituencies under Sadar tehsil, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/devotees-motivated-to-cast-votes-during-up-polls-at-nine-day-ramkatha-in-prayagraj-101638377955100.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||IIT Bombay student receives a job offer worth ₹2.05 crore per annum||Mumbai: The first day of placements across the IIT campuses started on a high note, with most institutes witnessing a higher number of job offers compared to previous academic years. A student of the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee has received a job with an international tech firm offering him ₹2.15 crore per annum. Similarly, a student of IIT Bombay was offered USD 2.74 lakh per annum (roughly around ₹2.05 crore) by Uber and another student of IIT Guwahati has been offered ₹2 crore per annum this year.Last year, the highest package offered to a student of IIT Bombay was $ 200,000 (roughly around ₹1.54 crore) by US-based IT firm Cohesity.11 students of IIT Roorkee have received job offers with ₹1 crore plus remuneration, including offers for domestic roles to three students between ₹1.3 crore to ₹1.8 crore. Meanwhile, IIT Madras witnessed a 46% rise in job offers made on day one compared to last year, a total of 176 job offers were made in the first half of the day itself, higher than any previous year. Similarly, at IIT Guwahati, nearly 200 job offers were received on the first day compared to 158 offers made last year. Vinay Sharma, professor in charge, Placement and Internship Cell, IIT Roorkee shared, “Keeping the current job market in mind, we made our strategy accordingly and tied up with the best of the companies across sectors including AI, software, networks to finance and manufacturing among others. We also ensured great diversification in the profiles which resulted in more offers extended to the students in the companies specific to their interests.”Top recruiters this year included Microsoft, Qualcomm, Google, Boston Consulting Group, Airbus, Amazon, Apple, APT Portfolio Pvt. Ltd., Bajaj Auto Limited for domestic roles whereas the top recruiters for international jobs included Uber and Rubrik among others. The job profiles offered range from Product Engineer, Research and Development, Software Engineer, Hardware Engineer, Business Analyst, Financial Analyst, Marketing Analyst, GET (Graduate Engineer Trainee), Consulting, Product Management, Data Science, etc.Institutes have also witnessed a rise in the total number of jobs offered for domestic roles this year. At IIT Guwahati, multiple numbers of domestic offers of above ₹1.1 crore have been made to students whereas, at IIT Roorkee, the highest annual package for a domestic role stands at ₹1.8 crores compared to ₹80 lakhs that was received last year. “28 companies participated in the first session on day one of placements and we are getting confirmation from several others for the remaining sessions. Regular recruiters have shown faith in the institute and we are anticipating more offers from these companies over the next few days,” said a spokesperson for IIT Bombay. The first phase of placements that commences on December 1 across several IITs goes on for seven to 14 days based on the total companies registered. 
01-12-2021||Lucknow||UP deputy CM stirs Hindutva pot, hints at grand temple in Mathura||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya stirred the Hindutva pot in the poll-bound state on Wednesday as he tweeted that construction of a grand temple in Ayodhya and Kashi was underway and Mathura would be next. Maurya is a close aide of former Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) chief late Ashok Singhal, who had led the Ayodhya agitation. His comments led to opposition parties accusing the BJP of playing polarization politics ahead of the 2022 UP polls. Mathura is part of western UP, where the BJP was expected to incur losses due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation and Maurya’s pinned tweet was seen as a deliberate attempt to queer the pitch. “Ayodhya aur Kashi mein bhavya mandir nirman jaari hai, Mathura ki taiyyari hai (Grand temples are being constructed in Ayodhya and Kashi and Mathura would be next),” Maurya said in his now viral tweet, which he signed off with three hashtags of Hindu deities: #Jaishri Ram, #Jai Shiv Shambhu, #Jai Shri Radhe Krishna. Maurya’s tweet coincided with right wing body Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Mahasabha (ABHM) calling off its proposed programme to place an idol of Lord Krishna at Eidgah that borders the Krishna Janmabhoomi temple to offer ‘jalabhishek’ on December 6. Section 144, prohibiting the assembly of five or more persons, was already in place in Mathura. Eidgah, where Muslims offer prayers and Krishna Janmabhoomi are located side by side and Hindu organizations have filed various litigations in Mathura civil court, each of them claiming, that Eidgah was built on the land where Lord Krishna was born. When contacted, the deputy chief minister said the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya had made “Hindus and Ram bhakts happy.” He added: “During the time of the Ayodhya agitation, we would raise the slogan that Ayodhya is ours, now is the turn of Kashi and Mathura. The Kashi Vishwanath corridor has come up in Varanasi and naturally it would be the turn of Mathura next.” Maurya said: “With the blessings of the people, we are confident that the ancient glory of our grand heritage would be restored.” The Congress and the Samajwadi Party wasted no time in hitting back at the BJP. “The game plan is clear. A day before union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to western UP, a deliberate attempt has been made to polarise the society on religious lines. The BJP is back to Hindu-Muslim politics,” said Zishan Haider, spokesperson. Congress. Samajwadi Party spokesman IP Singh said the tweet showed that the BJP was feeling the heat. “They are losing and there could be no better confirmation,” he said. However, UP BJP leader Navin Srivastava defended Maurya. “There is nothing wrong in what Keshav ji said. We all should be proud of our heritage. Shame on these political parties who first tried to stall the construction of Ram temple and now are back to playing their favorite appeasement politics,” sai Srivastava. 
01-12-2021||Lucknow||National meet for “Flexible Academic Program” at Prayagraj’s IIIT-A from Dec 3||In order to implement the Flexible Academic Program (FAP) at national institutes as part of National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad (IIIT-A) is going to organise a two-day national conference on its Jhalwa campus here from December 3.The post-schooling to PhD level Flexible Academic Program includes multi-institute, multi-entry and lateral entry, multi-exit, multi-disciplinary, multi-mode and multi-lingual features, informed IIIT-A officials. FAP coordinator prof Neetesh Purohit on Wednesday said the conference aims to concretize various business rules related to academics, administration and financial aspects of FAP such that a 4-year pilot run of FAP (initially for technical education) may be conducted through a consortium of institutes/universities from the academic year 2022-23. Several senior officials of AICTE, AIU, NITI Aayog and union ministry of education will be involved along with educationists from renowned IITs, NITs, IIITs, technical universities and central universities of the country during the two-day conference. “Further, posters/abstracts for effective implementation of NEP-2020 in higher education institutes/ universities are also invited. Some selected posters/abstracts may be included in the proceedings of the conference. Entire academic fraternity is the target audience; they may join the conference through the online platform,” Purohit said. The Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas (SSUN), New Delhi and IEEE, UP section have extended non-financial support to the conference and FAP. It may be mentioned that the IIITA-Prayagraj drafted the FAP ordinance and its senate appreciated the concept in June 2021.Prof P Nagabhushan, director, IIIT-A said this ordinance is an articulation of the institute’s commitment towards NEP-2020, with a view that it enables students to maintain the continuity in learning process.IIIT-A shall constitute a non-profit section 8 company (a company is referred to as section 8 company when it registered as a non-profit organization) for implementing the FAP from academic session 2022. This company shall also create a consortium of various Indian and Foreign institutes/universities for taking part and strengthening this initiative of IIITA, he said. PHOTO CAPTION: IIIT-A campus (HT File Photo) Writer: K Sandeep Kumar Contact: 9415235145 ===============||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/national-meet-for-flexible-academic-program-at-prayagraj-s-iiit-a-from-dec-3-101638377475128.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||BSP leader says farm laws will be back after UP polls||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra on Wednesday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), alleging that the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws was only till the UP polls. “These three farm laws would be reintroduced once the UP polls are over,” Satish Chandra Mishra said at a party workers’ meeting in Kaushambi district of Uttar Pradesh. He also used the occasion to appeal to the people to vote for Dashrath Lal Pasi, Neetu Kannaujia and Atul Dwivedi, the party candidates from the Khaga, Manjhanpur and the Chayal assembly constituencies. “More than 700 farmers lost their lives in the over a year-long agitation and this government and its party leaders kept on calling the farmers terrorists and criminals. To date, families of those 700 plus farmers have neither been given any compensation nor the deceased farmers’ kin been considered for jobs,” Mishra said.(The government has said there is no record of any farmer having died during the protests).The BSP leader claimed that contrary to expectations, the government at the Centre had no plans to enact a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for its produce.“No law is going to be enacted on MSP for if that happened the government won’t be able to loot the farmers,” he said.The BSP leader said Kaushambi district was formed when BSP chief Mayawati was in power and said that today the district has developed due to that decision by the BSP government.Claiming that Uttar Pradesh was most unsafe for women, the BSP leader also hit out at the opposition Samajwadi Party. Reacting to Mishra’s remarks, UP BJP spokesman Harish Srivastava said, “This is expected posturing from a frustrated opposition which has seen the writing on the wall and is thus getting desperate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-leader-says-farm-laws-will-be-back-after-up-polls-101638377055099.html
01-12-2021||Patna||MLAs say ignored at events launching infra projects, CM trashes charge||Bihar Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday dismissed accusations made by opposition as well as ruling alliance legislators that local MLAs are often not invited at events where foundation stone for new projects are laid by the chief minister himself and that many of the projects launched in a bulk manner remain incomplete.“This perception is not correct. As a matter of rule, there are standing instructions to all departments from my side that wherever I, as chief minister, grace any event for foundation stone laying of new projects, all local MLAs, MPs and former MPs should be invited. In fact, I never attend any foundation stone laying events of new projects unless I am told that the tendering process of the proposed project has already been done to ensure such projects are completed on time,” Kumar said. The issue was raised by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA and former minister Nitish Mishra in a call attention motion in the state assembly. Mishra said that after 2020 assembly polls, local MLAs often are not being informed by rural works department about new road projects being launched under PMGSY( Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana) and MMGSY(Mukhyamantri Gram Sadak Yojana) and at times, the local MLAs are not invited at foundation stone laying events of the department. Joining the debate, opposition legislators like Awadh Bihari Choudhary of the Rashtriya Janat Dal (RJD) and Vijay Shankar Dubey of Congress supported Mishra’s contention. “When these projects are launched in a bulk manner by the chief minister remain incomplete, people corner local legislators and they have to face the brunt,” they said. Mishra said that as a local MLA from Jhanjharpur, he had not been provided a list of roads being taken up under PMGSY for last many months and was not aware of how many projects were going on in his constituency. Rural works department minister Jayant Raj said he would provide the list of all such projects in various districts and constituencies to all MLAs within a week.Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary too assured the House that if there had been lapses in sharing of information, action would be initiated against erring officials. Opposition members, however, insisted the chief minister reply in the matter. “I heard some of the members, including some former ministers, raising this issue. I want to ask them what was the practice during their time. In my tenure, I have issued guidelines long back. But yes, if there is any discrepancy, inform us about it and we will look into it,” CM Kumar said.The chief minister also took potshots at the Nitish Mishra. “You yourself have remained a minister for long, but now you are raising questions. Why don’t you now share all things that happened in your time with the current rural works minister,” Kumar said, implying that there were many discrepancies during Mishra’s tenure as rural development minister. 
01-12-2021||Indore||Amid Omicron scare, Indore authorities looking for 100 foreign returnees||The authorities in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore are looking for 100 people who returned from abroad in the past one month. With the concerns around Omicron leading to Centre revising its guidelines and putting in place stringent checking, the authorities have intensified their search.Some of these returnees were tested and none of the samples were found to be infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr B S Saitya said on Wednesday that in total, 150 people returned to Indore from abroad in the last one month."So far, we have traced 50 people, out of about 150 who have returned home in Indore from abroad during last one month. Samples of the 50 traced persons were tested and none of them were found to be infected with Covid-19," Drd Saitya was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“We are searching for the remaining 100 people so that their samples can also be collected and tested," he added.Indore collector Manish Singh asked the industrial and business establishments in the district to ensure that all their employees get the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine within the stipulated period, failing which an FIR will be registered against the employers concerned under the Epidemic Diseases Act.Singh said the district administration is currently sealing such establishments, where the employees have not received a second dose of the vaccine in the stipulated time limit.According to officials, 30.82 lakh eligible people in Indore have received their first dose of the vaccine while 24.87 lakh of them have been administered both the jabs. Officials said that about 3.25 lakh people in the district have not turned up for the second dose even after the time limit elapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/amid-omicron-scare-indore-authorities-looking-for-100-foreign-returnees-101638376592982.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: High court grants default bail to Sudha Bharadwaj; pleas of 8 others rejected||The Bombay high court on Wednesday granted default bail to activist Sudha Bharadwaj but rejected the applications of eight co-accused facing terrorism and conspiracy charges for allegedly fomenting violence in Bhima Koregaon village in 2018.This is the first time that a person accused in the high-profile case has been granted default bail, which can be given if a person is jailed for more than 90 days without a charge sheet. One of the other accused, poet Varavara Rao, is out on medical bail and a second accused, Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, died in July. All other 14 accused are in custody as undertrial prisoners. A division bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar said Bharadwaj filed her default bail application on November 26, 2018 -- before the expiry of the detention period cutoff on January 25, 2019 -- but her application was valid. The chargesheet was filed on February 21, 2019. “On the touchstone of the guarantee of personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution, in our view, to deprive the applicant Sudha Bharadwaj of the indefeasible right on the premise that the application preferred on 26th November 2018 was premature, would be taking a too technical and formalistic view of the matter,” said the 120-page order. “In our view, all the requisite conditions to release the applicant Sudha Bharadwaj on default bail stood fully satisfied,” the judges added. The bench directed Bharadwaj, currently lodged in the Byculla women’s jail, be produced before the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on December 8 for deciding the conditions of her bail and date of release. It rejected NIA’s request for a stay on Bharadwaj’s bail for two weeks. But the court held that Bharadwaj’s co-accused -- Rao, Sudhir Dhawale, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves, Arun Ferreira, Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen and Surendra Gadling -- didn’t qualify for automatic bail.At least 16 activists, lawyers and authors are facing charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for participating in alleged Maoist conspiracy to trigger violence on January 1, 2018 in Bhima Koregaon village in Maharashtra’s Pune district. The event, attended mostly by Dalit communities, marked the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war. The activists are accused of delivering inflammatory speeches during an event called Elgar Parishad organised in Pune on December 31, 2017. The activists have denied all charges and accused the prosecution of planting evidence. Bharadwaj, arguably the most prominent of the arrested activists, applied for default bail arguing that sessions judge K D Vadane, who granted Pune Police a 90-day extension on November 26, 2018 to file the chargesheet, did not have jurisdiction to do so as only a special NIA court could hear UAPA cases.Her advocate, Yug Chaudhry, cited responses from the high court’s registry under the Right to Information Act to say that Vadane was not competent to hear matters under UAPA. He added Vadane was not even authorised as a special judge to take cognisance of the Pune Police’s supplementary charge sheet filed on February 21, 2019. Chaudhry cited a Supreme Court judgement that held only special courts can hear cases under the UAPA. The other applications argued that additional sessions judges of the Pune sessions court had not been designated as special judges and therefore, could not have taken cognisance of their case registered under UAPA. But the HC found that the other petitions were not filed before the chargesheet or supplementary chargesheet were submitted, and therefore could not be allowed. A default bail application under section 167 (2) of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) can be filed when an investigating agency does not file a charge sheet within 90 days of arresting an accused. The 90-day period can be extended by a court if it feels that the prosecution deserves more time. But the HC found that the sessions judge was not authorised to do so under law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-high-court-grants-default-bail-to-sudha-bharadwaj-pleas-of-8-others-rejected-101638376575152.html
01-12-2021||Patna||HC asks CID to probe judge assault case||The Patna High Court on Wednesday asked the crime investigation department (CID) of Bihar Police to probe the case of alleged assault on a judge in Madhubani district by police officers last month and fixed the next hearing for December 8. Avinash Kumar, additional district judge (ADJ) at Jhanjharpur in Madhubani, was allegedly assaulted in his chamber by two policemen on November 18.Handing over the probe to CID, the HC directed the state government that there should not be any interference of Madhubani police in the investigation. During the hearing, state’s advocate general Lalit Kishore said, “If the court wants to get an inquiry conducted by the CBI or other agencies, it can be done.”As per the ADJ’s complaint, station house officer (SHO) of Ghoghardiha police station, Gopal Krishna, and sub-inspector Abhimanyu Kumar Sharma entered his chamber on November 18, abused and assaulted him and even pointed a pistol at him. Within hours of the incident, the HC took suo motu cognisance and Chief Justice Sanjay Karol set up a special division bench to hear the matter. Later, Krishna was removed from the post of SHO of Ghoghardiha police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hc-asks-cid-to-probe-judge-assault-case-101638376455154.html
01-12-2021||Other||Muzaffarpur: Nine more patients’ eyes removed after botched cataract surgery||Doctors at Shri Krishna Medical College & Hospital (SKMCH) here on Wednesday removed eyes of as many as nine patients following severe infections allegedly caused after they underwent surgery for cataract at a free camp organized at an eye hospital in the city on November 22, district health officials said.Also Read | Seven lose vision in one eye after cataract surgery in Bihar’s MuzaffarpurWith this, the number of patients’ whose one eye had to be removed owing to panophthalmitis (severe eye infection) after they underwent the cataract surgery at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital, located in Juran Chhapra area of Muzaffarpur, has reached 15.Muzaffarpur ‘s civil surgeon Dr Vinay Kumar Sharma said, “In all, 11 people’s eyes have been removed at the SKMCH, nine of them on Wednesday. Four patients’ eyes were removed at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital,” he said on Wednesday, adding that two more patients are admitted at the SKMCH.Sharma said he has sought the list of all patients operated upon at the eye hospital on November 22. “We will contact each of these patients to take stock of health status. We have also sought information about the doctors who performed the operations,” he said, while vowing stern action against those found guilty.Prima facie, the incident seems to have occurred owing to factors like poor sterilisation and hygiene, among others, he said. “Things would be clear after medical investigation (culture) report arrives,” he said.Preliminary investigation has revealed that as many as 65 patients underwent surgery at the hospital on November 22 itself.Muzaffarpur’s district magistrate Pranav Kumar said, “We have ordered to stop any more operations at the hospital. We will also recommend cancellation of its registration if any doctor is found guilty.”Dr Rajeev Kumar Singh, head of department of eye at the SKMCH, said the patients were critically afflicted with panophthalmitis (severe eye infections). “They all would be under our observation for next few days,” he said.Sanjay Kumar Sah, manager at the SKMCH, said 14 patients were admitted in the hospital with severe eye infection but three of them left the hospital against medical advice.One such patient, Jaitoon Khatoon, in her late 60s, said, “There isn’t any male member in my family to look after me. So, we had no other option but to leave the hospital.” Khatoon, a resident of Bhatauna Kani village in Muzaffarpur district and a daily wage earner, said the vision in her eye is gone.One of her relative, Maroon Khatoon, said she accompanied her to SKMCH where she was advised removal of her infected eye as the last option. “After that, she refused to stay there,” she said.Khatoon is not the lone case of this kind. HT came across patients who, despite suffering from severe eye infections, preferred not to undergo treatment for one reason or other. “It will cost me ₹ 600 again to visit a hospital at Muzaffarpur. Where will this money come from?” asked Jumarati Miyan.“Panophthalmitis can have potentially serious complications and can be fatal if left untreated,” said Dr Sumit Kumar, assistant professor at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) at Bettiah.Meanwhile, Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital wore a deserted look on Wednesday. “We have stopped entertaining patients even in our OPD,” said an employee.A four-member team constituted to probe the matter found that as many as 65 patients, mostly daily wage earners, had undergone surgery for cataract at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital on November 22.“We came about the camp through announcements made in our villages,” said Shahela Khatoon.owever, Rohit Kumar, grandson of Kaushlya Devi whose eye had to be removed, said, “Patients’ poor personal hygiene and ignorance of instruments sterilisation were quite obvious during the free camp.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muzaffarpur-nine-more-patients-eyes-removed-after-botched-cataract-surgery-101638376335070.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||United front without Congress not feasible, state leaders tell Mamata||Mumbai With West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) head Mamata Banerjee trying to gather support ahead of the 2024 General Election, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi allies, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party, said that any front without the Congress is not feasible. Even as Banerjee remarked that the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) was almost non-existent, Sena and NCP said that all opposition parties must come together to mount a formidable front against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). A day after Banerjee met Sena MP Sanjay Raut, the latter said that the issues between the TMC and Congress were related to state politics and hinted that an opposition front without the Congress is unthinkable. “It is NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s opinion that everyone must come together,” he stated. Meanwhile, NCP leaders believe that Banerjee is trying to register her presence as an anti-Narendra Modi force and said that Congress’ inclusion is important as it is the only party with a pan-India presence.Talking about Banerjee being a one of the prominent leaders in the country along with Uddhav Thackeray and Sharad Pawar, Raut refused to comment on West Bengal’s state politics but pointed out that there is an issue. “The Left parties were decimated in West Bengal, the existence of Congress is no longer there and Mamata Didi got a historic victory against the BJP. Didi is originally from Congress. Definitely, there is an issue between the two parties but still, we think that if we have to fight against BJP, we have to move forward together,” Raut said.Over the years, the relationship between the Sena leadership and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has warmed up. A key part of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, Sena can’t afford to antagonise Congress as it has national aspirations. A senior Sena leader, requesting anonymity said, “We cannot overlook the fact that Congress is a party that is strong at the grassroots. It has chief ministers in three states. A front without the Congress is not possible.”A senior NCP leader under the conditions of anonymity said that out of 543 Lok Sabha seats, Congress is in direct contest with BJP on nearly 250 seats. “It means that without Congress, no such front would be a practical option. Unless there is a thought process going on under which Congress and third front are ready to contest on their own and a decision will be taken post polls. But it seems too far-fetched,” the leader added.Party national spokesperson Nawab Malik said that Mamata Banerjee is playing the role of a buffer for those who didn’t want to go with Congress, which will prevent them from allying with BJP. “Those who are not happy with Congress can join hands with her instead of going with BJP. In a way, she is stopping BJP from becoming more powerful. However, the NCP’s stand is very clear that no united front can be made without Congress,” Malik told HT.On speculation that the TMC chief is trying to establish her leadership among opposition parties, he said it is too early to say that. “This is just the beginning as we have a long way ahead. We see it as an attempt to unite anti-BJP parties,” the state minority affairs minister said.Meanwhile, Raut dubbed the central agencies, including the Central Bureau of Investigation, Income Tax Department, Enforcement Directorate, and Narcotics Control Bureau, as BJP “karyakartas” which have “terrorised” states such as Maharashtra and West Bengal.“The BJP’s workers, including ED, CBI, I-T Department and NCB have terrorised the states and are trying to destabilise the functioning of the government. These BJP workers are doing similar work in West Bengal as well. West Bengal and Maharashtra will fight against the injustice,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/united-front-without-congress-not-feasible-state-leaders-tell-mamata-101638373814832.html
01-12-2021||Patna||Will write to CM Nitish seeking state-specific caste census: Tejashwi||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday declared that he will write to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to press the demand for headcount of OBCs with the help of the state's own resources, since the Centre has slammed its doors shut on caste census.Yadav, who is the leader of the opposition in the state assembly, made a statement to the effect while talking to journalists outside the House, where the winter session is underway.“Union minister Nityanand Rai yesterday reiterated that the census schedule will not include castes other than the SCs and STs. So a state-specific exercise is the only option left before Bihar," he said.Admitting that the chief minister had acted on his request during the monsoon session, which resulted in an all-party delegation calling on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to press the demand for caste census, Yadav alleged that Kumar has been, of late, dragging his feet.“The Centre had made its intentions clear long back. The CM said he would convene an all-party meeting to discuss modalities of conducting the survey on a state level after by-polls to a couple of assembly seats. Nearly a month has elapsed since the by-elections. There should not be procrastination," said the RJD leader.The OBCs have dominated politics in Bihar since the Mandal churn of the 1990s to which both Nitish Kumar, de facto leader of the JD(U), and Tejashwi's father Lalu Prasad, owe their rise.Unanimous resolutions have been passed by the state legislature twice in favour of a caste census, which, its champions believe, will pave way for better disbursement of social justice and welfare schemes.Yadav was also asked about the chief minister having taken exception, on the previous day, to his habit of posting on social media letters he wrote to the latter.“I always do so only after making sure that the letter has been received. What is wrong in this? This is just a way to ensure that moral pressure is on the CM to act quickly on a matter since it is in public domain," said the 32-year-old techno savvy leader.Referring to empty liquor bottles being found inside the legislature premises on Tuesday, Yadav said, “It proves what we have always said – prohibition in Bihar is a farce."“Once again complicity of the administrative machinery in illegal liquor business stands exposed. How else could these bottles have been smuggled into Bihar, in first place, from some other state? These must have crossed numerous checkpoints before reaching Patna and landing inside the premises," the former deputy CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/will-write-to-cm-nitish-seeking-state-specific-caste-census-tejashwi-101638372971303.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||After unseasonal rains, Mumbai sees second coolest December day since 2010||The city woke up to unseasonal rains on Wednesday, due to a cyclonic circulation in the Arabian Sea and a trough passing below Kutch. Though showers did not bring relief from the high minimum temperatures, Mumbai at 24.8 degrees Celsius witnessed its second coolest December day since 2010. “A cyclonic circulation lies over the southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea, and a trough in lower levels runs from this cyclonic circulation to Kutch across North East Arabian Sea. The system is very likely to interact with an approaching western disturbance. Under the influence of these weather systems, a wet spell is expected over parts of Maharashtra in the next 24 hours with gradual reduction thereafter,” said an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official from the Regional Meteorological Centre, Mumbai. Throughout the day, on Wednesday (between 8.30am and 5.30pm), the IMD recorded 28.6mm rain at the Santacruz weather station, which is a representative of Mumbai, while it rained 27.6mm in south Mumbai. Humidity levels stood at 93% in south Mumbai and 96% in the suburbs. Rain during the early hours of Wednesday till 8.30am was 1.2mm at the Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai and 0.6 mm at Santacruz, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai. As a result of light showers and cloudy conditions, the maximum temperature in the suburbs dropped to 24.8 degrees Celsius (8.5 degree Celsius drop since Tuesday). The maximum temperature in Colaba was also 24.8 degrees Celsius, which was 7.4 degrees Celsius dip from the previous day. The minimum temperature in the suburbs was recorded at 23.8 degrees Celsius, while south Mumbai recorded 24.5 degrees Celsius. Rains in December are rare for the city. However, last year 0.7mm was recorded on December 11 due to the presence of a low-pressure weather system in the Arabian Sea. In 2019, 1.2 mm was recorded on December 5 due to a weather depression in the Arabian Sea. Between December 5 and 6, 2017, Mumbai suburbs recorded 53.8mm rain while south Mumbai recorded 82.2mm as Cyclone Ockhi went past the city. It was also the all-time high December rain for Mumbai. IMD has forecast light to moderate rain and thundershowers on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-unseasonal-rains-mumbai-sees-second-coolest-december-day-since-2010-101638372674998.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||HC sets aside proclamation against Param Bir Singh’s co-accused extortion case||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday set aside the proclamation order published against Vinay Singh in connection with an extortion case filed at Goregaon police station against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and others, which was later transferred to the crime branch. The counsel for Vinay Singh argued that the November 17 proclamation order, declaring his client as an absconding accused, was not issued after following due procedure and the 30-day notice to appear before the court was also not published properly; hence the magistrate court order should be set aside and quashed. The single-judge bench of justice SK Shinde, while hearing the writ petition of Vinay Singh, was informed by advocate Aniket Nikam that after the sessions court had rejected the anticipatory bail application (ABA) of his client in September 2021, he had applied for the same in the HC in October 2021. A letter informing the senior inspector, crime branch unit 11 of Kandivli, about the same was also written. The petition of Vinay further states that even though an ABA was filed in HC, assistant police inspector of crime branch unit 11 and investigating officer Vishal Patil had moved an application for issuance of proclamation and attachments of Vinay’s property on November 17. The 37th additional metropolitan magistrate court without seeking an affidavit from Patil, to support his application, had issued the proclamation. Nikam argued that under section 82 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) a person against whom a proclamation has to be issued, should be asked to appear in “not less than 30 days” however, the proclamation issued by the magistrate court said “within 30 days” which was not as per the stipulations of section 82, hence, the form of the proclamation was not valid and should be set aside. The court accepted the argument and held that the form, in which, the proclamation was published was not proper and hence set it aside. Special public prosecutor advocate Shekhar Jagtap for the state sought a stay on the operation of the order but was rejected and the petition was disposed of. The case relates to a complaint filed by Bimal Agarwal, a hotelier and civic contractor, based on which the Goregaon police had booked Param Bir Singh, along with Riyaz Bhati, Vinay Singh, Sumit Singh and Alpesh Patel, and dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-sets-aside-proclamation-against-param-bir-singh-s-co-accused-extortion-case-101638371354966.html
01-12-2021||Pune||Pune district sees 211 new Covid cases, 1 death||Pune: As of Wednesday, Pune district has reported 211 new Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.16 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 20,058 deaths and 1,893 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 65,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 71 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 367,939 and the death toll stood at 6,978 as no more death was reported. Pune city reported 101 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 523,344 and the death toll stood at 9,218 as one more death was reported. PCMC reported 39 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 269,917 and the toll stood at 3,512 as one more death was reported. Pune district also saw 65,895 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Wednesday and in total 13,285,248. Of which 8,164,534 are first doses and 5,120,714 are second doses. A total of 636 sites saw vaccination of which 484 were government centres and 152 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-sees-211-new-covid-cases-1-death-101638371236021.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||Thane assistant municipal commissioner who lost fingers in an attack by hawker returns to work after 3 months||Kalpita Pimple, assistant municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) who lost three fingers after an attack by a hawker during an anti-encroachment drive, resumed duties on Wednesday after three months.She was welcomed by the civic body for showing exemplary courage in the last few months. Pimple’s security guard, Somnath Palve, was also acknowledged for his efforts. Pimple was on medical leave after being discharged from the hospital on September 7. Doctors had advised her complete bed rest for recovery.“I was overwhelmed by the welcome that I received at the TMC headquarters. I will be visiting the ward office on Thursday. Despite the incident, if my duties call for taking action against encroachment or illegal hawkers, I’ll continue to do the same. However, I’d like the hawkers to understand that we are not their enemies and we will not take action if they are in hawker’s zones,” said Pimple.Pimple, AMC of Majiwada-Manpada ward, was supervising the anti-hawkers and encroachment drive at Kasarvadavali junction on August 30 when a hawker attacked Pimple unexpectedly. She lost three fingers and also received injuries on the head. One of her security guards also lost a finger while trying to save Pimple while the hawker was arrested by the local police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-assistant-municipal-commissioner-who-lost-fingers-in-an-attack-by-hawker-returns-to-work-after-3-months-101638371195945.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||LTT to soon house another restaurant on wheels||MUMBAI Passengers travelling from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) in the city in 2022 can expect a restaurant on wheels with more than one railway coach and a beautified garden across it.The Central Railway is planning to open a bigger restaurant on wheels with additional railway coaches and beautified space for the visitors after the restaurant on wheels at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) received a good response from guests. The additional coaches will be introduced on railway stations that have space. “The response from the restaurant on wheels has been good. There have been queues outside the restaurant multiple times. We are planning to introduce additional coaches and beautify the area around to accommodate more visitors on railway stations, where space is available.” said a senior Central Railway official.With one additional coach, the restaurant on wheels can accommodate 40 more guests.Similar restaurants will also be opened at Kalyan, Borivali, Igatpuri, Lonavala, Nagpur, Miraj, Chinchwad, Baramati and Akurdi stations in Maharashtra.The present restaurant on wheels has 10 tables with its interiors painted with the suburban railway theme. Within a fortnight after the launch, nearly 10,000 visitors visited the place. The city’s first restaurant on wheels opened for visitors on October 18 at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT). The 24/7 operational restaurant has been opened at the P’D Mello entrance of the terminus.Central Railway introduced the restaurant to increase income under non-fare revenue. The railway will earn Rs.42 lakh per annum from the restaurant at CSMT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ltt-to-soon-house-another-restaurant-on-wheels-101638367214083.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||SA-returned Dombivli man, 50, traced, tested for Covid; report awaited||A 50-year-old man from Dombivli was among the 42 passengers who were in the same flight as the 32-year-old engineer who tested positive for Covid-19 after returning from South Africa, informed the health department of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Wednesday.The KDMC health department has traced the 50-year-old passenger and carried out the RT-PCR test of him and his three family members.The 32-year-old resident of Dombivli landed at the Mumbai airport from South Africa on November 24 via Dubai and Delhi. An RT-PCR test was done on the 32-year-old passenger at the Delhi airport after which he was allowed to board the flight to Mumbai. After arriving in Mumbai, he went to his house by hiring a private cab. Meanwhile, his sample tested positive for Covid.The authorities, then, began contract tracing of passengers a few rows around the seat of the infected passengers.“We received a list of 42 passengers who travelled with the 32-year-old who tested positive on November 24 at the Delhi airport. When we checked and traced the 42 passengers, we found that one of the co-passengers is also from Dombivli. We sent a team to his house and conducted an RT-PCR test of four members from the family including him,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.None of the four showed any symptoms, she added. “The report of the RT-PCR test is expected on Thursday. Meanwhile, the entire family has been asked for strict home isolation. The other 41 passengers are from other cities and we have also alerted the concerned civic corporations to trace them and take the necessary measures,” added Panpatil.Meanwhile, the report of the samples of the 32-year-old passenger that was sent for genome sequencing for the Omicron variant is still awaited, claimed Panpatil. The 32-year-old passenger, asymptomatic, is in institutional quarantine.
01-12-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan stops commercial activities at Nahargarh and Amer forts||JAIPUR: Rajasthan’s archaeology department has ordered stopping all commercial activists at two popular tourist destinations outside Jaipur, Amer Fort and Nahargarh Fort, in compliance with the National Green Tribunal order, state government officials said.The commercial activities impacted by the green tribunal’s order include restaurants and the light and sound show at the two tourist spots. Nahargarh Fort was visited by 366,000 tourists between April and November this year while Amer Fort had a footfall of 495,000 during the same period.The Rajasthan government has approached the Supreme Court against the NGT order to seek a stay. The Supreme Court, which took up the case on Wednesday, has put off the hearing to January.The closure of commercial activities at the two forts on Wednesday follows an order by Pradeep Kumar Gawande, director of Rajasthan’s archaeology and museums department a day earlier. Gawande’s order said the bar on commercial activities will continue till a decision on the special leave petition (SLP) filed in the Supreme Court is received.On October 4, NGT directed the government to shut all commercial activities in the notified forest area of Nahargarh wildlife sanctuary from December 1. The NGT order also directed the government to discontinue the light and sound programme in the area of wildlife sanctuary but has not prohibited parking of vehicles or entry of visitors to the forts.It, however, told the forest department to install noise barriers to mitigate noise generated by the vehicles. The area of Nahargarh Wildlife Sanctuary was notified in 1980 by the Rajasthan government – both monuments are located in the sanctuary area, and are maintained by the archeology department.Tour operator, Sanjay Kaushik said both sites are prominent monuments of Jaipur and such decisions will certainly affect tourism. The decision should be reconsidered as it adds to the state’s revenue and funds maintenance of the sites, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-stops-commercial-activities-at-nahargarh-and-amer-forts-101638364153833.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC to set up first fire station in Borivli East||Mumbai: In the wake of rising fire incidents in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has finally decided to set up a mini fire station in Borivli (East), one of the densely populated areas. According to senior officials of the BMC, there is no local fire station on the eastern side of Borivli and in case of a fire or related emergency, help would arrive from the nearby Dahisar and Kandivli fire stations. Vaqar Javeed, assistant municipal commissioner from R/Central (R/C) ward that covers the Borivli area shared that the responsibility of constructing the fire station was given to the Building Construction department, however, the local ward office took the charge from them for the same.“The land on which the fire station is being built was already reserved for this purpose; however, no action was taken throughout the years. It would have taken more time for the Building Construction department to construct the station, which is why the ward office went ahead and took the responsibility into its own hands. The buildings department had also handed over the allotted funds to us to expedite the process,” Javeed said.Meanwhile, a senior official from the fire brigade said that a dedicated fire station was absolutely a necessity in this area.“Fire station is the need of the hour here as help would reach fast in case of an emergency. This is one of the largest municipal wards in the city and several pockets in the eastern side are densely populated, including some slum areas,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-set-up-first-fire-station-in-borivli-east-101638364094157.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Perils of making MSP a legal obligation||Farm leaders are demanding legal status for the minimum support price (MSP). It is a vexed policy issue and requires diligent handling. First, it must be recognised that the farm sector in 54 countries survives on 700 billion dollars subsidies, be it the US, UK, Europe, Japan, China, or any other country. China spends the largest amount, four times what the US provides to the farmers. The US, for example, has the 2021 farm sector budget amounting to more than 146.5 billion dollars and direct income support of 46.5 billion dollars to the farmers that are 1.5% of the population. In Covid years, the US disbursed 21.5 billion dollars to farmers in two rounds. We have some 60% population engaged in agriculture and we have more than four times the population of the US. Considering the geographical area, the US is three times larger than India. As to the financial resources, India is no match to the US or any other developed country. It is not, therefore, possible for India to be as liberal in providing subsidies to the farmers. In the same way, considering the human pressure on land, India cannot match developed countries. Yet, the need for subsidising the agriculture sector is paramount within the financial resources the country has. Subsidise through income support system What matters more is how the farm sector is subsidised. One way is to subsidise the inputs and provide higher prices than what the supply demand equilibrium would determine. The other approach is to subsidise through the income support system. The two approaches have different implications. Whereas the first approach distorts the market equilibrium, the second does not. For example, US farm crop prices have increased by only 25% from 1990 to 2019. Milk, beef, and pork prices have registered a marginal increase and have not changed much over three decades. The produce, therefore, is competitive in the international market, while the subsidies to the farmers have increased substantially under the income support system. This system has a charge on the budget, but farmers are compensated, and consumers do not suffer price instability because the prices are determined by supply and demand situation that gives perfect market clearance and production pattern automatically adjusts to the changing consumption pattern. In case of input subsidies and output pricing, the charge on the budget is the same. But only a small portion of farmers is benefited through higher use of subsidised inputs and higher prices of their larger marketable surplus. Small and marginal farmers are left high and dry. Neither input subsidies nor the higher product prices are the remedy for their financial problems. Farmers after all are not one homogeneous lot. There are marginal famers, owning less than one acre and some farmers cultivating hundreds of acres. When all farmers are lumped up, bigger farmers gain, and small and marginal farmers stand nowhere. Therefore, farmers should preferably be subsidised through income support system, focused more on marginal, small, and medium farmers. Thus, support to farmers, interests of consumers, and adjustment of production pattern with constantly changing consumption pattern must be met with the direct help to the farmer without distorting the market equilibrium that is beneficial to the consumers and makes the produce competitive in the international market. Assured market price/price support through MSP or any other manner should be replaced with income support to the farmers, letting the market clearance take place through the price determined by the supply demand situation. With respect to the MSP, the concept means the government standing in the market as a buyer of last resort. This is to make sure that the farmer does not go out of business due to a slump in the market. Legalising MSP suicidal for govt The mandate of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) is that farmers get assured price, consumers’ interests are kept in view, and production pattern adjusts to the changing consumption pattern. This was necessitated when the country was deficit in foodgrains. Thus, the focus of the government was on increasing production of food grains with assured prices, procurement, and distribution through the public distribution system. Though MSP was announced for 22 crops, yet the government bought only the food grains through the Food Corporation of India, and some cotton for the government ginning mills through Cotton Corporation of India. The basic requirements being that when MSP should be higher than the market price, it should be procured by the government. Otherwise, the MSP carries no meaning. Except for wheat, rice, and cotton, and sometimes for coarse grains, MSPs were kept below the market prices; hence there was no procurement, and the MSP remained dysfunctional. In my opinion after providing direct income support to the farmers of the country, the government should enter the market as a competitive buyer to meet its distributional requirements and exports, if necessary. There is no point in declaring MSPs for so many commodities which the government does not and should not buy. If the MSP is made legal, what would the government do to dispose of the procured produce at a price higher than the market price? The government is not a trader after all. Legalising MSP will be suicidal for the government and will hit the interest of farmers and consumers. It will also not allow the diversification of crop patterns in the problem areas in Punjab and Haryana. The writer is a noted farm economist. Views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/perils-of-making-msp-a-legal-obligation-101638363913640.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Talent in each one of us needs constant honing||I was at my maternal village of Butala not far from Amritsar the day its first hockey Olympian, Dilpreet Singh Bal, was offered a rousing reception as he arrived from Tokyo with a bronze medal. The following morning, Balwinder Singh Bal, his father, took me along to Dilpreet’s school in the village, where he was invited as chief guest in the morning assembly. We witnessed another warm welcome for the Olympian with excitement and pride among students and staff. It was inspiring to listen to Dilpreet addressing the gathering, sharing how his dreams took birth and how he pursued them, besides his memories from the classroom to the school grounds. It was followed by thought-provoking speeches by the principal and other staff members. They ardently talked about valuing one’s talent and dreams. That memorable morning landed in my mind as I sat by the window, leading me to indulge in a monologue, beginning and concluding with tales of talent. It’s a universal fact that each one of us is blessed with a unique talent, often hidden deep inside. Some discover it, others don’t, but just discovering or unearthing it isn’t enough for talent needs constant honing. Most essentially, we should have the discipline for it. American author Jim Rohn frequently termed discipline as the bridge between goals and accomplishment. There is, however, one crucial stage, where unfortunately many give up. A stage where we have to fight for our dreams, and at times it begins from home itself, with our family members raising doubts about our chosen path. We are constantly questioned but if we have a strong self-belief in our dreams and ourselves, we can never be affected by the pressures around us. Self-belief keeps us connected to our passion. The ability to handle constant rejections is another test and it seems to me that wherever we are being tested, in any form – our dreams are somewhere watching us, taking cognizance of how strong or weak we are for them. I’m reminded of American novelist Erica Jong’s words, “Everyone has talent. What’s rare is the courage to follow it to the dark places, where it leads.” And one day, it is these dark places, where we are rigorously tested, that lead us to the most happening light of our lives. Giving up for whatever reason, be it ‘my elders wanted me to pursue something else’ as many sadly share, we end up blaming and remain filled with regret throughout life’s journey. In other words, we become victim and not what we could have been. When we stay glued to our talent, life turns so interesting and meaningful; from ordinary it becomes extraordinary as the Japanese book, Ikigai: The Secret To Long And Happy Life, also explains. In fact, its title Ikigai also means finding a talent in oneself to make life fascinating. Once we have found our talent, we plant Ikigai in our lives and it always gives us more than our expectations. I am experiencing my Ikigai through writing and I absolutely adore it. Despite rejections at times, I keep going on to stay connected with my Ikigai because its presence in life matters greatly. rameshinder.sandhu@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor 
01-12-2021||Lucknow||UPTET paper leak: Suspended ERA secretary arrested, another accused held in Aligarh||LUCKNOW In a major crackdown in UP Teachers’ Eligibility Test-2021 (UPTET) question paper leak case, the Special Task Force (STF) on Wednesday arrested the suspended secretary of Prayagraj-headquartered Exam Regulatory Authority (ERA), UP, Sanjay Kumar Upadhyay, said Amitabh Yash, ADG, STF.Another key accused Gaurav Kumar was also arrested from Aligarh on Tuesday night. His arrest helped ascertaining identities of seven more accused in the paper leak nexus, said UP police STF officials. In the past four days, 38 people had been arrested in connection with the paper leak case while the involvement of at least nine other accused, who were still at large, surfaced in the matter, they said.The ADG said Upadhyay was arrested after the hours-long interrogation of Rai Anoop Prasad, director of the Delhi-based firm assigned the job of printing TET question papers, who was arrested from UP’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday over his alleged involvement in the case.Another STF official said that Prasad had revealed that Upadhyay had issued a work order to his printing firm, RSM Finserv Ltd, Badarpur, New Delhi, on October 26 for printing the question papers. He said the duo was found to have violated the secrecy protocol while printing the question papers, following which the papers were leaked and the exam was cancelled.The UP government had on Tuesday suspended Upadhyay with immediate effect after he was allegedly found negligent in ensuring smooth, fair and copying-free conduct of UPTET-2021, said a senior government official.UPTET is a state-level exam conducted once a year to enable candidates to gain eligibility to teach primary classes (1to 5) and upper primary classes (6 to 8) in schools of the UP government. The responsibility of conducting the exam lies with the ERA.During interrogation, Gaurav Kumar of Tappal in Aligarh revealed that he arranged question papers with the help of his friend Nirdosh Singh and Vishnu, residents of Gonda and Aligarh, said another senior STF official. He said Nirdosh arranged these papers through Dharmendra Malik, Ravi Pawar, Manish Malik, Ajay through some contact in Mathura.Before Gaurav Kumar, another key accused Rahul Chowdhary was arrested from Baghpat on Monday for his alleged involvement in the question paper leak while five others were held in Basti on Tuesday night for compromising question papers. The official said Rahul Chowdhary had also mentioned the names of three persons – Feroz of Baghpat, Balram Rathi of Muzaffarnagar and Ravi of Shamli. The state government had cancelled the UPTET-2021 on Sunday (November 28) after the paper leak came to fore following the arrest of 29 people from five districts of UP and recovery of question papers from some of them hours before the exam on Saturday night (November 27). Eighteen people were arrested from Prayagraj, four from Lucknow, three each from Shamli and Ayodhya while one person was arrested from Kaushambi district in connection with the paper leak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uptet-paper-leak-suspended-era-secretary-arrested-another-accused-held-in-aligarh-101638363313634.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||Make drugs for HIV opportunistic infections widely available: Activists||The lack of essential medicines required for the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections is causing a lot of suffering among human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) - Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) patients. This issue has been raised by a group of experts, patient-activists and organisations in a letter sent to the Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) on World AIDS Day on Wednesday. HIV attacks the immune system. Its chronic and advanced stage is known as AIDS. Due to the suppressed immunity of the infected patients, they become vulnerable to catching other bacterial, viral and fungal infections. For instance, tuberculosis (TB) is the commonest opportunistic infection among HIV/AIDS patients. Other common infections include pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) that causes inflammation and fluid buildup in the lungs, cryptococcal meningitis, a painful fungal infection of the brain, cytomegalovirus (CMV) that commonly infects the gastrointestinal tract, toxoplasmosis, a parasitic infection that causes muscle pain and fever among other infections. “There is a range of medications indicated for HIV/AIDS patients in order to keep these opportunistic infections at bay, boost the immune system and reduce the side effects of existing medications,” said activist Ganesh Acharya, who is one of the 24 signatories to the letter sent to the government. “But many of these drugs are unavailable or irregularly available in the public sector. For instance, fluconazole, a common and cheap medication to treat fungal infections are never available in centres. Another important medication known as pyridoxine recommended for HIV patients to tackle the vitamin B6 deficiency is always unavailable,” he said. According to Acharya, despite the revised National AIDS Control Programme (NACP) IV emphasising the management of opportunistic infections, most centres delay prescribing these medicines. He cited a case of a 50-year-old Thane resident who was diagnosed and registered in anti-retroviral therapy (ART) in Mumbai but was never prescribed any of the preventive drugs despite his CD4 cell count being below 200. CD4 cells are white blood cells that fight infection in the body. A low CD4 count is an indication to put HIV patients on preventive therapies as they are bound to catch opportunistic infections. “Many of these patients are already malnourished, and their nutritive intake does not match the level required to combat the impact of medications they take,” said Elizabeth Selhore, co-founder of Pune-based no-profit Sahara that works in the field of drug use and HIV/AIDS. “Preventive therapies and drugs to tackle the opportunistic infections are therefore crucial for their survival and good health,” she said adding that some of the common drugs that were earlier available under the NACP are not given anymore. In their letter, the activists and organisations have urged that the drugs should be procured centrally by the NACO for better availability. “Even today, in the era of antiretroviral therapy, we are losing people living with HIV to AIDS-related illnesses such as TB, pneumocystis pneumonia, cryptococcal meningitis, CMV, and toxoplasmosis,” said the letter. “We are concerned that people living with HIV in India currently do not have access to the complete package of screening tests, prophylaxis and treatments needed to reduce deaths due to advanced HIV disease,” it added. Mumbai-based infectious disease expert Dr Vasant Nagvekar (not a signatory) said that opportunistic infections become life-threatening for HIV/AIDS patients. “The sooner the treatment for such infections is started, the better for patients to cope,” said Dr Nagvekar adding that the number of HIV cases has come down over the years only because the ART treatment is started soon as a person tests positive, unlike earlier when ART was started only after the CD4 count reached a certain level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/make-drugs-for-hiv-opportunistic-infections-widely-available-activists-101638362894097.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||Hawker steals three-month-old on pretext of selling bucket||A three-month-old baby girl was allegedly stolen by a woman hawker from the Kalachowki area on Tuesday. As per the complaint, a hawker approached the girl’s mother at her residence to sell a plastic bucket in exchange for old clothes or old mobile phones. When the mother proceeded to her room, the hawker followed her and pressed a chloroform-laced cloth on her mouth, due to which, the mother lost her consciousness, said a police officer. The woman hawker then picked up the baby girl, who was sleeping at the time, and fled from the house, the officer added. The incident occurred around 12:15pm when the mother and child were at home and her husband had stepped out for work. After she gained consciousness, she called her husband and approached the Kalachowki police station to report the incident. The police have registered a first information report and several teams have been constituted to search the woman hawker, said the police officer. Police are also scrutinising footage of CCTV cameras in the vicinity. “The crime branch has also started a parallel investigation and one of their teams has been questioning hawkers in the locality to get the details of the accused. We are making all efforts to trace the stolen child and espousing all possibilities,” said deputy commissioner of police Vijay Patil of zone 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hawker-steals-three-month-old-on-pretext-of-selling-bucket-101638361453656.html
01-12-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: When Shaniwarwada screamed “Uncle save me”||The 18th century will be remembered in history as century of Maratha confederacy where almost two third of Hindostan was under direct or indirect control of Marathas. During ascendancy of Madhavrao, the Peshwa treasury was debt ridden and losses during Panipat had weakened and depleted the army and military resources. Madhavrao I, the young Peshwa, in no time enforced strict discipline and accountability in management of the state affairs. The corrupt and non-performing officers were reprimanded and punished if the performance was poor. Madhavrao I himself was a man of great character and did not overindulge in luxuries offered by his Peshwa position. He was pious at heart, ardent Ganesha worshipper and spent his time in charity and prayers. His strict and ethical behaviour was feared by many, especially the servants at Shaniwarwada! He made sure that the revenue collection was maximised and efficient through stricter administrative control. It was ensured that the revenue was channelised for activities related to people’s welfare. Military powers were further strengthened by addition of ungraded artillery and recruitment of able cavalry. His strategic vision and command of various Maratha sardars such as Patwardhans, Phadke, Pethe, Panse and Holkars Scindia and Gaikwead led to massive expansion of Maratha territory and gain of new territory beyond Panipat. Madhavrao found a great ally in Ram Shastri Prabhine who was apex judge of Maratha empire. Ramshastri hailed from a small village of Mahuli in Satara and had humble beginning. During childhood as he worked as “water-carrier boy” at a Brahmin’s household, he was insulted for coveting the “Bhikbali” ear ornament of head of the house. Enraged with the insult and embarassment, Ramshastri decided to seek the highest scholarship which would gain him recognition in society. He went on to study at Kashi in the North and within no time achieved the great scholarship through learning of Vedas and Dharmashastras. His talent was recognised by Nanasaheb Peshwa in 1751 and quickly rose to the post of judge by 1759 through display of intellect, unimpeachable character and wisdom in granting justice. When appointed to the post of chief justice, he had taken written assurance from Nana Phadnavis (finance and home minister for Peshwas) and Sakharam Bapu Bokil (a senior minister and diplomat) that there would be no interference from then in running of judiciary affairs. He had, at times, reminded young Madhavrao Peshwa of his responsibility towards welfare of people and state affairs. His integrity and scrupulous conduct established hold over ailing Maratha judiciary system, bringing respite to masses. Raghunathrao Peshwa, younger brother of Nanasaheb and uncle of Madhavrao, was appointed as regent when Madhavrao was appointed to hold Peshwa office. Raghobadada was a great commander who proved his mantle during Nanasaheb’s reign and had achieved astonishing success. His ambitions of higher power and authority were, however, squashed with Madhavrao’s appointment. Thus, since early days of Madhavrao’s tenure, Raghobadada’s distrustful actions during military campaigns of Marathas turned out to be in direct conflict with Madhavrao’s plans. Raghobadada’s men waged war in Maratha territories and started harassing and looting masses. Madhavrao attempted making peace with uncle Raghunathrao, but was betrayed and defeated by treacherous tactics of Raghobadada. Raghobadada made Sakharam Bapu Bokil his ally and started influencing decision of Peshwa courts. Angered with the repeated attempts of Raghobadada to overthrow and murder him, Madhavrao finally waged a war against him and put him under house arrest at Shaniwarwada on June 10, 1768 along with Sakharam Bapu. Madhavrao Peshwa later led a united front of Maratha Sardars to north and employed clever diplomatic tactics to finally resurrect the Maratha empire by establishing hold over Delhi. However, Madhavrao was infected with tuberculosis around 1770s and within two years, it brought an unfortunate end of young Peshwa. Nearing his end, Madhavrao released Raghobadada and made him take vow in front of Peshwa family deities to protect and look after younger brother Narayanrao Peshwa. Seventeen-year-old, Narayanrao (younger brother of Madhavrao and third son of Nanasaheb) was appointed as next Peshwa and once again, the Peshwa position eluded Raghoba. Released from prison and appointed as regent, Raghobadada’s ambitions could not be satiated and he began plotting against naive Narayanrao. Narayanrao in his time tried emulating his brother Madhavrao, adopted stringent measures against uncle Raghunathrao and put him under informal house arrest at Shaniwarwada. This further infuriated Raghobadada whose rebellious and intentions knew no bounds. Naive Narayanrao, however, was unaware of conspiracy Raghobadada had been hatching with aid of Sumer Singh Gardi. Sumersingh was promised charge of three forts and 10 lakh rupees in return of catching the young Peshwa. On the fateful day of August 30, 1773, ten-month-old Peshwa, visited Parvati hill as part of his daily ritual and stopped by maternal uncle’s mansion Sardar Raste to discuss administrative affairs. Planning to solve payment related disputes after the lunch, Narayanrao went to Shaniwarwada to have food and quick nap. Sumer Singh and Muhammad Isaf made their way to Peshwa’s private chambers, killing the servants and placing their own soldiers in the chambers. Hearing commotion, Narayanrao woke up and on enquiry, his servant informed him of the squirmish outside. Narayanrao went first to Parvatibai who advised him to hide. But, Narayanrao wishing to defend himself, started making his way towards Devghar where Raghunathrao was performing prayers. He sought refuge with uncle and pleaded “ Uncle save me, Uncle, save me!” Raghobadada took pity on him and asked Sumer Singh to spare his life and capture him. But Sumer Singh refuse to follow his order point blank, fearing punishment and killed young Peshwa, ruthlessly. The legend goes that the content of letter send to Sumer Singh had been modified from “capturing Peshwa” to “killing Peshwa”! Legends blame this act on Anandibai, wife of Raghoba, who exercised great control over Raghoba. This horrific act at the heart of royal mansion, Shaniwarwada, send chills all across entire Maratha empire. It is said that Narayanrao’s dead body was cut into pieces and cremated on the river bank. Raghunathrao tried to take over the power, but Chhatrapati refused to acknowledge his claim. It was the band of able ministers, “Barbhai” under leadership of Nana Phadnavis who saw that the perpetrators were punished and their properties were confiscated. The chief justice, Ramshastri Prabhune passed the most crucial judgement of punishing this heinous act with death sentence to Raghunathrao Peshwa and those involved. Raghunathrao fled Pune, was captured by “Barbhai” and kept under house arrest along with his wife Anandibai till his last days. This horrific incidence casted a long shadow on future of Maratha empire leading to political debacles on top positions within empire. The city lore claims that the Narayanrao’s ghost wanders the ruins of Shaniwarwada to present day calling out “Uncle, save me!” Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-when-shaniwarwada-screamed-uncle-save-me-101638358993307.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||Woman poses as celebrity, dupes jeweller of ₹28 lakh worth necklace||The Bandra police on Tuesday booked an unidentified woman for posing as a celebrity and duping a jeweller of a diamond necklace worth ₹28 lakh.The jeweller lodged a police complaint after he found out that the woman identified as Lubina Wazir alias Sapna was arrested for her role in a honey trap case and extortion of ₹3.3 crore from a Kolhapur businessman last week.According to the complainant, one of his acquaintances had introduced the woman to him as a celebrity a few months ago. At the time, she had expressed her desire to buy a diamond necklace. Subsequently, he said, she came to his jewellery shop and chose a diamond necklace from the showcase.The jeweller added that she took the necklace with her on the pretext of showing it to her husband before buying it. However, later, she started avoiding their calls for returning the necklace.Police officers said they have registered a case of cheating and criminal breach of trust against the woman and her accomplice, who is yet to be arrested. In the honey trap case, the Mumbai crime branch has arrested the main accused identified as Monica Bhagwan. The police have also arrested three of her accomplices - Wazir, Anil Chaudhary aka Akash and Manish Sodhi, and one Arun Agrawal from Jaipur in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-poses-as-celebrity-dupes-jeweller-of-28-lakh-worth-necklace-101638358394594.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Outsiders want to rule Punjab: CM Channi targets Kejriwal||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday targeted Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, saying outsiders wanted to rule Punjab, but Punjab is of Punjabis. Also read: India defers resumption of international flights with an eye on Covid variantsAddressing a Congress rally at Badhni Kalan in Moga district, Channi said: “They want to rule Punjab by coming from outside. They don’t know anything about the culture and the needs of Punjab. They are like ‘kaale angrez (black Englishmen).” The chief minister reminded people of his government’s initiatives to provide electricity and water at cheaper rates and targeted the Akalis for signing costly power purchase agreements during their tenure. “Electricity bills amounting to ₹1,500 crore have been waived. The high rate of power was a problem for every household. I reduced the rates by ₹3 per unit,” he said. “The Akalis were making all power agreements at high costs. I called a Vidhan Sabha session and cancelled the agreements,” he said. Channi also announced ₹15 crore for the development of Moga town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/outsiders-want-to-rule-punjab-cm-channi-targets-kejriwal-101638355272806.html
01-12-2021||Mumbai||Transfers scam: Jagtap gets bail, court stays clear of phone-tapping legality||A special CBI court granted bail to Santosh Jagtap who was arrested in the corruption and bribery case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, but refused to judge the validity of the tapping of his phone by the then state intelligence commissioner Rashmi Shukla, done allegedly for unearthing the purported transfers and postings scam. CBI had arrested Jagtap from his residence on October 31, 2021 following Rashmi Shukla’s report of August 26, 2020, named Jagtap as one of the middlemen who helped secure cream postings for senior police officials by bribing two political heavy weights including Anil Deshmukh. The transfer and postings case is a strand of the main case of extortion, registered against the former minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader.It was also revealed that Jagtap’s phone was tapped to gather information on the alleged transfers and postings racket. His advocate Jatin Shah alleged the phone tapping by the State Intelligence Department was illegal citing it as a ground for grant of bail among other arguments. He also claimed absence of any material before court suggesting Jagtap had played any role in the alleged scam.Shah said the tapping was illegal and violative of Jagtap’s right to privacy and cited a March 2021 report by Sitaram Kunte, the then Maharashtra chief secretary, to claim that the surveillance was not authorised and therefore needed to be kept out of consideration by the court. The CBI opposed his bail application saying the case was at an important stage of investigation.Also Read: OPS-EPS duo amends AIADMK bylaws to shut doors on VK Sasikala The special court, however, refused to enter into the controversy over phone tapping. “In my view, this court, while deciding the application for bail cannot venture to determine whether the order of the State Intelligence Department, Government of Maharashtra was ultra vires of Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and violated the fundamental rights of the applicant,” special judge D P Shingade said, steering clear of the matter while granting bail to Jagtap. The court ordered the 45-year-old businessman to be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond of ₹50,000 and one or two sureties in the same amount. CBI registered the case on April 21 after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused Deshmukh, who was then the home minister of Maharashtra, of instructing Mumbai police officers, including dismissed officer Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore from various bars in Mumbai as extortion money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/transfers-scam-jagtap-gets-bail-court-stays-clear-of-phone-tapping-legality-101638352692910.html
01-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: 15 students from nursing college test positive for Covid-19||As many as 15 more students have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in two nursing colleges in Karnataka's Tumkur, the district health officer told news agency ANI on Wednesday. All the 15 infected individuals have been isolated at a quarantine centre and their samples have been sent for additional investigation.This comes a day after 13 students of a government-run residential hostel in Hassan district and seven medical college students in Chamarajanagar tested positive for the coronavirus disease.According to reports, many of the students who recently tested positive for the viral infection are from Kerala. Owing to fears surrounding the new Omicron variant, the state government has ramped up its testing and tracing measures.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said the government intends to administer booster doses of vaccine to health and front line workers. Bommai said he will discuss it with Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.The chief minister added that there was no need for "unnecessary worry" on lockdown like measures and restrictions on Christmas and New Year celebrations, when social and economic activities are slowly picking up.Meanwhile, the Karnataka government has issued an advisory with the emergence of the new Covid-19 clusters and said that all social and cultural events, conferences, seminars, academic events, etc. in educational institutions may be postponed for two months.The state government also mandated RT-PCR tests for those arriving from Kerala and Maharashtra not older than 72 hours, irrespective of their vaccination status. "Students arriving from Kerala to Medical and Paramedical colleges and other such institutions within Karnataka in the past 15 days (November 12 to November 27) shall be subjected to RT-PCR test," the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-15-students-from-nursing-college-test-positive-for-covid19-101638347439348.html
01-12-2021||Other||‘Gorakhpur metrolite phase 1 project gets PIB approval’: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Wednesday that the first phase of metrolite project in Gorakhpur has been approved. The approval was given by the Public Investment Bank (PIB) in a meeting today.“The process of starting 'Metro Service' in Gorakhpur is progressing at a fast pace. In this journey, approval has been received for Phase-1 of 'Gorakhpur Metrolight Rail Project' in the meeting of Public Investment Board (PIB). Greetings to all! And hearty thanks to respected Prime Minister,” Adityanath posted on Koo.The Uttar Pradesh government is constructing the metrolite in three cities - Gorakhpur, Prayagraj and Meerut. The detailed project report was approved and sent to the Centre in the month of September.The state government wants to run metro services in these cities to improve connectivity. But due to lower ridership projection, the authorities decided to go for metrolite which will act as a feeder service.The metrolite system has lower passenger capacity but costs less than a metro line. The metrolite trains, however, do have a dedicated track built at the ground level and separated from the roads either with fence or walls.It is usually compared to an upgraded version of the tram system. Subways or overhead bridges are used to commute from one platform to another.Meerut met the required parametres for a proper metro train but the project was halted due to Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) which will connect the city to national capital Delhi. The UP government has prepared a revised DPR for metrolite in Meerut.The metrolite system has an automated ticketing system (like the regular metro) and ticket checkers are deployed at stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gorakhpur-metrolite-phase-1-project-gets-pib-approval-yogi-adityanath-101638349072269.html
01-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks police to reply on Sharjeel Imam bail plea, sets date for hearing||The Delhi high court asked police on Wednesday to reply on a plea filed by Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam, who was arrested in a sedition case for allegedly delivering an ‘inflammatory speech’ and inciting violence during the nationwide protests aaginst the amended citizenship laws and the National Register of Citizens in 2019.A bench of Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar issued notice to the prosecution and asked them to file reply to the bail plea while listing the matter for further hearing on February 11, next year, news agency PTI reported.Sharjeel Imam, who was represented through senior advocate Sanjay R Hegde, challenged a trial court’s October 22 order by which his bail plea was dismissed. The prosecution was represented through special public prosecutor Amit Prasad.Imam submitted that all the co-accused, who were arrested for allegedly causing the violence, have been granted bail in the case and he was still incarcerated for over 20 months now. Sharjeel was arrested on January 28, 2020, from Bihar’s Jehanabad district.The trial court had denied him bail saying free speech cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony.ALSO READ | Sharjeel Imam’s speech did not incite violence: Allahabad HCAccording to the prosecution, Imam had allegedly delivered a provocative speech on December 13, 2019, which resulted in riots two days later when a mob of more than 3,000 people attacked police personnel and torched several vehicles in the Jamia Nagar area in south Delhi.The trial court had said that the evidence in support of the allegations that the rioters got instigated by Imam's speech and thereafter indulged in the acts of rioting, mischief, attacking the police party, was scanty and sketchy.It had said however that a cursory and plain reading of the speech showed it was clearly on communal lines, PTI reported.“The tone and tenor of the incendiary speech tend to have a debilitating effect upon public tranquillity, peace, and harmony of the society,” the trial court had said, adding that “it is no gainsaying that fundamental right of ‘freedom of speech and expression’ cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony of the society.”However, the Allahabad high court last week granted bail to Imam in a separate sedition case registered against him for his alleged inflammatory speech made on the Aligarh Muslim University campus during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act on January 16, 2020.Delhi police had claimed that Imam instigated a “particular religious community” against the Centre by creating unfounded fears in their minds regarding the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens.Besides this case, Imam is also accused of being the "mastermind" of the February 2020 riots, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-police-to-reply-on-sharjeel-imam-bail-plea-sets-date-for-hearing-101638346713072.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Omar Abdullah blames Mufti Mohammad Sayeed for abrogation of Article 370 in J&K||Former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah on Wednesday slammed J&K Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mufti Mohammad Sayeed’s ‘one wrong decision’ for the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A.Abdullah said Sayeed made a mistake by forming a coalition government in the Valley with the Bharatiya Janata Party.“I told Mufti Sahib I had no greed for power. I had already served for six years as a chief minister and I told him that we don’t want any of our MLAs and MLCs as ministers in the government. I told him that we will support you unconditionally, but please don’t bring them (BJP) here (in J&K),” Abdullah was quoted as speaking at a public gathering by news agency ANI.Quoting a famous couplet to take a jibe at Sayeed, the National Conference leaders said, “He (Mufti Mohammad Sayeed), however, might have had some compulsions at that time. ‘Lamhon ne khata ki, sadiyon ne saza paayi.’  Now, we do not know for how long we will be punished for that one wrong decision because not even a single promise made to us post-revocation of Article 370 has been fulfilled,” Omar said at a gathering in Kishtwar.The former chief minister said he feared the BJP would “advantage” of weaknesses of political parties in Kashmir. “They (BJP) took advantage of our weakness and I knew it. That’s why I offered my hand of friendship to late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed sahib. Soon after 2014 assembly elections, I had cautioned him that the path being chosen by him (exploring possibilities of forming a coalition government with the BJP) would be very dangerous for Kashmir and we may not survive by this decision of yours.”Abdullah claimed that had the the National Conference have come to power in the previous assembly elections, there would have been no revocation of the special status granted to Kashmir and no land allotted under the Roshni Act would have been taken back and no jobs would have gone to the outsiders.In the 2014 assembly elections, the PDP had won 28 seats while th BJP got 25 seats, the NC 15 and the Congress 12.On February 27, 2015, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sealed an alliance between the PDP and the BJP to form a coalition government.On March 1, 2015, Sayeed took oath as the chief minister of the PDP-BJP combine in a ceremony that was attended by PM Modi and other leaders.However, on June 19, 2018, the three-year-old coalition government collapsed after the BJP pulled out of the alliance over worsening security scenario and bitter political feuds between the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/omar-abdullah-blames-mufti-mohammad-sayeed-for-abrogation-of-article-370-in-jk-101638337498221.html
01-12-2021||Delhi||Petrol price in Delhi likely to come down||The petrol price in the Capital is likely to come down as the Delhi government is planning to reduce VAT on it. The Delhi Cabinet led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is going to consider the proposal in a meeting on Wednesday.Senior officials said the Delhi government is likely to approve reduction in VAT on petrol in the Cabinet meeting. Petrol costs ₹103.97 a litre in Delhi, ₹95.51 a litre in Noida, and ₹95.90 a litre in Gurugram. As a result, Delhi has been losing customers to filling stations in these satellite cities that are in neighbouring states.
01-12-2021||Delhi||Denizens seek relief from smog with air-purifying plants||Peace lily, sansevieria, philodendron, areca palm, spider plant, aglaonema, rubber plant, syngonium, monstera — these popular house plants don’t just liven up your living spaces but have air purifying properties as well. And nurseries in Delhi-NCR are reporting an increase in their sales amid the pollution rampant in the Capital. Repunjai Saini, owner, Priya Nursery near India Gate, says the market is now seeing new buyers of such plants. “The AQI got fairly better in between, but it went back to severe. People want to be prepared and are buying such plants anticipating the smoggy days ahead. There is a definite increase in demand but prices have not risen,” he says. “Bahut log aise plants le rahein hain. Sansevieria khareedne aa rahe hain bahut log. Pura din hum air purifying plants dikhate hi rehte hain. Itna pollution jo ho gaya hai,” says Mosim Khan, from Masjid Nursery, Pandara Road. Echoing similar sentiments, Nidhant Dahiya, owner of Osho Vatika Nursery, Sector 13, Gurugram, says, “Ficus tree is a popular option, besides areca palms and peace lily that remain favourites.” For residents such as Simi Arora, the plants are a great add-on for the interiors. “My son got air purifying plants for the health benefits. But they serve a dual purpose as they look good too. I have even bought them for a friend.” Gurugram-based Sarika Panda Bhatt shares, “I have air purifying plants in every room. November was really bad with respect to AQI. Ab air purifier kitna hi chalaoge? These plants give me some mental satisfaction.” Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more on Facebook and Twitter
01-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality worsens, remains in ‘very poor’ zone||The pollution levels in Delhi increased slightly on Wednesday as the winds calmed down under the impact of a western disturbance passing through the region even as the minimum temperature was 11.5 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the average Air Quality Index (AQI) was 357 in the “very poor” category at 9 am. The average 24-hour average AQI on Tuesday was 328 (very poor), down from 389 on Monday.The air was cleanest on Tuesday since November 23 when the city clocked an AQI of 290 (poor).Also Read: Two intense systems likely to bring widespread rain and thunderstormsCalm wind conditions from Wednesday were likely to make the pollution worse even as Delhi was expected to get light rain on Thursday. “Local surface winds were relatively strong on Tuesday, leading to an improvement but the AQI remained within the ‘very poor’ category. On December 1 (Wednesday) and 2 (Thursday), winds are likely to be calm, reducing ventilation and leading to deterioration in the air quality,” said the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollution-levels-in-delhi-increased-slightly-101638335259357.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||Connect with Muslims, Jats: Maya to cadre||Reiterating her resolve to go solo in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Tuesday called upon her cadre to connect with Muslim and Jat communities, especially in the 86 reserved seats of the poll-bound state. The BSP had won just 2 of these 86 reserved seats in the 2017 UP polls in which the BJP dominated, with 70 of its 312 lawmakers winning on these reserved seats to hand over a clear majority to the BJP. She told the cadre that her party was confident of coming to power on its own as in 2007. Back then, Mayawati had won 62 of these reserved seats. “I have tasked my party cadres specifically on general seats as well. But for now, I have summoned Muslim and Jats and told them to focus on reserved seats,” Mayawati said while interacting with newspersons after her meeting. “Muslims feel harassed and have got fake cases on them by the BJP government,” she said later. Asked if this showcased a shift in Mayawati’s soft Hindutva approach, a party leader said, “Behenji has already said if voted to power, the BSP government would continue with development works in Hindu holy cities of Ayodhya, Mathura and Kashi. We are speaking up for all, not any one caste or community.” Mayawati also reached out to the Jats, the community with majority of farmers who were earlier seeking rollback of farm laws and pushing for a separate law to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their produce.Her message to the minorities along with her focus on reserved seats caught attention of political experts. “Mayawati’s Muslim pitch could be viewed as an attempt to stop the minority vote from going largely to the Samajwadi Party, which, too, appears to be making efforts to woo the minorities. In fact, just as the SP, the BSP too appears anxious to woo all major vote banks,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran political observer. Mayawati has also tasked her nephew Akash along with Kapil Mishra, the son of her party general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra, to connect with the young. On if she would meet Bhim army chief Chandrashekhar who has been meeting political parties, Mawati said, “I have said that we will contest the elections on our own. Then where is the question of such a meeting,” she asked. She also backed the demand for a caste census, an issue on which she is on the same page with arch rival Samajwadi Party. “The centre is neglecting this demand by the Other Backward Castes (OBCs) due to its casteist mentality,” Mayawati said. In response to another query, Mayawati urged the government to reconsider the decision to suspend 12 Rajya Sabha MPs for entire winter session of Parliament.
01-12-2021||Patna||Bihar asks airports to enhance testing, surveillance to guard against Omicron||On the advice of Union health ministry, Bihar health department convened a meeting with airport directors of Patna, Gaya and Darbhanga on Tuesday evening with the aim to enhance surveillance of international passengers arriving in the state and increase RT-PCR testing to effectively detect and contain the spread of Omicron variant at an early stage. “Patna airport director was present physically in the meeting while those of Darbhanga and Gaya joined digitally,” said additional chief secretary (health), Pratyaya Amrit. “The meeting was convened to put them on alert with regard to passengers coming from abroad,” he added. Gaya is the only airport in Bihar where international flights land during festivals related to Lord Buddha. Amrit said the emphasis will be on enhanced testing and vaccination in the state to deal with the new threat. “All eligible persons will be vaccinated through mega vaccination drive,” he said, and added that there will be additional surveillance of those coming from outside India. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, who held a meeting with health secretaries of the states on Tuesday, said the Omicron variant can be detected successfully through RT-PCR tests and advised them to follow the testing protocol. Also Read: Seven lose vision in one eye after cataract surgery in Bihar’s MuzaffarpurIn the guidelines sent to the chief secretaries of states, the Centre has asked for greater vigilance regarding international passengers. As per the new norms, those coming from abroad will be quarantined at home for 10 days even if they test negative for Covid-19. The state health department has asked for intensified monitoring and ensured testing of all passengers coming from abroad. All positive reports and associated samples are to be sent to INSACOG (Indian Sars-Cov-2 Genome Sequencing Consortium) labs immediately for genome sequencing . Emphasis is on swift operation since the new variant is believed to expand rapidly. Secretary Bhushan has asked states to make better use of the financial assistance provided by the Centre. States have also been told to increase testing at railway stations too and hold regular press briefing to apprise the public of the developing situation. 
01-12-2021||Mumbai||Outreach in mind, Mamata to meet Sharad Pawar in Mumbai today||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to meet senior politician and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar at his residence in Mumbai on Wednesday.The Trinamool Congress head held talks with Shiv Sena leaders Sanjay Raut and Aadtiya Thackeray a day ago and visited the famous Siddhi Vinayak temple. Banerjee, who is on a two-day tour of the country’s financial capital will also attend a host of events, including an entrepreneur's conference. She said could not meet her Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray as he is recuperating from a recent surgery.The meetings coming in the wake of the Trinamool Congress’s attempts to spread its wings beyond Bengal is being seen as an outreach to fellow opposition leaders by the party supremo.It also comes amid further straining of ties between the Congress and the Banerjee-led party with several leaders switching over to the ruling Bengal camp in the past few months.Banerjee made her party’s ambitions for a larger national role clear ever since its landslide victory in the Bengal Assembly election earlier this year. The TMC has since inducted several Congress leaders in its fold. Recently, 12 out of 17 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya defected to the TMC, making it the principal opposition party in the northeastern state.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mamata-to-meet-sharad-pawar-today-in-mumbai-day-after-talks-with-sena-leaders-101638327489421.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Property tax OTS policy: Ludhiana MC receives ₹45 lakh on last day||The civic body received around 1,400 property tax returns amounting to ₹45 lakh on the last day of availing the one-time settlement scheme. Officials said that over 92,000 property owners had failed to pay tax since 2013-14, of which over 23,700 people had defaulted in 2019-20. Defaulters collectively owe the MC ₹14 crore. As per the one-time settlement scheme, tax defaulters who pay their pending tax by November 30 were to receive a 10% rebate. A penalty and interest waiver was also announced for those who had defaulted on their taxes in 2020-21, while those who had defaulted between 2013 to 2020 were provided a rebate of 10% on the cumulative amount, including the principal amount, penalty and interest.As per the notification, no rebate will be offered in the month of December, and 5% penalty will be imposed on payment of tax in January and 10% penalty will be imposed in February 1 to March 31.A 12% annual interest will be charged if the pending payment is made after December 31 but before March 31. The interest rate will increase to 18% on payment of tax after March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-tax-ots-policy-ludhiana-mc-receives-45-lakh-on-last-day-101638306455116.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Gang involved in robbing auto passengers busted, 2 arrested||A gang, which robbed auto-rickshaw passengers, was busted on Tuesday with the arrest of two of its members. The accused, Mangat Singh of Meharban and Rajpal Singh of Ravindar Colony, Shimlapuri, were arrested from Overlock Road, while their accomplice, Gagandeep Singh, is on the run. The three-wheeler used to commit the robberies and ₹25,000 was recovered from them. The gang of three was active on Sherpur Chowk, Samrala Chowk, Jalandhar Bypass and the Clock Tower. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Balwinder Singh Randhawa said, “One gang member would drive the vehicle, while the other two posed as passengers. They would then take the passenger to isolated areas and rob them.” Station house officer Amandeep Singh Brar said Rajpal is already facing trial in six cases, including snatching and drug peddling. “Fifteen snatching cases have been registered against the accused in two months,” he said. A case under Section 379 (punishment of theft) and 34 (criminal act done by several persons in furtherance of the common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused at Division Number 6 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gang-involved-in-robbing-auto-passengers-busted-2-arrested-101638305674647.html
01-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: An edifice of loss||It is among Delhi’s most melancholic souvenirs. One of the domes no longer exists. The missing portion is wrapped in a blue tarpaulin, like a makeshift bandage on an amputation wound.One morning in July last year, thunder, lightning and rain fell fatally on Masjid Mubarak Begum in the Walled City’s Chawri Bazar, causing a dome to splinter into uneven halves. The old building now appears reconciled to the impairment.This afternoon, a lone man is reclined in the courtyard. The open space is more like a deck, for the mosque rests on a plinth high enough to stay disconnected from the chaos of the bazaar. Directly underneath lies machine parts shops, spilling over with nuts, bolts, cables and welding rod electrodes. The narrow door to the mosque, downstairs, punctuates the market’s congested corridor like a hole in the wall. The steep staircase gives way to an ambience that is exact inverse of the bazaar -- serene, still and sky-filled.The red sandstone structure originally had three domes. It’s the central dome, the biggest, that was destroyed by the monsoon storm.Built in 1823, the mosque was named after one of many “bibis” of David Ochterlony, Delhi’s first British resident. Said to have started in the Mughal-era city as a courtesan, Mubarak Begum gradually came to command the respectability owed to a sophisticated society hostess. The site of the legendary Dilli ki Aakhiri Shama, Delhi’s last great mushaira, or poetry soiree, was her haveli. Forty poets were said to be present that night, including Mirza Ghalib.Today, crammed in by commonplace modernity, it is impossible to imagine the mosque’s original setting. The dimly lit prayer chamber is currently locked, and opens only during the prescribed prayer hours. In fact, gazing upon the damaged edifice from the pavement below gives the viewer a more realistic sense of its place in the contemporary world.From here, Mubarak Begum looks angelic, but diminished. May be because the disorderly bazaar dominates the panorama so thoroughly, the domes appear to be farther than they truly are. Gaze longer, and it is like seeing something that has already dissolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-an-edifice-of-loss-101638304204196.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Akali Dal says CM Channi gone ‘berserk’, BJP says he’s suffering from amnesia||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) accused Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of going “berserk” in the face of repeated rebuffs to his vendetta tactics, saying his self-contradictory utterances on sacrilege and police firing incidents were nothing more than the ravings of a frustrated man who knows that his game is up and his days numbered. “On the one hand, Channi tells brazen lies on sacrilege and firing and on the other, he runs away to take shelter behind the “sub judice” excuse. If the case is sub judice, which it is, who gave him the right to pronounce a judgment? And if the “sub judice” logic doesn’t stop him from pronouncing such outrageous judgments, then what stops him from sharing the evidence, party leader Prem Singh Chandumajra asked.BJP state general secretary Subhash Sharma on Tuesday said Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi was suffering from amnesia as it was the Congress which promised to waive farm loans in the last assembly elections. Referring to Channi’s letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking debt waiver for farmers, Sharma said this was a classic case of passing the buck. In a letter to the CM, Sharma reminded him that the Congress leaders misled the farmers of the state and distributed forms in villages. “This was a fraud played by the ruling party on hardworking farmers who believed them in a hope that their loans would be waived,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-says-cm-channi-gone-berserk-bjp-says-he-s-suffering-from-amnesia-101638302374688.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||22 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday registered 22 fresh Covid-19 cases and three virus-related deaths, a medical bulletin of the state health department said. State’s positivity rate for the day remained at 0.13%. With fresh cases, state’s total patient tally has reached 6,03,279, the bulletin said. The number of active cases in the state stands at 325. Among the fresh cases, maximum seven infections were detected in Hoshiarpur, three in Pathankot and three in SAS Nagar. With 22 patients recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86,352, it said. Till now, 16,602 people have lost their lives to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/22-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-punjab-101638301836885.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab minister Rana Gurjit orders quality check of link roads in Kapurthala||Punjab cabinet minister Rana Gurjit Singh on Tuesday ordered quality check of link roads constructed by the Mandi Board in Kapurthala district. Claiming that he received multiple complaints about the poor quality of roads construction by the Mandi Board, the minister said the government will not tolerate any corruption in development works. In a review meeting of development works at the Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, he directed deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal to constitute a committee and submit a report in the next 7 days. Also, he asked the DC to get a third-party audit conducted into the utilisation of funds to the tune of ₹4.5 crore on the Kanjli wetland which he said was lifeline of the district. He also asked PTU registrar Jaspreet Singh to prepare a project report for permanent solution for water hyacinth. He also directed the PSPCL officials to speed up the upgrade of electricity transformers to ensure uninterrupted power supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-minister-rana-gurjit-orders-quality-check-of-link-roads-in-kapurthala-101638301775467.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana-born German MP meets Khattar||A German delegation led by Haryana-born Rahul Kumar, who is a member of Parliament in Germany, met chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar here on Tuesday. Born in Alhar village of Jagadhari, Kumar created history in 2021 when he was elected as parliament member in Frankfurt, Germany. An official spokesperson said both sides discussed possibilities of collaboration between Haryana and Germany in areas of skilling, youth exchange, technology and start ups. The chief minister appreciated the German way of dealing with climate change and directed his officials to study how Haryana can benefit. Other stories in brief:Agri investors, FPOs sign MoUs in Haryana
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Protests bring traffic to a halt on Kharar flyover||Commuters were at the receiving end on Tuesday after a massive traffic jam was witnessed on the Kharar flyover near Desu Majra village in Kharar due to the protest of unemployed ETT pass teachers and members of the National Rural Health Mission Employees Union, Punjab. Commuters were stuck up in a traffic jam for nearly five hours.The protesters blocked the road at 4 pm and by 8.30 pm the police were able to open the road on one side. The protesters raised slogans against the state government.Earlier the protesters had planned to gherao chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence in Kharar, but when they were stopped, they blocked the highway.They said after continuous struggle for more than four and a half years, out of 6,635 ETT posts, about 2,364 posts were declared, but the government had made amendments to give chance to outsiders.The NHM employees claimed that the jobs of experienced employees had not been regularised despite working with dedication for a long time. Contractual employees had been staging protests for more than two weeks across the state for their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protests-bring-traffic-to-a-halt-on-kharar-flyover-101638301534779.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Suspended’ Patiala mayor Sanjeev Bittu attends office, locks horns with his deputy||A day after moving the Punjab and Haryana high court against his “suspension” by the Patiala municipal corporation (MC) general house from the mayoral post, Sanjeev Sharma Bittu on Tuesday attended his office, claiming he still was the city mayor. A high drama took place when Bittu and senior deputy mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi, who was given the charge of acting mayor, chaired meetings with officials and listened to grievances of the general public. The state government is yet to take any decision on Bittu suspension. “I am still the mayor as the House members resorted to undemocratic means to suspend me from the post. Moreover, there is neither any decision on my suspension nor anyone was given the officiating charge,” said Bittu.Yogi said Bittu has completely failed to maintain the sanctity of the House. “The House has already suspended him and appointed me as acting mayor,” he said.Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra said he failed to understand in which capacity Bittu attended office on Tuesday. “The MC general House is supreme and its decision must be respected. The mayor has already lost majority among elected councillors and therefore he has no right to sit on the mayoral chair,” Mohindra said. He added that the government is already examining the proceedings sent by the MC on the mayor’s suspension.“The decision in this regard will be taken soon,” Mohindra said.On November 25, Bittu was suspended after he failed to prove majority in a high-voltage meeting held in the presence former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his bête noire cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra.The House has 60 councillors, including 59 from the Congress. Most of them were given tickets on the recommendation of Amarinder’s wife and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur. Of the total House strength of 63 (after including the three MLAs), 35 councillors voted against Bittu, while 25 voted in his favour. Two members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) abstained from voting. 
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu targets Sukhbir, Kejriwal at Ludhiana meet||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday targeted SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, saying he is a businessman whose only objective is to make money. He also questioned AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal’s promise of ₹1,000 monthly allowance to women. Sidhu, who was here to meet party leaders, councillors and industrialists at circuit house, said the investment summit in 2015 organised by the then SAD-BJP government was an eyewash as out of the ₹1.20-lakh crore investment promise, only ₹6,000 crore came in. “None of the five businessmen considered close to SAD chief, including NK Sharma and Rajinder Gupta, invested a single penny. And to top it all, ₹5 crore was spent on advertisements,” Sidhu said. “On the other hand, during our summit we promised investment worth ₹1-lakh crore, out of which, commercial productivity of 52% of the promised money has already started,” he said. The Punjab Congress chief said under his vision of “Punjab Model” for ease of doing business, there will be a single-window system for all the government approvals. “Why a person has to make repeated rounds of government offices for approvals. It should be done online,” he said. Without naming former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Sidhu said those who failed to deliver were shown the door. He said the Congress party wishes to stop the exodus of youngsters from the state and plans to create employment opportunities. Targeting Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal, Sidhu said unemployment has increased seven times in Delhi. On Kejriwal’s promise of ₹1,000 per month allowance to all women above 18 in Punjab, Sidhu said “money does not grow on trees and asked the Delhi CM how many women have been given such an allowance in Delhi”. Sidhu was accompanied by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and some local party leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-targets-sukhbir-kejriwal-at-ludhiana-meet-101638301236982.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Employee shouldn’t overreact if asked to explain facts: Punjab and Haryana high court||An employee should not show over-anxiety or over-reaction simply because the employer has asked him/her to explain certain facts, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said. “The employer has got administrative control over the employees working in its establishment. If the employer feels that an employee has committed some misconduct or has indulged in an activity, which is in violation of conduct rules, then the employer certainly has a right to seek explanation from the employee in the regard,” the bench of justice HS Madaan said. The court was hearing a plea from one Satyawan Singh, who retired as superintending engineer, Gurugram municipal corporation. He had sought quashing of a show-cause notice issued to him in 2020 over withdrawal of promotion orders. The Haryana government had told court that show-cause notice was served on the petitioner but instead of clarifying his position, he approached the court. The government had pointed to an alleged anomaly in his promotion case, which the department sought to be corrected and initiated the process for which he was served notice to state his position. The court observed that none of the order or notice given to him has immediate adverse effect. “The petitioner ought to have replied to the show-cause notice and appeared for personal hearing before the competent authority to present his view point. The respondents having not taken a final decision in the matter, the petitioner is feeling agitated unnecessarily and has rushed to the court,” the court said dismissing the plea on the grounds that it was premature. The court further observed the wrong done or some illegality committed in the process can certainly be probed, by observing rule of natural justice. It is not a case of review of any promotion carried out by earlier members of the department, rather a wrong is being sought to be undone, the court added. 
01-12-2021||Other||One-time settlement scheme for power consumers extended till Dec 15 in Uttar Pradesh||Lucknow: The one-time settlement scheme (OTS), launched on October 21 to enable consumers to pay their dues in installments without having to pat any surcharge or interest, will now continue till December 15, energy minister Shrikant Sharma said here on Tuesday. “The OTS was expiring on Tuesday, but now on the chief minister’s directives the continuation of the scheme has been extended till December 15 for the convenience of consumers,” Sharma said. “As many as 22 lakh consumers have benefitted from the scheme so far,” he added. The minister said scheme especially targets small consumers and farmers whose 100% interest on power was being waived off if they opted for the scheme. He appealed to defaulters to avail of the scheme and clear their dues. UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) chairman M Devraj said that field officials had been asked to make wide publicity of the scheme and also organise special camps so that people could benefit from it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/onetime-settlement-scheme-for-power-consumers-extended-till-dec-15-in-uttar-pradesh-101638301054159.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi resorting to ‘trickery’ to avoid fulfilling pre-poll promises: Sukhbir Badal||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday accused chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of resorting to what it termed as “trickery and treachery” to “squirm his way out of the commitments” made before forming government in Punjab by putting the onus of the same on the Centre. “CM Channi has admitted that the Congress government does not have any intention of implementing the complete ₹90,000 crore farm loan waiver promised to farmers of Punjab,” said party president Sukhbir Singh Badal in a press release.On a letter written by the CM to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue, the SAD chief said, “The farmers were tricked into believing that the Congress government in Punjab would waive their loans soon after coming to power. After deceiving and betraying the trust of farmers, Channi is again trying to deceive them by saying that their loans will be waived in conjunction with the Centre.” Accusing Channi of committing a crime against farmers as well as people at large, Sukhbir said his letter was not worth the paper it was printed on. “It is a matter of record that the complete farm loan waiver was promised by the Congress and not by the central government,” he added. Writing to the Centre and urging it to take on half the responsibility amounted to playing with the sentiments of farmers, the SAD leader said. “Everyone knows this letter has no locus standi and will not be considered. This will give the Congress an excuse to play politics on the issue by blaming the central government,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-resorting-to-trickery-to-avoid-fulfilling-pre-poll-promises-sukhbir-badal-101638300997507.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CBSE Class-10 first-term exams see full attendance||The term 1 CBSE exam for the first major subject for Class 10 was conducted in the city on Tuesday. As per CBSE officials, 100% strength was seen for the exam and Covid protocols were followed.The social studies exam was conducted from 11.30 am to 1.00 pm at 110 centres of the city. However, some teachers alleged that it took too long to download the question papers and print them due to which the exam got delayed by a few minutes at some centres.Overall the education department officials confirmed that the exam went without any hitch. For Class 12, the term 1 exams will begin from Wednesday with sociology. The exams will continue for both Classes 10 and 12 in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cbse-class-10-first-term-exams-see-full-attendance-101638300996458.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana bureaucratic reshuffle: 16 IAS officers shifted||Haryana government on Tuesday shuffled 16 IAS officers, including the administrative secretaries of town and country planning and power departments and managing director of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC). As per the orders, additional chief secretary, power, PK Das was posted as additional chief secretary, revenue and disaster management in place of Sanjeev Kaushal. Additional chief secretary (ACS) irrigation, Devender Singh was given the additional charge of ACS, town and country planning and urban estates, replacing Apoorva Kumar Singh. Singh was posted as principal secretary, public health engineering department and sports. ACS, forests and wildlife, environment and climate change, SN Roy was given the additional charge of ACS power, new and renewable energy. ACS, finance TVSN Prasad was given the additional charge of ACS co-operation. ACS, animal husbandry and dairying, Ankur Gupta was posted as ACS food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department. ACS, excise and taxation Anurag Rastogi was given the additional charge of PW (B&R) and architecture. Principal secretary women and child development was given the additional charge of medical education and research. Labour commissioner Pankaj Agarwal was posted as commissioner and secretary, animal husbandry and dairying and administrative reforms. Director general, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), CEO, authority for Citizen Resources Information Depository, Vikas Gupta was given the additional charge of managing director, HSIIDC. Amneet P Kumar replaced him as DG, MSME. Vijay Singh Dahiya, director general, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs was given additional charge of CEO, Ayushman Bharat Haryana Health Protection Authority. Managing director, Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam (HVPN) TL Satyaprakash was given additional charge of labour department. Sangeeta Tetarwal was posted as administrator, (HQ), HSVP, Panchkula. Mohd. Imran Raza, additional deputy commissioner, Panchkula, was posted as administrator, HSVP, Rohtak and additional director, Urban Estate, Rohtak. Jitender Kumar-I, managing director, Haryana State Federation of Cooperative Sugar Mills was posted as administrator, HSVP, Faridabad and additional director, Urban Estate, Faridabad. Monica Gupta, administrator, HSVP, Faridabad, and additional director, Urban Estate, Faridabad, was posted as CEO, Faridabad City Transport Service Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-bureaucratic-reshuffle-16-ias-officers-shifted-101638300939098.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ancient Durga idol found in J&K’s Budgam||Police in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir recovered a 7th century idol of Goddess Durga in black stone on Tuesday, officials said here.The idol, believed to be 1,300 years old, was found in Khag area, the officials said.“Officers of the department of archives, archaeology and museums were called for examination of the sculpture. It was established that the sculpture is of Goddess Durga and dates back roughly to 7th century AD,” an official said.“This sculpture of Goddess Durga seated on lion throne, left side of the arm is missing from the shoulder. The sculpture is having the influence of Gandhara School of Art and right hand is holding lotus,” the officials added.The recovered sculpture was handed over to Mushtaq Ahmad Beigh, deputy director, department of archives, archaeology and museums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ancient-durga-idol-found-in-j-k-s-budgam-101638300815851.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt may provide MSP on 113 crops, if Centre doesn’t: Agriculture minister Nabha||Punjab agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha said that the Punjab government is likely to prepare a plan to give minimum support price (MSP) to farmers on 113 crops, excluding wheat and paddy, if the Centre failed to provide the same. Addressing a press conference in Jalandhar, the minister underlined that the Centre should announce guarantee on MSP so that the interests of the farming community could be protected. “We welcome the move to repeal the three farm laws but the Centre should announce MSP on crops without any further delay. We hope that the Union government would accede to farmers’ demands of providing guarantee on MSP. The state government has formulated a ‘vision document’ aimed at transforming the farming sector,” he added. The vision document emphasises the need for integrating technology with agriculture so that farmers could increase their income and bring down expenditure, he said. The use of drones and other latest equipment would be made to realise this goal, he said, adding that to implement the ‘vision document’ the state will be divided into six zones. Also, the government is also in the process of roping in experts to uplift the farming sector, the minister said. Expressing concern over the death of over 700 farmers during the agitation against the contentious farm laws, Nabha said that these lives could have been saved had the Union government adopted a humane approach towards farmers. The state government is making concerted efforts to promote crop-residue management practices and subsidies ranging from 60 to 80 percent on such equipment were being provided to farmers, he added. Later, Nabha told HT over phone that the farmer unions in a meeting with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in Chandigarh had given a list of 113 crops, including cash crops and those in horticulture, seeking MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-may-provide-msp-on-113-crops-if-centre-doesn-t-agriculture-minister-nabha-101638300754840.html
01-12-2021||Other||World AIDS Day: Around 70,000 HIV infected people in Uttar Pradesh, as per UPSACS estimate||LUCKNOW: Approximately 70,000 people are infected with HIV in Uttar Pradesh but they are unaware of their infection status, according to an estimate of the Uttar Pradesh State Aids Control Society (UPSACS). The estimated population of PLHIV (people living with HIV) in the state is 1.60 lakh and only 93,000 of them are currently registered with the UPSACS and getting treatment. “We are working to identify the remaining about 69,000 people quickly so that they can also get treatment facility. Avoiding unsafe sex is the key factor to avoid HIV infection and we are making effort to ensure that all must know this,” said Dr Preeti Pathak, in-charge ICTC (integrated counselling and testing centres) at Uttar Pradesh State AIDS Control Society. She said, “Estimated PLHIV population is taken out every alternate year by the National AIDS Control Organisation for each state. The matrix spectrum is used to come to the conclusion regarding the estimated PLHIV population.” Doctors said, using protection, particularly when you are not aware of HIV status of the other person, is only way to avoid HIV infection. “Use of protection such as condom saves one from sexually transmitted disease. Condoms are 98% effective in protection against most sexually transmitted infections,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of Association of International Doctors. “HIV spreads mostly from the high-risk groups such as sex workers or men having sex with men. We are consistently focusing upon such high-risk groups,” said Dr Preeti. According to the National Family Health Survey (5th round), there are 466 ICTCs in Uttar Pradesh where a person can get counselling and test facility for HIV, of his own free will or as advised by a medical provider. The 93,000 PLHIV are already getting medicines from 50 ART (Antiretroviral Therapy) centres in the state. The report of the 5th round of the health survey also suggests the need for increased focus upon HIV awareness. It says 13.1% women between the age of 15 and 49 years while 22.1% men in same age group have comprehensive knowledge about HIV/AIDS in UP. Significantly, 64.6% women know consistent use of condom can reduce the chance of getting HIV AIDS while 78.2% men in the age group of 15 and 49 years also know this, the report says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/world-aids-day-around-70-000-hiv-infected-people-in-uttar-pradesh-as-per-upsacs-estimate-101638300635720.html
01-12-2021||Pune||Lohegaon airport resumes night ops; runway closed from 9- 11.30 am on weekdays||PUNE: The Lohegaon international airport in Pune, which has been shut for 12-hours daily due to the runway re-carpeting work, is all set to begin operations from today, after a gap of 20 months. The airport was partially shut from October 26, 2020 to October 25, 2021. However, the airport will not be operational from 9 am to 11.30 am on weekdays and from 11 am to 5 pm on Saturday due to runway maintenance work. “The airport will resume 24x7 operations from December 1. However, no civil flights will operate from 0900 to 1130 hours from Monday to Friday and on Saturday no flights will operate from 1100 to 1700 hours due to runway maintenance,” said Santosh Dhoke, Pune airport director. “The Indian Air Force will have their practice session for two-and-a-half hours; hence, we have stopped the movement of civil flights. Runway maintenance work will take place every Saturday. On Sunday, we might get full day operation or if IAF schedules practice then accordingly we will schedule flight operations,” added Dhoke. “As per the schedule announced for Wednesday 49 flights will be operating till 11:55 pm We have announced the schedule till midnight, rest of the schedule will be announced tomorrow afternoon. Flights for new destinations have been declared but scheduling will be done in two-three days as booking takes time,” stated Dhoke. Currently, the footfall at the Lohegaon international airport is 18,000. “This is expected to rise once we begin operations. We will get a clear picture next week. The airport is expected to have passenger rush during night hours,” added Dhoke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lohegaon-airport-resumes-night-ops-runway-closed-from-9-11-30-am-on-weekdays-101638300634630.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi blames Badals for 2015 sacrilege, police firing; vows to act||Blaming the Badal family for the Bargari sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday claimed that the bullets fired at Sikh protesters in October 2015 also went through his chest and now the perpetrators of the crime will not be spared. Addressing a gathering of Congress workers at the new grain market in Kotkapura, the CM said, “The real perpetrators of this unpardonable crime were very much part of the passage of the Centre’s three farm laws. I will not comment more on this as the matter was sub judice.” Accusing the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of making false promises, the Punjab Channi said his Delhi counterpart and party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal was an imposter.“His announcements and schemes are not for the welfare of the public even in Delhi, what to talk about Punjab. The free electricity announced in Delhi up to 400 units is nothing but a gimmick. The Delhi government charges a hefty amount if the consumption is beyond 400 units, which is normal for any household,” Channi said. Kejriwal doesn’t know who is Punjab’s ‘aam aadmi’ (common man) since he is an outsider, he said. “Why a person from other state should rule Punjab? He announced ₹1,000 per month each for women. But he should implemented this in Delhi first. Even out of 20 MLAs in Punjab, nine have left AAP. If their own MLAs don’t trust Kejriwal, why would people,” Channi asked.Also, the CM announced ₹15 crore each for “an overall development” of the Kotkapura and Jaitu constituencies. Couldn’t impound a single bus without CM’s support: Warring Transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring said that had it not been the support of CM Channi, he would not have been able to impound even a single bus for flouting the norms. “He (CM) told me on day 1 that he wanted to finish the transport mafia in Punjab and action should be taken against such bus operators. The buses of Badals operating illegally have been impounded. They had to pay ₹14 crore in taxes to the transport department,” Warring added. “If people want development, elect the “aam mukh mantri di sarkar” (common man’s government) once again,” he added.He’s gone ‘berserk’, says Akali Dal The Akali Dal accused Channi of going “berserk” in the face of repeated rebuffs to his vendetta tactics, saying his self-contradictory utterances on sacrilege and police firing incidents were nothing more than the ravings of a frustrated man who knows that his game is up and his days numbered. “On the one hand, Channi tells brazen lies on sacrilege and firing and on the other, he runs away to take shelter behind the “sub judice” excuse. If the case is sub judice, which it is, who gave him the right to pronounce a judgment? And if the “sub judice” logic doesn’t stop him from pronouncing such outrageous judgments, then what stops him from sharing the evidence,” party leader Prem Singh Chandumajra asked.
01-12-2021||Pune||Sugarcane farmer duped by man posing as labour contractor||PUNE: The Pune rural police have booked a man for duping a sugarcane farmer of ₹15 lakh by falsely promising labour for sugarcane harvest, but failed to honour the commitment after accepting a payment for it. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dattaray Narayan Gavare (52) a resident of Vitthalwadi in Shirur, Pune. One of the accused men has been identified as Bharat Gopinath Chavan, according to the police. “It is a huge sum for a farmer. We have contacted the farmer and the bank to get more details. The amount is provided to the farmer by the sugar processing factories. Now it is an uphill task for the farmer to hire a new labour force and also repay the factory,” said Police naik Bharat Koli of Shikrapur police station, who is investigating the case. The complainant farmer claimed to have made cash and online transactions through UPI as well as NEFT between September 8 and October 18. The man was supposed to come on the day of Dusshera which is considered an auspicious occasion to begin harvest season. The complainant found his home address in a village named Dongaon and went to his house. However, he was not available and his family members claimed to be unaware of his whereabouts, according to the complainant. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Shikrapur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sugarcane-farmer-duped-by-man-posing-as-labour-contractor-101638300459973.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana state badminton: Anupama, Kartik walk away with singles titles||Panchkula’s Anupama Upadhyaya and Kartik Jindal clinched the women’s and men’s singles titles, respectively, on the concluding day of the 54th Yonex Sunrise Haryana State Senior Badminton Championship held in Panchkula on Tuesday.Playing in the women’s singles final, Anupama Upadhyaya outplayed Devika Sihag 21-18, 21-16 while Kartik got the better of Anant Shivam Jindal 24-22, 21-1 in the respective finals to emerge as champions. In the mixed doubles final, the duo of Akshit Mahajan and Ridhi Toor from Panchkula beat Sohit and Nikki 21-12, 21-16 to take the title. In the women’s doubles final, Devika Sihag and Ridhi Toor gelled well to defeat Palak Arora and Unnati Hooda 21-8, 21-14. In the men’s doubles final, Akshit Mahajan and Hardik Makkar outclassed Deepak Khatri and Ketan Chahal 21-15, 21-17.Finals resultsWomen’s Singles: Anupama Upadhyaya bt Devika Sihag 21-18, 21-16,Men’s Singles: Kartik Jindal bt Anant Shivam Jindal 24-22, 21-1,Mixed Doubles: Akshit Mahajan/ Ridhi Toor bt Sohit/Nikki 21-12, 21-16,Women’s Doubles: Devika Sihag/Ridhi Toor bt Palak Arora/Unnati Hooda 21-8, 21-14,Men’s Doubles: Akshit Mahajan/Hardik Makkar bt Deepak Khatri/Ketan Chahal 21-15, 21-17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-state-badminton-anupama-kartik-walk-away-with-singles-titles-101638300458799.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||7th UGC pay scale: University, college teachers protest in Chandigarh||Hundreds of university and college teachers staged a protest rally in Chandigarh on Tuesday to press for the implementation of the UGC 7th Pay Commission by the Punjab government.Under the banner of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO), teachers marched towards the residence of the Punjab chief minister. However, they were stopped by the Chandigarh Police and hundreds of men and women courted arrest. Members of different teachers’ bodies of Punjab and Chandigarh took part in the protest.The teachers are demanding the immediate implementation of the revised UGC pay scales and withdrawal of the decision of the Punjab government to delink the scales of teachers of universities and colleges from the UGC.The Principals’ Associations of GNDU, PU and Punjabi University have also joined the protest. Dr HS Kingra, president, PFUCTO, said, “Our fight is not just about the pay scales but about the future of the higher education in Punjab which is already in a shambles. This fight is for providing quality education for the youth of Punjab.”The teachers have also decided to initiate an indefinite fast from Wednesday and are expected to boycott all academic work to press for their demands.President of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) Mritunjay Kumar, who also participated in the protest, said, “We have already discussed the matter with the CM and the finance minister and we are hopeful that the issue will be resolved with a positive outcome. However, we are always with the PFUCTO in any matter related to the issue as part of the federation.”Last week, a PUTA delegation had met finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal over the pending implementation of the UGC pay scales. A few days ago, a PUTA delegation also met the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7th-ugc-pay-scale-university-college-teachers-protest-in-chandigarh-101638300457547.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Provide opportunities, not freebies: Faridkot traders to Sisodia||Businessmen and traders of Faridkot on Tuesday told Delhi chief minister Manish Sisodia that the people in the state need employment and trade opportunities, not freebies. Sisodia interacted with traders, businessmen, industrialists, transporters and shopkeepers in Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) programme “Vyapariyan te Karobariyan nal Manish Sisodia ji di galbaat” in Faridkot on Tuesday. “Don’t promise electricity or commodities for free. These things we can purchase ourselves if provided enough trade and employment opportunities in the state. We want you to promise to bring industry or a university to our area so that we can develop. This will create business and employment opportunities,” said Rajan Thakur, a trader. Varinder Shah, Faridkot Vyapar Mandal president said that don’t hook our people on freebies. He said the freebies are given from the taxpayer’s money and its burnt will be faced by the industry, which is already collapsing in the state. “Already, due to lack of business and job opportunities young generation is moving abroad for better future. Foreign countries are developing rapidly using our youth while we are moving backwards because of this. Instead of freebies, promise to provide low-interest loans, develop industrial infrastructure and markets for easy trade,” he said. Ravinder Bugra, a trader said that 600 units of free electricity is not a solution and this will not give many advantages if people do not have trade opportunities. “Give us trade and we are ready to pay bills. Due to the free availability of various goods people are becoming addicts, give them employment so they stay busy in work,” he said. Answering questions of traders, Sisodia said give the politics of honesty to the businessman, business will progress itself. He said no state can progress without the progress of business, but for this unnecessary restrictions imposed on trade will have to be removed and the harassment of the trader will have to stop.“After the formation of the AAP government, the politics of honesty, fairness, development and betterment of education will be done by completely eliminating corruption, like Delhi in Punjab also, the traders will be made partners in the government, policies will be made and implemented only after discussion with them. AAP government has done all this in Delhi but the governments in Punjab so far have done nothing but betrayed Punjab, Punjabis and Punjabiyat,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/provide-opportunities-not-freebies-faridkot-traders-to-sisodia-101638300455589.html
01-12-2021||Other||Phaphamau Dalit killings: Police teams rushed to Pune, Lucknow to nab suspects||Police teams have been rushed to Pune and Lucknow to arrest the accomplices of Pawan Kumar Saroj, 23, the prime suspect in the gruesome murder of four persons of a family in Phaphamau area of trans-Ganga. One of the four victims was raped before murder, police said. Police said after Pawan’s interrogation crime branch teams have now been sent to Pune and Lucknow to arrest the accused. Pawan told the police that his neighbour Gange had given him the number of the 25-year-old rape and murder victim. Pawan claimed that Gange is distant relative of the woman but lives in Pune. Pawan’s relative Sonu is also a suspect in the case and is on the run. Police investigations revealed that he has fled to Lucknow. Police on Sunday arrested Pawan Saroj of Korsand village in Tharwai area and claimed his involvement in Phaphamau murders and rape. However, kin of the victims raised doubts on police claims and said that fair investigations of the case should be carried out and no innocent should be framed in the case. SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi said police teams were continuously engaged in tracing other suspects. Soon police would take remand of Pawan Saroj to question him regarding his accomplices and establishing sequence of events. Two named accused held in Mumbai Another police team on Tuesday arrested two among eleven accused who were named in the FIR lodged by kin of victims after the gruesome killings. The police teams arrested the duo in Mumbai and are taking them to Prayagraj where their blood samples will be taken for matching it with vaginal SWAB. Eight among eleven named accused were arrested the next day after the FIR while one of them is ill and is admitted to the hospital. The named accused belonged to upper caste and includes a woman. Police officials later claimed that no clues of their involvement have been found during investigations. The two persons arrested in Mumbai were identified as Ashok Singh and Kanha while Kuldeep Singh is admitted to the hospital. Police officials said the duo will be questioned soon after their arrival. Although no evidence is found against the named accused, they have not been given clean chit in the case yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/phaphamau-dalit-killings-police-teams-rushed-to-pune-lucknow-to-nab-suspects-101638300454502.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh tricity’s monthly tally sees 40% rise in November||The monthly Covid-19 case tally in the tricity showed an uptick in November, for the first time after the second wave peaked in May this year. The tricity recorded 304 cases in November, nearly 40% rise from the figures in October. It has added to the concern of health authorities, which are bracing for the new Omicron variant of the virus.In October, the tricity had recorded 219 Covid-19 cases, with Chandigarh being the worst hit with 102 cases, followed by 82 in Mohali and 35 in Panchkula. In November, the number went up to 304, with Mohali reporting 127 cases, followed by 114 in Chandigarh and 63 in Panchkula. In fact, Panchkula’s November tally is the highest in the past five months. Meanwhile, Chandigarh recorded no fatality in November, a first since the pandemic broke out last March.During the month, the single-day tally peaked at 26 on November 26. The case fatality rate remained in control, with no death reported in Chandigarh and Panchkula, and just four patients succumbing in Mohali. Even October had witnessed just five deaths. With 46,245 cases and 790 deaths, May had proved to be the deadliest for the tricity.Infra, facilities being ramped upDr GD Puri, head of the PGIMER’s Covid management panel, said: “Earlier, patients with kidney, liver or heart problems were getting infected with Covid-19. But now, patients with primary lung symptoms are getting hospitalised. This is a worrisome situation.” Dr Puri said even those people who have been vaccinated are contracting the virus and a few severe cases have also surfaced. “We have enough standby beds and ventilators, and facilities will be scaled up as per the situation,” he said. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “So far, no case of Omicron variant has been reported, and there is nothing to be worried about. We have ramped up our infrastructure and testing to control the rise in the number of cases.”Panchkula deputy commissioner Mahavir Kaushik on Tuesday held a meeting with the health department and gave directions to strengthen the infrastructure and facilities in view of the new variant. He emphasised on a five-pronged strategy: test, trace, track, vaccinate and follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Even the Chandigarh health department issued an advisory on Tuesday, urging unvaccinated residents to come forward and get jabbed and asking all to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-chandigarh-tricity-s-monthly-tally-sees-40-rise-in-november-101638300404882.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid in Chandigarh: 8 contacts of South Africa returnee’s wife test negative||A day after a 39-year-old man, who returned from South Africa, his wife and a domestic help were tested positive for Covid-19, the Chandigarh health department traced and tested their eight contacts on Tuesday. All have tested negative, said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.The man had tested negative after undergoing an RT-PCR test at the airport. Although he was quarantined at his residence at Sector 36 soon after he arrived in Chandigarh on November 21, his wife had met several people in the past one week. “On Monday, positive patients were shifted to an institutional quarantine facility at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. On Tuesday, the health department tested eight community contacts of the returnee’s wife at GMCH-32 and all of them were found to be negative. Also, none of the other family members is infected,” said Dr Suman Singh.After the three cases surfaced on Monday, it raised concern in view of the emergence of Omicron (B.1.1.529), a new variant that is believed to have originated in South Africa and has attracted worldwide attention.Dr Suman said samples of the returnee and his two positive contacts have been sent for whole genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, on Tuesday to find the variant. “The results of genome sequencing usually take a minimum of two weeks,” she said.Mohali logs one more deathMeanwhile, Mohali on Tuesday reported one more Covid-related fatality, taking the district’s toll to 1,072. Authorities said a 71-year-old woman from Nayagaon died while undergoing treatment at the PGIMER.In November, Mohali reported four fatalities, while no death was reported from Chandigarh and Panchkula.Also, 13 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity, including nine in Chandigarh, three in Mohali and one in Panchkula. The daily tally stood at 11 on Monday.The active caseload rose to 130, with 65 patients in Chandigarh, 38 in Mohali, and 27 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,465 positive cases, of which 64,580 have been cured and 820 patients have died. In Mohali, 68,948 cases have been recorded. While 67,838 patients have recovered, 1,072 have died. In Panchkula, 30,832 people have tested positive, of whom 30,426 have recovered and 379 have succumbed.Don’t panic, says PGIMERIn view of the Omicron threat, medical experts from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) issued an advisory. Dr PVM Lakshmi, professor, community medicine and school of public health, highlighted that there is no need to panic as, so far, no case of this new variant has been reported in India.Dr Mini P Singh, nodal officer for Covid-19 testing at the PGIMER, said residents in the tricity are advised to continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, including wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing, and ensure vaccination of all eligible individuals. “Mass gatherings and non-essential travel should be strictly avoided. Patients with respiratory symptoms should get themselves tested for the virus and isolate themselves till the reports are available,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-in-chandigarh-8-contacts-of-south-africa-returnee-s-wife-test-negative-101638300403711.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur stinks as sanitation workers’ strike enters Day 2||With the strike of sanitation workers and sewer men under the banner of the Municipal Council Employees Sweepers Union (ETCU) entering the second day in Zirakpur on Tuesday, heaps of garbage can be seen in various localities of the city.Due to the strike, garbage has already piled up on roads and outside the Sehaj Safai Kendras. To press for their demands, the protesters on Tuesday locked the gate of the Zirakpur municipal corporation (MC) and did not allow the MC vehicle to pick up the garbage from collection points.The protesters wanted the state government to do away with the clause which stated that for regularising contractual employees they should have a domicile of Punjab. They said most of the employees, who were working with the Zirakpur MC for the past two decades, were from Panchkula.Sweepers’ union president Pradeep Sood and office president Ravinderpal Singh while addressing the protesting workers said if their demand were not fulfilled, they would intensify the protest. “We have been requesting the civic body to regularise the contractual employees, but nothing has been done,” they said.Joint action committee president Sukhdev Chaudhary said the entire city was stinking and officials concerned were not doing anything.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-stinks-as-sanitation-workers-strike-enters-day-2-101638300402623.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali builder gets two-year jail for defying consumer court order||The District Consumer Disputes and Redressal Forum, Mohali, on Tuesday awarded two-year imprisonment to KJS Ahluwalia, managing director of RKM City in Sector 113, for non-compliance of its 2016 order, wherein he was directed to refund ₹14 lakh to a buyer for failure to give possession of a plot.Virender Singh, a resident of Sector 44, Chandigarh, in his complaint stated that he booked a 200-square-yard plot at the housing project in August 2011, and paid ₹14 lakh to the builder on different occasions on the assurance that he will get the possession in 2012. After waiting for four years, he moved the forum in 2016.The forum in its orders, dated April 20, 2016, directed the builder to refund the amount along with 12% interest from the dates of deposits till payment along with compensation of ₹50,000 within 30 days. After Ahluwalia failed to comply, a show-cause notice was issued to him.Forum president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma said: “(Ahluwalia’s) presence was procured by sending production warrants since the accused is already in Burail Jail in some other case... He was given sufficient time to deposit the amount, but he was reluctant to do so. In this case, the accused in a statement recorded that he is not in a position to make the payment to the complainant.”The order stated that from his behaviour, it is clear the builder did not intend to pay the amount to the complainant in the future too, “which clearly proves that he has admitted his guilt”.“Since the accused is very blunt and straightforward in his statement and has clearly shown his intention not to comply with the orders of this commission and pleads guilty, we feel that we are left with no other option except to punish him under Section 72 of the Act for wilful and intentional disobedience of our orders... we feel that the very purpose of the Consumer Protection Act will fail if persons like the accused are not brought to book and punished in accordance with the law,” the order mentioned.
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Promotion policy: PU dental faculty takes up issue with varsity||With the matter of promotion policy of the faculty members at Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital still hanging in balance, the dental faculty has taken up the matter with the university again.After submitting the recommendations of the Joint Academic and Administrative Committee (JAAC) regarding the implementation of the Health and Family Welfare Ministry’s Dynamic Assured Career Progression (DACP) scheme for dental faculty to the university on November 23, the faculty members of the dental institute also met vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Monday.More than two years have passed after the dental faculty members of PU raised the issue regarding their promotion policy and approached the high court in 2019, but the final call on the matter is yet to be taken with the university functioning without the senate.The faculty members of the dental college maintain that the DACP scheme has already been implemented for their medical/dental university teachers in all universities across the country which has their own medical or dental institute. “Unlike the university teachers serving in other departments, we have been deprived of any professional avenues in our career,” states the letter by the faculty members.However, the report PU had submitted in the high court last year stated that the promotion policy framed by the university in 2007 will continue for the promotion of dental faculty. The report, however, is yet to be taken by the PU senate, the university’s governing body.A faculty member, Ikreet Singh Bal, said, “The DACP of the MoHFW has been notified since 2008 and the PU has also been informed in 2017 by the University Grants Commission (UGC) that for the faculty of dentistry, the norms/regulations of the MoHFW will apply. The same policy is being implemented retrospectively in all similarly placed dental institutes.”“The faculty member of the dental institute should get their due promotion which is pending for around 14 years. Being doctors who serve everyone in the need and not getting their due is not good. We request the university to do the needful,” said Hemant Batra, principal of the dental institute. 
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||GMADA: Aerotropolis township project in doldrums||With the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) halting the process to issue letters of intent (LoIs) to around 500 land owners, the Aerotropolis project, an extension of Aerocity, is in the doldrums.It was in September when GMADA started issuing LoIs for 1,600 acres of land acquired for the township. It planned to complete the process within a couple of months and begin the land development in November. However, now, it has stated that around 500 land owners will not be issued LoIs as they got their land registered after the preliminary notification for land acquisition had been issued. So far, GMADA has issued LoIs for only 600 acres of the acquired land. The process is still pending for the remaining 1,000 acres. A senior GMADA official, who is associated with the project, admitted that the project will get delayed as around 500 cases of landlords have been sent to the district court for decision. “GMADA cannot take a decision on it as the financial transaction has taken place between the buyer and seller,” said the official, who did not wish to be named.The move has led to a strong resentment among the affected land owners. Gurminder Singh Bakarpur, one of the land owners, said: “GMADA is blaming us and putting the project on the back burner just to benefit private players in Aerocity. Why didn’t the officials tell the revenue department to stop registering the land?”Another land owner, Sukhminder Singh, said: “If they fail to resolve the issue, we will seek legal help. After a protest last week, housing minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria assured us that he will get it approved in the cabinet. But nothing has been done. We will wait for some more time, failing which, we will intensify our protest.”The project so farIt was in May 2017 when GMADA started the process of land acquisition for Aerotropolis, the seventh independent township being developed by it. In all, 1,600 acres of land were acquired on both sides of the Zirakpur-Banur road.GMADA issued notifications under Section 11 of the Land Acquisition Act in February and August last year for different blocks. The section pertains to preliminary notification for acquiring land and calling objections from land owners.In February this year, compensation was announced for the 1,600-acre acquired land in 11 villages — Bakarpur, Rurka, Safipur, Matran, Siaun, Manauli, Patton, Saini Majra, Chau Majra, Naraingarh and Chhat. The compensation ranged from ₹1.82 crore to ₹4 crore per acre, the highest provided by GMADA to date.While 1,400 acres are privately owned, the remaining is panchayat land. Owners of around 1,300 acres applied for the land pooling scheme instead of monetary compensation. As per the policy, for every one acre of land acquired from them, they will get 1,000 square yards of developed residential plots and 200 square yards of commercial plots, excluding parking.
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Elderly man killed in road accident in Kalka||A 79-year-old man out for a morning walk was killed in a hit-and-run in Kalka on Tuesday. He has been identified as Sohan Lal Sharma.Sharma’s son Kudeep Kumar told police that his father used to go for a morning walk at 3:30am. “Even today, he left for a walk but did not return home. When I went out in search, I found him lying on the road with blood oozing out from his body,” he told police, while submitting a complaint of hit-and-run.An FIR has been registered against the unidentified driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at the Kalka police station.Another man lost his life in an accident between two vehicles in Pinjore late on Monday night. He has been identified as Rajender, who had a workshop in Dharampur.His friend Vimal Kumar of Parwanoo told police that they were returning from Ludhiana after getting some spare parts when a speeding vehicle hit their van from the rear in Nanakpur around 11:30pm. Rajender was rushed to hospital, but he could not survive. A case has been registered against the other driver, who is yet to be arrested.MORE NEWS FROM TRICITYThreat call: Jail authorities told to produce ex-scribeA local court on Tuesday directed the Burail jail authorities to produce former journalist Sanjiv Mahajan in connection with a fresh case registered against him for threatening the prime witness in a murder case.Mahajan, who worked in a Hindi daily, is presently lodged in jail in a property grab case. On November 23, he was booked for allegedly making a phone call and threatening a witness in another case.While opposing his bail plea in the property grab case, police told court that Mahajan “despite being behind bars is threatening the prime witness” in a murder case registered in September 2019 at the Sector 17 police station. On September 4, 2019, four people had shot dead a Jind resident in the parking lot of old district courts in Sector 17, Chandigarh.Three more of gang that robbed woman, son held The police have arrested three more members of a gang who are involved in robbing mother-son duo after drugging them in Sector 36, Chandigarh. The accused have been identified as Dilip Atmaram Upadhyay from Mumbai, Lokendra Ranbhadur Swar from Bangaluru and Vishnu Bhagat Sodari from Thane in Maharashtra. They are in police custody till December 3. They were arrested after disclosure by Milan Sonu and Deepinder Bahadur, who worked as domestic help in the Sector-36 house, and had on October 22 stolen cash and jewellery after sedating their employers — Sarvajit Kaur, 89, and her NRI son Surinder Pal Singh, 69. The police said the gang had 12 members who operate from Mumbai.Chandigarh police arrest two history-sheeters with guns The operation cell of the Chandigarh police has arrested two persons with arms in two separate cases. The accused have been identified as Krishan from Mohali and Parmod Rishidev of Kansal. The duo was arrested during checking in the wake of the upcoming MC elections in Chandigarh. Krishan was arrested near the civil hospital, Manimajra, and one country-made pistol along with five live cartridges was recovered from his possession. Parmod has been arrested near the Waterworks Colony, Sector 26, Chandigarh, and a country-made “kata” along with one live cartridge was recovered from him. A case under the Arms Act has been registered. The police said they have a criminal past and even face murder cases.PU youth festival concludes at PGGC-46 The four-day 62nd Youth and Heritage Festival, Panjab University (PU) of Chandigarh Zone-A, concluded on Tuesday at the Post Graduate Government College (PGGC), Sector 46, Chandigarh. While the GGDSD College, Sector-32, Chandigarh won the overall trophy, DAV College, Sector -10, and PGGC- 11 bagged the first runner-up and second runner-up trophy, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/elderly-man-killed-in-road-accident-in-kalka-101638300396783.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC poll: Rift out in open in AAP over nominee list||A day after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announced its first list of 26 candidates for the municipal corporation (MC) polls, internal party fissures burst out in the open.Several of the party office-bearers and workers voiced opposition to the party’s decisions and some even said they would stand as rebel candidates in the elections.Some party workers even burnt the effigies of convener Prem Garg, party co-in-charge Pardeep Chhabra, party in-charge Jarnail Singh and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal in Sector 25.On Monday late night, the party announced the name of its 26 candidates out of the total 35 MC wards.Stating that he was kept out of the process of selection of candidates, party’s election campaign in-charge Chandermukhi Sharma said, “There is a lot of opposition to the party’s decision on candidate selection. Party workers met me all day on Tuesday expressing their anger at the local leadership ignoring merit and opting to go for their own loyalists. I could only tell them that I was not consulted on the matter.”Last evening, Jarnail Singh had rushed to Sharma’s house to bring him on board but Sharma stuck to his guns.The party is struggling with factionalism as four different groups have emerged under Garg, Chhabra, Sharma and former MP Harmohan Dhawan.The anger has been brewing in the party for some time now but has come out in the open only after the announcement of party tickets. The long-time party workers have been not happy with the recent joinees from the Congress getting a bigger role in the party affairs.A large number of Congress leaders joined the party after former Congress city president Chhabra joined the party in August this year. In the candidature list also on a number of seats recent Congress joinees have been preferred over older AAP members.Sahil Chawar, founder member of the party in the city and youth state general secretary, said, “It is disappointing that loyal party workers have been ignored and tickets have been given to the recent joinees from the BJP and the Congress. For the last more than 10 years, I have dedicatedly worked for the party but this is what we have received in return.”Another founder member of the party in the city and party’s vice-president Yogesh Arora Soni said, “By ignoring merit in candidate selection, the party is inflicting self-damage. It can cost it the election also. But being a loyal party worker, I will stick to the party.”Stating that candidates are being para-dropped, party’s vice-president Sanjeev Kochhar said, “I have decided to contest the MC elections from Ward number 32 as an Independent candidate and will be filing my nomination papers in a couple of days.”Chawar said after consulting his supporters he would file nomination as an Independent candidate from Ward number 4.Responding to criticism, Garg, said, “Delhi appointed observers covering all the wards. On recommendations party had to choose one candidate out of two. So, some dedicated workers also had to be left out. We respect workers right to protest.”Contest elections, Kejriwal tells senior leaders In a bid to curb factionalism in the party, AAP supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday night asked leaders of all four factions in the party to contest the election themselves. Garg, who received a call from Kejriwal, said, “He has asked all senior leaders of the party to contest the elections. We will hold a meeting in this regard on Wednesday and decide on the matter.”This is expected to bring supporters of all factions to work together and quell centripetal forces in the party.Previously, Garg, Chhabra, Sharma and Dhawan’s son Bikram Dhawan (party’s senior vice-president) had all decided against standing in the elections. 
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh recorded driest November in four years||With only 0.2 mm rain throughout the month, this November was the driest since 2017 when no rain was recorded in Chandigarh, according to data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Officials said while November usually stays dry, December is on course to receive normal amount of rainfall.The normal rain for November (average of past 30 years) is 9.9 mm, though 22.7 mm rain was recorded last November. This year, the city received 0.2 mm rain on November 3, after which the month remained dry, leading to a deficit of 98%. “This year, we didn’t receive any active western disturbances (WD) in the month. Usually we receive a couple of such systems in November. However, this year they affected hilly areas in Himachal Pradesh, causing snowfall there but no rainfall in this region,” said IMD, Chandigarh, director Manmohan Singh.What lies aheadMeanwhile, a system of WD will remain active in the region from Wednesday onwards, but is unlikely to bring any rain to the city. However, cloudy weather will make the mercury drop for a couple of days. Another active system is expected to reach the city around December 5, and light rain can be expected.Singh said temperature had remained along normal lines in November with the maximum peaking at 30.2°C (on November 1) and the minimum plunging to 8.8°C (on November 29). In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 23 and 24 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 10 and 12 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-recorded-driest-november-in-four-years-101638300394360.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: PAU contract employees continue protest||Contractual employees of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) continued their protest for the second day in a row on Tuesday outside the varsity’s Thapar Hall. The contractual employees include gardeners, security guards and safai karamcharis. The protesting employees stated that they get meagre wages and many of them have been working on contract basis for over 20 years, but have not being regularised.Chamkaur Singh, president of the Chowidar DPL PAU Welfare Association, said that they have only two demands from the government- increase in salaries of the contractual employees and regularisation of those who have been working at the varsity for a long time.He added, “From Wednesday onwards, we will be conducting protest march within the university along with the teachers’ association and other staff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pau-contract-employees-continue-protest-101638300278650.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers advance wheat sowing in Punjab’s Malwa belt||Sowing of wheat, the main rabi crop of south Malwa belt of Punjab, is expected to be over two weeks earlier than the regular trend in the region.Agriculture experts attribute the early sowing to pink bollworm infestation as cotton growers preferred to clear fields well before the traditional period for wheat sowing.Fazilka chief agriculture officer Resham Singh said as per regular practice, wheat sowing in the south Malwa belt lasts till December 15 or even later as farmers switch to rabi sowing after harvesting third and final picking of cotton bolls. After facing a drastic fall in cotton yield due to the pest attack, farmers hope for a bumper winter crop.But prevailing high temperature makes them worry about the wheat crop that is in the last stage of sowing in most part of southern Punjab.Seven districts of the region have 13.35 lakh hectares under wheat and sowing has been completed in over 90%, said officials. The semi-arid districts of Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka and Muktsar, known as the cotton belt, comprise 61% or have 8.19 lakh hectare land under wheat cultivation of southern Punjab.Agriculture authorities said most of these districts are done with over 90% sowing whereas Moga, Ferozepur and Faridkot have nearly accomplished the target of sowing of the winter crop as harvesting of basmati rice is almost over.Bathinda chief agriculture officer Pakhar Singh said of an estimated 2.54 lakh hectares under wheat, sowing has been completed on 2.5 lakh hectares in the district.In Mansa, of the 1.7 lakh hectares, sowing is over on 1.55 lakh hectares whereas wheat has been sown on 2.14 lakh hectares in Muktsar.Of the targeted 2 lakh hectares, only 20,000 hectares are left in Fazilka that is expected to be over by this week, said officials. Progressive farmer Baldev Singh of Bathinda’s Bajak village said the pest attack caused widespread damage and growers did not see any benefit in the third picking of cotton bolls. “A light rainfall at this stage will bring much relief for the rabi crop growers,” he said.Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) principal agronomist and wheat expert Hari Ram said unlike the last five years, this time the day temperature is about 2 degrees Celsius higher. “But the weather condition is not adverse to wheat. Also, notwithstanding the shortage of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertiliser, farmers switched to the alternatives advised by the PAU and the state agriculture department. Preliminary yield is unexpected to be affected but the real picture will be known later,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-advance-wheat-sowing-in-punjab-s-malwa-belt-101638300215795.html
01-12-2021||Pune||Army havaldar among four in custody over recruitment racket||PUNE: An Indian Army Havaldar is among the four people arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for running an illegal recruitment racket that promised aspirants a job in the armed and police forces. The operation was carried out based on information provided by the military intelligence officials, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The arrested men have been identified as Pravin Jagannath Patil (25), a resident of Tasgaon, Sangli; Mahesh Suresh Vaidya (27), a resident of Karvenagar and a native of Barshi, Solapur; Anil Ramdas Chavanke (35) a resident of Sinnar, Nashik; and Tushal alias Tushar Kailas Dukre (25) a resident of Shirur, Pune, according to the police. The men are all in judicial custody at Yerawada prison. Chavanke is a havaldar in the Indian Army and had come to his hometown, Nashik for a vacation. Patil used to contact aspirants on phone while Vaidya ensured physical confiscation of original documents from them. Chavanke was presented as the person who could help them get through shortcomings in medical test results while Dukre would help them in forging other documentation like residential proof, according to the police. “These accused made applicants believe that they could help them get into the army as well as police forces. They also told the applicants that they have done so earlier and the shortcomings found in the medical test results could be managed through their contacts in the medical teams conducting the medical teams in any recruitment process. We were provided with an audio on November 9 with these claims being made in it. Based on that recording, we tracked a person who was in possession of such a leaked paper and registered a case-based complaint against him. We found the other accused in Sangli and Nashik. We are looking for one more person,” said commissioner Prakash. They were found with original records of Class 10 and 12 of the complainant boy and 10 other such boys. Moreover, the police have also recovered seven forged appointment letters, a set of uniform, and four mobile phones. The original identification cards and documents were wrongfully confiscated by the accused from the applicants and they lured them with forged call/appointment letters. Some applicants were provided false letters by taking a certain fee, while the ones who were selected on merit, were forced to pay money by making them believe that they were selected because of the accused, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-havaldar-among-four-in-custody-over-recruitment-racket-101638300214349.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||2022 Punjab assembly polls: Ludhiana DC directs officials to form joint teams||In view of the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections, district electoral officer-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma held a meeting on Tuesday with senior district administration and police officials.The meeting was attended by police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, SSP Ludhiana (rural) Raj Bachan Singh Sandhu, SSP Khanna Gursharandeep Singh Grewal and ADC (general)-cum-additional district electoral officer Rahul Chaba among others.Sharma said that to ensure free and fair elections, the process of vulnerability mapping should be completed well in advance before the model code of conduct is imposed.He asked the police department to prepare lists of known offenders after holding meetings with local police personnel and prepare reports on parole jumpers, history-sheeters and bail jumpers so that close vigil can be kept on their activities. “Work related to details on arms/weapons which need to be deposited before elections and expenditure sensitive constituencies and others should also be taken care of,” he said. He added that status of pendency of FIRs registered during the 2017 assembly elections and 2019 Lok Sabha elections should also be prepared.Sharma also asked the police department to issue formal orders regarding submission of weapons holders today and ask weapon holders to submit them once the code comes into force.Sharma also ordered the officials to form joint teams of various departments to keep a check in their areas during the elections. Sharma told the AROs to send the lists of counting centres so that it can be forwarded to the Election Commission.He also took strong notice of the absence of some senior officials at the meeting and directed ADC Chaba to take necessary action against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2022-punjab-assembly-polls-ludhiana-dc-directs-officials-to-form-joint-teams-101638300156247.html
01-12-2021||Pune||Woman killed; husband, son injured in highway accident in Pune||PUNE: A woman was killed after a mixer truck rammed into the two-wheeler along Mumbai-Bangalore highway stretch in Hinjewadi on Monday evening. Her husband and 14-year-old son who were travelling with her are also injured. The deceased woman has been identified as Shakila Kadar Shaikh while the injured have been identified as her husband Kadar Shaikh and son Aman Shaikh. The family of three was riding on a Honda Activa and was headed to Kondhwa when their vehicle was rammed by the truck, according to the police. The police have arrested the truck driver identified as Prabhu Bhaurao Patil (49) a resident of Santosh Chawl in Thergaon. However, he was released on bail by a local court on Tuesday. A case under Sections 279, 338, 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 132(1)(c), 184, and 119/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Hinjewadi police station. Police sub-inspector Chaya Borkar of Hinjewadi police station is investigating the case. Pavement dweller killed in road accident An unidentified pavement dweller was killed in a hit-and-run case near Navale bridge in Pune on Monday afternoon. The identity of the victim as well as the accused vehicle driver remains unknown. However, his body was found near a private hospital located in the vicinity of the bridge at around 1:30pm. A case for causing death due to negligence has been registered at Sinhgad road police station, said police officials. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-killed-husband-son-injured-in-highway-accident-in-pune-101638300035506.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab will support AAP ‘Kejriwal vs all’ assembly poll, says Chadha||Seeking to dub the 2022 assembly poll as a “Kejriwal vs all” affair, AAP leader Raghav Chadha on Tuesday claimed the people of Punjab know it and will support his party.All rival political parties in Punjab will again fight the assembly elections together to stop his party from coming to power but the people of Punjab will not let this happen as they all are in favour of his party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal, said Chadha in an interaction with reporters here.The AAP’s co-in-charge of Punjab affairs also claimed that during the 2017 Punjab assembly polls, various political parties, including the Akali Dal and the BJP, had “transferred” their votes to the Congress party to stop the AAP from forming government in the state.“We fear that this time too, all political parties will again fight assembly elections together to stop AAP and Arvind Kejriwal,” alleged Chadha.“But I want to make it clear that the people of Punjab have come to know that this election is ‘Kejriwal vs all’ and people of Punjab are with Kejriwal and not with them (other political parties),” said Chadha.Chadha was replying to a question on former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh party’s possible seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP for the upcoming assembly polls.Replying to another question, he said the AAP will soon announce another list of candidates for the 2022 Punjab assembly polls.The Aam Aadmi Party has already announced 10 party candidates who all are AAP’s sitting MLAs.Chadha, who is an MLA from Delhi, also asked Channi to provide Scheduled Caste (SC) families with five marla plots of land and financial assistance of ₹1 crore to the families of SC employees, who lost their lives while discharging duties during the Covid pandemic.He said if Channi did not do so, the AAP will do it after forming government in Punjab after the 2022 assembly elections.Chadha was accompanied by leader of opposition in the state assembly Harpal Singh Cheema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-will-support-aap-kejriwal-vs-all-assembly-poll-says-chadha-101638300034495.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Missing Panipat siblings found in UP, couple arrested for kidnapping||Three siblings, who were missing for the past three days from their residence in Panipat, were found in Uttar Pradesh.Police claimed that the children, namely Gauri, 10, her brothers Daksh, 3, and Himanshu, 2, were allegedly kidnapped by a couple living in their locality. They have been identified as Rajbir and Anita, residents of Bijnor. Panipat superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said the kids have been recovered from a couple in Uttar Pradesh and they are being brought to Panipat.He said the couple lived in the same locality in Panipat, but they went missing on the same day that the kids disappeared. It is not yet clear why the couple took the kids away, but cops say the couple does not have any kids of their own and it is likely they kidnapped them for adoption. The children’s mother, Kavita Rani, had lodged a kidnapping complaint on November 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-panipat-siblings-found-in-up-couple-arrested-for-kidnapping-101638299974282.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||35-yr-old man killed in firing at birthday party in Amritsar||AMRITSARA 35-year-old man was killed in firing at a birthday party at the Anand Vihar locality on the Amritsar-Chabhal road, police said on Tuesday. The victim, Saurabh, was a resident of Hoshiarpur district. Police have booked five persons—Mandeep Singh, alias Mandy, Rahul, alias Mintu, Raghu, Prince and Vijay—under Sections 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at the Gate Hakima police station. According to information, Saurabh, who had come to meet his aunt, and his friend, Vivek, a resident of Putlighar area of Amritsar, went at the Chabhal road to attend a birthday party. Police said some guests opened fire at the party and a bullet hit Saurabh in his neck. He was rushed to a private hospital in Amritsar where doctors declared him brought dead. Gate Hakima station house officer (SHO) Harkirat Singh said: “Preliminary investigation revealed that Saruabh died during indiscriminate firing at the birthday party. We have booked five persons, including the birthday boy. Raids are on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/35yrold-man-killed-in-firing-at-birthday-party-in-amritsar-101638299922489.html
01-12-2021||Other||Lucknow: Bharat Mahotsav-2021 begins; to promote local artisans, products||LUCKNOW: More than 100 artisans from 28 states and eight union territories have showcased their artifacts and works at the 15-day Bharat Mahotsav-2021 that began at Smriti Upvan here on Tuesday. Organised by Pragrati Paryavaran Sanrakshan Trust, the fest aims at providing platform to local artisans to showcase their products. The fest will conclude on December 14. A grand exhibition showcasing the artifacts made by artisans was organised on Monday. Other than the stalls, the fest will also witness several cultural programmes and dance competitions. Organisers of the fest said, this year the theme of the fest is ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. “It’s our attempt to promote local talent and bring in monetary benefits to the artisans,” said Vinod Kumar Singh, president of Pragrati Paryavaran Sanrakshan Trust. Singh said that this time they had included artisans from all parts of the country including UP, Rajasthan, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Pondicherry, Delhi, Chandigarh and other states, and have displayed their works at the fest. Suresh Kumar, a traditional potter, who came to take part in the fest lauded the efforts of the trust and said, “Such programmes are very important to boost up the dwindling trade. I believe locals should purchase their products in order to boost up the business of the traditional workers, especially during the present Covid situation,” said Kumar. Other than this, the organisers said they have also set up a big food court at the fest that would serve best cuisines from different part of the country, including that from Punjab, Haryana, Lucknow, Kerala and other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-bharat-mahotsav-2021-begins-to-promote-local-artisans-products-101638299921338.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Guest faculty protest against Punjab govt||Guest faculty lecturers extended their support to the Punjab Government College Guest Faculty and Assistant Professors Association in its protest against the Punjab government and higher education department on Tuesday. To mark their protest, they distributed lollipops among people and alleged that the government is giving them “lollipops” instead of addressing their issues.They are demanding regularisation of 962 guest faculty lecturers who have been working in government colleges in the state for the past several years. They slammed Punjab education minister Pargat Singh for not addressing their issues and shouted slogans against the Congress government. They also stated that Punjab has become a state where all sections are unhappy with the present Government.Professor Jaswinder Singh said that the Government has been giving assurances to them and making false promises to them. They will continue their protest till the government fulfil their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-guest-faculty-protests-against-punjab-govt-101638299854414.html
01-12-2021||Pune||RBI extends Rupee Bank’s licence till February 2022||PUNE The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has extended the validity of the all-inclusive directions (AID) licence under which the stressed Pune-based Rupee Bank operates for three months, up to February 2022. According to an administrator appointed by the RBI, this will be the bank’s 27th extension in a row. Rupee Bank has been given various options for resolution which includes exploratory proposal for merger. The RBI has also given an undertaking in the Bombay High Court for taking an appropriate decision before December 31, 2021 in respect of resolution of the bank, said administrator Sudhir Pandit. The Bank has made a total recovery of ₹326.49 crore and has earned an operating profit aggregating to ₹70.82 crore during the last five years and disbursed ₹376.95 crore to 95,115 depositors under hardship withdrawal. The bank has addressed all issues of governance, attached assets of delinquent borrowers, directors, and executives. Barring negative net worth and accumulated losses, there are no serious issues either in the RBI inspection report or statutory audit. Some investors have approached the bank, while a multi-state schedule cooperative bank has submitted a preliminary proposal for merger for approval of RBI. The RBI accordingly, has invoked provisions of Section 18A (7) of DICGC Amendment Act 2021 and advised the DICGC to defer the refund of deposits up to ₹5,00,000 for further period of ninety months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rbi-extends-rupee-bank-s-licence-till-february-2022-101638299794420.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||GADVASU conducts training on handling lab animals||The department of livestock production management, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, conducted a five-day training on “ethical issues, management and breeding in laboratory animals” which concluded on Tuesday.Seven trainees including two professors, three PhD scholars and two lab technicians from Lovely Professional University participated in the training.This programme included lectures on different breeds of laboratory animals along with their ideal housing, breeding, reproduction and feeding requirements. Training was provided regarding handling of rat, mice, rabbit, guinea pig and hamster along with techniques for drug administration and fluid collection. It also covered topics for prevention and treatment of zoonotic diseases and laboratory safety guidelines and health hazards associated with lab animals.Dr LD Singla, member of the ethical committee, explained ethical/ welfare issues in biomedical research and the Committee for the Purpose of Control and Supervision of Experiments on Animals (CPCSEA) laws, regulations and policies. As per the Institutional Animal Ethics Committee’s (IAEC) minimum requirements, scientists, in-charges of animal house, students and animal attendants involved in research and maintenance of laboratory animals in various institutes should be well trained and have knowledge of laboratory animal handling, breeding hygiene, emergency situations and welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadvasu-conducts-training-on-handling-lab-animals-101638299736717.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Omicron concerns, thousands to converge on to Kurukshetra for Gita Mahotsav||Thousands of pilgrims from different parts of the country are likely to reach Kurukshetra for the International Gita Mohatsav, set to be held from December 2 to 19, even as the new variant of Covid-19, Omicron, is emerging as a cause of concern. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Haryana government had started organising the religious extravaganza with an aim to promote the teaching of Bhagavad Gita. Last year, it was held largely virtually, with exceptions to a few events, due to Covid-19 outbreak. This time, organisers are claiming that elaborate arrangements have been made to deal with any situation but the decision to go ahead with the event has left Kurukshetra residents worried as lakhs of devotees from across the country converge on to the Brahma Sarovar, where several rituals, including lighting of diyas and chanting of mantras, are carried out during the Mahotsav.“We are not in favour of orgaising such events at this stage. Who will be answerable if the infection spreads,” said Shailesh Kumar, a resident of Kurukshetra city.Mamta Rani, another resident, said, “It seems the government has not learnt any lesson from the last Covid wave when people were running from pillar-to-post for oxygen and hospital beds.”Meanwhile, a change of guard is in the offing as Kurukshetra chief medical officer (CMO) Sant Lal Verma retired on November 30 and the new CMO is yet to join duty. Kurukshetra Development Board honorary secretary Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “The event is being orgainsed in a big way and lakhs of devotees will Kurukshetra during this year’s event.”On steps taken to address residents’ concerns, he said, “This is the responsibility of the administration; they will ensure Covid guidelines of the government are followed.”Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said, “Yes their (residents’) concerns are valid but the administration is fully prepared and strict instructions have been issued in this regard to the officials concerned and the health department.”He said the entire event will be organised as per Covid-19 protocol at all places and visitors will have to wear face masks and sanitising teams will be deputed.As per district administration, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar visited Kurukshetra on Wednesday to review preparations for the event.As per the schedule prepared by the Kurukshetra Development Board, the Saras Craft Mela will be organised from December 2 to 19 and the religious programmes will be organised from December 9 to 14.Online Gita Quiz will be organised from November 21 to December 8, Gita Marathon will be organised on November 28 and wall and floor painting competition will be organised on November 21 and 22. A Gita Seminar will be organised on December 10 and slogan chanting will be done by around 55,000 students on December 14, he added.
01-12-2021||Lucknow||Omicron threat: UP govt steps up efforts, puts surveillance teams on alert||In view of the threat of new Covid variant, Omicron, the Uttar Pradesh government has issued instructions to various departments after a meeting with the Union health ministry. The state government put over 73,000 surveillance committees on alert to pay door-to-door visits, intensified screening at airports and instructions had been given by chief minister Yogi Adityanath for genome sequencing of Covid samples in view of the Omicron variant, said a state government spokesperson on Tuesday.“Arrangements for genome sequencing will be made at the earliest in Lucknow (KGMU and SGPGIMS), Gorakhpur, Jhansi and Meerut. Health teams in all the 75 districts are on alert and nearly 530 oxygen producing plants are functional in the state. In all, 524 oxygen plants have already been set up in Uttar Pradesh while work to get other plants functional is in progress on a war-footing,” said the spokesperson.“Real-time monitoring of installation work has been planned with the district administrations being asked to continuously monitor the progress of installation work of these plants and ensure availability of raw material so that it can be completed on time,” the spokesperson added.“As the new variant B.1.1.529, which has been classified as a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organisation (WHO), the state government has taken prompt action by putting the health teams in all the 75 districts on alert,” the spokesperson added.“There is no situation at present which warrants panic or worry. The CM has already asked officials to make special efforts to improve surveillance with a focus on airports, railway stations and bus stands to ensure that normalcy prevails in the state,” the spokesperson said. Meanwhile during Covid review meeting on Tuesday, Yogi said there was a need to maintain a strict vigil in the state amid growing concern over the new Covid variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/omicron-threat-up-govt-steps-up-efforts-puts-surveillance-teams-on-alert-101638299617096.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Photoshoot at Kartarpur gurdwara: India summons Pak charge d’affaires||India on Tuesday summoned the charge d’affaires at the Pakistan high commission and conveyed its deep concern over a Pakistani model’s photoshoot at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, describing it as a “desecration” of the sanctity of the holy place.Calling it a “reprehensible” incident, India said it expects Pakistani authorities to “sincerely investigate” the matter and take action against those involved.Model Sauleha’s “bareheaded” photoshoot for a Pakistani clothing brand at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib set the social media abuzz on Monday as many people accused her of hurting the religious sentiments of the Sikh community.The model later deleted her photos from her Instagram page and posted an apology.“Pakistani charge d’affaires was summoned today to convey our deep concern at the incident of desecration of the sanctity of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur by a Pakistani model and a clothing brand,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. Bagchi was responding to a media query on the matter. The MEA spokesperson said it was conveyed to the Pakistani diplomat that this “reprehensible” incident has deeply hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community in India and worldwide.“Such continued incidents of desecration and disrespect of places of religious worship of the minority communities in Pakistan highlight the lack of respect for the faith of these communities,” he said.“It was further conveyed that we expect Pakistani authorities to sincerely investigate this matter and take action against those involved,” Bagchi added. Gurdwara Darbar Sahib is located in Pakistan’s Narowal district which is about four kilometres from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Punjab’s Gurdaspur. It is the final resting place of Sikh faith’s founder Guru Nanak, who had spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur.In November 2019, India and Pakistan threw open the Kartarpur Corridor linking Dera Baba Sahib in Gurdaspur with the Gurdwara in Kartarpur in a historic people-to-people initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/photoshoot-at-kartarpur-gurdwara-india-summons-pak-charge-daffaires-101638299615536.html
01-12-2021||Other||State govt directs survey of beggars in Pune to be undertaken||PUNE As the number of beggars at traffic signals have increased, the Maharashtra government has asked for a survey to take necessary action to rehabilitate them. The Women and child development department organised a one-day state-level workshop in Pune on Tuesday, on the issue of beggars and their rehabilitation. Minister of state for women and child development Omprakash ‘Bacchu’ Kadu, commissioner Rahul More, and Pune divisional deputy commissioner Dilip Hirawale were present. The issue of beggars at traffic signals and transgenders near toll nakas on highways was discussed. All agencies, the police, women and child development department and local municipal corporations will work together to conduct the survey. Kadu said that to change the mindset of beggars, their rehabilitation is necessary, and also to ensure no new beggars come out onto the roads. Administration said that people with mental problems, no support system and the homeless are begging. Beggars do not have Aadhar cards and are not able benefit from government schemes. The minister asked that beggars be registered and the process of Aadhar cards can begin, as well to try and give benefits of the Sanjay Gandhi homeless peoples’ scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-govt-directs-survey-of-beggars-in-pune-to-be-undertaken-101638299613738.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||PAU bids adieu to researcher NS Bains||NS Bains retired from the post of Punjab Agricultural University’s director of research on Tuesday.Apart from spearheading PAU’s research programme, he is a stalwart in the field of wheat breeding and his work on the triticale and durum varieties led to their adoption and cultivation by major industrial players of the country. He has also guided 16 MSc and PhD students .Bains, who was also a student of PAU, joined the department of plant breeding and genetics in 1991 as assistant plant breeder and went on to get his postdoctoral fellowship at International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), Philippines. He also attended the ‘Student Centred Learning’ at Ohio State University, USA and has 100 research/ extension publications to his credit. “Though retiring from official duties, I am always available for my colleagues and students for any help that I can offer for the betterment of the institution,” said Bains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-bids-adieu-to-researcher-ns-bains-101638299557436.html
01-12-2021||Pune||World Aids Day: Covid-19 hits testing in Pune; 56K tests in 2021, so far||PUNE In the past two years testing for the Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (Aids) has drastically fallen in the city to almost half the number of tests conducted before Covid-19. Every year, December 1 is marked as World Aids day. Between January-December 2019, the city saw 100,000 tests, of which 1,768 tested positive for the infection. In 2021 between January and October the city saw 56,000 tests of which 933 tested positive for the infection. The Covid-19 lockdown and the pandemic has been affected testing and counseling done by the PMC with regards to prevention of Aids. Dr Suryankant Deokar, PMC’s health officer who is in charge of the National Aids prevention programme in the city said, “The pandemic has definitely hit testing with regards to Aids since the machinery was involved with Covid-19 work. We have mandatory Aids checkups for part of the antenatal care programmes under which all pregnant women are tested, in addition to this through our OPD’s the counsellors and doctors inspect patients and then recommend them for an HIV test. We also conduct campaigns at the red-light areas and also among teenage children, boys and girls. If parents test positive, we test the children as well.” Following World Aids Day, the civic body will conduct a one-week IEC programme. Deokar added, “We will inform people and conduct massive IEC campaigns through competitions and rangolis and even counselling for all those who come to the hospitals regarding the way Aids is spread and how it could be prevented. In the current year alone 933 new Aids cases have been reported, of which 491 are men, 361 women, nine children, six of third gender, 27 pregnant women and 39 in private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/world-aids-day-covid-19-hits-testing-in-pune-56k-tests-in-2021-so-far-101638299554625.html
01-12-2021||Gurugram||Woman raped, stabbed by man in Faridabad hotel||A 22-year-old woman was allegedly raped and stabbed in a hotel room in Faridabad on Monday by a man after she turned down his marriage proposal, police said on Tuesday. The suspect was arrested early Tuesday morning. Police said that the victim is undergoing treatment at a private hospital and her condition is stable. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspect was identified as Yash Aggarwal. “During the lockdown last year, the woman had gone back to her native place in Uttar Pradesh. Last month, she returned to Faridabad and resumed her work. Aggarwal was repeatedly asking her to meet him but she was avoiding, following which he got agitated and planned to kill her,” he said. Kadiyan said the suspect booked a room in a private hotel on railway road, and called the victim and told her that he was keeping unwell and wanted to meet her once. According to police, when the woman met the suspect in the hotel, he again asked her to marry him but she told him that she wanted to marry someone of her parents’ choice. The suspect allegedly raped the woman in a fit of rage and then stabbed her multiple times and fled the spot, said police. The hotel’s staff heard the victim’s scream and alerted police, Kadiyan said, adding that a police team reached the spot and took her to the hospital. The DCP said that a team was formed to arrest the suspect, and he was arrested from Sector 21 in the early hours of Tuesday. A case of rape and attempt to murder was registered against the suspect at NIT police station in Faridabad on Monday, he said.The suspect was produced in a court that sent him to two-day police remand, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/woman-raped-stabbed-by-man-in-faridabad-hotel-101638299374741.html
01-12-2021||Pune||Traders, shopkeepers upset over being heavily fined for customers violating Covid norms||PUNE: Traders across the state are furious over the new guidelines issued by the state government in light of the threat posed by the new ‘Omicron’ variant of Covid-19 as imposition of heavy fines for violating vaccine-related norms will lead to more corruption, according to them.The Maharashtra government on Saturday issued new guidelines where the owner of a shop, establishment or office will be fined Rs10,000 if a customer enters the premises without being fully vaccinated. If the shop, establishment or office is found not following Covid appropriate behaviour (CAB), it will be fined Rs50,000. The customer on the other hand will be fined Rs500 for violating CAB. The state government has made it mandatory for people to be fully vaccinated to access public places and public transport.Lalit Gandhi, president of the Maharatta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MACCIA), said, “Traders are already facing many challenges in bringing back the business they’ve lost in the last two years due to the Covid pandemic. Many establishments have already shut and the new guidelines will make it even more difficult for us to do business as checking vaccine certificates will keep us completely busy when that is not our job.”“The heavy penalty has left scope for corruption and pressure on traders. If anyone has to avoid paying such a high fine, the law enforcement agencies, including the police department or any other government officials will seek bribes which we have seen earlier as well,” Gandhi said.Fatehchand Ranka, president, Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP), said, “Pune traders and all other traders and shop-owners across the state have always supported the state government in following safety measures till now. By imposing such high penalty, the government is again creating issues and we request that these high penalties on shop, office and any establishment-owners be immediately withdrawn.”The new guidelines have been issued in light of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – which has been named Omicron by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The variant, B.1.1.529, was first reported from South Africa, which has tagged it as a ‘variant of concern’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/traders-shopkeepers-upset-over-being-heavily-fined-for-customers-violating-covid-norms-101638299314611.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Row erupts over name of CMCH’s cardiology centre||A section of employees of Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and a faction of the Christian community have raised objections over the cardiology centre at the institute being named after industrialist-cum-philanthropist NC Gupta and accused director Dr William Bhatti of ignoring the constitution of the institution. The protestors on Tuesday led by Avinash Kumar, Samson Dogar and Raman Kumar carried out a candle march at Kalvari Church, CNI.Samson Dogar, a member of the Christian community, said, “Our continuous objections against naming any department after a donor or a philanthropist has failed to elicit a response from the director. We have tried to explain our point of view to Dr Bhatti and informed him that as per the constitution of CMCH, Ludhiana Society Clause Number 12 of the Memorandum of Association, the society shall not accept any gift, grant or benefit of any kind which carries with it any condition or obligation. However, the CMC constitution was ignored by accepting donations and changing the name after the donor.” It all started when the renovation of the cardiology centre was discussed at the administrative committee meetings of CMCH. However, a resolution regarding renaming the centre was never adopted, added Dogar.On the other hand, Dr Bhatti slammed his critics and asked them to shun their regressive propaganda and work for the betterment of the medical institute. He said that residents of Ludhiana have always risen above religion, cast or creed and donated generously for the development of the institution and putting a name on the wall was a gesture of paying gratitude to the philanthropist and in no manner a violation of minority institution and it was not done under any condition or obligation.He said that 127 years ago, Ludhianvis had welcomed Dr Edith Mary Brown, founder of the institute, with open arms. From monetary help to offering their land, residents had made a huge contribution in establishing the prestigious medical institution.“Similarly, in the tough times of the first and second Covid wave, generous people came forward and contributed. City-based NGOs also donated wholeheartedly to establish a level- 2 Covid facility. If we are expressing our gratitude by merely writing their name, it is not an infringement of the medical institute’s constitution,” said Dr Bhatti.The premier and oldest healthcare institution of the state is a Christian minority Institution which was established by English missionary Dr Edith Mary Brown in 1894.ContentionA press release issued by the protesting group in the evening stated that junior doctors’ salaries and retired employees’ pensions have not paid for four to six months. The number of patients has reduced drastically, as there has been an exodus of doctor’s and other staff. The staff feels alienated and are victimised by the director as he listens only to his closed coterie.The release further stated that the Christian community has been sparring with Dr Bhatti since April 2021 as the CMC administration had reportedly signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a renowned knitting yarn group of the city, which has been pushing for three different departments to be named after it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-row-erupts-over-name-of-cmch-s-cardiology-centre-101638299197552.html
01-12-2021||Other||Mathura admn denies permission for ‘sankalp yatra’ on Dec 6||The district administration in Mathura on Tuesday denied permission to the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi Mukti Dal for organising a public meeting and ‘sankalp yatra’ on December 6 in view of apprehensions over threat to communal harmony and violation of Covid-19 protocols. A press statement issued by information department informed that the national head of Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi Mukti Dal had sought permission to hold the events in Mathura on December 6. “Permission has been denied as any such act would be in violation of orders issued by the Supreme Court and high court besides being in violation of Covid protocols. Organising such events might lead to communal riots, as such permission is turned down,” said district administration of Mathura in statement. Earlier, a few organizations, including the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha, had given a call for a ‘jalabhishek’ (offering of water) on the idol to be placed in Eidgah adjoining the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura on December 6. In this regard, the Mathura administration had already clarified that no one would be allowed to disturb peace and tranquillity of Mathura and those violating prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 of criminal procedure code would be strictly dealt with. Various litigations were pending in courts of Mathura to re-claim land around Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi, on which Shahi Eidgah, said to be built by Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb, exists in Mathura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mathura-admn-denies-permission-for-sankalp-yatra-on-dec-6-101638299135619.html
01-12-2021||Pune||Alliance for municipal polls will be decided at local level: Malik||PUNE Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) spokesperson and state cabinet minister Nawab Malik said that views of local leaders will be taken into consideration when deciding about the three MVA partners contesting the upcoming civic elections in Maharashtra together. Elections to 13 municipal corporations, including Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik are slated for early next year. When asked about his party’s stand on an alliance for the polls, Malik said, “The Nationalist Congress Party has taken a stand to listen to local leaders and take a decision as per the party leaders’ wishes. I am the president of Mumbai and my wish is that Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress should jointly contest the municipal elections. However, it is a little early to speak as the delimitation process is underway.” He was speaking in the city on Tuesday as part of aninteraction organised by the Pune Union Of Working Journalists (PUWJ). Malik, who is also a minister in the Maharashtra cabinet asserted that if three parties contest elections together, the BJP’s seats in Mumbai will come down drastically. The NCP spokesperson also said West Bengal chief minister Mamta Banerjee is to meet Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday at his Silver Oak residence. “Trinamool Congress leader and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee is on a two-day visit to Mumbai. She is visiting Pawar’s home on Wednesday afternoon. Earlier, it was planned that she will visit Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, but Thackeray is not meeting anyone in the hospital.”According to an NCP spokesperson, the NCP stand has been that all the opposition parties should come together at a national level and fight against the BJP. “By keeping the Congress out, it is not possible. Even NCP president Sharad Pawar has cleared it, that without the Congress, there cannot be unity in opposition,” said Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/alliance-for-municipal-polls-will-be-decided-at-local-level-malik-101638299134503.html
01-12-2021||Gurugram||Namaz row in Gurugram: Police complaint against three Hindu group leaders||A member of a Muslim group in Gurugram on Tuesday filed a police complaint against three members of different Hindu groups for allegedly hurting religious sentiments with their remarks, while protesting against namaz in the open on Fridays. No case has been registered as yet, said police, adding that the allegations are being investigated.Mufti Mohd Saleem, president of Jamiat-Ulama-i-Hind, Gurgaon division, said he submitted a complaint on behalf of the Muslim Community of Gurgaon — an umbrella body of different Muslim groups in the city — on Tuesday.Also Read | Gurugram: Muslims to approach court for relief in namaz controversy“On various occasions, we have observed that a certain group of persons — in particular Dinesh Bharti, Kulbhushan Bhardwaj and Mahaveer Bhardwaj (the three men named in the complaint) — have been repeatedly making provocative statements in public with the intention of promoting enmity against Islam. This has deeply hurt the religious sentiments of Muslims. Needless to say, they are repeatedly doing these acts that are prejudicial to the maintenance of communal harmony,” he said.Saleem said he also gave to the police a pen drive containing links to the videos where the people named in the complaint can purportedly be seen mocking the Muslim community and threatening them with violence.Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police (west), said they have received the complaint and are verifying the facts. “We are investigating to ascertain the facts. No case has been registered as yet,” he said.This is the first time that a Muslim group or member is filing a police complaint against any Hindu group or member, although namaz disruptions have been taking place in Gurugram since September this year.Also Read | Namaz disrupted as groups keep up stirOver the past three months, right-wing groups have tried to disrupt namaz being offered in open spaces in sectors 47, 12, 37 and Sirhaul Village. On November 5, Hindu groups organised a Govardhan Puja at the site in Sector 12A, where namaz used to be offered on Fridays. Due to continued protests, the district administration in early November reduced the number of designated public sites for Friday prayers from 37 to 20.Altaf Ahmad, a representative of the Muslim community, said the intervention of the police and the administration in the matter has been lacking over the past few weeks. “Since the time the Govardhan Puja was held in Sector 12A namaz site, we have seen the administration and police taking a step back. Several civil society groups, including the Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, have decided to come together on December 1 at 11am at Civil Lines, and protest against the inaction of the administration,” he said.Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, legal advisor of Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti, a Hindu umbrella body leading protests against namaz in open spaces, said they will continue to disrupt Friday prayers in public spaces. “We are not frightened of police complaints and will continue to disrupt prayers in the open. We have given them (Muslims) a month to look for other places and this Friday, we will spread to all sites where namaz is offered and create disruption even on pain of getting arrested,” he said.Dinesh Bharti, president of Bharat Mata Vahini, said he has been imprisoned several times in Gurugram for interrupting namaz. “I am also filing a complaint against Muslims for targeting me and tarnishing my image,” he said.
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man booked for poaching Nilgai in Mattewara forest in Ludhiana||Two days after a male nilgai (blue bull) was killed in Mattewara Forest near Kalewal village, the police on Tuesday booked one of the poachers. One of the accused persons, Jassi of Pawat village, has been booked under sections of the Wildlife Protection Act . The killing came to light after the villagers spotted the poachers and gathered on the spot before they could take away the carcass of the slain antelope. The accused managed to flee the spot in their Maruti Gypsy. However, the villagers jotted down the vehicle’s registration number. Range officer (wildlife) Shaminder Singh said the animal was shot twice on November 28 and a complaint was lodged at the Koomkalam Police Station. Officials say poachers hunt the protected nilgai for meat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-booked-for-poaching-nilgai-in-mattewara-forest-in-ludhiana-101638298894466.html
01-12-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad police bust fake logistics company, arrest three for duping||Gurugram: The Faridabad police have busted a fake logistics company and arrested three persons who allegedly duped over a dozen of customers on the pretext of providing low-cost services, officials said on Tuesday. The suspects were identified as Mandeep from Bhiwani, Naresh Singh from Delhi and Manoj from Rohtak. Police said that the suspects had created a fake website andwould cheat people by getting payment online and collecting their goods.Police, however, did not reveal the name of the fictitious company.According to police, Bhupender Singh, a Faridabad resident, filed a complaint against the fake company on November 7 at Sector 7 police station, alleging that he was duped of an Hyundai i20 car and ₹20,000. The complainant said that he paid the amount online to send his car to his son in Mumbai, police said, adding that he made the payment in advance as demanded by the company for transporting the car to Mumbai. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said that after making the payment, Singh gave his i20 car to one of the suspects, who had come to his house to collect the vehicle, and took the receipt from him. “After a week when the car did not reach Mumbai, the complainant called the company to check the status of delivery. Then the suspects said that the car had reached another city and demanded ₹30,000 more for the delivery. Singh visited the place mentioned as address in the web portal and he realised that it was a fake address. Then he approached police and lodged a complaint against the company,” he said. Kadiyan said it was revealed during the investigation that the company was fake and several complaints were registered against the suspects. Police said that the suspects’ mobile numbers were put on surveillance and they were arrested from Bhiwani and Rohtak on Monday. Police have also recovered three mobile phones and the i20 car from their possession, Kadiyan said. The suspects were produced before a local court that sent them to 14-day judicial custody on Tuesday, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-police-bust-fake-logistics-company-arrest-three-for-duping-101638298714177.html
01-12-2021||Noida||Noida woman arrested for plotting male friend’s murder||Police arrested a 39-year-old woman from Zero Point on the Yamuna Expressway in Greater Noida on Tuesday morning, where she was waiting to meet two hired shooters to kill her male friend in Jaunpur, officials said, adding that they also seized a countrymade gun  from her possession.The woman is a resident of the Raj Nagar Extension in Ghaziabad.Anil Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector Beta 2 police station, said that an informer told police that a woman was waiting to meet two shooters at the Zero Point. “A police team reached the spot and found the woman carrying a bag. The police team checked the bag and seized a countrymade gun, two live cartridges, one photo of her friend, and two cellphones from her possession,” he said. The police said, during the interrogation, the woman admitted to be a part of the murder plot. “The target was a 35-year-old man who had been giving tuitions to her two sons for the last ten years. The tutor and the woman were in a relationship. However, two months ago the tutor returned to his native place in Jaunpur and got married there,” the SHO said. The tutor had also blocked the woman’s mobile phone number. The SHO said that the woman got upset over the issue. “She hired two shooters – Kaushinder and Bhola – for ₹4 lakh and also made ₹30,000 advance payment to kill him. The shooters had told the woman to arrange a weapon. The woman bought a countrymade gun for ₹5,000 from Ghaziabad,” police said. On Tuesday, she was waiting for the shooters, who were expected to come in a car. “The woman had planned to board the car and go to Jaunpur with them. She had planned to help the shooters in identification of the target and his house. The police team arrested the woman on time and foiled the murder attempt,” Kumar said. A case has been registered against the woman under Sections 3 and 25 of Arms Act. The two shooters have been booked for criminal conspiracy under Section 120-B of Indian Penal Code. “The woman was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a search to arrest the two absconding persons,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-woman-arrested-for-plotting-male-friend-s-murder-101638298658573.html
01-12-2021||Noida||Work on Metro corridor in Greater Noida West likely to start by December-end||The work on the 14.5km Greater Noida West Metro corridor project is likely to start by December-end if everything goes according to the plan, said the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Tuesday.The work on the 14.5km Greater Noida West Metro corridor project is likely to start by December-end if everything goes according to the plan, said the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Tuesday.|#+|The NMRC will open the financial bid on December 15 to finalise the agency which will start the construction work. In November 2020, the NMRC started the process of hiring the agency that will be engaged in construction of the Metro corridor which will take its connectivity deeper into the pockets of Noida and Greater Noida West -- earlier known as the Noida Extension.“All the approvals are likely to be in place shortly, and the agency will be finalised soon so that the construction work can be started. The date is not yet finalised, but it will be started at earliest,” said Praveen Kumar Mishra, executive director of NMRC.In May 2020, NMRC started the survey for testing soil, topography and geography on the 14.9km Metro corridor which is set to branch out from the existing 29.7km Aqua Line. This Metro link will branch out from the existing Metro station in Sector 51, Noida, and go towards Greater Noida’s Knowledge Park 5. It will pass through Greater Noida West, which houses newly developed apartment complexes. The two industrial bodies -- Noida and Greater Noida -- decided on December 12, 2019, that they will pool in money for this project which passes through areas falling in the jurisdiction of the two authorities. The work on the Metro link was expected to start by April-end 2020, but the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MHUA) is yet to give its final approvals for the project.“We hope that the authority will soon receive necessary approvals from the MHUA soon,” said Mishra.The work on this project with a budget of ₹2,682 crore will be done in two phases.According to the detailed project report (DPR) submitted in December 2016, the first phase of the 9.15km will have five Metro stations -- sectors 122 and 123, Greater Noida sector 2 and 4, and Ecotech. In the second phase of the 5.8km link, four Metro stations -- Greater Noida sectors 3, 10, 12 and Knowledge Park V -- will be developed. The first phase of the project is scheduled to be completed by 2022.
01-12-2021||Pune||School buses, vans in Pune won’t operate till guidelines issued||PUNE: While schools in the state are poised to reopen , one of the main concerns of both students and parents is the ambiguity surrounding transportation. In the absence of clear guidelines issued by the state government, neither school buses nor vans are operational, yet. The association of school buses and vans has written a letter to the state transport commissioner to issue guidelines, but parents are worried about sending their children to school as most of them are working and depend on transport facilities.Mahesh Solanki, a parent from NIBM Kondhwa area, said, “My son is in Class 3 and the school is around 8 km from our residence. Before the pandemic, he used to go to school daily by the private school bus and now as schools are about to start offline classes, our school bus operator has said that there are no clear guidelines so they are not starting the service yet.”Another parent Neelima Gandhi said, “Both my daughters used to go to school by school van as my husband and me are both working professionals. As our offices too have started, we are completely dependent upon the school van for transportation. So we hope that school vans start their services soon and our children can travel safely to school.”Kiran Desai, executive president, Pune Bus Owners’ Association, said, “There is need to have clear guidelines to start the service as there are already many rules and regulations for school buses regarding safety measures, bus attendants and drivers. We have sent a letter in this regard to the state transport commissioner demanding that guidelines be issued. There are many aspects and safety measures which need to be taken while transporting students to school. Once we get the guidelines, buses and vans will begin operating. Also, the fees will be increased this year due to the hike in fuel prices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/school-buses-vans-in-pune-won-t-operate-till-guidelines-issued-101638298598268.html
01-12-2021||Lucknow||Teacher test paper leak: Director of Delhi firm hired for printing papers among 2 held||The UP Police’s special task force (STF) arrested the director of a Delhi-based printing press from Gautam Budh Nagar and another key accused from Baghpat district, for their alleged involvement in the question paper leak of the UP Teachers’ Eligibility Test 2021 (UPTET-2021), said police on Tuesday. UPTET is a state-level exam conducted once a year to enable candidates to gain eligibility to teach primary classes (1 to 5) and upper primary classes (6 to 8) in government schools. The government had to cancel UPTET-2021 scheduled for Sunday (November 28) after the leak was brought to the fore with the arrest of 29 people from five districts of Uttar Pradesh and the recovery of question papers from some of them on Saturday night (November 27), just hours ahead of Sunday’s exam. Eighteen people were arrested from Prayagraj, four from Lucknow, three each from Shamli and Ayodhya, while one person was arrested from Kaushambi district in connection with the paper leak, the police said. In a press note, the UP STF stated that the accused, Rai Anoop Prasad, director of RSM Finserv Ltd, Badarpur, New Delhi, was arrested on Tuesday evening. He was first called to the STF office in Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday for questioning and was arrested on Tuesday after it was found that he did not maintain secrecy while printing the question paper, read the statement. During questioning, Prasad revealed that the secretary of the exam regulatory authority (ERA) issued a work order to his printing firm on October 26 for the UPTET-2021 question papers. He was found to have violated the secrecy protocol while printing the papers following which they got leaked and the exam cancelled, said a senior STF officer, asking not to be named. He said Prasad was booked under Indian Penal Code sections 420 (cheating), 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and sent to jail after being produced before a court. Earlier on Monday night, the STF arrested another key accused from Baraut area of Baghpat district. According to the STF press note, the accused, Rahul Chowdhury, 30, of Chajjarpur village in Baghpat, was arrested from his shoe shop near Vedic Degree College in Baghpat. One set of question papers for the second shift of UPTET-2021 and admit cards of some examinees were recovered from his possession, it said. The press note stated that Rahul along with one Feroz, a resident of Baghpat’s Kirthal, and Balram Rathi of Shahpur, Muzaffarnagar, operated the racket out of the shoe shop. During interrogation, Rahul revealed that he arranged the UPTET question paper from a man named Ravi, of Kandhla in Shamli district, on Saturday night. He allegedly sold these papers to several people for a sum of ₹50,000 per candidate, said STF officers. An officer said Rahul told them that there was also a plan to compromise the ongoing online examinations for recruitment of sub-inspectors to UP Police. For that the accused had allegedly set up a computer lab to hack the online examination portal, but they could not do so, due to the alertness of NCEIT, the agency to which the conduct of the online exam has been outsourced. The officer said Rahul was planning to hand over UPTET question papers and admit cards to Feroz but the police arrested him before he could do so. As many as 19,99,418 examinees were supposed to write the UPTET-2021 scheduled to be held in two shifts across 2,736 centres in 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/teacher-test-paper-leak-director-of-delhi-firm-hired-for-printing-papers-among-2-held-101638298596434.html
01-12-2021||Noida||Air quality in Noida, Ghaziabad improves to ‘poor’ after a week||After a week of battling “very poor” air quality, the three cities of Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida got some reprieve on Tuesday when conditions improved slightly to allow the cities to register an air quality index (AQI) in the “poor” category. According to the 4pm bulletin from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Ghaziabad on Tuesday registered an AQI of 287, Greater Noida 254, and Noida 291, all figures in the “poor” category. An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. “The lower pollution levels is a result of meteorological conditions. In Ghaziabad, the monitoring station in Loni is still giving high readings which is affecting the overall AQI of the city. We are trying to find out the (local) sources in Loni and take corrective measures,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB). The last time the three cities experienced “poor” AQI was on November 23, when Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida recorded AQIs of 268, 255 and 252, respectively. Prior to November 23, the Ghaziabad city recorded “poor” air quality of 297 on October 30 while Noida recorded AQI of 292 on October 31.Experts said the slight improvement is due to wind speed, which is likely to change directions from Wednesday. “The present winds are north-westerly and they are likely to change to easterly from Wednesday. On December 2, there is a possibility of cloudy sky and also a likelihood of drizzle in the wake of a western disturbance. On December 5 and 6, another western disturbance is expected which is likely to bring rain in the National Capital Region (NCR). Heavy rainfall is expected in Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. It is from December 7 and 8 that temperature will start dropping even more,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the India Meteorological Department. A western disturbance is an area of “disturbed” or reduced air pressure that travels from the “western” to the eastern direction, and bring with it rain, fog or snow to the northern states.Environmentalists said lower levels of pollution, whenever they have happened this season, have been as a result of meteorological conditions, rather than targeted interventions. “The winds helped in dispersion of pollutants and a western disturbance will positively impact and bring down the pollution in the coming days. It is more of a correction due to meteorological conditions — the local sources have remained as it is. There is lot of dust on roads and vehicular traffic has more or less remained same,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. The forecast from the Union ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said on Tuesday that on December 1 and 2, winds are likely to be calm reducing the ventilation leading to a deterioration in air quality. “From December 3 onwards, winds are expected to increase but AQI is likely to remain in ”very poor” category. Farm fires count is 186 and its share in PM2.5 is 1%. Low mixing layer height is preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants,” the Safar forecast said. The mixing height is the height at which air and suspended particles mix above the ground.A lower mixing height means the pollutants remain trapped closer to the surface.
01-12-2021||Delhi||85% had antibody count in adequate levels: Delhi sero survey||Over 85% of samples that tested positive for antibodies against Covid-19 in Delhi’s September serological survey had enough neutralising antibodies to stop virus replication in the lab, according to a detailed report submitted to the Delhi government this week.At least 97% of Delhi’s residents had antibodies against the virus, the preliminary report submitted in mid-November showed.“What this finding means is that a high proportion of the 97% people who were found to have antibodies can effectively fight off an infection,” one of the reseachers said, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Up to 64k beds, better oxygen infra: Delhi ready for Omicron, says CM KejriwalThe report will be released soon, a Delhi government official said, also declining to be named. The latest report is likely to contain details on vaccine acceptance and hesitancy in the capital city.The test for neutralising antibodies was carried out at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences for a portion of the 28,000 samples collected for the serological survey. It was the first time an exercise was conducted to find out the proportion of people with antibodies who could fight off an infection.The usual sero-surveillance depends on a semi-quantitative test for the antibody IgG that the body develops 10 to 14 days after an infection. The tests show whether a person has the antibody and whether the levels are high or low, but it does not give a specific quantity. In comparison, a complete antibody profile test shows the various types of antibodies as well as their levels.Neutralising antibodies are important as they directly tackle the virus and either destroy it or prevent it from entering human cells. It means that even after someone gets infected, they are unlikely to have a full-blown disease. Neutralising antibodies develop within the first week of symptoms starting to show and last for six months to a year.“Not only have we seen that 85% of the samples were able to neutralise the virus, we have also seen high levels of antibodies in these individuals, said a second researcher involved in the survey. “We saw IgG antibody levels ranging from 1 to 22 among the samples, with the median being 11,” this person added on condition of anonymity.That is a high level. The Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences required a person to have an IgG of 5 to donate convalescent plasma when the therapy was being used for treatment of those with Covid-19. An IgG antibody level of 5 was enough to ensure that it worked even at a dilution of 1: 80 for neutralising antibodies, as recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research.
01-12-2021||Noida||At 64, Gautam Budh Nagar sees spike in Covid cases for second month||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 64 Covid-19 cases in November, higher than October’s 57, said officials on Tuesday.The cases had been showing a declining trend till September after the second wave peaked in June 2021. However, cases have been marginally increasing in the district for the past two month, and the total number of cases reported in November is higher than the past three months -- August, September and October.Following a surge in the cases between March and June -- during the second Covid-19 wave this year -- the numbers had been declining since July. According to the official figures, 156 Covid-19 cases were reported in July, 51 in August, and 46 in September.In Uttar Pradesh, Gautam Budh Nagar ranks second with eight active Covid-19 cases, just after Lucknow with 15 cases as of November 29 (Monday).With the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus being a “variant of concern”, the Uttar Pradesh government has also issued directions to the health department regarding tests on suspected patients. According to orders issued by the state government, all international travellers coming from “high-risk countries” have to get themselves tested at the airport and be under home isolation for a week. The list includes all countries in Europe (with the United Kingdom), South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Top officials from Noida said that additional precautions are also being taken as international travellers come to Noida from the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) in New Delhi.“We have ramped up surveillance and testing, and are also collecting lists of travellers from all the relevant authorities. In case a person tests positive, all primary contacts will be traced and tested... We will ensure that we send every sample of positive international travellers for genome sequencing through the laboratory at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences​(GIMS). Though it is not mandatory, we want to be careful that we don’t miss any carrier of the Omicron variant. The results, however, may take nearly a week to come in,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Buddha Nagar.Health officials, meanwhile, said that one of the main reasons that Noida records a high number of Covid-19 cases is that the district usually sees a lot of travellers. Additionally, the festival season, followed by weddings, have resulted in an increased crowding. However, the increasing number of cases is not a cause of concern.“We have not imposed restrictions yet. So, precaution is the key to keep the Covid-19 spread in check. People should ensure that they follow the Covid protocols, maintain social distancing, and sanitise their hands at regular intervals. Unnecessary interactions should be avoided as much as possible,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO) of Noida.The district has recorded 62,940 Covid-19 cases and 467 deaths so far. The fatality rate is at 0.7%, and the positivity rate in Noida is less than 0.1%. Officials said that among those who tested positive this month, only a very few were hospitalised and none of them needed oxygen support. At present, all the eight Covid-19 patients are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/at-64-gautam-budh-nagar-sees-spike-in-covid-cases-for-second-month-101638298474371.html
01-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man killed as car overturns near Iffco Chowk||A 20-year-old man was killed after his car hit a divider, flipped twice and turned turtle near Iffco Chowk on Monday night, police said on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Shubham Sehrawat, a resident of Sector 17C. He used to run a paying guest accommodation in the area and was also studying in a college, said police. The incident took place around 1am when Sehrawat was returning home after attending a wedding function on Sheetla Mata Road, they said. “We got information about the accident from some passersby. The car flipped at least twice and landed on the road connecting Sector 17/18 dividing road,” said Ashok Kumar, sub-inspector at Sector 18 police station, who is the investigating officer in the case. Based on preliminary investigation and statements of the eyewitnesses, Kumar said it seems that Sehrawat was speeding due to which he lost control of the vehicle and hit the divider. “He was bleeding profusely and was unconscious when the police team reached the spot. He was taken to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,” the officer said. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure at Sector 18 police station. A post-mortem examination of the body was done and it was handed over to the family on Tuesday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-man-killed-as-car-overturns-near-iffco-chowk-101638298416235.html
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||After Covid, surge in dengue cases adds to hospital burden in Ludhiana||Healthcare workers had just breathed a sigh of relief after the coronavirus pandemic, which had overwhelmed hospitals for over a year, finally abated when the mosquito-borne dengue disease reared its head again. Feverish patients are yet again flocking to already overburdened hospitals. Ludhiana alone has 1,789 confirmed cases, 4,587 suspected dengue cases and 10 suspected deaths. The figures are in the ballpark of the 2015 dengue epidemic, when 1,876 confirmed dengue cases had been reported. Dengue cases had seemed to be in control before September, when the cases had first started spiking. However, in October, the cases had spiralled out of control, with the district logging 1,100 fresh cases, against 151 in September, 23 in August, eight in July, and two in June. Come December, there has been a dip in dengue cases in rural areas, while cases continue to be reported from the city. Out the 1,789 cases confirmed cases, 1,322 cases have been reported from the city. A medical officer, requesting anonymity, attributes this to higher population density in urban areas, and residents’ lackadaisical approach towards hygiene, which allowed fresh water to accumulate in and around their houses.”The medical officer said residents were reluctant in letting the health department teams check their houses for larvae after an outbreak.Dengue wing staffer gets infected The health department’s failure to mitigate the crisis can be gauged from the fact that a healthworker attached with the dengue wing had to be hospitalised after contracting the infection. It was only after the staffer fell sick that larvae were destroyed from the office of the health department in Civil Lines.A medical officer with the health department said the eggs of aedes aegypti mosquitoes, which are vectors for the dengue disease, can survive for a very long time. “When the conditions get favourable, these eggs sprout and spread the virus. This was seen this year, after late rainfall allowed the mosquitoes to breed,” he said. Related CoverageIncreased testing behind spike in figures: Civil surgeon Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh says rise in the number of confirmed cases, indicated more testing. “We have asked private hospital authorities and members of the Indian Medical Association to share the details of patients testing positive in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test, a parameter to detect dengue. The data should be known so that timely treatment and preventative measures can be taken to prevent the spread of the virus.”The health department has said that though a fall in the mercury has led to a dip in the number of cases, it has urged residents to not lower their guard and follow the guidelines issued by the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-covid-surge-in-dengue-cases-adds-to-hospital-burden-in-ludhiana-101638298415098.html
01-12-2021||Other||Maruthi 2.0 to deliver drugs, blood to remote sites||Soon, drones made specifically to courier life-saving drugs and blood bags to medical centres located in remote villages and towns of the country —starting with, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh – will take to the skies. The Ramayan recounts how Lord Hanuman, also called Maruthi (son of Wind God), flew and got the all-important Sanjeevani to save the life of Laxman, during the epic battle between Lord Ram and Ravan.Inspired by Lord Hanuman, the drone, Maruthi 2.0, was designed and developed by two alumni of Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Allahabad.The hexa-rotor drone can fly for 45 minutes at a stretch and can carry 10kg weight for 22 km in a single flight, said Kishan Tiwari, 24, who along with his senior, Rimanshu Pandey, 27 launched a start-up. Technology in Space and Aero Works (TSAW) Drones was registered with the Union Ministry of Corporate Affairs in 2019 and has its head office in Gurugram, Haryana.He said that the start-up has recently penned a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Simply Blood, a well-known NGO based in New Delhi, to transport blood in remote and inaccessible villages of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh to begin with. Tiwari, who is the founder and CEO of the start-up, penned the MoU while Kiran Verma, the founder of Simply Blood did the honours on behalf of his NGO.“The plan is to then extend the services to such sites in other states, including UP as well,” added Tiwari, a 2019 pass-out of BTech (Mechanical Engineering) course of MNNIT, who hails from Deoria.He said that costing around ₹14 lakh, each drone will make a delivery of the essential drugs and blood at an economical cost and also train individuals to help agencies employing these drones in these tasks.Rimanshu Pandey, a 2015 BTech (Civil Engineering) pass-out of MNNIT, who hails from Lucknow, handles the programming part of these drones. “Maruthi 2.0 is a sturdy, hexa-rotor drone. Once programmed, it can fly on its own to a destination along the charted route and make a delivery up to 22 km away, and then after a battery change, return to the site of flight origin using 4G or 5G networks. It also has the ability to scan a QR code and identify a destination and then make a delivery—all on its own,” he explained.
01-12-2021||Delhi||Up to 64k beds, better oxygen infra: Delhi ready for Omicron, says CM Kejriwal||Delhi is prepared to set up 63,800 Covid-19 beds, some at a short notice of two weeks, in case there is an outbreak of the Omicron variant of the disease in the city, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday.Kejriwal chaired a meeting of concerned departments to review Delhi’s preparedness in case of a third wave in the country owing to the new Omicron variant. Delhi has 30,000 oxygen beds ready, of which 10,000 are intensive care unit (ICU) beds, he said at a virtual media briefing. During the second wave (fourth for Delhi), the national capital scaled up beds with oxygen supply up to 25,000. As many as 6,800 additional ICU beds are being made and will be ready by February next year, the chief minister said.Also Read | From December, India imposes new rules for international arrivals over omicron scare“We will have nearly 17,000 ICU beds alone in Delhi soon. In addition to the 30,000 beds, we have also planned that each ward will have 100 oxygen beds, which will be set up in a short notice of just two weeks, if needed. This way, Delhi will have 63,800 beds in case a third wave hits the city,” Kejriwal said.The manpower required to attend the high number of beds is also being arranged and people are being provided training, he said. In June and July, the government built a force of 5,000 so-called community nursing assistants by training youth aged 18 and above who had completed high school so that they could help medical professionals in case of a third wave.Also Read | ‘Full, booster doses key as new variants emerge’“We hope that the Omicron variant doesn’t reach Delhi, but we’re making arrangements to deal with it nonetheless. During the last wave, we faced a grave shortage of oxygen. At present, all hospitals in Delhi have a combined capacity of 750MT. The problem we faced last time was that of oxygen storage and transportation. We could not store the oxygen which the Centre used to send through trains or transport them due lack of tankers. Now we have 442MT of storage capacity for oxygen, which we did not have during the last wave. We are also buying 15 tankers, which will be here in a month or so,” the chief minister said.The city endured a punishing fourth wave of Covid-19 infections between April and May that left health infrastructure overrun, overwhelmed medical workers, and led to crematoriums running out of space. Over 760,000 people were infected in that period, while over 13,000 died of the infection between April and May alone. Cases in the city begin to peter out towards the middle of May on the back of a lockdown, which the state government imposed from April 19 onwards.Also Read | Blanket travel bans will not prevent Omicron spread, says WHO“Earlier Delhi had zero capacity of producing oxygen. Now, we have PSA plants that can generate up to 121MT oxygen per day. Last time we had no spare capacity for oxygen cylinders. Now, we have 6,000 D-type empty cylinders, which we have imported from China, and which will help in setting up makeshift oxygen beds if required. At present, we have three private oxygen refilling plants in Delhi, which now have a capacity of 1,500MT per day. In addition, the Delhi government has also set up two bottling plants with nearly 1,400MT capacity per day. So, we now have a daily capacity of 2,900MT to refill cylinders in Delhi now,” Kejriwal said.To ensure proper oxygen management, a pain point identified during the last wave in Delhi, where there was hardly any accountability in terms of optimal utilisation of oxygen by hospitals and nursing homes, the government has decided to install telemetry devices on all oxygen tankers, be it of private entities or government, to monitor oxygen availability and delivery on a real time basis through a common command and control centre.The chief minister said the administration is now placing orders for 32 types of medicines required to treat Covid-19 patients to create a buffer stock of two months. The teams involved in tracking home isolation patients earlier have also been asked to set up the necessary infrastructure for making follow-up calls once again if the need arises.“The vaccination status in Delhi is good. Around 97% of Delhi’s citizens have received the first dose and 57% the second dose,” the chief minister said. “I appeal to those who have not got their second dose to take the jab as soon as possible. We sincerely hope that the Omicron variant and the third Covid-19 wave doesn’t come. But even if it does, we are ready to tackle it. The people of Delhi need not worry.”In India, no case of the heavily mutated Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2 has been detected, even as one cluster each in Maharashtra and Karnataka are being investigated.
01-12-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad: Two held for installing card skimming device at ATMs||The Faridabad police on Monday arrested two men for allegedly installing a skimming device and duplicate keypad at more than 30 ATMs in different cities, including Faridabad, Gurugram, and Kolkata. Police have also recovered about ₹3.20 lakh from their possession. The suspects were identified as Amit Kumar and Manoj Kumar from Fatehpur Beri in Delhi, who have been jailed several times for ATM fraud, police said, adding that they had formed a gang in April this year with the help of an Uzbekistan national, identified as John Philo Azim, who had taught them tricks to take out money from ATMs using such devices. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspects had taken out cash from an ATM at Mujesar Gate last week and a case was registered against them. They were arrested from Sector 9 crossing on Monday night while they were trying to target another ATM in the area, he said. “There are six members in the gang. The two other gang members, including Azim, were earlier arrested in April from Heili Mandi in Gurugram and Delhi, and are lodged in Faridabad jail,” Kadiyan said, adding that the remaining two are still at large. Police said that Manoj had met Azim last year in a Kolkata jail. Kadiyan said Azim was arrested on charges of fraud and theft in several states. “They both came out on bail and formed a gang and started visiting ATMs in different states. “We received several complaints from across the city where money was withdrawn from ATMs through cloned cards,” he said. Police said a team started analysing the CCTV footage from different ATMs and found that two men were tampering with the machine. On Monday, the police team saw two men entering an ATM with covered faces and kept a close watch on them. “When they did not come out for 10 minutes, two policemen went inside and caught them red-handed,” said Kadiyan. The suspects used to surf the internet to know the latest modus operandi, said police. During interrogation, the suspects revealed that they used to install a data skimmer in the opening of ATM machine where the card is inserted to clone debit card details. They used to place a duplicate keypad on the original which used to help them copy PIN numbers. “They used to replicate the stolen data on gift cards having metallic stripe using a software and card cloning device. The cloned cards were then used to withdraw money,” said Kadiyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-two-held-for-installing-card-skimming-device-at-atms-101638298295661.html
01-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 203 fresh Covid cases, 6 deaths||Pune: As per authorities, Pune district reported 203 fresh Covid positive cases and six deaths in 24 hours. All deaths were reported from Pune rural. As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 523,243 Covid cases and 9,217 deaths till Thursday. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 269,878 cases so far and a total of 3,512 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 367,868 total cases and 6,978 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,160,989 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 1,139,020 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,057 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 1,912 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 942 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,483,435 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.71%. Across Maharashtra, 678 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 35 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated that of 65,511,394 laboratory samples, 6,635,658 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 10.13% of patients till Thursday. Currently, 83,421 people are in home quarantine and 963 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-203-fresh-covid-cases-6-deaths-101638298239406.html
01-12-2021||Pune||3 in Pune district, back from African countries, test positive for Covid-19||PUNE Three persons from Pune district who have returned from high risk countries which have reported Covid-19 positive cases with Omicron variant have tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples have now been sent for genome sequencing.Of the three, one is from Pune city, who returned from Zambia on November 20, and two are from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), who returned from Nigeria.Public health department in their official statement on Tuesday said, “Currently, there are six passengers who arrived from South Africa or other high-risk countries in the state who have tested positive. Of those who have come from South Africa and other countries, one each has been found in Mumbai corporation, Kalyan-Dombivali corporation, Meera-Bhayandar corporation and Pune. This is in addition to two passengers who arrived from Nigeria who have been found in the Pimpri-Chinchwad corporation area. All their samples have been sent for genetic sequencing and their contact tracing is underway. All these passengers, although Covid-19 positive, are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Citizens should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and inform the authorities if they have international travel history in the last month. Those who have not taken the Covid-19 vaccine, or have had only one dose should complete their vaccination at the earliest”.Dr Pradeep Awte added: “ WHO has also classified the Omicron variant as a ‘variant of concern’. Experts have expressed possibilities that owing to the genetic modification in the virus, it may possess some specific characteristics. While the transmissibility of infection seems to have increased because of this new variant, there is still not enough clarity on whether or not it will cause a severe disease and whether it will evade the immunity. More information is expected in the next two weeks.“Against this background, surveillance of international passengers has been started as per guidelines given by the Government of India. Passengers arriving from Europe and 11 other countries where the Omicron variant has been detected will be tested with RT-PCR and positive samples will be sent for whole genome sequencing. Additionally, those who are found RT-PCR negative will also be quarantined for seven days before testing again. If found positive this time, their samples too will be sent for genomic sequencing. RT-PCR tests will be done for a random 5% of the passengers arriving from countries other than the listed ones, and positive samples among them will be sent for genomic sequencing,” he added.The Pune resident who returned from Zambia, an African country bordering Zimbabwe, Botswana and Namibia, all high-risk countries with regards to the Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2 variant, has tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Tuesday. The passenger returned to India on November 20 and all his high-risk contacts have tested negative for the infection. The person is currently asymptomatic and is isolating at home.The patient’s sample has now been by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) sent for genome sequencing to the National Institute of Virology to ascertain of he is infected with new variant.Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of the PMC health department said, “The patient along with the family returned to Pune on November 20, via Mumbai airport and then they took a cab and returned to Pune. The patient, a 60-year old man, felt discomfort and stomach pain following which he got himself tested at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital and tested positive for the infection.”The genome sequencing results will come in in a week’s time, said PMC health officials.The person is almost nearing the completion of the 14-day isolation period as per current protocol.Dr Bharti also added that the patient is currently asymptomatic. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awte also confirmed the case.As of now, PMC is still awaiting a list of all the international travellers who have come to Pune from various countries and could now be part of the “at risk” countries.As of now the civic body has got the names of 40 international travellers who arrived at Pune airport from various countries like Turkey, UK, Madrid and Dubai and is tracking them as per the revised guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare, in light of this new variant.Dr Bharti further said, “The Indian Council of Medical Research, in a video conference held on Tuesday has assured us that the current set of RTPCR kits and Rapid Antigen Test kits would be able to detect the Omicron variant.”The World Health Organisation (WHO) too confirmed in its technical brief on November 27 that most diagnostic tests can detect the Omicron variant.As of November 29, countries included in the “at risk” list for Omicron are: South Africa, Botswana. Netherlands, Hong Kong, Belgium, Israel, Australia, England, Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, Denmark, Austria and Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3-in-pune-district-back-from-african-countries-test-positive-for-covid19-101638297995099.html
01-12-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar: 49,908 fined ₹29.9L for violating traffic rules in November||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police issued 49,908 fines to the tune of ₹29.9 lakh during the ‘Traffic Safety Month’ -- from November 1-30, said officials on Tuesday.At 18,181, the maximum number of fines were issued to people riding motorcycles without helmets, followed by no parking (12,109), wrong-side driving (4,606), speeding (3,104), without seatbelt (2,731), red light jumping (2,698), without insurance papers (1,309), faulty registration number plates (1,207), and without driving licence (1,066) among others violations.The police department organised the month-long awareness and enforcement drives with an aim to educate people about road safety, said Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar. “We organised several awareness programmes through the month, and also sensitised nearly 6,660 drivers of cabs, taxis, e-rickshaws, and buses. We also organised workshops at 21 schools, and sensitised 5,980 students and 286 teachers,” Saha said.He also said that violations like riding motorcycles without helmets in Gautam Budh Nagar usually tops the list. “We made wearing helmets a mandatory thing even for pillion riders. People have started following traffic rules, and we hope that such violations will decrease in the coming days, with the ongoing enforcement drive,” he added.To encourage motorcycle riders to wear helmets, the Noida traffic police has also planned to launch a helmet bank where people can get free helmets to be used for a week, Saha said.In November, the traffic police also issued fines against other violations like triple loading on bikes (748), no entry (711), pollution (632), hooters (258), using cellphone while driving (160), black films (134), and others (194). “We issued ₹29.9 lakh as fines to these violators in November. The number of fines and the fine amount may increase as some e-challan data have not been updated. The traffic police issued 507,257 fines and collected ₹4.22 crore from the violators from January to November this year,” according to Saha.413 vehicles -- older than 10 years or 15 years (diesel/petrol), or vehicles creating pollution -- were also seized in November, he added.The traffic police, meanwhile, plans to engage school students as traffic volunteers. “We have nearly 1,000 traffic volunteers, and are planning to invite young volunteers to participate in our programmes to create traffic awareness. Messages conveyed by children will be effective for the elders,” Saha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-49-908-fined-29-9l-for-violating-traffic-rules-in-november-101638297874093.html
01-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: DTCP to introduce penalty for building plan violators||htreporters@hindustantimes.comThe department of town and country planning (DTCP) has proposed to impose a monetary penalty on owners of buildings/flats who make illegal additions to their structures after obtaining occupancy certificates (OCs) to curb such constructions, said officials on Tuesday. The department also wants that a substantial penalty should be imposed on the owners who have illegally converted their houses into guest houses in residential colonies across the city. “The proposal is being finalised and will soon be sent to the headquarters for approval. We are planning that financial penalty, which is presently imposed on commercial properties, for building plan violations should be similarly imposed on residential segment. It will help curb any such violations,” said RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement).The DTCP officials said that at present any such violations may see withdrawal of OC and sealing of property, after which the owner seeks permission for de-sealing the property and agrees to remove illegal constructions. In the past two weeks, the department has cancelled around 50 OCs issued to building owners for indulging in building plan violations. The department is also proposing that a substantial penalty be authorised against property owners, who use their houses as guest houses without permission. “A substantial penalty is needed to discourage people from converting houses into guest houses,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, Gurugram. In a related development, an enforcement team on Tuesday visited Aloha group housing society in Sector 57 after complaints were made by residents regarding non-compliance of norms and lack of occupancy certificate to the project. “We heard the residents and issued directions to the representative of the developer to apply for the requisite permission within one month. Other issues raised by residents will also be resolved,” said Bhath. A representative of the Aloha Developers did not respond to phone calls and messages sent by HT for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-dtcp-to-introduce-penalty-for-building-plan-violators-101638297694283.html
01-12-2021||Noida||4 held for ATM theft in Gzb; 2 cops who let them go earlier dismissed||The Ghaziabad police and its cyber cell on Monday arrested five members of a gang of ATM hackers in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram. Two officials from the SWAT team of the Gautam Budh Nagar police were also terminated from service for letting the suspects go scot-free three months ago.The Ghaziabad police said the gang members allegedly told them during questioning that they were nabbed by the Noida police three months ago, but were let off. The five suspects were identified as Shanavaz Chaudhary, Mohammad Sageer, Mohammad Mehraj, Mohammad Umar and Zameer Seikh -- all in the age group of 25-30 years. The Ghaziabad police said that Shahnawaz and one of his accomplices, Kamal, have BCA degrees and the gang used to deploy softwares through pen drives to hack ATMs and withdraw cash.“The five members of the gang were arrested and four others are still on the run. The gang has admitted to their involvement in hundreds of cases of ATM thefts, amounting to crores of rupees, in the past several years. The gang operated in different states. During questioning, they told us that they were nabbed by the Noida police three months ago and let go,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2), adding that the gang used a stolen car. According to police, the suspects told them they allegedly gave ₹20 lakh and a car to bargain for their release from the Noida police. Love Kumar, joint commissioner of police (law and order), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the Ghaziabad police shared the information with the Noida police on Monday. “An inquiry into the matter is being headed by DCP (crime) Abhishek,” Kumar said.In a video message posted on the Noida police’s WhatsApp media group, DCP Abhishek said the Indirapuram police had arrested some people in connection with ATM fraud. “The suspects have allegedly levelled some allegations on the Noida police. I have been assigned to probe the matter. We will investigate all aspects of this case and submit a report soon,” he said.Late Tuesday night, Alok Singh, police commissioner of Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “SWAT team inspector Shahwez Khan and head constable Amrish Yadav have been dismissed from their jobs for their involvement in the crime. Based on the DCP crime’s report, I am convinced that they were involved in the crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/4-held-for-atm-theft-in-gzb-2-cops-who-let-them-go-earlier-dismissed-101638297635804.html
01-12-2021||World||WHO confirms Omicron Covid-19 variant in 23 countries. Here’s the full list||The Omicron Covid-19 variant, which was discovered in southern Africa last month, has now spread to as many as 23 countries, the director-general of World Health Organisation (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Wednesday.Speaking at a press conference, Ghebreyesus said the countries hail from five or six WHO regions, and that the number is only expected to climb up. “WHO takes this development extremely seriously, and so should every country,” he added.The WHO chief stated that the discovery of the Omicron Covid-19 variant should not “surprise us” since this is what viruses do and coronavirus will also do “as long as we allow it to continue spreading.”Also Read | WHO warns against 'toxic mix' of low vaccine coverage and testing amid Omicron scare“We are learning more all the time about Omicron, but there’s still more to learn about its effect on transmission, severity of disease, and the effectiveness of tests, therapeutics and vaccines,” Ghebreyesus told at a press briefing.Reiterating the WHO’s message on not imposing blanket travel bans on travellers coming from affected countries, the United Nations (UN) health agency chief noted that countries should instead adopt “rational, proportional risk-reduction measures, in keeping with the international health regulations.”"This includes measures to delay or reduce the spread of the new variant, such as screening of passengers prior to travelling and/or upon arrival, or the application of quarantine to international travellers"-@DrTedros #COVID19 https://t.co/KSgTyHJCV9Ghebreyesus pointed out that screening passengers before travelling and/or upon arrival at the airport, and mandatory quarantine of international travellers are some ways to check the spread of the Omicron variant in place of blanket travel bans.His statements come after South Africa health minister Joe Phaahla recently called the travel bans on flights coming from the country by other nations as “unjustified” and “counterproductive”.Three countries – South Korea, Nigeria and Saudi Arabia - reported cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant on Wednesday.Here’s a list of all countries that have so far reported Omicron cases:1. Botswana – 19 cases2. South Africa – 77 cases3. Nigeria – Three cases4. United Kingdom – 22 cases5. South Korea – Five cases6. Australia – Seven cases7. Austria – One case8. Belgium – One case9. Brazil – Three cases10. Czech Republic – One case11. France – One case12. Germany – Nine cases13. Hong Kong – Four cases14. Israel – Four cases15. Italy – Nine cases16. Japan – Two cases17. Netherlands – 16 cases18. Norway – Two cases19. Spain – Two cases20. Portugal – 13 cases21. Sweden – Three cases22. Canada – Six cases23. Denmark – Four cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-confirms-omicron-covid-19-variant-in-23-countries-here-s-the-full-list-101638380759195.html
01-12-2021||India||HTLS 2021 — Olympic gold medallists Abhinav Bindra and Neeraj Chopra on learning to live with pressure||New Delhi: When a 25-year-old Abhinav Bindra hit that golden number — a 10.8 — with his last shot in 10m air rifle at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and turned around, his face barely registered any emotion. A fist pump, followed by a blank look of sheer exhaustion. Just looking at him, it would have been impossible to say that he had just won India’s first individual Olympic gold medal. It was his third Olympics, his third attempt at a childhood goal (the first came in 2000, when he was just 17). Thirteen years later, at the Tokyo Olympics, Neeraj Chopra strode into the Olympic Stadium on the night of August 7 with a swagger and a smile that suggested that he was made for the big stage. It was his first Olympics, but he had already built quite the reputation. He flung his javelin like a gladiator, flexing his muscles and letting out a roar. As the javelin flew, another dream became reality: Chopra had won India’s first medal in athletics at the Olympics, and only the second individual gold after Bindra. The only two Olympic gold medallists from India came together at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on Wednesday, for an engrossing conversation on their journeys, the way forward, and the things that drove them to success. “I cannot be satisfied because I have won a gold medal,” Chopra, 23 said. “I have time on my side. Sportspersons ka dimag kuch ulta hota hai (sportspeople think a little differently). Yes, I have won a gold, but I won’t leave any stone unturned to win another gold, to better my distance, to go for an Olympic record. I have to improve my strength, work on my technique and go beyond 90m. I have been chasing that for some time now, but I lost one year because of injury and then one year because of Covid.” Chopra’s best throw, 88.07m, came this year at the Asian Games, where he won gold and rewrote his own national record. “Neeraj, what is better than one gold? Bindra said, smiling. “Two gold medals!” For Chopra’s journey ahead, Bindra, when asked by the thrower, offered some important advice. “There will always be pressure,” Bindra said. “Many athletes try to run away from pressure and make their own strategies to not feel pressure. Reality is different. You will go to Paris with so much expectations, pressure will be there. There is a human tendency to resist pressure, but you cannot do that. It will make your job tougher. Accept that there will be pressure and find ways to coexist with pressure. “Yes, I have been to five Olympics, but every time, I was a different individual. My body, attitude, mindset, technique, were different. The mistake we make is that we repeat the same things when we are doing good. Never be afraid of getting out of your comfort zone. Tiger Woods changed his swing at his peak. We have to keep pushing.” Chopra said that despite winning a medal on his Olympic debut, he has no problem motivating himself because “in our sport, we have something extra, something more than an Olympic gold and that’s the distance we can throw. You can keep shifting your goal, keep working with distance.” At the Games in Tokyo, Chopra showed great spirit when he had egged on Germany’s Johannes Vetter — his fiercest rival, the runaway favourite going into the event and someone who has multiple 90m plus throws to his name — encouraging him to do better when Vetter was struggling during the qualifying round. “If I sit hiding in some corner and hoping he does not throw well, it won’t make any difference,” Chopra said. “He will still throw what he has to throw. It’s much better to encourage each other. Vetter was egging me on too. My encouragement may not make any difference to his throws either, but it makes me feel good.”It’s a deep camaraderie that exists in athletics, Chopra said. “You should see the pole vaulters, they are even more involved with each other. If Mondo Duplantis (world record holder and reigning Olympic champion) clears a big height, his rivals will come and hug him. You can look at sports two ways: you can see it as winning or losing, or you can see it as something you enjoy, something that gives you joy. Good to be with that joy and let the winning or losing happen automatically.”Bindra could not agree more, for him, sports was about the journey and the relationships he forged along the way. He hardly ever thinks back about the day he won the Olympic gold, he said. “My journey of 22 years in sports was so much more than that one day or that one medal hanging on my wall,” Bindra said. “Sports allowed me to have a wonderful relationship with my mother who travelled with me as a 12-year-old when I went to Germany to train. “It allowed me to spend a lot of time with my father, to build beautiful relationships with other shooters and coaches and it taught me discipline, and certain values that I will always live by.” One thing that both Bindra and Chopra hoped would change as a result of their achievements is the sporting culture of India. “I think things are already changing,” Chopra said. “Yes, we don’t have enough stadiums, at the rural level there aren’t enough stadiums or coaches and that’s where the athletes come from, but there is definitely a lot more interest.” Bindra added that thinking about sports at the elite level was not enough. “Elite sport is a small number, we need to build the opportunity for many young people to play and to enjoy it,” he said. “Sport can play a very important role in defining a nation. We are very addicted to the soft power that winning medals at international competitions brings, but what I am interested is in the real power of sports, of the way it teaches you values, of how to lose, how to win, how to live.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-olympic-gold-medallists-abhinav-bindra-and-neeraj-chopra-on-learning-to-live-with-pressure-101638383296290.html
01-12-2021||India||Southern states logged highest Nov rains since 1901, says IMD||The south peninsular region, which receives the northeast monsoon during winter months, recorded its highest ever rainfall in November since 1901, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.The region is most likely to see above-normal rainfall in December, it added.Also Read | Deep dive: Why does Chennai flood every time it rains heavily?The states of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala and south interior Karnataka gauged 169% excess rainfall last month, mainly due to the presence of five low pressure systems over Andaman Sea compared to 2.4 systems forming on an average during this period, the weather bureau said.In 1901, only 50% of long period average (117.5 mm) was recorded.The northeast monsoon was also in its active phase last month, it added.As many as 100 people were killed across Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in various rain-related events in the southern peninsula last month.Also Read | Heavy rainfall continues in Chennai, over 20k in relief camps“Sea surface temperature over the north equatorial Indian Ocean has been higher than normal in recent months. Easterly waves are also coming to the Indian Ocean region from the northwest Pacific. These are then forming into low pressure systems over the Indian Ocean. A warm Indian Ocean may be a result of intra-seasonal variability and may also be because of climate change,” DS Pai, who heads climate research and services at IMD, Pune, had said on Tuesday.The weather body said the region is most likely to see above-normal rainfall (more than 132 per cent of the long period average) in December. The LPA of rainfall over south Peninsular India during December, based on the data of 1961-2010, is about 44.54 mm.Also Read | These southern states to get above normal rainfall from Dec till Feb: IMDMeanwhile, the country saw 645 events of heavy rainfall (64.5 to 115.5 mm) and 168 events of very heavy rainfall (115.6 to 204.5 mm) last month, the highest in the month in five years, the weather bureau said.The country also recorded 11 extremely heavy rainfall events (more than 204.5 mm) in November, with most of them concentrated around the peninsula region, it added.‘Normal’ winter likely over northwest IndiaThe IMD has also issued a probabilistic forecast for minimum and maximum temperatures for winter months of December to February.Models suggest that ‘normal’ to ‘above normal’ minimum temperatures are likely over many parts of northwest India, most parts of south and northeast India and some areas along the Himalayan foothills, it said. Minimum temperatures are likely to be below normal over some parts of the north interior peninsula, it added.According to IMD director general M Mohapatra, there is a higher probability of normal temperatures during winter in Haryana, Punjab and Delhi.“This doesn’t mean that there will be no cold waves or no cold periods. It only means that the minimum and maximum temperatures will be as expected during winter months over northwestern states,” he said.Maximum temperatures are likely to be below normal over most parts of the country, except only some parts of northwest India and most parts of northeast India where normal to above normal temperatures are likely, IMD scientists said.The rainfall forecast suggests that normal to above normal rainfall is likely over most parts of south peninsular India in December. It also suggests that below normal rainfall is most likely over most areas of northwest India and some parts of central and northeast India this month.Currently, the sea surface temperatures (SSTs) and the atmospheric conditions over the equatorial Pacific Ocean indicate weak La Niña conditions.The latest forecasts from global models suggest that La Niña conditions are likely to strengthen and peak to moderate conditions during the upcoming winter season. In addition to El Nino- Southern Oscillation (ENSO) conditions over the Pacific, other factors such as the Indian Ocean SSTs also influence the Indian climate. At present, neutral Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions are prevailing over the Indian Ocean.Andhra Pradesh and Odisha on cyclone watchThe IMD has issued a cyclone alert for north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts.According to the weather body, a depression is likely to form over southeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal by Thursday and intensify into cyclonic storm Jawad over central parts of the Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours.It is then likely to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Andhra Pradesh – Odisha coasts around December 4 morning.The maximum impact is likely to be felt in north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha but Gangetic West Bengal is also expected to record very heavy rain on December 5, IMD said.In view of this, oil industries, off-shore and alongshore operations along north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal coasts have been advised to be regulated on December 3 and to be suspended on December 4 to ensure safety of life and property, it added.Standing crops in coastal districts, which include paddy and horticulture crops, are likely to be impacted.Mohapatra advised farmers to keep paddy that has already been harvested, away from the rain and strong winds.The IMD cautioned against flooding of roads, inundation and water logging in low lying areas, disruption of traffic in major cities due to water logging in roads leading to increased travel time, damage to vulnerable structures, landslides/mudslides and flooding of river catchments in both Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southern-states-logged-highest-nov-rains-since-1901-says-imd-101638383056502.html
01-12-2021||India||UP elections: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav rebuts PM Modi’s ‘parivaarwad’ remark||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday intensified his attack against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, alleging that “those who do not have families, cannot relate to the pain of those with families”.The statement comes months after PM Modi, during a rally in Purvanchal on October 21, alleged that the SP has moved away from ‘samajwad’ (socialism) to ‘parivaarwad’ (family-run).“We Samajwadi people, we understand the problems of the poor, we are ‘parivaar waale log’ (family-oriented people) so we understand what it means for a labourer or a farmer to lose their life. We are family-oriented people so we have helped people in the past. ‘Parivaar waale hi parivaar waalon ka dukh samajh sakte hain, jinke paas parivaar nahin hain woh aapka dukh kya samjhenge (those who have families can understand the plight of others with families; how will those who don’t have families understand this),” Yadav said during the fifth leg of his Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra in the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh.The former UP CM also took a dig at the ruling BJP’s “Damdaar Sarkar” advertisement across the poll-bound state,  asking people if they wanted a “Yogi sarkar” (Yogi government) or a “yogya sarkar” (able government).“Aap ko Yogi sarkaar chahiye ya yogya sarkaar chahiye (do you need a Yogi government or an able government?). These people have taken back Uttar Pradesh by many years. There is politics of hate and loot... Their progress is only in pictures...”He further slammed the state government’s recent move to provide tablets and smartphones to students, saying that one cannot expect a chief minister, who “cannot operate laptops and smartphones”, to extend such facilities.“You are just getting assurances for the last four years and a half from the government for laptops. Now, when elections are approaching, they are promising laptops and tablets. He will not give them. Those who cannot operate a laptop cannot give it to the young people either,” he said.Yadav also alleged that the Yogi government deliberately leaked the question paper of the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) as it would not be in a position to provide jobs to successful candidates. He promised that the Samajwadi Party will employ those with Basic Teachers Training and Bachelor of Education certification if voted to power.Yadav said though the people of Bundelkhand extended full support to the BJP in the previous assembly and Lok Sabha polls, the region saw no development.“The government’s ‘double engine’ failed by the time it reached Bundelkhand,” he said. The SP chief alleged that the government’s incapacity had left its citizens like “orphans” during the worst period of the Covid-19 pandemic a few months back.Hitting back at Yadav, UP BJP secretary Chandramohan said, “A political party which has never looked beyond its family and caste, and whose political chief openly talks about love for Jinnah, can hardly be deemed trustworthy. Naturally, fearing rejection, the SP leadership appears to have lost the plot altogether. The 2022 UP polls would establish this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-rebuts-pm-modi-s-parivaarwad-remark-101638382821717.html
01-12-2021||India||Sirsa switches over to BJP before Punjab polls||Former Shiromani Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Wednesday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab. The announcement came hours after he resigned as the president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).The two-time MLA from Rajouri Garden assembly constituency and a prominent Akali Dal face in Delhi, Sirsa joined the BJP in the presence of Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Dharmendra Pradhan, and other senior leaders. He also met Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda later in the day.Also Read | Prominent Sikh face Sirsa gives BJP a shot in the arm in poll-bound Punjab“There are several issues concerning the Sikh community across the country, and these can be resolved only by the government. I have always raised these issues. I discussed some with home minister Amit Shahji today. I’m happy to inform you that the minister said that he wants to address all these issues,” Sirsa said, adding, “In the national capital, Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Ji was martyred…But we couldn’t even get one university for the Sikh community in the past 70 years due to our weak leadership (it was unclear whether he was talking about the community or SAD leader). What’s the point if the concerns of the community which fights on the borders are not addressed for years? I’m joining the party (BJP) to work for our community, its welfare and continue humanitarian work.”Sirsa, who won the Delhi assembly election in 2013 and 2017, has been actively working as DSGMC president for the past few years. Under his leadership, the DSGMC was actively involved in providing medical facilities and other essential services during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially during the second wave when there was an oxygen crisis in the capital.Hours before he joined the BJP, Sirsa tweeted, “With gratitude to all office bearers, members, staff & people who worked with me; I am resigning from Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee as President. I will not contest the upcoming DSGMC internal elections. My commitment to serving my community, humanity & nation remains the same!”Akali Dal spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said the BJP poached Sirsa using pressure tactics by involving him in false cases. “Sirsa has been fighting for issues related to the Sikhs under difficult circumstances, but our party feels sad that he succumbed to the pressure this time. However, other leaders of our party, including Akali Dal’s Delhi unit President Harmeet Singh Kalka are standing tall against the odds,” he added.Also Read | A conspiracy and a new low: SAD on DSGMC chief Manjinder Sirsa’s switch to BJPShiromani Akali Dal left the National Democratic Alliance last year over the three contentious farm laws, which were recently repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sirsa-switches-over-to-bjp-before-punjab-polls-101638382757413.html
01-12-2021||India||CCS takes up ₹5.1k-cr AK-203 deal ahead of Putin’s visit||The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday took up a ₹5,100-crore deal with Russia to jointly manufacture AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi, ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s two-day visit to India on December 6 for an annual summit with the Indian prime minister, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.Also Read | PM Modi to host President Putin for one-to-one meeting on Dec 6The AK-203 deal was on the CCS’s agenda and a deal could be signed soon, said one of the persons cited above. There was no official word on the committee green-lighting the proposed deal, which was cleared by the defence ministry last month, as previously reported. HT spoke to four senior government officials, none of whom confirmed if CCS had cleared it, although the deal faces no hurdles and there’s no reason for any delay.All outstanding issues relating to cost and indigenous content in the weapons have been ironed out, and India is looking at an early conclusion of the deal, officials said last month.The joint venture between Kalashnikov and a new weapons manufacturing division carved out of the erstwhile Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) seeks to provide a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India campaign).It envisages the production of up to 700,000 AK-203 assault rifles, and the Amethi facility is ready to kick off production next year once the deal is signed, officials said.Last month, the defence acquisition council (DAC) – India’s apex military procurement body – granted some key approvals to accelerate the acquisition of AK-203 assault rifles to be made in India with the transfer of technology from Russia.Putin’s two-day visit to India will have a major defence and security overhang. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five systems – is expected to coincide with Putin’s visit.India and Russia last week announced they would hold the maiden 2+2 dialogue of their defence and foreign ministers on the margins of the annual summit between Modi and Putin.This will only be Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak – he travelled to Geneva in June for his first meeting with US President Joe Biden. Putin’s decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India.Also Read | India-Russia 2+2 dialogue to be held on margins of Modi-Putin summit on Dec 6India and Russia are also expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for the period 2021-31 and sign several defence-related agreements during the summit. A key pact that could be inked is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases.The government has taken several measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector. These include raising the foreign direct investment limit in defence manufacturing, creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying 209 defence items, including assault rifles, which cannot be imported. India set aside ₹70,221 crores this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent more than ₹51,000 crores, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.
01-12-2021||India||India joins G20 Troika, to work to ensure consistency of agenda||India on Wednesday joined the G20 Troika comprising the current, previous and incoming presidencies of the grouping, the Ministry of External Affairs said.The G20 Troika consists of Indonesia, Italy, and India. The G20 is the premier forum for international economic cooperation, which reflects a recognition that global prosperity is interdependent and the economic opportunities and challenges are interlinked, the MEA said in a statement. G20 countries have come together to better prepare for the future, it said. As a founding member of the G20, India has used the platform to raise issues of vital importance and those that impact on the most vulnerable around the world, the MEA said.Taking over from Italy, Indonesia assumed the G20 Presidency on Wednesday and will convene various G20 meetings throughout the year culminating with the G20 Leaders' Summit on October 30-31, 2022 under the overall theme of "Recover Together Recover Stronger". As a Troika-member, India will work closely with Indonesia and Italy to ensure consistency and continuity of the G20's agenda, the MEA said.India will assume the G20 Presidency on December 1, 2022 from Indonesia, and will convene the G20 Leaders' Summit for the first time in India in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-joins-g20-troika-to-work-to-ensure-consistency-of-agenda-101638381765336.html
01-12-2021||India||Centre issues FAQs for international passengers amid Omicron variant scare||As concerns over the new variant of coronavirus Omicron grew, the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on Wednesday issued a set of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) to clear the air regarding the rules and requirements concerning the international passengers arriving from 'at-risk' countries and other nations. The FAQs were issued for better understanding of the passengers and to enable them for a safe, secure and hassle-free international air travel, the ministry said, according to news agency PTI.Check out FAQs issued by the ministry of civil aviation here:Post-arrival testing can be exempted if a person is travelling from a not 'at-risk' country and has only a transit (without leaving immigration) in 'at-risk' country before taking the destination flight.“However, if the person has travelled to any at-risk country in the last 14 days, he/she will be asked for post-arrival testing and other additional restrictions...,” the release said.Once the negative report is received, the passenger may not wait for the report of all the co-passengers and can exit the airport or take a connecting flight.Notably, the 'at-risk' list issued by the Centre includes "countries in Europe including The United Kingdom", South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China and Mauritius. Other countries in the list are New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-faqs-for-international-passengers-amid-omicron-variant-scare-101638380997930.html
01-12-2021||India||Calcutta HC asks Bengal poll panel to file report on civic election plans||The Calcutta high court on Wednesday directed the West Bengal election commission to file a report by December 6 on how it plans to hold elections in the 120-odd municipal corporations and municipalities in the state apart from the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) where polls will be held on December 19. The division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj passed the direction after hearing arguments on a petition filed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seeking simultaneous election in all civic bodies on a single day. The bench took on record the affidavit filed by the state election commission and the Bengal government that opposed the BJP’s demand citing logistical problems. The bench asked the state government to declare the time frame within which it wants to hold elections to the remaining municipal bodies. The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) controls most of the civic bodies in Bengal. The terms of the elected boards ended over the last two years but elections were not held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a stop-gap measure, the government appointed the elected heads of the civic boards as administrators. The state government wants to hold the civic polls in phases. It had planned to hold the elections in Kolkata and Howrah town on December 19 but the BJP moved the high court demanding simultaneous polls in all civic bodies across Bengal. The petition was filed by BJP state vice-president Pratap Banerjee who is also in charge of his party’s election committee for the Kolkata civic polls. Appearing for Banerjee, advocate Pinky Anand on Wednesday argued that the commission was deliberately staggering the election process at the behest of the state government. She raised objection to the November 25 notification for the KMC polls, saying the commission had promised to withhold the process till the hearing on the petition was over. She also prayed to the bench to quash the notification for the KMC elections. Anand argued that polls to the civic bodies were due before the Covid-19 pandemic started and hence these cannot be postponed citing health protocols as the situation has improved drastically. Appearing for the commission, advocate Jayanta Mitra told the bench that the commission did not tell the court during the first hearing of this case that it would stop the election process altogether. After hearing both sides the Chief Justice wanted to know how much time the commission needs to decide the election schedule. He also went through the record on availability of electronic voting machines and asked if the polls could be held in two phases. Appearing for the state government, advocate general S N Mookherjee said the KMC polls were being held first because of the better vaccination status of Kolkata residents and healthcare facilities in the city. He opposed the petition seeking simultaneous polls and said there was no Constitutional provision that made this mandatory. The matter will be heard again on December 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-asks-bengal-poll-panel-to-file-report-on-civic-election-plans-101638381255950.html
01-12-2021||India||Supreme Court gives bail to 74-yr-old arrested in 2012 NIA case against Maoists||Keeping a person in jail without a speedy trial violates the constitutional guarantee of the right to life, the Supreme Court observed on Wednesday as it ordered the release on bail for a 74-year-old retired man arrested by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) in July 2012 on charges that he helped Maoists.A bench of justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S Oka said the charges against the accused “are undoubtedly serious but the charges will have to be balanced with certain other factors like the period of incarceration which the appellant has undergone and the likelihood period within which the trial can be expected to be finally concluded.”Asim Kumar Haranath Bhattacharya, who faces multiple charges along with 13 others under various provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), Indian Penal Code (IPC), Explosive Substances Act and Arms Act, was arrested by NIA in 2012, allegedly on charges that he helped Maoists make weapons.Bhattacharya was arrested in a case linked to March 2012 raids by a joint team of Bengal and Andhra Pradesh police at locations that allegedly led authorities to weapon-making units to fabricate weapons such as rocket launchers, land mines and hand grenades. A top Maoist leader Sadanala Ramakrishna was also arrested in this case.NIA filed the first charge sheet in the case in August 2012 - the last one was filed in July 2017 - and the designated court framed charges against the accused in 2019.The bench noted that NIA was unable to indicate a definite time period for completing the trial and noted, on perusal of records, that the trial court on average was taking up this case once every month since there was only one NIA special court in West Bengal.“Deprivation of personal liberty without ensuring speedy trial is not consistent with Article 21 of the Constitution (right to life),” the two judges observed.“While deprivation of personal liberty for some period may not be avoidable, period of deprivation pending trial/appeal cannot be unduly long. At the same time, timely delivery of justice is part of human rights and denial of speedy justice is a threat to public confidence in the administration of justice,” the judges ruled, underlining that NIA Act mandated day-to-day trial of cases.The court also noted that the law allowed the special court to give priority to try offences investigated by NIA over other cases.“If this procedure is being followed in conducting the trial under the 2008 NIA Act, it frustrates the very purpose with which the special courts are designated,” the top court said.The bench also ordered the West Bengal government to designate more courts as special courts to try cases investigated by NIA. At the same time, the bench also directed the Centre to take up the matter with the chief justice of Calcutta high court to ensure that trials pending under NIA Act are expedited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-gives-bail-to-74-yr-old-arrested-in-2012-nia-case-against-maoists-101638380175712.html
01-12-2021||India||Make Gorukhuti an example of Assamese pride, says CM 2 months after eviction drive||Two months after clashes between police and settlers left two dead and 18 injured during an eviction drive, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma visited the site in Darrang district on Wednesday and urged people to make the area an example of Assamese pride. Two civilians were killed in police action on September 23 at Dholpur in Darrang district as part of the state government’s move to evict nearly 77,000 ‘bighas’ of encroachers to make way for Gorukhuti Project, an ambitious agricultural scheme for indigenous youth. “Let us make Gorukhuti a shining example of Assamese pride and prestige which will inspire our youth to work hard and prosper. Assamese defeated Mughals 17 times and it is time to regain our lost glory with hard work and dedication,” Sarma said during his day-long visit to the area. This was Sarma’s second visit to the area since assuming charge in May this year. It was following his first visit in June that the state government decided to evict illegal settlers, most of whom are Bengali-speaking Muslims, and start the Gorukhuti multipurpose agricultural project. Stating that Assamese people have been resilient against outside aggressors, Sarma said that the time has come to prove that again by taking control of the state’s farming lands. Appreciating the work done following eviction of settlers, the CM urged everyone to support the project so that it can become one of the best agriculture projects in India. “We have to import egg, fish, chicken, pork from outside and to prevent this Assam must become self-reliant for its food products to become a developed state,” he said. Sarma informed that over 5000 ‘bighas’ of land at Gorukhuti have been turned into agricultural fields of which 2731 ‘bighas’ have been used for mustard cultivation. He urged youths to take up agriculture instead of running after government jobs. During his visit, the CM laid the foundation of a prayer hall and weaving centre, distributed warm clothes to over 600 ‘agro soldiers’, visited the agriculture fields and piggery and distributed farm equipment and goods carrying vehicles to the project. Sarma also visited the ‘goshala’ (cow shelter) set up in the area with high-yielding breeds of cattle imported from Gujarat. He also launched a fishery, solar power project and afforestation drive. 
01-12-2021||India||Over 2 million Indian accounts banned by WhatsApp in October: Compliance Report||Over 2 million Indian accounts were banned by WhatsApp, while 500 grievance reports were received by the messaging platform in October, according to its compliance report.In its latest report released on Monday, WhatsApp said 2,069,000 Indian accounts were banned on WhatsApp during the said period.An Indian account is identified via a 91 phone number, it added."WhatsApp is an industry leader in preventing abuse, among end-to-end encrypted messaging services. Over the years, we have consistently invested in Artificial Intelligence and other state-of-the-art technology, data scientists and experts, and in processes, in order to keep our users safe on our platform," a WhatsApp spokesperson said.In accordance with the IT Rules 2021, the platform has published its fifth monthly report for the month of October, the spokesperson said."This user-safety report contains details of the user complaints received and the corresponding action taken by WhatsApp, as well as WhatsApp's own preventive actions to combat abuse on our platform. As captured in the latest monthly report, WhatsApp banned over 2 million accounts in the month of October," the spokesperson said.Previously, the Facebook-owned company had stated that more than 95 per cent of bans are due to the unauthorised use of automated or bulk messaging (spam). The global average number of accounts that WhatsApp bans to prevent abuse on its platform is around 8 million accounts per month.Over 2.2 million Indian accounts were banned by WhatsApp, while 560 grievance reports were received by the messaging platform in the month of September.WhatsApp, in its latest report, said it received 500 user reports spanning across account support (146), ban appeal (248), other support (42), product support (53), and safety (11) during October.During this period, 18 accounts were "actioned" under the ban appeal category based on the reports received.WhatsApp explained that "Accounts Actioned" denotes reports where it took remedial action based on the report.Taking action denotes either banning an account or a previously banned account being restored as a result of the complaint.Also, reports may have been reviewed but not included as 'Actioned' for many reasons, including the user needing assistance to access their account or to use some features, user-requested restoration of a banned account and the request is denied, or if the reported account does not violate the laws of India or WhatsApp's Terms of Service.The new IT rules - which came into effect in May - require large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) to publish compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken.Previously, WhatsApp had emphasised that being an end-to-end encrypted platform, it has no visibility into the content of any messages.Besides, the behavioural signals from accounts, it relies on available unencrypted information, including user reports, profile photos, group photos, and descriptions as well as advanced AI tools and resources to detect and prevent abuse on its platform, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-million-indian-accounts-banned-by-whatsapp-in-october-compliance-report-101638378511166.html
01-12-2021||India||'Trying to give 75% reservation to all locals in Haryana': Dushyant Chautala||The Haryana government is trying to give 75 per cent reservation to locals in multiple job sectors, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Wednesday. His comments come in connection with Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, which will be applicable from January 15, 2022.“We're trying to give 75 per cent reservation to all Haryana residents in the state's multiple industries before January 15,” news agency ANI quoted Chautala has saying at a press conference in Rohtak.In November, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) government had notified the law to implement 75 per cent job reservations for locals in the private sector. It envisages reservation for local youth in the private sector with an upper limit of gross monthly salary upto ₹30,000.The Haryana assembly had passed the legislation on November 5 last year, and the governor gave his assent to the bill on March 2 this year.The law will be applicable for a period of 10 years. The state government also relaxed the residency (domicile) requirement from 15 to five years for a person to get a bona fide resident certificate in the state to provide some flexibility to the private companies in hiring.Defending the move, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said that the need of the hour is to create a harmonious environment for industry as well as the youth along with creating the right balance between the progress of industries and the economy.India Inc, however, called for a re-look at the legislation, saying it could lead to multinational firms moving out of the state.The private sector job quota move was piloted by Dushyant Chautala’s JJP, coalition partner of the BJP in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trying-to-give-75-reservation-to-all-locals-in-haryana-dushyant-chautala-101638378308599.html
01-12-2021||India||All steps taken to control pollution due to Central Vista construction: Centre tells SC||The Centre has informed the Supreme Court that the work on the new Parliament and Central Vista Redevelopment does not cause pollution as every measure has been taken to arrest the dust rising from these projects.In an affidavit filed on Wednesday in the Supreme Court, which is monitoring the air pollution levels due to dust and stubble burning in a petition filed by a minor, Aditya Dubey, the Centre said, “As far as the Parliament building and Central Vista Avenue site is concerned, it complies with construction and demolition (C&D) waste management rules and each and every condition which is put to ensure that it does not cause any pollution.”Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) reached hazardous levels by Wednesday evening, recording an average of 374. The Supreme Court bench headed by the chief justice of India (CJI) will take up the petition along with the affidavit on Thursday.At the last hearing earlier this week, the Court had asked the government to take instructions on whether the Central Vista project or related construction work contributed to the air pollution in the Capital. This fact was brought to the top court’s notice by senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for the petitioner. He wondered how Central Vista work was going on when the Supreme Court had re-imposed the ban on all construction activities in Delhi-NCR from November 24, with the exception of permitting non-polluting activities such as plumbing work, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry.The affidavit filed by Ravi Kumar Verma, Director, Central Vista in the ministry of housing and urban affairs said, “So far as construction of new Parliament building and redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue is concerned, the respondent (Centre) has taken all measures as contemplated under C&D waste management rules which includes measures like use of anti-smog gun, mist spray system, use of dust suppressant like magnesium chloride, use of conveyor belt to transfer construction material, keeping all construction material in wet condition, etc.”The Centre indicated that apart from the Central Vista and new Parliament projects, all remaining construction activities undertaken by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) in Delhi and the national capital region have been stopped.The commission for air quality management for NCR and adjoining areas, the statutory body monitoring pollution from all sources in Capital, had on November 16 passed a slew of directions, including a ban on all construction activities. But as the air quality improved in Delhi, the ban was lifted by the commission on November 21.The top court was not impressed with ad hoc measures and directed the commission to carry out a detailed study by engaging expert agencies with domain knowledge in meteorological data and statistical modelling. The judges said, “The Commission must commission a scientific study of air quality based on available data of previous years bearing upon recorded levels of air pollution. The study must factor in seasonal variations and other relevant parameters.”The Court was of the view that once a scientific model is available, factoring wind velocity as well as natural and man-made phenomena, “the graded response plan can be modulated to provide for measures being taken in advance, based on anticipated changes in air quality without waiting for the air quality to deteriorate.” The Commission was asked to carry out this exercise within a month and report compliance to the Court. In the meantime, the top court directed the Centre and states in NCR to take appropriate steps to deal with the deteriorating pollution situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-steps-taken-to-control-pollution-due-to-central-vista-construction-centre-tells-sc-101638377595242.html
01-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 2, 1949 — UN assembly rejects soviet plan for 5-power peace pact||Flushing Meadows- The 59 Nation U.N. General Assembly today (December 1) rejected the Soviet Union’s call for a five-Power peace pact and adopted a counter Anglo-U.S. resolution calling on U.N. members to obey the principles of peace laid down in the Charter. The Anglo-U.S. resolution also called on U.N. members to co-operate to obtain international regulations on conventional armaments and control of atomic energy so as to restrict it to peaceful purposes and on the five permanent members of the Security Council-Britain, the U.S.A., the Soviet Union, France and China-to exercise restraint in the use of the veto. The resolution was carried by an overwhelming vote of 53 in favour, only the Soviet Union, Byelo-Russia, the Ukraine, Poland and Czechoslovakia opposing it, while Yugoslavia abstained. The resolution, containing 12 points, was voted on paragraph by paragraph. Between 51 and 54 nations favoured each clause, while the Soviet Union and Eastern European countries, excluding Yugoslavia, varied between negative votes and abstentions. Voting on the Soviet recommendations for a five-Power peace pact was opposed by 41 nations with ten abstentions. The paragraph of the Soviet resolution condemning “preparations for a new war now being conducted in a number of countries particularly in the U.S.A. and the United Kingdom” was opposed by all except the Soviet group, with Yugoslavia and Yemen abstaining. Thirty-nine nations voted against that part of the Soviet resolution calling for unconditional prohibition of atomic weapons enforced by international control. Fifteen abstained. Today’s vote ended one of the most heated debates during the present Assembly session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-december-2-1949-un-assembly-rejects-soviet-plan-for-5-power-peace-pact-101638373457047.html
01-12-2021||India||States owe staggering sums towards crop insurance subsidy: Centre tells Parliament||Several large states have yet to pay thousands of crores towards their share of subsidy for premiums under the flagship farm insurance programme, the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, delaying payouts to cultivators amid rising climate risks to farming. Subsidy state governments owe over the past three financial years in a row stood at ₹4,744 crore as on November 24, 2021, according to figures revealed by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Parliament in a written reply. Premiums under the crop insurance premium are arrived at through a bidding process, depending on the nature of risks, cropping season and agro-climatic zones. Farmers who opt for crop insurance have to pay 2% for kharif or summer-sown crops and 1.5% for rabi-sown food crops and oilseeds. For commercial and horticultural crops, cultivators have to pay 5% of the fixed premium. The balance is paid by the central and state governments, shared on a 50:50 basis. The share is 90:10 in case of north-eastern states. Delay in paying compensation for crops ruined by weather shocks and payment of subsidies can push millions of farmers into poverty, leaving them with little money for the next sowing season. Also, payment delays hamper farmers’ ability to service their agricultural loans, pushing them closer to the brink of default. For 2020-21, Maharashtra had the highest pending amount of ₹1,345.86 crore, the figures showed. Tamil Nadu owed the next highest sum of ₹879 crore, followed by Rajasthan’s ₹246 crore. The total pending amount for the year by states stands at 2,863.79 crore. “Some states have not released their share of premium subsidies for certain seasons, however, any specific reasons for such default have not been communicated,” the minister said in his written reply. For 2019-20, the total amount owed by states towards premium subsidy stood at 1,558.28 crore. Gujarat owes the highest amount at ₹858.72 for that year, followed by Telangana’s outstanding of ₹320.64 crore. For 2018-19, the total due pending from states stood at ₹321 crore. The premium rate of crops depends on the risks and the total liability of the state depends on actuarial premium rate, sum insured of crops, the total area insured and the number of crops notified by the states. 
01-12-2021||India||Amid Omicron scare, 3 Covid positive foreigners in Vrindavan leave India without informing authorities: Report||As many as three foreign devotees, who were found to be infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Uttar Pradesh’s Vrindavan, have left India without informing the authorities, news agency PTI reported citing officials.Four non-Indians were recently found to be Covid-19 positive in the pilgrim town of Vrindavan, which draws multiple foreigners all year long.On Wednesday, Vrindavan coronavirus control room in-charge Bhudev Prasad Singh told PTI that the number of the infected foreign devotees in the city has now shot up to 10. Chief medical officer Dr Rachna Gupta confirmed the same, and added that of the 10 infected foreigners, three have returned to their home country.The CMO said that police have been informed about the three foreigners, who left Vrindavan without informing the authorities and thereby defying Covid-19 protocols.On Monday, Hindustan Times reported that an Austrian woman aged 41 became the fourth foreign national to test positive for Covid-19 in Vrindavan, a health official said. She was residing in the same ashram where three other foreigners – also Europeans, were found to be infected with the virus.Notably, the three other infected Europeans hailed from Lithuania, Spain and Switzerland. All the four samples were sent to labs in Lucknow for genome sequencing to find out if they are omicron variant of Covid-19.The latest PTI report, however, doesn’t specify if the three foreign nationals who returned to their homeland are the aforementioned Europeans.Omicron variant, which was first discovered in South Africa, has so far spread to more than a dozen nations, including the UK, Japan, Israel and Canada. The strain has been classified as a ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Scientists have noted that Omicron can undergo multiple mutations – about 50, in the spike protein, which determines how fast the virus can spread among people.India on Wednesday deferred the resumption of international flights from December 15 onwards amid Omicron scare, and also laid down revised guidelines for all international travellers.India is among more than 50 countries that have tightened its security as well as Covid-19 norms amid the emergency of Omicron Covid-19 variant – all in the hope of combatting this new strain after the Delta variant. Several countries, including the US, UK, and Japan, have also imposed travel bans from affected nations of southern Africa.However, the WHO on Tuesday discouraged blanket travel bans, and said that the move will not prevent the “international spread” of the Omicron Covid-19 variant, but will “place a heavy burden on lives and livelihoods,” AFP reported.The United Nations (UN) health agency recommended that people who are sick or at risk of developing severe Covid-19 and dying of it, “including people 60 years of age or older or those with co-morbidities,” should postpone their travel plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-covid-positive-foreigners-leave-india-without-informing-authorities-report-101638372260106.html
01-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: EU special envoy on Afghanistan visits Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India and the European Union (EU) had an opportunity to exchange notes and discuss the way forward in Afghanistan as EU special envoy Tomas Niklasson visited New Delhi on Wednesday. Read morePakistan has issued visas to more than 130 Indians to visit the country for the birth anniversary celebrations of Hindu saint Shiv Avtari Satguru Sant Shadaram Sahib in the Sindh province, the high commission to India said on Wednesday. Read moreThe grand Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which connects the Ganga river and the famous and ancient Kashi Vishwanath temple (of Lord Shiva) in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi, is nearing completion, the city's divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said on Wednesday. Read moreTeam India produced an impressive outing with the ball in the first Test against New Zealand in Kanpur. The visitors barely clung to a draw after Ajaz Patel and Rachin Ravindra survived in the fag hours of the final day against India's spin-heavy attack. Read moreAhan Shetty and Tara Sutaria's Tadap got a star-studded premiere in Mumbai on Wednesday. Ahan arrived with his girlfriend Tania Shroff for the screening. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-eu-special-envoy-on-afghanistan-visits-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101638371826893.html
01-12-2021||India||6 test Covid positive on Day 1 of new guidelines, samples sent for Omicron test||The Centre said that it found six coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases after screening 3,476 passengers from "at risk" countries on the first day of the implementation of the revised travel guidelines.The Centre said that it found six coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases after screening 3,476 passengers from "at risk" countries on the first day of the implementation of the revised travel guidelines.|#+|Also Read | Comprehensive list of guidelines implemented by IndiaThese passengers came from 11 flights which landed at various airports of the country from midnight to 4 pm on Wednesday (December 1).All 3,476 passengers were administered RT-PCR tests, the government further said.The samples of Covid-19 positive passengers have been sent to INSACOG labs for genomic sequencing to identify if they contain the new Omicron variant. The government said that it continues to keep track of the evolving situation.Also Read | Eye on Omicron: India defers resumption of international flightsFour of the passengers, who tested positive today, flew into Delhi from the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. All four have been admitted to the LNJP Hospital, where a dedicated ward has been set up for isolating and treating such patients, they added."Four flights originating from Amsterdam and London and carrying 1,013 passengers landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport between 12 night and 6 am. Of these passengers, four have tested positive," news agency PTI reported quoting officials.According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Travellers from these "at-risk" countries are following additional measures on arrival in India from Tuesday midnight.Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come.Also, five per cent of the passengers arriving in flights from other countries will be subject to the test randomly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-test-covid-positive-on-day-1-of-new-guidelines-samples-sent-for-omicron-test-101638371390430.html
01-12-2021||India||EU special envoy on Afghanistan Tomas Niklasson visits New Delhi||India and the European Union (EU) had an opportunity to exchange notes and discuss the way forward in Afghanistan as EU special envoy Tomas Niklasson visited New Delhi on Wednesday. Niklasson travelled to India after holding talks in Doha over the weekend with a Taliban delegation led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi. The EU made it clear the two-day dialogue did not imply recognition of the interim government in Kabul but was part of an “operational engagement in the interest of the EU and the Afghan people”.This is Niklasson’s first visit to India since he became the special envoy and comes weeks after India hosted a meeting of top security officials of regional countries, including Iran and Russia, to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla met Niklasson on Wednesday and exchanged views on the “current situation in Afghanistan” and agreed to “continue the ongoing coordination between India & EU on Afghanistan”, according to external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.Security ties between India and the EU have been on the upswing in recent years in areas ranging from the Indo-Pacific to maritime security. People familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that the EU special envoy’s visit will be an opportunity for the two sides to exchange views on the latest developments in Afghanistan, including the urgent need to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. The people further said that India’s position on Afghanistan remains unchanged and is based on the UN Security Council resolution 2593, which calls for the formation of an inclusive government and steps to ensure that Afghan soil is not used to plan and execute terrorist actions against other countries. India has no immediate plans to reopen its embassy in Kabul, which was closed after all the diplomats and security personnel were evacuated in August, the people said.The immediate focus for India is ensuring unhindered and unimpeded access for humanitarian efforts in order to rush relief materials and medicines to the Afghan people as winter sets in, the people added. The Taliban delegation led by Muttaqi also held talks in Doha with the new US special representative on Afghanistan, Thomas West, who emphasised the “importance of the Taliban fulfilling its public commitment not to allow anyone to pose a threat to any country from the soil of Afghanistan” and the protection of the rights of all Afghan citizens.The US side indicated there were no plans to lift American sanctions, as the treasury department had issued general licenses for the continued flow of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. The EU delegation, in its talks with the Taliban, highlighted the importance of democracy and called on the interim government to take “swift, meaningful and concrete steps towards an inclusive government” with all ethnic, political and religious affiliations in order to pave the way for national reconciliation.
01-12-2021||India||122 new Kendriya Vidyalayas set up in last five years: Centre||A total of 122 new central government-run Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) have opened in the country in the last five years, the Union ministry of education has informed Parliament on Wednesday.Responding to a written question regarding the government’s initiative on opening new KVs in the last five years, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that between 2016 and 2021, 122 new KVs have been set up across the country.The Kendriya Vidyalayas Sangathan, an autonomous body under the ministry of education, runs 1,248 KVs across the country. As many as 1,43,7363 students are benefiting from these schools.According to the data provided by the ministry to the Upper House on Wednesday, of these 122 new KVs, 18 have come up in Madhya Pradesh, 13 in Uttar Pradesh (13), nine in Jharkhand, eight each in Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Rajasthan, and seven in Karnataka, among others.Pradhan also informed that efforts are being made to fill up vacancies in KVs. “Filling up of vacancies is a continuous process and action is taken from time to time as per the provisions of the relevant recruitment rules...Teachers are also engaged on contractual basis for temporary duration by KVS to ensure that the teaching-learning process is not hampered,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/122-new-kendriya-vidyalayas-set-up-in-last-five-years-centre-101638369734414.html
01-12-2021||India||Looked impossible, but Kashi Vishwanath Corridor almost complete, say officials||The grand Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which connects the Ganga river and the famous and ancient Kashi Vishwanath temple (of Lord Shiva) in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi, is nearing completion, the city's divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said on Wednesday. PM Modi is due to inaugurate it on December 13.“The corridor has decongested the temple complex, which was earlier surrounded by buildings on three sides. The project will connect the two things Varanasi is well known for - the Kashi Vishwanath Temple (KVT) and the Ganga river,” Agarwal said while speaking to the media persons at a press briefing. The corridor is built over 5.5 lakh square feet.Prime Minister Modi laid the foundation of the corridor in March, 2019. Over 300 buildings were purchased and demolished to create the space for the project. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has inspected the work on it three dozen times.Agarwal said initially it looked like an impossible thing considering the dense structure of the temple premises. "But, with the organised and dedicated efforts of both the Centre and the state governments, despite two waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire process is being completed in record time with utmost transparency," he added."The project was taken forward on a war-footing basis right from getting the properties vacated to compensating the owners," he further said, adding, "The execution of the project was done in the most transparent manner, as a result of which the project faced no litigations."The demolition of buildings in the corridor area led to the recovery of at least 40 ancient temples. All these temples were buried under other construction around them and people had built kitchens, bathrooms and much more atop them.They are now visible, will be preserved and opened to the public.The architect of the project Bimal Patel, who was also present at briefing, informed that without tampering with the original structure of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, the facilities for the tourists have been increased.“The work includes construction of Temple Chowk, Varanasi city gallery, museum, multipurpose auditoriums, hall, devotee facilitation centre, public convenience, salvation home, Godowlia gate, Bhogshala, shelter for priests and sevadars, spiritual book space, and others. About 70% of the 5.50 lakh sqft area of the project would be kept open for the green cover,” informed Patel.Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said that nearly ₹1,000 crore has been spent on the entire project, which includes ₹70 crore spent on the rehabilitation of people living in the redeveloped area.An over 7,000 square metre temple platform for meditation for 10,000 people, seven grand entrance gates, a cafeteria, a food court, a Vedic and spiritual library, a virtual gallery, tourist centre, a multi-purpose hall, and a security hall are part of the corridor. A special sky beam light system was also being installed along the corridor.Over seven million devotees and tourists visit the Kashi Vishwanath Temple annually. On average, over 10,000 devotees, mostly from Varanasi and adjoining areas, visit it daily. On Mondays, over 40,000 to 50,000 people offer prayers at the temple. The number goes up to 30,00,00 on Mondays during the holy month of Shravan (July-August).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/looked-impossible-but-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-almost-complete-say-officials-101638368270923.html
01-12-2021||India||‘Only govt can resolve’: Akali Dal’s Delhi leader explains why he joined BJP||NEW DELHI: Shiromani Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa, one of the party’s most prominent faces in national capital Delhi, on Wednesday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), hours after he resigned as the president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).“There are several issues concerning the Sikh community across the country and these can be resolved only by the government. I have always raised these issues. I discussed some of the issues faced by the community with home minister Amit Shahji today. I’m happy to inform you that the minister said that he wants to address all these issues,” Sirsa said after making the switch ahead of the Punjab elections.The two-time former legislator from Rajouri Garden in west Delhi joined the BJP in the presence of Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Dharmendra Pradhan, and other senior leaders. He also met Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda.The Akali Dal, which left the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance last year over the now-repealed three contentious farm laws, mounted a strident attack on the BJP, alleging that the ruling party arm-twisted Sirsa into joining the party.SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said the BJP poached the Akali leader using pressure tactics by involving him in false cases. “Sirsa has been fighting for issues related to the Sikhs under difficult circumstances but our party feels sad that he succumbed to the pressure this time. However other leaders of our party including Akali Dal’s Delhi unit President Harmeet Singh Kalka are standing tall against the odds,” he added.Sirsa told reporters that he was joining the BJP to work for his community, its welfare and to continue humanitarian work.“There are several issues concerning the Sikh community which are unresolved for the past 70 years. In the national capital, Baba Banda Singh Bahadurji was martyred…But we couldn’t even get one university for the Sikh community in the past 70 years due to our weak leadership... What’s the point if the concerns of the community, which fights on the borders, are not addressed for years?” he said.Sirsa, who won the Delhi assembly election in 2013 and 2017, has been Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president for the past few years. Under his leadership, DSGMC was actively involved in providing medical facilities and other essential services during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially during the second wave when there was an oxygen crisis in the capital.Hours before he joined the BJP, Sirsa tweeted a thank you note to his former colleagues at the gurudwara body, “With gratitude to all office bearers, members, staff & people who worked with me; I am resigning from Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee as President. I will not contest upcoming DSGMC internal elections. My commitment to serve my community, humanity & nation remains same!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-govt-can-resolve-akali-dal-s-delhi-leader-explains-why-he-joined-bjp-101638367514126.html
01-12-2021||India||Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa joins BJP ahead of Punjab polls||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Wednesday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, reported news agency ANI.A prominent face of the Akali Dal in the national capital, Manjinder Singh Sirsa quit as president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) hours before joining the BJP.While addressing the media, Sirsa said, “There are several issues concerning the Sikh community across the country and these can be resolved only by the government. I have always raised these issues. I discussed some of the issues faced by the community with home minister Amit Shahji today. I’m happy to inform you that the minister said that he wants to address all these issues.”“There are several issues concerning the Sikh community which are unresolved for the past 70 years. In the national capital, Baba Banda Singh Bahadurji was martyred…But we couldn’t even get one university for the Sikh community in the past 70 years due to our weak leadership (Akali). What’s the point if the concerns of the community, which fights on the borders, are not addressed for years? I’m joining the party (BJP) to work for our community, its welfare and continue humanitarian work.”He has also been a strong supporter of the farmers' protests against the three farm laws, which were repealed by the Centre recently.Manjinder Singh Sirsa's induction into the BJP comes ahead of the crucial Punjab assembly polls, which Shekhawat, who is the BJP's in-charge for the upcoming Punjab assembly polls, said will help the party in the state elections.Pradhan said the BJP will be strengthened with Sirsa's induction and added that he had quit his position in the DSGMC before joining the party.Parliament recently passed a bill to annul the three laws in what has been seen as the BJP's effort to placate the protesting farmers, a large number of whom are Sikhs from Punjab.The assembly elections to Punjab are slated to be held early next year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akali-dal-leader-manjinder-singh-sirsa-joins-bjp-ahead-of-punjab-polls-101638367117024.html
01-12-2021||India||Pakistan issues visas to Indian pilgrims to visit Shadani Darbar in Sindh||Pakistan has issued visas to more than 130 Indians to visit the country for the birth anniversary celebrations of Hindu saint Shiv Avtari Satguru Sant Shadaram Sahib in the Sindh province, the high commission to India said on Wednesday.“Today, Pakistan High Commission in Delhi issued 136 visas to Indian Hindu pilgrims,” an official of the Pakistan high commission was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“They are visiting Pakistan to participate in the 313th birth anniversary celebrations of Shiv Avtari Satguru Sant Shadaram Sahib at Shadani Darbar Hayat Pitafi in Sindh from December 4-15,”Last year, the high commission said 44 Indian pilgrims visited Pakistan to participate in celebrations marking the 312th birth anniversary of Shadaram Sahib from December 15 to December 21.Also read | ‘Pleasing that Kartapur corridor has reopened’: PM Modi in address to the nationShadani Darbar in Sukkur was founded in 1786 by Sant Shadaram Sahib, who was born in Lahore in 1708. The temple is more than three centuries old and is visited by devotees from around the world.The Pakistan high commission also issued visas to a group of 47 Indian pilgrims in 2020 to visit Katas Raj temple in Chakwal district of Punjab during December 23-20. The temple is also known as Qila Katas.Sikh and Hindu pilgrims from India visit Pakistan under the bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines of 1974 to participate in religious festivals and events every year.The Kartarpur Corridor, which allows Indian nationals to make visa-free visits to the gurdwara built at the site in Pakistan where Guru Nanak spent the final years of his life, was recently reopened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-issues-visas-to-indian-pilgrims-to-visit-shadani-darbar-in-sindh-101638365358837.html
01-12-2021||India||Three killed in explosion at fireworks factory in Bengal village||Three people were killed and two injured in an explosion at a fireworks factory at Mohanpur village in the Nodakhali area of Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district on Wednesday morning, police said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders claimed that according to locals five men were killed. This was, however, not confirmed by the police. The factory was located inside a residential building in a densely populated area, said a local police officer who did not want to be named. The village is located around 45 km to the south of Kolkata. “A probe is on. Local people said the house belonged to Ashim Mondal. It was damaged in the explosion which also set the building on fire. The bodies were badly charred. The incident happened early in the morning. We are trying to find out if the factory had a licence,” the officer added. A police contingent rushed to the spot. Senior district police officers did not make any official statement on the identity of the victims till 4 pm. “The incident has reminded us once again that West Bengal is sitting on a keg of gunpowder. The area where the explosion took place today is known for criminal activities. The area witnessed violence after the recent assembly polls. The explosion should be probed and the culprits booked immediately,” said BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh. TMC leaders did not react to the BJP’s allegation. Partha Sarathi Ghosh, inspector-in-charge of Nodakhali police station, told HT that two of the victims were men while one was a woman. “The deceased used to live in that house. Investigation has revealed that it was a small factory where sparklers, rockets etc. used to be made before festivals. We have not found any evidence of terrorist activity that is being alleged,” said Ghosh, indirectly hinting at the BJP leaders. The Bengal BJP, however, mounted pressure on the ruling party since Nodakhali is part of the Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha constituency represented by TMC national general secretary and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. “The National Investigation Agency (NIA) should take up this investigation as this is not the first time that explosives have claimed lives in Bengal. I will write to Union home minister Amit Shah and urge him to order an NIA probe,” said BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-killed-in-explosion-at-fireworks-factory-in-bengal-village-101638365713903.html
01-12-2021||India||These southern states to get above normal rainfall from Dec till Feb: IMD||Most states in the Indian peninsular region will continue to receive heavy rainfall until February, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.This forecast comes after the peninsular region logged the highest-ever rainfall in November since 1901 with the southern states of Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and south interior Karnataka – which includes Bengaluru — receiving 169% excess showers.The weather department on Wednesday made a forecast of above-normal rainfall between December and February in coastal Andhra Pradesh, south interior Karnataka, inner Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Rayalaseema.The IMD, however, predicted below-normal rainfall in the northwestern India's regions, thereby the area’s average temperature is likely to stay normal. Haryana, Punjab and west Rajasthan are some of the states where the normal average temperature is expected between December and February.Also Read | Parts of Mumbai, Thane may see heavy rain today, cyclone alert for Odisha on SaturdayThe Met department said that while it’s difficult to predict if the temperature in east and west Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and east Rajasthan will be “above or below normal,” the “maximum temperature” in these regions is likely to stay below-normal.The highest rainfall in the peninsular region happened primarily because of five low-pressure systems over the Andaman Sea in November, and also the active phase of northeast monsoon last month.Meanwhile, a cyclone alert has been issued in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh due to the formation of cyclone Jawad on the morning of December 4. The IMD has said that a depression is expected to form over southeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal by Thursday, which is likely to strengthen into a cyclonic storm around December 3. “[The cyclonic storm will] move northwestwards and reach north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast around December 4 morning,” the IMD tweeted.Owing to the cyclonic formation, the IMD has issued rainfall alerts not just in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha but also in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, and Gangetic West Bengal, among others.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-southern-states-to-get-above-normal-rainfall-from-dec-till-feb-imd-101638364656568.html
01-12-2021||India||Centre red-flags Maharashtra’s 4 new Covid rules for flyers, wants them scrapped||PUNE: The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday told the Maharashtra government to scrap additional Covid-19 conditions imposed by the state for international and domestic passengers and align the state’s guidelines to the ones issued by the central government, people aware of the matter said.The Centre’s missive came hours after Maharashtra, in a late evening order on Tuesday, mandated Covid-19 testing for all international travellers at the Mumbai airport irrespective of their country of origin, 14-day home quarantine for all international passengers despite testing negative on arrival and require passengers taking connecting flights to first clear a Covid-19 test.Besides, Tuesday’s order issued by Maharashtra chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty also requires domestic passengers to get themselves tested within 48 hours of flying to Maharashtra.These four conditions are more stringent than the guidelines notified by the Union health ministry a few hours before Maharashtra issued its version, leading to some confusion and outrage among flyers who called them unfair.Also Read: 40 million fully vaccinated against Covid-19 in Maharashtra; cases dip by 57.51%In a letter to Maharashtra additional chief secretary Pradeep Vyas, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told the state government to align its guidelines to the ones issued by the Centre on these four points.“This (Maharashtra government’s order) is in divergence with the SoPs (Standard operating procedure) and Guidelines issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of India. I would, therefore, urge you to align the orders issued by the state with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. Of India, so that uniform implementation of the guidelines may be ensured across all States/UTs,” Rajesh Bhushan said.HT has reviewed a copy of the letter.Bhushan also asked Maharashtra to give “wide publicity” to the modified orders, once they are issued “to obviate any inconvenience to travellers”.Also Read: Six test Covid positive in Maharashtra after return from high-risk countriesPune resident Ajit Thakhalkar, who is currently in Jammu and Kashmir and is scheduled to fly back to the city on December 3, said the Maharashtra government’s new rules have created problems for him.Thakhalkar said he was in a remote area of Jammu and Kashmir which did not have a Covid-19 testing facility. “How am I supposed to get the test done before coming to Pune,” he asked, saying his only option at the moment was to try getting a test done at Srinagar airport but wondered when the report would come in. He planned to fly to Delhi and take a connecting flight to Pune.Another passenger who was scheduled to travel from Jaipur to Pune on Wednesday said the government should have given them 4-5 days notice before coming up with such a rule.“Such sudden changes in travel requirements create panic,” he said, pointing that it will take him at least a day to get the report.Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture president Sudhir Mehta said they were in favour of reasonable restrictions but “reintroduction of RT-PCR Covid tests for domestic travel as done in Maharashtra serves little purpose for those already vaccinated.This needs a review, he said, wondering why it was safe for a passenger flying from Nagpur to Pune, but not from Delhi.As per the Centre’s guidelines, international passengers arriving from At-Risk countries were asked to remain under home quarantine for seven days and get tested again on the eighth day. While travellers coming from countries other than the flagged countries were allowed to leave the airport and were asked to “self-monitor” their health for 14 days from the arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-red-flags-maharashtra-s-4-new-covid-rules-for-flyers-wants-them-scrapped-101638360373467.html
01-12-2021||India||Terror-related incidents down in J&K after abrogation of Article 370, says govt||The Centre informed the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that the number of terror-related incidents have come down in Jammu and Kashmir after abrogation of Article 370. The reply was given by Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai."The overall statistics shows that there has been decline in terrorist attacks on civilians and army in Jammu and Kashmir," Rai said.The minister said that from August 05, 2019 to November 22, 2021 (841 days since the abrogation), 496 terror-related incidents have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir. This is down from 843 such incidents reported in a same span of time before the abrogation.He also said that between April 16, 2017 and August 04, 2019, 86 civilians and 78 army personnel were killed in terror-related incidents.In response to a separate question, Rai said during the last 12 months from December 2020 to November 2021 (up to November 26), 14 terrorists have been apprehended and 165 terrorists have been killed.The minister said in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that 40 civilians have been killed and 72 injured in Jammu and Kashmir in terror-related incidents till November 15 this year.Rai also informed about the steps taken by the government to protect civilians from anti-terror operations. These include proactive operations against terrorists, identification and arrest of over ground workers/supporters of terrorism, action against members of banned organizations, intensified night patrolling and checking at Nakas, security arrangements through appropriate deployment, coordination meetings amongst security agencies, high level of alertness maintained by the security forces and legal action in cases of terror funding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorrelated-incidents-down-in-j-k-after-abrogation-of-article-370-says-govt-101638359958548.html
01-12-2021||India||Centre says no data on farmers’ death, so no compensation||The Union government has told Parliament it had no data on farmers who died during the course of their year-long protests against the three farm laws repealed on November 29, sparking criticism from the Opposition and farm unions. In a written reply to six related questions in Lok Sabha, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government did not have any record of farmers who died during the protests and therefore there was no question of compensation to their families. This is the second time the Union government has informed Parliament it had no information on farmers’ death at various protest sites. During Parliament’s Monsoon Session too held during July-August, the government had said it did not have any such data. “The ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise,” the minister told Parliament. His reply also said the Union government did not have records on the number of cases registered by police against farmers in various states. Farm unions have claimed nearly 700 farmers lost their lives during the protests and their pending demands include compensation as well as withdrawal of all criminal cases lodged against protesting farmers. On November 19, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of protesting farm unions, had said “nearly 700” protestors” had died during the agitation. Congress leader Malikarjun Kharge attacked the Union government after the agriculture minister’s reply. “This is an insult to farmers. How can the government say it has no records?” he asked. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 had announced a decision to repeal the three agricultural laws farmers say would have jeopardized their livelihoods, paving the way for Parliament to scrap the legislation. The laws had led to a massive farmers’ uprising across states, such as Punjab, Haryana Uttar, Pradesh and Rajasthan. Farm unions called it their “first major victory” but wrote to the prime minister, enlisting their remaining demands. These include bringing a law to ensure minimum prices for farm produce, revocation of proposed electricity bill farmers say will make power costlier and compensation for all farmers who died during protests. “We won’t withdraw our agitation until all out demands are met. Farmers have been injured in police atrocities. So many have died. A minister’s son killed farmers. They need compensation,” Gurnam Singh Charuni a farm leader said. 
01-12-2021||India||'Baba chief minister': Akhilesh slams Yogi over UP govt's promise to provide smartphones to youth||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav took a swipe at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday, saying those “who do not have a family” will not understand what a common household goes through when somebody in the family dies. His remarks came ahead of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly election which has incited a war of words among the opposing parties."We are having families which is why we understand what the family members of a labourer or a farmer go through when he dies. Those raising a family understand the pain of an ordinary family. Those who do not have one will not and hence they will not care," news agency PTI quoted Yadav as saying at the 'Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra' in Banda, a city in Uttar Pradesh.In another stinging attack on Yogi Adityanath over his government's promise to provide tablets and smartphones to students, the SP chief said one cannot expect a “baba chief minister” to extend such facilities. Notably, Yogi Adityanath is a mahant (chief priest) of the revered Gorakhnath temple."Can a baba chief minister operate a laptop? Now it is heard that he cannot even operate a smartphone. If he could, the government would have given them to our youth by now," PTI quoted the SP chief as saying."The BJP had assured jobs to shikshamitras. However, after four-and-a-half years, it has only killed the dreams of the youth who were expecting to be gainfully employed," he further alleged.Akhilesh Yadav, who is also the former UP chief minister, asked the people if they wanted the "Yogi government or a yogya (capable) government".Yadav also alleged that the Yogi government deliberately leaked the question paper of the Teachers' Eligibility Test as it would not be in a position to provide jobs to successful candidates. The former chief minister then went on to promise that if the Samajwadi Party comes to power in the state, he will employ those with Basic Teachers Training and Bachelor of Education certification.Elections to 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh are due early next year. In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP received a landslide victory by securing 312 assembly seats and registered a 39.67% vote share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baba-chief-minister-akhilesh-slams-yogi-over-up-govt-s-promise-to-provide-smartphones-to-youth-101638359655776.html
01-12-2021||India||200 e-Emergency X-visas issued to Afghans till Nov 24: Govt informs Parliament||The Union home ministry on Wednesday informed Parliament that 200 e-Emergency X-miscellaneous visas have been issued to Afghan nationals till November 24. This new category of visa was introduced for Afghan nationals after the Taliban took over the country in August.The special category e-Emergency X-miscellaneous visa was a special category electronic visa introduced by the government to fast-track urgent applications for entry into India. It is issued to foreigners who are not covered in the available categories of visa but need to visit India due to an emergency. The government reviews the emergency application as per the prescribed rules and issues the e-emergency visa accordingly.Replying to a question in the Lok Sabha, Union minister of state for home affairs Niryanand Rai further said that 4,557 Afghan nationals are presently staying in India after the extension of their visas."In view of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan, the Government of India has started an 'e-Emergency X-Misc visa' for a period of six months for Afghan nationals," Rai said while replying to question asked by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Vandana Chavan.Giving details about the legislation, policy and schemes undertaken by the government of India to ensure safety and standards of living of refugees in India, the minister said, "All foreign nationals (including Asylum seekers) are governed by the provisions contained in the Foreigners Act, 1946, The Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939, The Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 and The Citizenship Act, 1955 and rules and orders made thereunder.""The data of foreign nationals who enter into the country without valid travel documents in a surreptitious and clandestine manner, claiming to be refugees or asylum seekers are not maintained centrally," Rai clarified.Afghanistan came under the control of the Taliban in the wake of the withdrawal of American forces. While the deadline for the US forces to leave Afghanistan was August 31, the insurgent group captured the presidential palace in capital Kabul a fortnight before that.The lightning speed at which the Taliban seized provincial capital cities like Gardez, Sharana, Asadabad, Maymana, Mihtarlam, Nili, Mazar-i-Sharif, and finally Kabul, left the world in shock.Thousands of Afghans fled in the country in the wake of Taliban’s advance and sought asylum in nearby countries, including India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-e-emergency-x-visas-issued-to-afghans-till-nov-24-govt-informs-parliament-101638358582727.html
01-12-2021||India||EU special envoy for Afghanistan to visit India next week||India and the European Union (EU) will have an opportunity to exchange notes and discuss the way forward in Afghanistan when EU special envoy Tomas Niklasson visits New Delhi this week. Niklasson is set to travel to India after holding talks in Doha over the weekend with a Taliban delegation led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi. The EU made it clear the two-day dialogue did not imply recognition of the interim government in Kabul but was part of an “operational engagement in the interest of the EU and the Afghan people”. This will be Niklasson’s first visit to India since he became the special envoy and comes weeks after India hosted a meeting of top security officials of regional countries, including Iran and Russia, to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. Security ties between India and the EU have been on the upswing in recent years in areas ranging from the Indo-Pacific to maritime security. People familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that the EU special envoy’s visit will be an opportunity for the two sides to exchange views on the latest developments in Afghanistan, including the urgent need to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. Also Read: 4,557 Afghan nationals residing in India on ‘stay visa’: Nityanand Rai in RSThe people further said that India’s position on Afghanistan remains unchanged and is based on UN Security Council resolution 2593, which calls for the formation of an inclusive government and steps to ensure that Afghan soil is not used to plan and execute terrorist actions against other countries. India has no immediate plans to reopen its embassy in Kabul, which was shuttered after all the diplomats and security personnel were evacuated in August, the people said. The immediate focus for India is ensuring unhindered and unimpeded access for humanitarian efforts in order to rush relief materials and medicines to the Afghan people as winter sets in, the people added. The Taliban delegation led by Muttaqi also held talks in Doha with the new US special representative on Afghanistan, Thomas West, who emphasised the “importance of the Taliban fulfilling its public commitment not to allow anyone to pose a threat to any country from the soil of Afghanistan” and the protection of the rights of all of Afghan citizens.The US side indicated there were no plans to lift American sanctions, as the treasury department had issued general licences for the continued flow of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. The EU delegation, in its talks with the Taliban, highlighted the importance of democracy and called on the interim government to take “swift, meaningful and concrete steps towards an inclusive government” with all ethnic, political and religious affiliations in order to pave the way for national reconciliation.
01-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee meets NCP chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata Banerjee meets Sharad Pawar on Mumbai visit, talks of opposition allianceWest Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai. Read more.On Centre’s 'no data of farmer deaths', Cong’s Mallikarjun Kharge has a questionReferring to the Centre’s claim about not having data on farmer deaths during the agitation, Rajya Sabha leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said that it is “farmers’ insult.” Read more.4,557 Afghan nationals residing in India on 'stay visa': Nityanand Rai in RSAt least 4,557 Afghan nationals are currently residing in India on the ‘stay visa’ after the Indian government extended their special temporary visas, Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai informed during Parliament's winter session on Wednesday. Read more.The Power of the Dog movie review: Benedict Cumberbatch-led Western brims with foreboding and erotic tensionJane Campion’s repressed protagonists wrestle with desire that assumes transgressive power usually due to societal mores and circumstances. Read more.Deepika Padukone proves she is the Queen of classy looks in ₹50k denim jacket-pants setThe denim-on-denim trend is not going away anytime soon. Read more.Triumph marks a million motorcycle production with special edition Tiger 900British two-wheeler manufacturer Triumph Motorcycles has hit a major milestone which coincides with the brand's 120th anniversary next year. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-alert-issued-in-odisha-andhra-for-cyclone-jawad-formation-101638356356380.html
01-12-2021||India||Tirumala Ghat Road suffers damages due to landslides, sealed for traffic||The ghat road connecting Tirupati town to Tirumala hills, the abode of Lord Venkateshwara in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, suffered damages due to landslides early on Wednesday morning, forcing the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam authorities to close the road for vehicular traffic.This is the second time in less than two weeks that the ghat road has been closed for traffic due to landslides caused by heavy rain that lashed the temple town, along with several parts of south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema districts, which are still reeling under the impact of a depression in the Bay of Bengal.A TTD spokesperson said there were landslides at three places on the second ghat road (meant for the uphill journey of pilgrims from Tirupati to Tirumala). At one place, a massive boulder has fallen on the ghat road, which has caved in completely under its impact.Landslides at two other places also damaged the road. However, there were no untoward incidents as no vehicle was passing through the road at the time of landslides. A bus carrying pilgrims stopped a few metres away from the spot, after being alerted by the TTD vigilance and security authorities about the landslides.“The TTD authorities and the police swung into action and sealed the road completely. There are no landslides on the first ghat road (bringing pilgrims from Tirumala down the hill). We are allowing the uphill traffic also on the same route,” the spokesperson said.TTD chairman Y V Subba Reddy, along with the senior officials rushed to the spot to inspect the damaged road. “While the vigilance and police officials have removed the rocks and other debris, the engineering department authorities have been pressed into service to study the situation. A team of experts from IIT Madras are also expected to arrive by evening to assess the extent of damage,” the spokesperson said, adding that it might take two to three days to restore normalcy on the damaged stretch.In the third week of November, too, Tirumala and Tirupati witnessed unprecedented heavy rainfall and both the ghat roads were closed for a day due to landslides on the hills. The temple premises and its surroundings were submerged in water for nearly two days. The traffic was restored gradually, as the water subsided.The pedestrian route -- Srivari Mettu, which was severely damaged due to landslides and heavy rainfall, continues to remain shut for pilgrims as the TTD authorities have been undertaking repairs along this route.
01-12-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee meets Sharad Pawar on Mumbai visit, talks of opposition alliance||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai.Among others, the two veteran leaders spoke on the need for a collective leadership at the national level. Banerjee, who is on three-day visit to Mumbai, also met Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's son Aditya.“Today, my colleagues and I had a long chat with her (Mamata Banerjee). Her intention is that in today's situation like-minded forces have to come together at national level and set up collective leadership,” Sharad Pawar was quoted as saying after his meeting with Mamata Banerjee.Meanwhile, Banerjee said that there is no United Progress Alliance (UPA) left. However, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said that they want to work together to take everyone along who wanted to be part of it and ready to work hard.“What UPA, where is UPA? Now there is no UPA left. We will make one (alternative front),” Banerjee said.On being asked whether the Congress would be part of the “alliance”, Pawar said any party that is against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are welcome if they come together. “We have to provide a strong alternative to leadership. Our thinking is not for today, but for the election. This has to be established and with that intention, she has visited and had a very positive discussion with all of us,” Pawar said.ALSO READ | 'Not constitutionally mandated': Mamata Banerjee on why she didn't meet Sonia GandhiHer meeting with Thackeray and Pawar, two of the three coalition partners in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra, comes amid her party’s widening rift with the Congress, which is an ally of MVA.The meeting also holds significance as the Trinamool Congress is trying to expand its national footprint with Banerjee spearheading efforts to unite opposition parties against the Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections in the country. Several leaders joined the Trinamool Congress recently with the defection of 12 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya, including the state’s former chief minister Mukul Sangma, being the latest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-meets-sharad-pawar-on-mumbai-visit-talks-of-opposition-alliance-101638356744136.html
01-12-2021||India||Eye on Omicron: India defers full resumption of international flights||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday postponed the full resumption of commercial international passenger flights from December 15 citing the new coronavirus variant of concern - Omicron.The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday postponed the full resumption of commercial international passenger flights from December 15 citing the new coronavirus variant of concern - Omicron.|#+|“In view of the emerging situation, we are postponing the resumption of international flight operations. We will, however, continue flights under the air bubble agreement,” said DGCA director general Arun Kumar.Also Read | 6 test Covid positive on Day 1 of new guidelines, samples sent for Omicron testIndia has air bubble agreements with 28 countries such as the UK, Netherlands, France and Germany.Earlier in the day, the DGCA issued a circular and said it is monitoring the situation related to Omicron and will notify the date of full resumption of commercial international passenger services from December 15 accordingly. “In view of the global scenario with the emergence of the new variant of concern, the situation is being watched closely in consultation with all stakeholders and an appropriate decision indicating the effective date of resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services shall be notified in due course,” the DGCA said in the circular.Also Read | Amid Omicron scare, 3 Covid positive foreigners in Vrindavan leave India without informing authorities: ReportThe World Health Organisation on Friday classified Omicron detected in South Africa as a variant of concern. It came on the day India said it will allow the full schedule of regular international flights to resume with all countries from December 15. A day later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked officials to review the plan to ease international travel restrictions after the new variant triggered a global alarm. He called for the need to be “proactive in light of the new threat”.Also Read | WHO confirms Omicron Covid-19 variant in 23 countries. Here’s the full listThe guidelines were on Monday revised and mandate all international travellers arriving in India to mandatorily fill up self-declaration forms and upload their negative RT-PCR test reports. Airlines have been asked to ensure that passengers have negative test reports before boarding flights.Travellers coming from countries “at-risk” will have to mandatorily undergo RT-PCR testing on arrival. If tested negative, they will have to undergo home quarantine for seven days and get re-tested. If tested positive in the initial test or on repeat testing, the passengers will be sent to isolation facilities while their samples will be sent for genomic testing.Also Read | Centre issues FAQs for international passengers amid Omicron variant scareA random 2% of the travellers coming from countries other than those classified as “at-risk” will undergo RT-PCR testing at the airports on arrival. If they are found to have Covid-19, their samples will be sent for genome testing for the omicron variant and treatment shall be conducted as per protocols. If tested negative the traveller will be asked to monitor health for at least the next 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitoring-omicron-situation-decision-on-international-flights-resumption-accordingly-dgca-101638356592257.html
01-12-2021||India||Sustained protests preceded Uttarakhand’s Char Dham legislation withdrawal||The Uttarakhand government’s announcement on Tuesday of the withdrawal of the law that brought temples including Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri under the purview of a board followed a sustained two-year-long agitation of priests. The priests staged protests on the premises of the Himalayan Char Dham shrines seeking the board’s scrapping. One of them wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his blood reiterating the demand. The priests last week gheraoed residences of ministers and warned they will vote against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the assembly elections next year if the law is not withdrawn.KK Kotiyal, the head of a priests’ body, credited their struggle and protests for the announcement. “When we started our agitation, we said that our intention is pious and sacred and no force can hold us back, nothing can stop us from winning this sacred battle. I will call this victory of truth even as the government announced (the repeal) when elections are nearing.”The Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Act was enacted in December 2019 when Trivendra Singh Rawat was the chief minister. The priests opposed the board formation, saying they were kept in the dark about the law for full government control of issues related to the temples. They accused the government of snatching away their traditional rights.BJP leader Subramanian Swamy filed a plea in the high court challenging the constitutional validity of the law in February 2020. He said the legislation was ultra vires (beyond legal power or authority) under the Constitution. The court in July that year dismissed the plea against the government takeover of the temples. It said the ownership of the temple properties would vest in shrines and the board’s power would be confined only to the administration and management.Also Read: My decision, says Dhami on scrapping Char Dham law. Then makes a promiseChief minister Tirath Singh Rawat announced a review of the board formation after he took over from Trivendra Singh Rawat amid calls for dissolving it. The proponents of the dissolution maintained the priests have been managing the shrines for centuries and should be allowed to continue doing so.The priests intensified their agitation by the time Pushkar Singh Dhami became the chief minister in July. Dhami formed a committee the same month to review the law.Santosh Trivedi, a Kedarnath shrine priest, in August wrote the letter with his blood to Modi demanding to scrap the board and allowing priests to manage the shrines as they have been done for centuries.The priests on November 1 prevented Trivendra Singh Rawat from praying at the Kedarnath shrine. On the same day, ahead of Modi’s November 5 Kedarnath visit, the priests warned that they will also not allow him to pray at the shrine if their demand for scrapping the board was not accepted. This prompted Dhami to visit Kedarnath on November 2 to assure the priests the government will make a decision by November 30 after receiving the report from the committee. The assurance prompted priests to call off their protest coinciding with Modi’s visit.On November 23, the priests gheraoed residences of Cabinet ministers in Dehradun and warned of state-wide protests if the decision on scrapping the board was not taken by November 30.
01-12-2021||India||After Munawar Faruqui, stand-up comic Kunal Kamra says all shows in Bengaluru cancelled||Stand-up comic Kunal Kamra on Wednesday said that all his shows in Bengaluru, which were scheduled over the next 20 days, have been cancelled. Kamra gave two reasons behind why the shows have been scrapped, one of which included him receiving threats to shut down the venue if he were to ever perform there. “I suppose I am seen as a variant of the virus now,” the comedian said sarcastically in a tweet, adding a word about Munawar Faruqui, another stand-up artist who was recently faced with a similar fate, wherein all 12 of his shows in the past two months – the latest of which was a Bengaluru event – were cancelled because of threats.In a post captioned “Cancelling comedy shows 101”, stand-up artist Kunal Kamra wrote, “They [the shows] have been cancelled for two reasons. Firstly, we didn't get special permissions to seat 45 people in the venue that can seat more. Secondly, threats have been made to shut down the venue if I were to ever perform there. I guess this is also part of the Covid protocol & new guidelines. I suppose I am seen as a variant of the virus now.”Cancelling comedy shows 101.😎😎😎 pic.twitter.com/fN0U7N8QrXTaking note of what his fellow stand-up compatriot Munawar Faruqui had to go through earlier, Kamra wrote with a hint of morbid sarcasm, “For those on Twitter that have been wondering how ‘A Kamra goes on to perform while a Farooqui has had to quit comedy’ we can find solace in the fact that the ruling class is at least trying to oppress with equality.”He added, “Maybe if we continue down the road of equal oppression, we would get to a point of equal liberation, in a post-climate change era.”For the uninitiated, comedian Munawar Faruqui had on Sunday posted a statement on Instagram, styled like an open mic, which ended with him signing off perhaps for the last time, as he wrote, “This is the end. Good bye! I am done.”“Hatred won and the artist lost”, the comedian had said, recounting how his 12 shows have been cancelled in the last two months because of threats. Notably, the Bengaluru police, too, have confirmed that permission had been denied as “Munawar Faruqui” is a controversial figure.“It is learnt that Munawar Faruqui is a controversial figure...Many states have banned his comedy shows. It is learnt that a case has been registered against him in the Tukoji police station in Indore of Madhya Pradesh,” the inspector of the Ashokanagar Police station had said in a letter.This is not the first that abrasive humour from Indian stand-up comics has made waves in the backdrop of the political situation in the country. Kamra, whose comedy acts often target the current government, is no stranger to threats and curbs imposed on him. Last year, he was banned by a number of airlines, including IndiGo and the government-owned Air India, after confronting a popular news anchor aboard an aircraft. The comedian, however, later issued a legal notice to IndiGo against the travel ban demanding a compensation of ₹25 lakh.Earlier this month, actor-comedian Vir Das also received backlash for his international show, Two Indias, which described two contrasting faces of the country and referred to many controversial topics. Although the Netflix comedy special was severely criticised back home, it later received an official nomination in the Comedy category at the 49th International Emmy Awards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-munawar-faruqui-stand-up-comic-kunal-kamra-says-all-shows-in-bengaluru-cancelled-101638353287595.html
01-12-2021||India||Omicron: Comprehensive list of guidelines India implemented from December 1||The omicron variant has heightened the security scare across the globe. Many countries have banned trave to southern African countries where the variant emerged last month.India too has revised its travel guidelines, asking state governments to enhance screening of all incoming international passengers.The new rules came into effect from Wednesday, December 1.Here’s a look at what has changed in the wake of the new omicron variant of the coronavirus:Testing and contract tracingAccording to the new guidelines, RT-PCR test has been made mandatory for all international flyers at major airports, besides the Covid-19 test report. Passengers arriving in India are required to submit the self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha Portal before the scheduled travel. They are also required to submit their travel details for the last 14 days.The guideline also mandate that the RT-PCR test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey.For travellers coming from ‘at risk’ countriesIn case of a negative test result, the traveller will be asked to home-quarantine for seven days as a precautionary measure. They will have to take a retest on eighth day and if negative, further self-monitor for the next seven days.In case of a positive test result, the samples will be sent for genomic testing at the INSACOG laboratory network. Meanwhile, the passenger will be taken to a separate isolation facility and will be treated as per the protocol laid down by the health ministry.The authorities have also enhanced testing and contract-tracing of those testing positive.For travellers coming from countries not identified as ‘at risk’A random sample of 2% of the travellers (chosen at the discretion of the airlines) will undergo RT-PCR testing at the airport on arrival. This number has been revised from the earlier 5% in the fresh guidelines issued on November 30.If these come back positive, the sample will be sent for genome testing for the omicron variant. If the result is negative, the traveller will be asked to monitor own health for at least 14 days.What happens is a traveller develops symptoms during the quarantine period?According to the revised guidelines issued on November 30, such passengers will be asked to report to the nearest health facility or contact the national Covid-19 helpline (1075) or any of the state helpline numbers.Quarantine guidelinesMandatory 14-day quarantine at designated places for Covid-19 positive casesStates have made seven-day quarantine must for travellers arriving from countries of concern (‘at-risk’ nations) as identified by the World Health Organization (WHO) and who test negative at airports. These countries are: The UK, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Maharashtra has issued even stringent guidelines, making RT-PCR testing must for all travellers, irrespective of the country of origin. It has also made 14-day home quarantine mandatory for all international passengers, despite being tested RT-PCR negative upon arrival. Domestic travellers too will have to present RT-PCR negative report, not older than 48 hours, before entering Maharashtra.Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu has appointed nodal health officers at airports to ensure international flyers are tested and sent to quarantine.Infrastructure boostThe states have designated special Covid-19 hospitals to handle a surge in cases, if it happens. For example, the Delhi government has designated Lok Nayak Narayan Hospital for omicron cases.In Mumbai, civic body BMC has directed all jumbo Covid care centres to make necessary preparations.The Centre, on its part, has increased the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ (door-to-door) vaccination programme till December 31. It has asked the state governments to increase vaccination coverage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-comprehensive-list-of-guidelines-india-implemented-from-december-1-101638355006950.html
01-12-2021||India||‘If you don’t have record of 700 people…’: Mallikarjun Kharge’s question to Centre on no data of farmer deaths||Referring to the Centre’s claim about not having data on farmer deaths during the agitation, Rajya Sabha leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge called the same “farmers’ insult.” “More than 700 farmers lost their lives during protests against three farm laws. How can [the] Centre say they don’t have any record of it?” he told news agency ANI.The Congress leader also wondered how the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre collected data of lakhs of people during the Covid-19 pandemic if they don’t have a record of 700 people.“Over 50 lakh people lost their lives due to Covid-19 in the last two years, but according to [the] government, only four lakh people died due to the virus,” Kharge was quoted as saying by ANI."If Govt doesn't have a record of 700 people then how they had collected data of lakhs of people during pandemic. Over 50 lakh people lost their lives due to #COVID19 in the last 2 years but according to govt, only 4 lakh people died due to the virus," Mallikarjun Kharge addedHis remarks come after Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament earlier in the day that the Centre doesn’t possess any record of farmers, who lost their lives during the year-long stir against the three contentious farm laws.“The ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise,” Tomar told the House when asked if the Centre plans to render financial compensation to the next of kin of farmers who died during the agitation.Opposition leaders as well as protesting farmer unions have consistently maintained that a total of 700 farmers died during the protest. On Tuesday, Congress leader Manish Tiwari moved an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha urging the Centre to “create a record of farmers who lost their lives during farm laws’ protest and give compensation to their families,” according to ANI.Also Read | Release correct data on Covid deaths, give ₹4 lakh as compensation: Rahul GandhiNotably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 19 about his government’s decision to roll back all the three farm laws. Five days later on November 24, the Union cabinet gave its nod to the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021.However, Congress leaders have been unhappy despite the revocation of the farm laws, alleging that they have not been allowed to discuss the matter during the ongoing winter session of the Parliament that commenced on November 29.“The way they (farm laws) were repealed, without discussion in the Parliament…shows that the government…knows they have done wrong. And that the government is scared,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said.He added that the Congress party wanted to discuss the minimum support price (MSP) issue, the deaths of 700 farmers during the stir, and the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.Meanwhile, the Centre has reached out to Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) for the names of five people, who could represent the farmers on a panel proposed by PM Modi to look into MSP and other issues. In a statement, the SKM said that it will take a decision regarding the five names and other matters at a meeting on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-centre-s-no-data-of-farmer-deaths-cong-s-mallikarjun-kharge-has-a-question-101638354565894.html
01-12-2021||India||4,557 Afghan nationals residing in India on 'stay visa': Nityanand Rai in Parliament||At least 4,557 Afghan nationals are currently residing in India on the ‘stay visa’ after the Indian government extended their special temporary visas keeping in view the evolving situation following the Taliban takeover of the war-torn country, Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai informed during Parliament's Winter Session on Wednesday.In a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha, the minister said, "In view of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan, the Government of India has started an 'e-Emergency X-Misc visa' for a period of six months for Afghan nationals."The minister further said, “Stay visa is granted to Afghan nationals staying in India keeping in view the present situation in that country. Presently, 4,557 Afghan nationals are staying in India on Stay Visa after extension of their visas. As on 24.11.2021, 200 e-Emergency X-Misc visas have been issued.”The statement was issued in reply to a question asked by Nationalist Congress Party MP Vandana Chavan on whether the government “maintains data on refugee foreign nationals residing in India" and "the steps being taken to aid Afghan asylum seekers in India”."All foreign nationals (including Asylum seekers) are governed by the provisions contained in the Foreigners Act, 1946, The Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939, The Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 and The Citizenship Act, 1955 and rules and orders made thereunder," Rai stated.He, however, added that the data on foreign nationals “who enter the country without valid travel documents in a surreptitious and clandestine manner, claiming to be refugees or asylum seekers” are not maintained by the government.As many as 60,000 visa applications of Afghan nationals were brought under consideration after the government launched the special 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' to aid the asylum process for those fleeing Afghanistan.Scores of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus fled the war-torn country and took shelter in India and other countries as the Taliban seized seven provincial capital cities and ousted the Afghanistan government on August 14 this year. Such nationals who are staying in India are being granted a six-month visa which will be later converted into a 'stay visa' with a one-year validity and it can be extended further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4557-afghan-nationals-residing-in-india-on-stay-visa-nityanand-rai-in-parliament-101638354418805.html
01-12-2021||India||Centre asks Maharashtra to modify quarantine guidelines||The Union health ministry on Wednesday sent a letter to the Maharashtra government, urging it to align the orders given in the wake of the new coronavirus variant omicron with Centre's guidelines. The letter, signed by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, calls for uniform implementation of guidelines across all the states and union territories.The Centre’s letter has identified four points from Maharashtra government’s guidelines, which were issued on November 30. These are:• Mandatory RT-PCR testing of all international travellers at the Mumbai airport, irrespective of country of origin.• Mandatory 14-day home quarantine for all international passengers, despite being tested RT-PCR negative upon arrival• Mandatory RT-PCR test for passengers planning to undertake connecting flights after disembarking at Mumbai and further travel subject to a negative RT-PCR result• Requirement of negative RT-PCR test 48 hours prior to date of journey, for domestic passengers travelling from other states to MaharashtraIn the letter sent to Maharashtra’s additional chief secretary, Bhushan advised that such modified orders of the state government are given wide publicity to obviate any inconvenience to travellers.Unlike Maharashtra, the guidelines issued by the Centre are meant only for 'at-risk' countries.The Maharashtra government had announced these guidelines on Tuesday, and said they will come into effect immediately in order to restrict the transmission of the said virus variant into the state.The order copy read, "The restrictions imposed by the Government of India guidelines dated November 28, 2021 as well as future restrictions, if any, shall act as minimum restrictions to be imposed."But on Wednesday, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that a window of two days shall be granted to all passengers from ‘at-risk’ countries, since many fliers will have already finalised their plans of travel, may be on the move, or might even be airborne, and unaware of these guidelines. These revised guidelines will now come into effect from December 2, at 11.59pm.The BMC has also directed the Mumbai airport operators to communicate to all domestic airlines not to allow any passengers landing in Mumbai, to board flight without negative RT-PCR report taken within 72 hours of travel.It said that testing may be allowed at the airport on arrival only in exceptional cases.Apart from the above-mentioned points, the Maharashtra government has also asked DCP immigration and Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) to draft a proforma of declaration for all arriving passengers on international flights to declare details of the countries visited in the last 15 days. The authorities at Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) has been asked to share the proformas with all airlines and the information regarding travel in the last 15 days will be cross-checked by immigration on arrival. Incorrect information furnished by the passengers will lead to action under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the state government said in its order.
01-12-2021||India||Peace talks at important stage, says Nagaland CM||Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Wednesday said the peace talks between the Centre and Naga insurgent groups have reached a stage where he is hopeful of an early resolution to the decades-old issue. He said the Nagas continue to earnestly wait for a solution. He added the state’s elected leaders have come together to form an Opposition-less government (United Democratic Alliance) to facilitate an early settlement of the problem. “Through this united front, we aim to convey the voice of the people to all stakeholders involved in the negotiations,” Rio said on the occasion of Nagaland’s 59th statehood day.He said Nagaland achieved statehood close to six decades earlier and the quality of life of its people has improved significantly since. “...despite achievements in various fields, a lot remains to be done. The government is committed to taking necessary steps for all-round development and to ensure that people are provided with the best opportunities for growth and progress.”Nagaland governor Jagdish Mukhi, in his message on the statehood day, said Nagaland has endeavoured over decades to achieve peace.“Peace is more than desired; it is a must for the advancement and achievement of the fullest potential of the state. I am hopeful that with the collective efforts of all, we will succeed in ushering stable peace in our state and the desire of the people for a vibrant and thriving Nagaland will no longer remain elusive but materialise before long.”Also Read: Nagaland takes travel inspiration from USA’s Sturgis, aims for off-road tourismIn 2015, the Centre signed the Framework Agreement with the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) after 18 years of truce. The talks were halted in October 2019 over issues pertaining to the agreement. The NSCN (IM) remained firm on its demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution. This is believed to be the main reason for the delay in a final deal to settle the issue. Negotiations resumed in September after the Centre named former Intelligence Bureau special director AK Mishra as its emissary to revive the stalled process.The Centre also signed “Agreed Position” with seven other Naga national political groups in 2017. Leaders of the groups, NSCN (IM) and Nagaland’s top politicians led by Rio are believed to have held a series of meetings in Delhi on how to take forward the dialogue. The Centre has sought two months to iron out certain contentious issues and the talks are likely to resume in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naga-peace-talks-at-imp-stage-hopeful-for-early-resolution-nagaland-cm-101638353352804.html
01-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: IMD issues alert for north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha coasts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an alert for the formation of Cyclone Jawad, which may reach the coasts of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha on the morning of December 4.IMD said in its latest bulletin that Tuesday’s low pressure over south Thailand and its neighbourhood emerged into central Andaman Sea in the evening and persisted over the same region at 8:30am on Wednesday.“It is likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a Depression over southeast & adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal by tomorrow, the 2nd December and intensify into a Cyclonic Storm over central parts of the Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours,” the IMD said in its latest bulletin.Also read | Two intense systems likely to bring widespread rain and thunderstormsIt is then likely to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts around the morning of December 4.Here are the warnings issued by IMD:RainfallLight to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with heavy rainfall at isolated places very likely over Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Thursday, December 2.On December 3, the IMD has forecast light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy rainfall at isolated places over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south coastal Odisha from the evening.Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy falls at isolated places are very likely over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and coastal Odisha on December 4, according to IMD.Also read | Parts of Mumbai, Thane may see heavy rain today, cyclone alert for OdishaIt also predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over adjoining interior districts of Odisha and heavy falls at isolated places over Gangetic West Bengal on December 4.According to IMD, on December light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places is likely over West Bengal and adjoining north coastal Odisha. Heavy rainfall at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura, it also said.Sea conditionThe sea condition will be rough to very rough over Andaman Sea, along and off Andaman and Nicobar Islands and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal on Wednesday.It will become very rough to high over the southeast and adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the Andaman Sea on Thursday, December 2.Also read | Peninsular India recorded highest rainfall in November since 1901For the next day, IMD said the sea condition will be high over the central Bay of Bengal and high to very high over westcentral and northwest Bay of Bengal from the early morning of December 4 for the subsequent 24 hours.Sea condition will be rough to very rough over along and off north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts from the mid-night of December 3 and become high to very high from the afternoon of December 4 for the subsequent 12 hours. It will be very rough to high along and off the West Bengal coast from December 4 morning and high to very high from the same evening for the subsequent 12 hours.Warning for fishermenFishermen out at sea have been advised by IMD to return to the coast by Thursday morning.They have also been advised not to venture into the Andaman Sea on Wednesday and Thursday and into the southeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal on December 2 and 3.Also read | Heavy, widespread rain likely in Gujarat, north Konkan on Wednesday, ThursdayIMD also said they should nor go to the westcentral and northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal coasts during December 3 to December 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-imd-issues-alert-for-north-andhra-pradesh-odisha-coasts-101638352165558.html
01-12-2021||India||'Sentiments of rhetoric fell': Rahul's veiled dig at Centre over LPG price hike||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched a veiled attack on the Narendra Modi led-Central government on Wednesday over the price of LPG that went up by ₹100. Taking to Twitter, Gandhi said, “As inflation rose, the sentiments of the rhetoric fell," and followed it with hashtags “#LPG” and “#Pricehike”.The national oil marketing companies on Wednesday increased the price of commercial 19kg LPG cylinder by ₹100.50, which pushed up tthe price to ₹2,101 in Delhi. This marked the second-highest price of a 19kg commercial cylinder after 2012-13, when it used to cost around ₹2,200 per cylinder.There has been no increase in the prices of domestic cylinders weighing 14.2kg, 5 kg, 10kg composite or 5kg composite cylinders.Also read | Delhi govt slashes VAT on fuel to 19.4%, petrol gets cheaper by ₹8 per litreMeanwhile, Congress MP Manish Tewari gave an adjournment motion notice in the Lok Sabha to discuss the high rate of inflation during the ongoing winter session of Parliament.“The high rate of inflation has hurt the economically weaker sections of the country. Prices of Oil and vegetables has skyrocketed and fuel is breaking new price records almost every day with petrol going way beyond the 100-rupee mark and LPG cylinders having more than doubled in price since 2014, now cost more than ₹900,” Tiwari said in his letter to secretary-general of lower house."According to data released by RBI, the CPI (combined) inflation rate in oils and fats for October 2021 on a year-on-year basis stands at 33.50 per cent while the same numbers for fuel and light and transport and communication are 14.19 and 10.90 respectively. This high rate of inflation not only breaks the back of the low-income group of the country but also aggravates the already increasing inequality in income distribution. Thus, I want to raise this urgent issue of Inflation in the house," he added.The price of LPG cylinder is revised monthly for all over the states and union territories in India. Last month, prices of 19kg commercial cylinders saw a steep rise of ₹266, increasing the prices to ₹2,000.50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sentiments-of-rhetoric-fell-rahul-s-veiled-dig-at-centre-over-lpg-price-hike-101638352372460.html
01-12-2021||India||India defers resumption of international flights with an eye on Covid-19 variants||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday delayed the resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger airline services to or from India, mentioning that it will notify its decision on the same in due time. In a meeting late last month, the central government had announced that commercial international flights shall resume from December 15, after a long hiatus of more than 20 months in between. That decision, however, came under renewed scrutiny as recently as last Sunday, when the government reviewed the strategy following reports of omicron's emergence.Now, a notice issued by the regulatory body on civil aviation today confirmed that the central government is indeed hitting the brakes on the resumption of commercial international flights and that the relevant authorities are monitoring the global coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, especially in the wake of the emergence of the new omicron variant which is said to be highly contagious and capable of undergoing rapid mutations.“In view of the evolving global scenario with the emergence of new variants of concern, the situation is being watched closely in consultation with all stakeholders, and an appropriate decision indicating the effective date of resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services shall be notified in due course,” read the circular issued by the office of the DGCA on Wednesday.A decision on the resumption of commercial international flights will likely only be taken after the government finds it relatively safer to do so amid the prevailing pandemic situation. However, the international ‘air bubble’ agreements with different countries shall continue to function as they are now, officials have said.Earlier this week, junior aviation minister Gen (retired) VK Singh told the ANI news agency that there has been “tremendous pressure” from the public for the last two months to resume international scheduled flights. However, the omicron variant of the coronavirus has clouded the future of commercial international travel and put both the central and multiple state governments in a state of high alert.From December 1, India has instituted a set of new rules for arriving international passengers, especially from ‘at risk’ countries. Under the new norms, there are separate protocols for travellers arriving from countries enlisted as “at risk” of the omicron variant and nations excluded from the said list. It involves detailed guidelines on testing, sampling, and quarantine of cases detected at the airport, if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-defers-resumption-of-international-flights-with-an-eye-on-covid-19-variants-101638348499452.html
01-12-2021||India||Ahmedabad announces smartphone to lucky winner taking Covid vaccine second dose between Dec 1, 7||The Ahmedabad civic body, as part of its efforts to boost vaccination rate in the city against Covid-19, has announced a lucky draw contest on Wednesday. The winner will take home a smartphone worth ₹60,000.People who will be inoculated with the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, between December 1 and 7, will also eligible to enter the contest, news agency PTI reported citing the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). The winner of the contest would be declared later, the AMC also said.However, this is not the first occasion in which the AMC has announced incentives for people to come forward and get vaccinated against Covid-19. Earlier too, the civic body came up with incentives such as free-of-cost edible oil and a lucky draw for beneficiaries who take the Covid-19 vaccine. The aim was to create awareness about the immunisation programme and also to achieve 100% vaccine coverage, the civic body officials had said. Further, it had also announced additional gifts worth ₹10,000 for 25 people who won the lucky draw.Also read | Omicron variant: Now, Gujarat imposes curbs on passengers from ‘at risk’ nationsThe practice is not confined just to Ahmedabad. Uttarakhand announced a ‘vaccination mela’ back in October and people being jabbed during the period were told that they were eligible for a lucky draw in which they could win prizes like electric scooty, LED TV with sound system and double-door refrigerator in addition to the consolation prizes such as smartphone, tablet, microwave, kitchen appliances, food processor, oven, induction, tracksuit and shoes.Meanwhile, the Gujarat government extended the night curfew in the state’s eight big cities in view of the emergence of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant till December 10. The cities are Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat, Vadodara, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar and Junagadh.On Tuesday, the state saw 40 new Covid-19 cases and no related deaths. So far, 827,475 confirmed infections have been reported along with 10,092 deaths. Active caseload was recorded at 275.The Union health ministry said that 81,097,973 doses of the vaccine, including 45,827,741 first doses and 35,270,232 second doses, have been administered in the state as of 7am on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-announces-smartphone-to-lucky-winner-taking-covid-vaccine-second-dose-between-dec-1-7-101638349850594.html
01-12-2021||India||Indian govt looks to tackle problem of anaemia among pregnant women||The Indian government is working closely with the World Health Organisation (WHO) to tackle the problem of anaemia that affects more than 50% of pregnant women in the country.Dr. Bharati Pravin Pawar, minister of state for health and family welfare, told Parliament on Tuesday, “According to recently released National Family Health Survey V data, 52.2% pregnant women in India, who are in the age group of 15-49 years, are estimated to be anaemic.” She pointed out that the issue is prevalent across the country, with Ladakh, Bihar and Gujarat seeing the highest percentages - 78.1%, 63.1% and 62.6%, respectively. In contrast, Lakshadweep, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh have the lowest percentages - 20.9%, 22.9% and 27.9%, respectively. Also Read: Survey shows increase in cases of anaemia across IndiaDr. Pawar informed Parliament about the measures taken by the Centre to tackle the problem. “In 2018, the government launched the ‘Anaemia Mukt Bharat’ strategy with the aim to reduce anaemia among women, children and adolescents,” she said. The mission includes multiple measures such as testing for anaemia using digital methods, addressing non-nutritional causes of anaemia, and managing cases of severe anaemia in pregnant women through IV iron sucrose treatment or blood transfusion.The data from the survey shows a 1.8% increase in the number of pregnant women reported to be anaemic, in the age group of 15-49 years, between the periods spanning 2015-16 and 2019-2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-govt-looks-to-tackle-problem-of-anaemia-among-pregnant-women-101638350352404.html
01-12-2021||India||‘I will be free soul’: MP woman constable who got nod to change gender||Madhya Pradesh home department permitted a woman constable on Wednesday to undergo gender change through sex reassignment surgery without affecting her service. The permission, a first for the state, was described by the constable as “life changing”. “This permission will change my life. Now, I will be a free soul and will live my life to the fullest,” she said, while talking to state home department’s additional chief secretary Rajesh Rajora.Giving details of her case, ACS Rajora said the constable was diagnosed with Gender Identity Disorder since childhood and had been working “like a man”. The constable Namita (name changed), whose real identity is not being revealed by the HT, said she has been working “fearlessly” in the police department.“I belong to a village and people used to call me ‘Tomboy’ since childhood. I have been selected as a constable through the woman’s quota seven years ago. I am the only earning member of the family. My family was very happy for my fearless work,” she said. She applied to police headquarters for permission to change her sex after a notification of her intention was published in the Gazette of India in 2019. Amita said it was not easy for society to accept her decision.“They always appreciated my way of talking like male but when I told them that I want to go for sex reassignment surgery, they were shocked. They thought it was impossible for a female to change her sex to become a male. They are opposing it but a social organisation helped me in it [going forward with the decision],” Amita said. Also Read: Covid patients to be hospitalised, no isolation at home in BhopalFollowing her application, the police headquarters sought permission from the home department for the employee to undergo gender change without affecting her employment. The home department released the order on Wednesday to the Director General of Police (DGP), permitting Amita (name changed) to change her sex, Rajora said. Amita says the permission means she now has the freedom to end the duality.“I am a man trapped in a woman’s body. From outside, I have changed my lifestyle like a man but I always feel suffocated for befooling myself with just materialistic change, not by physical changes,” she said, giving a glimpse of her battles. Director general of police Vivek Johri said, “It is happening for the first time in MP and we are glad that the woman constable succeeded in changing the course of her life”.
01-12-2021||India||Peninsular India recorded highest rainfall in November since 1901||India’s peninsular region recorded the highest ever rainfall in November since 1901 with Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala and south interior Karnataka receiving 169% excess rainfall last month, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. It was mainly because of five low-pressure systems over the Andaman Sea in November compared to 2.4 on an average in November. The northeast monsoon was also in its active phase last month. The IMD said 645 heavy (64.5 to 115.5 mm), 168 very heavy (115.6 to 204.5 mm), and 11 extremely heavy rainfall events (over 204.5 mm) in November were also the highest over the last five years in the country. It also issued a probabilistic forecast for minimum and maximum temperatures for the winter months-- December to February. IMD said normal to above normal minimum temperatures were likely in parts of northwest India, most parts of south and northeast India, and some areas along the Himalayan foothills. Minimum temperatures are likely to be below normal in parts of the north interior peninsula. There is a higher probability of normal temperatures during winter in Haryana, Punjab, and Delhi. Also Read: Parts of Mumbai, Thane may see heavy rain today, cyclone alert for OdishaMaximum temperatures are likely to be below normal in most parts of the country except some in northwest India and most parts of northeast India, where normal to above normal temperatures are likely, IMD said. The rain in December in the peninsular region is likely to be above normal at around 132% of the long-period average. A cyclone watch has also been issued for the north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts. Depression likely to form over the southeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal by Thursday was expected to intensify into Cyclonic Storm Jawad over the central Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours. Subsequently, it is likely to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coasts around December 4. The maximum impact of the storm is likely to be in north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. Gangetic West Bengal is also expected to record very heavy rain on December 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peninsular-india-recorded-highest-rainfall-in-november-since-1901-101638348552140.html
01-12-2021||India||OPS-EPS duo amends AIADMK bylaws to shut doors on VK Sasikala||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) on Wednesday amended its bylaws to strengthen norms that will help retain the present leadership structure of top two positions held by O Panneerselvam (also known as OPS) and Edappadi K Palaniswami (EPS).The amendments to the bylaws effectively closes the door on VK Sasikala, who has recently started claiming to be the 'general secretary’ of the main opposition party in Tamil Nadu.The amendments effected at the Executive Committee meeting of the AIADMK held in Chennai mandate a 'single vote' by 'primary members' to elect the top leadership, which is the two positions of coordinator and joint coordinator.Also read | AIADMK boots out minority wing secy Anwhar Raajhaa for supporting VK SasikalaWhile the changes introduced in 2017 had bestowed all the powers vested with the top position of general secretary to the then newly created positions of party coordinator (Panneerselvam) and joint coordinator (Palaniswami), the current tweaks further strengthen that top party structure.While the posts are two, there cannot be separate votes, as the twin positions together constitute the party top leadership.According to the AIADMK, Sasiakala is not a member of the party, though she has claimed to be the general secretary. Senior leader D Jayakumar told reporters that only those who have been primary members for five years or more are eligible to vote to elect the party leadership(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opseps-duo-amends-aiadmk-bylaws-to-shut-doors-on-vk-sasikala-101638346872628.html
01-12-2021||India||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay high court grants bail to Sudha Bharadwaj||: The Bombay high court on Wednesday granted default bail to activist Sudha Bharadwaj but rejected the applications of eight co-accused facing terrorism and conspiracy charges for allegedly fomenting violence in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village in 2018.This is the first time that a person accused in the high-profile case has been granted default bail, which can be given if a person is jailed for more than 90 days without a charge sheet. One of the other accused, poet Varavara Rao, is out on medical bail, and a second accused, Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, died in July. All other 14 accused are in custody as under-trial prisoners.Also Read | Elgar Parishad case: Sudha Bharadwaj moves Bombay HC, seeks default bailA division bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar said Bharadwaj filed her default bail application on November 26, 2018 -- before the expiry of the detention period cutoff on January 25, 2019 -- but her application was valid. The charge sheet was filed on February 21, 2019.Also Read | Elgar Parishad case: Furnish records of Sudha Bharadwaj’s default bail plea, HC tells Maharashtra govt“On the touchstone of the guarantee of personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution, in our view, to deprive the applicant Sudha Bharadwaj of the indefeasible right on the premise that the application preferred on 26th November 2018 was premature, would be taking a too technical and formalistic view of the matter,” said the 120-page order.“In our view, all the requisite conditions to release the applicant Sudha Bharadwaj on default bail stood fully satisfied,” the judges added.The bench directed Bharadwaj, currently lodged in the Byculla women’s jail in Mumbai, be produced before the Mumbai special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on December 8 to decide the conditions of her bail and date of release. It rejected NIA’s request for a stay on Bharadwaj’s bail for two weeks.But the court held that Bharadwaj’s co-accused -- Rao, Sudhir Dhawale, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves, Arun Ferreira, Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen and Surendra Gadling -- didn’t qualify for automatic bail.Also Read | No illegality in Elgar Parishad case accused Sudha Bharadwaj’s detention: Maharashtra govt to HCAt least 16 activists, lawyers and authors are facing charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for participating in an alleged Maoist conspiracy to trigger violence on January 1, 2018, in Bhima Koregaon village in Maharashtra’s Pune district. The event, attended mostly by Dalit communities, marked the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war.The activists are accused of delivering inflammatory speeches during an event called Elgar Parishad organised in Pune on December 31, 2017. The NIA took over the probe from the Pune Police on February 12, 2020 after the Central government had ordered the transfer on January 24, 2020. The activists have denied all charges and accused the prosecution of planting evidence.Bharadwaj, arguably the most prominent of the arrested activists, applied for default bail arguing that sessions judge K D Vadane, who granted Pune Police a 90-day extension on November 26, 2018, to file the charge sheet, did not have jurisdiction to do so as only a special NIA court could hear UAPA cases.Her advocate, Yug Chaudhry, cited responses from the high court’s registry under the Right to Information Act to say that Vadane was not competent to hear matters under UAPA. He added that Vadane was not even authorised as a special judge to take cognisance of the Pune Police’s supplementary charge sheet filed on February 21, 2019.Chaudhry cited a Supreme Court judgement that held only special courts can hear cases under the UAPA.The other applications argued that additional sessions judges of the Pune sessions court had not been designated as special judges and therefore, could not have taken cognisance of their case registered under UAPA.But the high court found that the other petitions were not filed before the charge sheet or supplementary charge sheet were submitted, and therefore couldn’t be allowed.“We have seen that where the accused fails to apply for default bail when the right accrues to him and subsequently a chargesheet is filed before the magistrate, the right to default bail would get extinguished as it cannot be said that the accused ‘availed of’ his right to be released on default bail,” said the court orderBharadwaj was first placed under house arrest on August 28, 2018. She was taken into custody on October 27, 2018 by Pune police. On November 22, 2018, Pune Police sought an extension for filing the chargesheet and Bharadwaj subsequently filed a plea seeking default bail on the ground that the 90-day period of her custody was over. On November 26, 2018, judge Vadane granted an additional 90 days to Pune Police to file their chargesheet.“A crucial condition of ‘availing of’ the right so as to cement it as an indefeasible right, has not been fulfilled and the right stood extinguished by the filing of the charge-sheet on 21st February 2019. Failure to take cognizance or defect in the jurisdiction in taking cognizance, once the charge sheet was laid, does not entail the consequence of default bail,” the court held.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who represented the state, opposed Chaudhry’s argument saying Bharadwaj was booked under UAPA but as per the NIA Act, hearings were to be held before a special judge only during the trial and not during pre-trial proceedings. Kumbhakoni also argued that special judges were required only when the NIA probed a case. He added as the NIA took over the probe after the Centre ordered its transfer from Pune Police on January 24, 2020, there were no lapses in Vadane’s November 2018 order.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who appeared for NIA, opposed Bharadwaj’s bail arguing the extension did not prejudice her rights.A default bail application under section 167 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) can be filed when an investigating agency does not file a charge sheet within 90 days of arresting an accused. The 90-day period can be extended by a court if it feels that the prosecution deserves more time. But the HC found that the sessions judge was not authorised to do so under law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-grants-bail-to-sudha-bharadwaj-101638343691724.html
01-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: ‘Pray Gandhi gives them wisdom,’ says Joshi in Parliament and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Parliament: Pray Gandhi gives them wisdom, says Joshi as suspended MPs continue stirUnion minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi said on Wednesday he would pray that Mahatma Gandhi gave wisdom to the suspended Rajya Sabha MPs who were staging a protest near his statue on Parliament premises. Read morePetrol price in Delhi likely to come downThe petrol price in the Capital is likely to come down as the Delhi government is planning to reduce VAT on it. Read more‘No record of farmers’ death during protests’: Govt informs ParliamentThe government has no record of the farmers who had died during the year-long farmers’ protests and hence there was no question of providing compensation to their families, the Union government informed Parliament on Wednesday. Read moreChill in hills: Snow, rain forecast in Himachal Pradesh till December 4The western disturbance active over the region will bring rain and snow in Himachal Pradesh till December 4. Read moreTwinkle Khanna shares how she and Akshay Kumar divide the bills, reveals she pays for Aarav-Nitara’s educationTwinkle Khanna opened up about how she and her husband Akshay Kumar divide expenses between themselves. Read more‘Not like he has not been among the runs in 1-2 Tests': Karthik wants India senior to be dropped, says there's 'no harm'Indian cricketer Dinesh Karthik believes there will be no harm in dropping Ajinkya Rahane for the second India-New Zealand Test in Mumbai as there is no way Shreyas Iyer can be dropped after his dream debut in Test and that a break can also work in favour of the stand-in captain. Read moreKatrina Kaif's ₹2 lakh pink saree for Dubai event is made for wedding cocktails, brides-to-be take notesActor Katrina Kaif, rumoured to be tying knot with Vicky Kaushal in December, recently attended an event in Expo 2020 Dubai. The star took to Instagram today to share photos of herself at the occasion, and she looks absolutely divine in them. Details hereKia Carens RV set for unveil this month. The name, target audience explainedWhile the name has been doing the rounds for quite some time now, Kia India on Wednesday confirmed that its next offering for the country will indeed be called Kia Carens. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-petrol-price-in-delhi-likely-to-come-down-101638342122396.html
01-12-2021||India||‘New anti-trafficking law sans clarity on AHTUs will be toothless’||The quality and outcome of investigations of human trafficking cases done by specialised Anti Human Trafficking Units (AHTUs) are starkly different from those done by the local police stations. While the investigation by the local police is mostly restricted to the jurisdiction of the police station, AHTU investigations spread across both source and destination states, linking the chain of events and crimes with the traffickers. leading to a robust investigation. It is trite law that in a case of circumstantial evidence, unless the chain of circumstance is complete, conviction cannot be based on the same. The said chain cannot be said to be complete if no investigation happens at all the seats of crime. However, unfortunately, the AHTUs across the country are running on the basis of state notifications. There is no statutory support regarding these specialised units. The Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 does not mention anything about AHTUs, neither does Section 370 IPC. AHTUs get their power from what we call ‘subordinate legislation’, namely the executive notifications. Unless these bodies get statutory recognition and support their roles, responsibilities and accountability will remain a grey area. Under the Code of Criminal Procedures, there are specific provisions dealing with the power and functioning of the police. Similarly, the power and functioning of the AHTUs needs to be clarified in the legislation meant to combat human trafficking. Without that, these units will lose its teeth and or will remain unempowered to take action against the organised crime of trafficking.Research on the functionality of AHTUs, conducted in 2019, shows that the progress in creating and legitimising AHTUs across the country has not been a priority with a majority of them having remained notional offices with no dedicated officers and nominal budgets for infrastructure and operational costs coming from the central government, often diverted and used for other matters than what they were meant for. However, the issue of slack in formalising AHTUs has not been drawn into concern by any agency, including anti trafficking NGOs which, in turn, to strengthen the anti-trafficking response. Evidence from several cases in West Bengal show that even when local police stations conducting investigation of trafficking cases are urged to transfer the cases to AHTUs, they are reluctant. This is despite the direction by the Calcutta high court in the case of “Sangita Sahu” (2018) that all cases of human trafficking must be sent to thr AHTU within 24 hours of its registration.  Writ petitions had to be filed in several cases to get the investigation transferred to the AHTUs. One speculates that this is a systemic resistance to avoid having to create and empower AHTUs in every district of the country as has been suggested by the Union ministry of home affairs multiple times to the state governments. Thus, AHTUs need a legislative mandate. That the crime of human trafficking is required to be responded with organised law enforcement is something even the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act of 1956 had envisioned and therefore directed that Special Police Officers be appointed in every state to investigate crimes of human trafficking with special powers. However, this has been neglected then. In 2006, the MHA passed a directive to state government to constitute AHTUs. In most states there are a handful of AHTUs and a number of notional AHTUs without any kind of notification or appointment of officials.  According to a recent study by Sanjog, only 27% of AHTUs are functional and 51% being notified with all the powers and resources. The study based on RTI responses from 22 states and UTs also revealed that 225 AHTUs are set up only on paper with no centralised process to notify them.The draft Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021, for which the women and child development ministry had asked for feedback in July, mentioned that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) will be responsible for investigation, prosecution and coordination in cases of trafficking in persons. Unfortunately, it does not clarify the role, functioning and accountability of AHTUs. If the trafficking Bill do not define the role and functions of the AHTU and the relationship between AHTU and NIA is not clarified, and if all of this are kept under the state model rule as being speculated, this would be completely arbitrary because state rules cannot go beyond the statute. So, if the legislation comes in without clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the AHTU, it would lead to local police stations continuing to register cases and not sending those to AHTU, and the investigation will be perfunctory as they do not have either human or financial resource to conduct interstate investigation nor are they well equipped to coordinate with other state agencies. Therefore, the conviction rate will remain low and trafficking will continue in its full force.  According to the NCRB data, the conviction rate in human trafficking cases in 2020 was 10.6 per cent which might be due to the lack of easy transportation due to the pandemic. It was 29.4% in 2018 and 22% in 2019.The local police will continue to conduct arbitrary raids and rescues in brothels and will neglect cases of labour trafficking cases because they will only act on complains received. However, the AHTU has the ability and recourses to gather intelligence and identify trafficking victims and not criminalise them. If the proposed trafficking law does not elaborate on the functions of AHTU, as a lawyer I find it is going to be a real disappointment.(Kaushik Gupta is an advocate at Calcutta high court who provides legal counsel to more than 75 survivors of human trafficking in India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-anti-trafficking-law-sans-clarity-on-ahtus-will-be-of-no-use-101638340237258.html
01-12-2021||India||Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chips will power Android flagship phones in 2022||Android flagship phones will get a new top-of-the-line processor next year. Qualcomm has announced the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 will be available to phone makers sometime in the next few weeks, much ahead of the next line of flagship phone launches. This will succeed the Snapdragon 888 chip and see Qualcomm ditch the triple-digit naming scheme. The headline improvements which the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chips usher in include the usual suspects—a new mobile camera platform including updates to the image signal processing, new 5G modem and support for Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E standards, improvements to the artificial intelligence (AI) engine, lossless audio support on wireless streaming, a new Adreno GPU for graphics as well as gaming, and a dedicated platform for data security, a first for a Snapdragon chip. If you’re looking for the core specs (which you must be), you’ll be impressed. The Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chips introduce a new architecture for the 8-core Kryo CPU. This will have a primary core that will clock up to 3GHz for performance tasks, three cores that will clock up to 2.5GHz and four cores that will be tuned for efficiency and for apps which don’t need any more processing power (these will clock at 1.8GHz). The Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chips are 4-nanometer, which is a step forward from the 5-namometer process used in the Snapdragon 888. Also Read: Nokia T20 can stop the budget Android tablet market from drifting aimlesslyQualcomm confirms that phone makers have already confirmed flagship phones with the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chips. These include OnePlus, OPPO, iQoo, Realme, Redmi, Sony Corporation, Vivo, Xiaomi, Sharp, Motorola, Black Shark, Honor and ZTE. Qualcomm indicates the performance benefit will be as much as 20 percent compared with the predecessor and will also be 30 percent more power efficient. The Adreno GPU is also 30 percent faster with rendering and up to 25 percent more battery efficient.“As the world’s most advanced mobile platform, Snapdragon is synonymous with premium Android experiences and the new Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 sets the standard for the next generation of flagship mobile devices,” said Alex Katouzian, senior vice president and general manager of mobile, compute, and infrastructure, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. It is again a triple ISP (image signal processor) system in place. The Qualcomm Spectra Image Signal Processor will support recording of 8K videos with HDR 10+ format. This has an 18-bit ISP which Qualcomm says can process 4,000 times more data than the 14-bit Spectra ISP in the Snapdragon 888. These camera systems, when maxed out, can shoot at up to 3.2 gigapixels per second—that’ll help in processing data from higher-spec cameras at the same time, something which is now common in triple-camera systems in phones.
01-12-2021||India||Delhi govt slashes VAT on fuel to 19.4%, petrol gets cheaper by ₹8 per litre||The Delhi government on Wednesday slashed the value added tax (VAT) to fuel price from 30% to 19.40%, making petrol cheaper by ₹8 per litre in the national capital.The decision was taken during a Cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier in the day.Taking to Twitter, soon after announcing the decision, Kejriwal said once implemented the fuel price would become cheaper in Delhi as compared to other cities in the national capital region.दिल्ली में आज हमने पेट्रोल काफ़ी सस्ता कर दिया। VAT की दर 30% से घटाकर 19.4% कर दी। NCR के अन्य शहरों के मुक़ाबले दिल्ली में पेट्रोल और डीज़ल सस्ता हो गया। मैं उम्मीद करता हूँ कि इस कदम से दिल्ली के लोगों को महंगाई से राहत मिलेगी।The Centre cut excise duty on petrol by ₹5 per litre and ₹10 per litre on diesel to bring down the retail prices across the country on the eve of Diwali last month.Following the Centre's surprise move, several states and Union territories, especially those governed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and allies, also followed suit. The price of fuel remained unchanged for the 28th straight day on Wednesday across the country, following the Centre's decision. Before the Delhi government's decision to slash VAT on fuel price, petrol fetched ₹103.97 a litre while diesel was being sold for ₹86.67 per litre earlier in the day.On the day, the rates of petrol and diesel varied across several cities. While petrol cost ₹95.51 a litre in neighbouring Noida, in Gurugram it fetched ₹95.9 for each litre, ₹94.23 in Chandigarh, ₹95.28 in Lucknow and ₹107.06 in Jaipur. The price of petrol in other metro cities also remained above the 100-mark. While in Mumbai it cost the highest at ₹109.98 a litre, in Kolkata it came for ₹104.67, while in Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad it cost ₹101.4, ₹100.58 and ₹108.2, respectively.Similarly, diesel fetched ₹87.01 a litre in Noida while it cost ₹87.11 in neighbouring Gurugram. In Chandigarh, diesel cost ₹80.9 for each litre, ₹86.8 in Lucknow and ₹90.7 in Jaipur. Among the metros, diesel came for ₹94.14 in Mumbai, ₹89.79 in Kolkata, ₹91.43 in Chennai while in Bengaluru and Hyderabad it cost ₹85.01 and ₹94.62, respectively.Government-run oil refiners such as Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum, and Hindustan Petroleum revise the fuel rates on a daily basis, by taking into account the crude oil prices in the international markets, and the rupee-dollar exchange rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-slashes-vat-to-19-40-petrol-gets-cheaper-by-rs-8-per-litre-101638341169010.html
01-12-2021||India||Parliament: Pray Gandhi gives them wisdom, says Joshi as suspended MPs continue stir||Union minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi said on Wednesday he would pray that Mahatma Gandhi gave wisdom to the suspended Rajya Sabha MPs who were staging a protest near his statue on Parliament premises.“If the 12 suspended members of the Rajya Sabha want to come to the House, then they should express remorse. Let them sit on dharna… I pray Mahatma Gandhi gives them wisdom,” Joshi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier, Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, expressing his dismay at the conduct of Opposition leaders inside the House, said the suspended MPs had shown no remorse, and there was no question of revoking their suspension.As the din continued for the third day of the winter session of Parliament, followed by an adjournment, Naidu ordered that nothing that the Opposition MPs say would go on record but said their conduct in the Well of the House should be shown to the people of the country.Oppn MPs protest near Gandhi statue over suspension of 12 RS membersRajya Sabha proceedings were on Wednesday adjourned for almost an hour as placard-carrying opposition MPs trooped into the well of the House and shouted slogans against the suspension of 12 MPs for their "unruly" behaviour.Among those suspended six MPs MPs are from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and CPM.The12 opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Monday for the entire Winter session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August, even as the Opposition termed the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-pray-gandhi-gives-them-wisdom-says-union-minister-as-mps-protest-101638340525331.html
01-12-2021||India||‘No record of farmers’ death during protests’: Govt informs Parliament, says no plans for compensation||The government has no record of the farmers who had died during the year-long farmers’ protests and hence there was no question of providing compensation to their families, the Union government informed Parliament on Wednesday.“The ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise,” the Union ministry of agriculture told the House in reply to a question asking if the Centre intends to provide financial assistance to the families of those who died during the protests."The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer's Welfare has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise,": Government in Parliament to the question on whether it proposes to provide financial assistance to the kin of farmers who died during the agitation'Leaders from the Opposition and the protesting farmer unions have said that as many as 700 farmers lost their lives during the demonstrations at Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s three contentious laws, repealed by the government on Monday after passing the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021. The Opposition had criticised the Centre for passing the bill in both houses without any discussion.Meanwhile, the government’s statement on having no record of data about the farmers’ death is also likely to be criticised by the opposition.Earlier on Tuesday, Congress leader Manish Tewari moved an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha requesting “to direct the government to create a record of farmers who lost their lives during farm laws protest and give compensation to their families” and called it a matter of “urgent importance” according to a report by ANI.“During the course of the agitation, many farmers lost their lives to the harsh weather, alleged use of force by the state and violent attacks on farmers lives notably the incident that happened in Lakhimpur Kheri where farmers were allegedly run over by fast moving vehicles,” he said in his letter to the Secretary-General of the Lower House. “The government should create a record of farmers who lost their lives protesting the farm laws and give compensation to their families. Sir, I wish to raise this grave matter of disregard of lives of farmers by the government,” he added. He had also moved a similar adjournment motion on Monday.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of several farmer unions spearheading the protests, is also demanding compensation for farmers who died during the protests, along with a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-record-of-farmers-death-during-protests-govt-informs-parliament-says-no-compensation-101638339553521.html
01-12-2021||India||Bombay HC says activist Sudha Bharadwaj entitled to default bail in Elgar Parishad case||The Bombay high court on Wednesday allowed an application of default bail to activist and Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bharadwaj, who has been kept in Byculla women’s prison, and directed her to approach a special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the city for bail.A bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar court said the lawyer-activist is entitled to default bail in the case and directed the special court to decide on bail conditions.However, the HC rejected the default bail pleas of the other eight co-accused, including P Varavara Rao, Sudhir Dhawale, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves, Arun Ferreira, Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen and Surendra Gadling.Bharadwaj had applied for default bail on the grounds that the sessions judge of Pune court who had passed the order extending the time for Pune Police to file the chargesheet by 90 days did not have jurisdiction to hear the application, while a special NIA court was already present to hear cases of accused booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).The court directed Bharadwaj to approach the special NIA court by December 8 so that it may decide on her release and bail conditions.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-says-sudha-bharadwaj-entitled-to-default-bail-in-elgar-parishad-case-101638336853774.html
01-12-2021||India||151 inmates died in police custody this year: Govt||As many as 151 inmates have died in police custody this year, the union home ministry told Parliament on Tuesday in response to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member Varun Gandhi’s question. Gandhi sought a state-wise division of custodial deaths.The ministry cited the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) data and added Maharashtra reported 26 such deaths, the highest among the states. At least 13 states did not register any custodial deaths, it added.A recent National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report identified suicides, illness, injuries sustained before and during police custody, attempts to escape from custody among the causes of deaths in custody.The ministry said police and public order are state subjects and added that because of this, the Centre does not intervene directly in the matters of custodial deaths.“It is primarily the responsibility of the State Government concerned to appropriately prevent and ensure non-occurrence of police atrocities and protect the human rights of the citizens,” the ministry said.In response to BJP member Jagdambika Pal’s separate question, the ministry said there has not been an increase in the number of custodial violence cases. It said that during the last three years, 19 cases of prison violence have been registered with NHRC. No death resulted from such violence, it added.Also Read: Main accused in student leader’s killing dies in accident, say policeThere is a mismatch in the data provided in the two responses and in the NCRB findings. NCRB reported 76 deaths in police custody in 2020 compared to 85 in 2019.“Information on deaths in police custody in India is officially reported by the NHRC and the NCRB. It is extremely unfortunate that even for something as grave and unambiguous as a police custody death, there has always been a mismatch in the data reported by both these institutions,” said Raja Bagga, senior researcher, Police Reform Programme, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative.He added that in 2019 and 2020, according to the NCRB reports, police custody deaths were 85 and 76 whereas NHRC’s data for the same years showed 117 and at least 83 deaths. “One of the possible reasons for this is the absence of any standard definition and categorisation of police custody deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/151-inmates-have-died-in-police-custody-in-2021-govt-101638336939995.html
01-12-2021||India||Parliament: Oppn MPs protest near Gandhi statue over suspension of 12 RS members||Leaders of Opposition parties on Wednesday staged a protest beneath the Mahatma Gandhi statue on the Parliament premises seeking revocation of suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members.Among the MPs who participated in the agitation were Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Mallikarjun Kharge, Trinamool Congress’ Sougata Roy and Mohua Moitra and Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi.“We are demanding the revocation of suspension of 12 Opposition members of the Rajya Sabha. We will hold a meeting and decide the future course of action,” Kharge said.The 12 MPs from the opposition parties were suspended from the remainder of Parliament's winter session for allegedly creating ruckus on the last day of the monsoon session.The suspension came after Union minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi on Monday wrote to Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Vice President, over the alleged violence on the last day of the monsoon session and sought action for the ‘indiscipline’.The suspended MPs include six from the Congress -- Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, R Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh -- TMC’s Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai of the Shiv Sena and CPM’s Elamaram Kareem and Binoy Viswam of the CPI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-oppn-mps-protest-near-gandhi-statue-over-suspension-of-12-rs-members-101638335755078.html
01-12-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh exam paper leak: Top official arrested||Uttar Pradesh Police’s Special Task Force (STF) on Wednesday arrested Sanjay Kumar Upadhyay, the suspended secretary of Exam Regulatory Authority, in connection with the teachers’ eligibility test question papers leak. As many as 37 people have been arrested in connection with the leak over the last four days.Additional director general (STF) Amitabh Yash said Upadhyaya was arrested after hours of questioning related to the leak. Rai Anoop Prasad, the director of a Delhi-based printing press, was earlier arrested on Tuesday over his alleged involvement in the matter.Another STF officer said Prasad told investigators that Upadhyay issued an order to his company on October 26 for printing the question papers. He added the two were found to have allegedly violated the secrecy protocol while printing the papers.Also Read: Main accused in student leader’s killing dies in accident, say policeUpadhyay was on Tuesday suspended for being allegedly negligent in ensuring smooth and fair conduct of the test and failing to maintain confidentiality.The state-level exam is conducted once a year for the recruitment of primary and upper primary school teachers.The state government cancelled the test on Sunday after the leak came to light following the arrest of 29 people from five districts and recovery of question papers from some of them on Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-exam-paper-leak-top-official-arrested-101638334839241.html
01-12-2021||India||Main accused in student leader’s killing dies in accident, say police||The main accused in a student leader’s lynching in Assam’s Jorhat district on Monday was killed when he jumped off a police van and was hit by an escort vehicle in the early hours of Wednesday, a police officer said.Jorhat police superintendent Ankur Jain said during interrogation, Niraj Das, a criminal with a record of drug trafficking who was among the 13 people arrested for beating All Assam Students Union office-bearer Animesh Bhuyan to death, told them about a consignment drugs. “Our team took him to recover it, but when the vehicle reached an empty stretch of road on the outskirts of Jorhat, he managed to jump out of the moving vehicle. The incident happened around 2:10 am.” Jain added the escort vehicle hit Das. “Our driver tried to avoid hitting him but could not. The driver of the vehicle lost control and hit a nearby wall injuring three policemen. An injured Das was rushed to the Jorhat Medical College Hospital where he was declared brought dead.”Police said Das fought with policemen accompanying him before jumping off.Also Read: Northeast witnessed 187 insurgency-related incidents till Nov 15, Lok Sabha toldDas was alleged to have led a mob that assaulted Bhuyan and two others over suspicion of hitting the former’s father, Mohan Das, who was riding a scooter, with their vehicle. Police found that Mohan Das lost his balance and fell down. But when the three tried to help, he claimed they hit his scooter. The mob soon gathered at the spot and assaulted the three. A video of the incident, which went viral, showed a group of men including Niraj Das assaulting Bhuyan. A police team rushed to the spot and rushed Bhuyan to the hospital where he was declared dead.On Tuesday, police produced 12 of the 13 accused in a local court, which sent seven of them in police custody for five days. The remaining were sent in judicial custody. Niraj Das was not produced in court on Tuesday.. 
01-12-2021||India||61 elephants died due to train hits between 2016 and 2019: CAG report||A Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) audit analysis report presented in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday said that at least 61 elephants had died between 2016 and 2019 across the country due to Indian Railway’s deficiency in providing elephant passage corridors and enforcement of precautionary measures like speed restrictions.The audit also pointed out that the forest department along with the railways had not prioritised construction of underpass/ overpass across railway tracks to facilitate elephant movement. The report also mentioned that several elephant corridor signage boards were incorrectly positioned, defeating their very purpose of forewarning loco drivers.The report said that a committee of senior officials of ministry of railways (MoR) and the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) was constituted in January 2013 to evolve an action plan for eliminating instances of elephant mortalities due to train hits. However, the elephants continued to die on railway tracks. According to the CAG report, from 2016-17 to 2018-19, 61 elephants died due to collisions with trains including 37 deaths in the identified passages and 24 deaths outside it. The report stated that precautionary measures like speed restrictions were not being enforced in the notified elephant passages. Also Read: Farmer killed by big cat in Dudhwa buffer zone“There was no uniformity in dimension, height, colour and content of the elephant signage boards in Indian Railways. They were also placed in incorrect position defeating their purpose of forewarning the drivers. Honey bee sound devices were not installed in some of the zonal railways,” the report added. The report pointed out that the advisories for imposition of 50 kmph speed restriction in identified elephant passages were not being “scrupulously” followed by the zonal railways. “The partial implementation of speed restrictions was causing death of elephants,” the report read. It also said that the periodical review of vegetation clearance was not being conducted by railways and the forest officials jointly. Moreover, deployment of elephant trackers by forest departments in elephant passages and their communication with railway authorities was not found effective in the audit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/61-elephant-deaths-between-2016-19-in-train-hits-cag-report-101638333759656.html
01-12-2021||India||India reports 8,954 new Covid-19 cases, active cases below 100,000-mark after 547 days||With 8,954 new Covid-19 cases reported across the country on Wednesday, India witnessed a slight uptick in the daily infection tally, a day after it reported 6,990 cases on Tuesday. As many as 267 people lost their lives to the viral infection in the past 24 hours, which is also higher than the 190 casualties reported on Tuesday. The total confirmed infections reached 34,596,776 while the death toll stood at 469,247.#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive𝐂𝐎𝐕𝐈𝐃 𝐅𝐋𝐀𝐒𝐇https://t.co/poZlRihr3q pic.twitter.com/Xu5UOLtZAkThe active caseload fell below the 100,000-mark after 547 days, the Union health ministry said. It declined by 1,520 cases and stood at 99,023, the data showed. “Active cases account for less than 1% of total cases, currently at 0.29%; Lowest since March 2020,” the ministry said in a statement.Also read | Omicron: New curbs in place for arrivals from ‘at-risk’ nations at Delhi, Mumbai airportsThe daily recoveries continued to remain higher than daily infections. Data updated on Wednesday showed 10,207 people were discharged from hospitals during the previous 24 hours as the total recoveries reached 34,028,506 with a recovery rate of 98.36%, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said.Medical workers in the country tested 1,108,467 samples for the disease in the last 24 hours as the cumulative number of samples tested reached  642,412,315, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) said. As far as vaccinations are concerned, the cumulative number of doses administered under the country’s vaccination drive exceeded the 1.24 billion-mark. “With the administration of 80,98,716vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 124.10 Cr (1,24,10,86,850) as per provisional reports till 7 am today,” the ministry said in a statement. Also, more than 241 million vaccine doses are remaining unutilised with states and Union territories.The Union government’s new guidelines governing the arrival of international passengers in the country, in light of the new Omicron variant, came into effect on the day. The Centre has also asked states and UTs to enhance testing against the disease and strengthen their testing infrastructure to better monitor the transmission of the new variant in the country. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday informed the Rajya Sabha that no cases of the new variant was detected in India as of November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-8-954-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-below-100-000-mark-after-547-days-101638332841166.html
01-12-2021||India||RT-PCR, home quarantine: India revises rules for int’l arrivals over Omicron concerns||Starting Wednesday, a new set of rules will come into effect for international travellers arriving in the country. The rules have been revised in view of the rising concerns over the emergence of the new coronavirus variant, named 'Omicron', that has been termed as a "variant of concern" by the World Health Organisation (WHO).Among the latest guidelines, the Union health ministry has mandated RT-PCR test passengers arriving from ‘at-risk’ nations’.According to the health ministry, the countries designated as "at-risk" are the European countries, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Here are the key points to know:> According to the new guidelines, passengers arriving in India are required to submit the self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha Portal before the scheduled travel. They are also required to submit the last 14 days travel details.> The guidelines also mandated uploading of negative RT-PCR test reports on the Air Suvidha portal before the journey. The test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey.> Travellers from 'countries at-risk' will need to take the Covid-19 test post-arrival. They will be then asked to wait at the airport premise until the result comes.> In case of a negative test result, the traveller will be asked to home-quarantine for seven days as a precautionary measure. They will have to take a retest on eighth day and if negative, further self-monitor for the next seven days.> In case of a positive test result, the samples will be sent for genomic testing at the INSACOG laboratory network. Meanwhile, the passenger will be taken to a separate isolation facility and will be treated as per the protocol laid down by the health ministry.> A subsection (5 percent of the total flight passengers) shall undergo post-arrival testing at random at the airport on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-home-quarantine-india-revises-rules-for-int-l-arrivals-over-omicron-concerns-101638332784369.html
01-12-2021||India||Two terrorists killed during encounter in Kashmir's Pulwama||At least two terrorists were killed during an encounter that broke out with security forces in Jammu & Kashmir's Pulwama district on Wednesday morning, police officials familiar with the development said.Inspector general of police in Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI that a top JeM commander, Yasir Parray, and a foreign terrorist, identified as Furqan, were among those killed during the gunbattle that began in early hours at Qasba Yar area of Pulwama.Kumar said Parray was an IED expert and was allegedly involved in several terrorism-related activities in the Union territory. #PulwamaEncounterUpdate: 02 #terrorists killed. Identification & affliation being ascertained. #Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/RCe0s345AfA search operation was underway.Last month, the Central Reserve Police Force nabbed a Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist, Sarwir Ahmed Mir, from Pulwama's Mirgund area following a search operation and seized explosives from him.The terror-related incidents have seen a significant surge in the Valley in the past few months. On Tuesday, Union minister of state for home affiars Nityanand Rai told the Lok Sabha that at least 40 civilians have been killed and 72 sustained injuries in terror-related incidents in Jammu & Kashmir till November 15 this year. During the similar period, as many as 35 security personnel were also killed and 86 injured.(The is a developing story and will be updated with further details)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorists-killed-during-encounter-in-kashmir-s-pulwama-101638331705456.html
01-12-2021||India||Stalled bills to be tabled in Parliament today||The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulations) Bill has been rescheduled for introduction in Parliament on Wednesday after Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya was unable to table it on Monday and Tuesday.The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulations) Bill has been rescheduled for introduction in Parliament on Wednesday after Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya was unable to table it on Monday and Tuesday.|#+|The proposed law seeks to regulate assisted reproductive technology services. It was on the agenda on the first day of the Winter Session on Monday, but could not be presented amid Opposition protests. The Opposition parties on Tuesday staged a walkout from both Houses of Parliament in protest against the suspension of 12 lawmakers from the Rajya Sabha.Also Read | Parliament winter session: Suspended MPs should apologise, says GoyalThe Dam Safety Bill has also been on the agenda since Monday but could be discussed in the Rajya Sabha. It seeks to provide for the surveillance, inspection, operation, and maintenance of dams across the country. The bill was passed in Lok Sabha in 2019 and is still pending in Rajya Sabha.Reports of committees including those related to information technology, science, and climate change are expected to be tabled in Parliament on Wednesday. Nineteen ministries are scheduled to take up questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalled-bills-to-be-tabled-in-parliament-today-101638331839095.html
01-12-2021||India||Trespassers cannot object to acceptance of nomination: HC||Trespassers cannot object to the acceptance of nomination of a candidate at the time of scrutiny of nominations, the Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench said on Monday. The court said this while dismissing Akola councillor Parag Kamble’s plea questioning the acceptance of nomination of Bharatiya Janata Party’s Vasant Khandelwal for Maharashtra legislative council.“If the law has given no right to a person like the petitioner to attend the scrutiny of nomination forms, there would be no question of letting such person inside the scrutiny room and then allowing him to raise an objection,” said a division bench of justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Pansare. “If such unauthorised persons or the trespassers are allowed in, sanctity and purity of election process may possibly be endangered.”The bench cited the Representation of People Act and Election Manual and added only the candidate, election agent, proposer, and one more person is allowed to enter the scrutiny room when nomination forms of candidates are scrutinised.Also Read | Assam lynching: Main accused killed in road accident while trying to flee copsThe court said Kamble was not one such authorised person to enter the scrutiny room and he managed to get entry inside the scrutiny room and raised objection on the sheer strength of his heckling.“The starting point of the petitioner (his entry in the scrutiny room itself) in the whole process of making an exception to acceptance of nomination form of respondent No 3 was thus founded upon a violation of law,” said the bench and accepted the preliminary objection to the petition raised on behalf of Khandelwal that Kamble had no authority to raise an objection to his nomination and file the petition.Kamble moved the high court contending that the acceptance of Khandelwal’s nomination form was based upon suppression of facts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trespassers-cannot-object-to-acceptance-of-nomination-hc-101638331359073.html
01-12-2021||India||40 million fully vaccinated against Covid-19 in Maharashtra; cases dip by 57.51%||Maharashtra has fully vaccinated 40 million residents out of the state’s 91.44 million eligible population by administering 114,292,368 doses of anti Covid-19 vaccines including double doses to around 40,004,550 residents by Tuesday evening, authorities said. Maharashtra is currently only behind Uttar Pradesh (UP) which has fully vaccinated 50,320,917 residents till Tuesday, as per official data. Maharashtra achieved full vaccination of 10 million residents on July 26 and touched the 20 million mark in less than two months’ time on September 17 and the 30 million target was achieved on October 26. The state has also reported a drop in the number of Covid-19 cases by 57.51 % with 25,588 infections recorded in November, compared to 60,222 in October. On Tuesday, Maharashtra recorded 678 Covid-19 cases and 35 related deaths taking the state’s tally of coronavirus infections to 6,635,658 and the death toll to 140,997. Mumbai saw 180 new cases with two deaths. 91,277 tests to detect Covid-19 were done on Tuesday across the state, which currently has a positivity rate of 0.74%. Also Watch | Omicron scare: India’s new rules for international travellers starting December There are currently 7,555 active Covid patients across the state including 2,029 patients in Mumbai, followed by 1,912 and 1,085 cases in Pune and Thane respectively. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “We are in control of the virus.” He, however, added that the emergence of the Omicron variant means there is need to take fresh guard. “We are not letting our guards down,” he added. Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director at Masina Hospital at Byculla, Mumbai, said, “Our immunisation programme has played a major role in fighting the virus. Despite crowding during the festivals, we did not witness any surge in cases, as residents may have gradually developed herd immunity.” 
01-12-2021||India||Assam lynching: Main accused killed in road accident while trying to flee cops||The main accused in the lynching of a student leader in Assam was killed on Tuesday night in a road accident. Niraj Das alias ‘Kola Lora’, died while in a bid to escape police custody.Das reportedly jumped out of the police car in which he was being transported and was hit by another police vehicle in the back while attempting to flee. He later succumbed to his injuries.Local reports said three police personnel were also injured in the incident.As many as 13 people have been arrested so far in connection with the lynching of the All Assam Students' Union (AASU) leader Animesh Bhuyan in which two others were injured on Monday.Twelve of the accused arrested in the case were manhandled by an angry crowd on Tuesday in front of a local court, where they were to be presented. All the accused were arrested within hours as the Jorhat Bar Association decided not to fight for any of the accused persons during the trial.Meanwhile, the main culprit, Neeraj Das, arrested on Tuesday morning, was to be produced before the court on Wednesday. According to officials, he was a known criminal with past record of drug trafficking.A huge number of people had gathered outside the chief judicial magistrate's court, shouting slogans and demanding justice for the 28-year-old AASU leader killed in the gruesome act on Monday. The crowd kept demanding that the police hand over the accused to them, instead of presenting them before the court.Bhuyan was beaten to death while two others accompanying him were seriously injured by a group of people following a heated argument over an accident in Jorhat city on Monday.Scores of onlookers witnessed the act but did nothing to stop it and were instead busy filming the incident on their mobile phones.Bhuyan was declared dead when taken to the hospital. He was the education secretary of Brahmaputra Regional Committee of AASU's Golaghat district unit.One of his companions was a local reporter, Mridusmanta Baruah, and the other was Pranay Dutta, both AASU members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-lynching-main-accused-killed-in-road-accident-while-trying-to-flee-cops-101638327587640.html
01-12-2021||India||Two intense systems likely to bring widespread rain and thunderstorms||Two intense weather systems are likely to bring widespread rain to west, northwest and parts of the east coast during the next 5 days according to India Meteorological Department. A low pressure area is likely to form over east central Arabian sea off Maharashtra coast on Wednesday even as a trough (line of low pressure) at mean sea level is running from the cyclonic circulation over Arabian Sea to the north Maharashtra coast. A western disturbance is lying as a trough which is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region and northwestern plains on Thursday and Friday. Under the influence of these systems, widespread rain/thunderstorm with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall, accompanied with thunderstorms with lightning at isolated places, is likely over Gujarat, north Madhya Maharashtra and north Konkan on December 1 and isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Gujarat region and north Madhya Maharashtra on December 2. Isolated to scattered rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm/lightning is likely over West Madhya Pradesh, East Rajasthan, Haryana, West Uttar Pradesh on Thursday and Friday with maximum activity on Thursday, the IMD bulletin said. Also Read | Cyclone Jawad may form on Friday: IMDScattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall accompanied with isolated thunderstorm/lightning is likely over Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh during Thursday and Friday with maximum activity on Thursday. A low pressure area is lying over central parts of Andaman Sea & neighbourhood. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over south east & adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal on Thursday and intensify into a cyclonic storm, Jawad, over central parts of the Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours. Subsequently, it is likely to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Andhra Pradesh – Odisha coasts around December 4 morning. Under its influence, very heavy and widespread rainfall is likely over parts of Odisha, north Andhra Pradesh and parts of West Bengal on December 4 and 5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-intense-systems-likely-to-bring-widespread-rain-and-thunderstorms-101638329259081.html
01-12-2021||India||Omicron: New curbs in place for arrivals from ‘at-risk’ nations at Delhi, Mumbai airports||Several airports across the country, including the ones in Delhi and Mumbai, have imposed new restrictions in the wake of the Union government’s new travel rules for international passengers that is set to come into effect from Wednesday due to the threat from the new Omicron Covid-19 variant.On Tuesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a meeting with states and Union territories, during which he asked them to enhance testing against Covid-19 and improve the testing infrastructure. States were also asked to test international passengers arriving from ‘at risk’ countries on their day of arrival and also send samples of people found positive to designated labs for genome sequencing.Currently, European nations, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel have been listed as ‘at risk’ countries by the Union health ministry.Here are some of the arrangements made at Delhi and Mumbai international airports in view of the new guidelines.Also read | From December, India imposes new rules for international arrivals over omicron scareDelhiThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has issued an order regarding international passengers arriving at the airport stating that the Centre’s new guidelines would have to be strictly followed.Airlines are expected to inform passengers from ‘at risk’ countries that they would be tested upon arrival in Delhi. They would also be subjected to mandatory quarantine, on testing positive, and their samples would be collected for genome sequencing.If negative, the passengers would be sent for home quarantine for a week and on the eighth day, they would again be tested. On testing negative again, they would be advised self monitoring for another week. However, such restrictions do not apply to those arriving from other countries. Also, children below five year of age are exempted, except if found symptomatic.A dedicated ward of 40 beds has been created in the Lok Nayak Jaiprakash Hospital for accommodating passengers testing positive.MumbaiThe Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) in Mumbai on Tuesday said that passengers arriving from the ‘at risk’ countries would be segregated from those arriving from other nations.Adequate RT-PCR testing facilities for international arrivals in the form of 48 registration counters and 40 sampling booths have been set up, an ANI report said. It also said that these facilities would be ramped up, if the need arises.To facilitate testing of passengers with connecting flights in Mumbai with shorter time durations, 30 Rapid PCR machines have also been made available.A large sitting area for arriving passengers, QR codes at various locations at the arrival corridor and amenities like washrooms, food and beverages have also been arranged, the CSMIA said.Those arriving from ‘at risk’ countries would be subjected to a seven-day institutional quarantine and would be tested for Covid-19 on the second, fourth and seventh days.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-new-curbs-in-place-for-arrivals-from-at-risk-nations-at-delhi-mumbai-airports-101638329085240.html
01-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: ‘Heavy rain’ alert in parts of Mumbai, Thane today and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Parts of Mumbai, Thane may see heavy rain today, cyclone alert for Odisha on SaturdayParts of Mumbai, Thane and Palghar may see heavy rainfall on Wednesday due to the likely formation of a low pressure area over east central Arabian Sea off Maharashtra coast and a western disturbance. Read moreOutreach in mind, Mamata to meet Sharad Pawar in Mumbai todayWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to meet senior politician and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar at his residence in Mumbai on Wednesday. Read moreUP: Case filed against Mark Zuckerberg over ‘defamatory’ post against Akhilesh, dropped laterFacebook founder and chief executive officer (CEO) Mark Zuckerberg along with 49 others have been named in a case related to an alleged defamatory post against Samajwadi Party's Akhilesh Yadav. However, police later dropped Zuckerberg's name from the case, according to reports. Read moreIPL 2022 Retention: Full list of players retained by all 8 franchisesA total of 27 players were retained by their respective franchises ahead of the Indian Premier League mega auctions, which will see ten teams battle it out between themselves to rope in the finest cricketing talents. Read moreWhen Priyanka Chopra cried inconsolably during Jai Gangaajal shoot, repeatedly apologised to Manav Kaul. WatchActor Priyanka Chopra started crying and was inconsolable during the shoot of Jai Gangaajal after she accidentally kicked co-star Manav Kaul. In an old interview, Manav had said that he had to stop the shoot for an hour and console Priyanka. Read morePeople with A, B blood groups and Rh+ more vulnerable to Covid-19, says new studyA new study suggests that people with blood group A, B and those with Rh factor (Rhesus factor) positive are more "susceptible to Covid-19 infection" compared to those having O or AB group and Rh negative. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-heavy-rain-alert-in-parts-of-mumbai-thane-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101638328539029.html
01-12-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrow||Din continued to prevail on the third day of the Parliament Winter Session as opposition parties' demand for revocation of the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs was rejected by chairman Venkaiah Naidu yet again.While the Opposition raised slogans of “we want justice” in Lok Sabha, the suspended lawmakers sat on dharna in front of the Gandhi statue inside the Parliament premises.After a chaotic beginning to the Winter Session of Parliament on Monday, the stalemate in the Rajya Sabha was expected to end as opposition parties had said they would maintain House order and take part in the proceedings on Wednesday.On Monday, 12 lawmakers were suspended for the remainder of Parliament winter session under Rule 256 for their “unruly and violent behaviour” on the last day of the monsoon session on August 11. The leaders included six from Congress, two each from TMC and Shiv Sena and one each from CPM and CPI. This was the biggest such action in the history of the Upper House.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrow, 2nd DecemberThe Lok Sabha has been adjourned till tomorrow (December 2). Earlier in the day, the Rajya Sabha was adjourned amid continued pandemonium owing to the suspension of 12 opposition MPs.LS passes the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) BillLok Sabha on Wednesday passed the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, which proposes setting up of a national registry and registration authority for clinics and medical professionals serving in the industry, PTI reported. The bill was tabled by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.Lok Sabha BJP MP urges govt to implement Uniform Civil CodeBJP member Nishikant Dubey urged the Centre on Wednesday to bring a law soon to implement a Uniform Civil Code in the country.Raising the issue in the Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha, Dubey said the Allahabad High Court had last month asked the Centre to consider setting up a panel for implementing the mandate of Article 44 of the Constitution, which speaks about a Uniform Civil Code for the citizens throughout the territory of India."Even after 75 years of Independence, we have not been able to bring in a Uniform Civil Code. I urge the government to soon bring a law to implement a Uniform Civil Code," he said. (PTI)Rajya Sabha adjourned till Thursday amid ruckus in ParliamentRajya Sabha adjourned for the day as the Opposition continued ruckus over the suspension of 12 Opposition members of the House.'This is insult': Mallickarjun Kharge on govt saying ‘no record’ on farmers' deaths“This is farmers' insult. More than 700 farmers lost their lives during protests against 3 farm laws. How can Centre say that they don't have any record of it?” says Leader of Opposition Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge."If government doesn't have a record of 700 people then how they had collected data of lakhs of people during pandemic. Over 50 lakh people lost their lives due to Covid-19 in the last 2 years but according to govt, only 4 lakh people died due to the virus," he added. Read more.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 3pmRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned till 3pm following sloganeering by Opposition MPs.Dam Safety Bill to be tabled in Rajya Sabha, LS to discuss reproductive tech regulation billThe Dam Safety Bill will be tabled in Rajya Sabha after it resumes at 2pm. Meanwhile, Lok Sabha is expected to discuss the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020. ₹1 lakh ex-gratia paid to next of kin of J&K civilians: MoS HomeAn ex-gratia amount of ₹1 lakh is paid to the Next of the Kins of civilians killed in terrorism-related violence under the existing scheme of J&K govt. In addition, ₹5 lakhs is given under a separate Central scheme, says MoS Home Nityanand Rai in Rajya Sabha.Infiltration, terrorist attacks fell significantly in J&K, says MHAIn a written reply to Rajya Sabha, Union ministry of home affairs said that the incidents of infiltration and terrorist attacks have decreased significantly since 2018 in Jammu and Kashmir, reports ANI. Suspended MPs should express remorse: Union minister Pralhad Joshi“If the 12 suspended members of Rajya Sabha want to come to the House, then they should express remorse. Let them sit on dharna...I pray Mahatma Gandhi gives them wisdom," said Union Minister Pralhad Joshi.Parliament proceedings resumeLok Sabha and Rajya Sabha proceedings have resumed after being adjourned till noon.‘No record on farmers’ death during protests: Govt in Parliament"The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer's Welfare has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise," says government in Parliament when asked whether it proposes to provide financial assistance to the kin of farmers who died during the agitation'.Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha adjourned till noon amid sloganeering by OppositionLok Sabha adjourned till 12 noon following uproar by Opposition MPs. Rajya Sabha has also been adjourned till 12pm.Will continue dharna till we get justice: TMC MPAt the protest site in front of Gandhi statue, TMC MP Dola Sen says, “The suspension of MPs shows the arrogance of those in the majority. When they were in opposition they also used to disrupt Parliament proceedings. We will continue our 'dharna till the time we don't get justice.”Congress MP Rahul Gandhi was among opposition MPs protesting against the suspension of 12 opposition members of Rajya Sabha.Congress, DMK MPs walk out from Lok SabhaCongress and DMK MPs stage walkout from Lok Sabha amid Question Hour.Amid sloganeering, Congress' Adhir Ranjan Choudhary raise issue of farmers' deathLeader of Congress Party in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury raises the issue of death of farmers during farm laws protest in Lok Sabha. Opposition MPs raise slogans of "We want justice" during the Question Hour in the House.Demanding revocation of suspension of 12 MPs: LoP Rajya Sabha Mallickarjun Kharge“We are demanding the revocation of suspension of 12 Opposition members of the Rajya Sabha. We will hold a meeting and decide the future course of action,” said Leader of Opposition Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge at the Parliament.Cabinet meet at 1pm in Parliament todayMeeting of Union Cabinet scheduled to be held at 1320 hours in Parliament today. Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) will meet ahead of it at 1310 hours.Congress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha on "high rate of inflation, price hike of LPG cylinders".Congress MP Manickram Tagore gives adjournment notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to "discuss the actual number of Covid-19 deaths and direct the Govt to ensure that the poor get ₹4 lakhs each."Congress leader in RS gives suspension of business notice over price rise of essential goodsCongress Rajya Sabha MP Shaktisinh Gohil has given a suspension of business notice in the House over the issue of 'price rise of essential commodities like food grains, edible oils, petrol-diesel and LPG cooking gas'.Health minister to move reproductive technology regulation bill in Lok SabhaHealth minister Mansukh Mandaviya will move the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020 in Lok Sabha today. The Bill is for regulation and supervision of assisted reproductive technology clinics, prevention of misuse, safe and ethical practice of reproductive technology services.Centre demands apology from 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPsLeader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal defended the Chair's decision to suspend the Opposition members and condemned the behaviour of the members during the Monsoon session."It is regrettable that the Leader of Opposition lowered the dignity of the House by making allegations regarding the suspension of 12 MPs." he said, demanding that the suspended MPs apologise.12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs to sit in dharna at Gandhi statueThe 12 suspended MPs from the Rajya Sabha have decided to sit on a protest in front of Gandhi statue on Parliament premises, reportedly at 10am. Leaders of various Opposition parties will also be joining the protests. Congress party has asked all the MPs from Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha to be there as a mark of solidarity for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-101638325672985.html
01-12-2021||India||UP: Case filed against Mark Zuckerberg over ‘defamatory’ post against Akhilesh, dropped later||Facebook founder and chief executive officer (CEO) Mark Zuckerberg along with 49 others have been named in a case related to an alleged defamatory post against Samajwadi Party's Akhilesh Yadav. However, police later dropped Zuckerberg's name from the case during the course of the investigation, a PTI report said.The case was registered on the order of a court in the Kannauj district of UP. On Monday, chief judicial magistrate Dharamveer Singh in Kannauj district directed the police to lodge the case on the complaint of one Amit Kumar, a resident of Sarahati village.In his application, Kumar had complained that a page on the social media website Facebook, is attempting to tarnish the image of Yadav. He mentioned the page's name as 'Bua Babua.'The term "Bua Babua" was coined when Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav had entered into an alliance during the parliamentary election in 2019.Following the court order, a case was registered at Thatia police station, the report said citing SHO Prayag Narayan Bajpayee. Other people named in the case include an administrator of the (Facebook) page.Kumar said an application was sent to the superintendent of police through a registered post on May 25, but no action was taken, following which he moved the court and urged that a case be registered.Large social media companies such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and WhatsApp lost legal protection for the user content posted on their platforms in May this year after the government in the country enacted the new Information Technology Act.According to the new ACt, the companies can be prosecuted for the user-generated content and stands answerable to India civil and criminal laws just like any other citizen of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-case-filed-against-mark-zuckerberg-over-defamatory-post-against-akhilesh-dropped-later-101638324113573.html
01-12-2021||India||Parts of Mumbai, Thane may see heavy rain today, cyclone alert for Odisha on Saturday||Parts of Mumbai, Thane and Palghar may see heavy rainfall on Wednesday due to the likely formation of a low pressure area over east central Arabian Sea off Maharashtra coast and a western disturbance.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said under the influence of the systems fairly widespread rain/thunderstorm with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall accompanied with thunderstorms and lightning are likely over Gujarat, north central Maharashtra and north Konkan region Wednesday and Thursday.According to the IMD, parts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai and Thane, are very likely to witness thunderstorm accompanied with lightning/gusty winds and heavy rain at isolated places. West Madhya Pradesh, east Rajasthan, Haryana, west Uttar Pradesh may also see Isolated to scattered rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm/lightning is likely over during December 1-2 with maximum activity on Thursday.Cyclone alertThe IMD has also sounded an alert of a possible cyclone hitting the coastal areas of Odisha on Saturday with the Regional Meteorological Centre urging fishermen out in the sea to return by December 2 morning. The is because of a low pressure area that is likely to form over south Andaman Sea and move west-northwestwards before concentrating into a depression over South east and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal. The Odisha government has instructed the district collectors to remain prepared to face any eventuality.In West Bengal fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea from December 3 to 5. In wake of the IMD’s forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall due to the possible cyclone, Odisha special relief commissioner PK Jena has asked district collectors to monitor the situation closely.“Fishermen are advised not to venture into the southeast and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal on December 2 and 3, west central and adjoining northwest BoB and along and off north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha-West Bengal coast from December 3 to December 5,” director of the Regional Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar, HR Biswas, said.Under its influence, isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over Andaman and Nicobar Islands till Wednesday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-mumbai-thane-may-see-heavy-rain-today-cyclone-alert-for-odisha-101638320728939.html
01-12-2021||NA||Highlights: Brazil confirms 3rd Omicron case, reports AP||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Brazil confirms 3rd Omicron case, reports APHealth officials on Wednesday confirmed Brazil's third case of the Omicron coronavirus variant as the government examined possible new measures to contain the virus, reported news agency AP.Expecting number of countries reporting Omicron variant to grow: WHO chiefThe emergence of the Omicron variant has understandably captured global attention. At least 23 countries from five of six WHO regions have now reported cases of Omicron, and we expect that number to grow: WHO chief Tedros Adhanom GhebreyesuAmit Shah welcomes Manjinder Singh Sirsa to BJP“I welcome Manjinder Singh Sirsa to BJP. Placing his trust in the BJP's resolve for the welfare of the Sikh community, under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi, he joined the party. I believe that his joining will further strengthen this resolve,” news agency ANI quoted Union home minister Amit Shah as saying.World War 2-era bomb explodes in Munich injuring 3, reports APA World War II bomb exploded at a construction site next to a busy railway line in Munich on Wednesday, injuring three people, one of them seriously, AP quoted German police as saying.Chennai airport slashes RT-PCR test from ₹900 to ₹700The Chennai airport on Wednesday slashed RT-PCR test price from ₹900 to ₹700 amid Omicron Covid-19 variant scare. Read moreAct to repeal farm laws may be called 'Farm Laws Repeal Act, 2021, Centre says#FarmLaws | Act may be called Farm Laws Repeal Act, 2021. Farmers (Empowerment&Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance&Farm Services Act, 2020, Farmers' Produce Trade&Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Act, 2020 & Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 are hereby repealed. pic.twitter.com/8JHvEs34bRThe Act to repeal farm laws may be called 'Farm Laws Repeal Act, 2021, the Centre said on Wednesday.Time to 'think about mandatory vaccination', says EU chiefIt is time for the European Union to "think about mandatory vaccination" against Covid, AFP quoted European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen as saying on Wednesday. Akali Dal's Manjinder Singh Sirsa joins BJP ahead of Punjab electionsShiromani Akali Dal leader and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Wednesday joined the BJP in the presence of Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, reported news agency ANI.Nigeria detects first case of omicron variant from October, reports APNigeria has detected its first case of the omicron coronavirus variant in a sample it collected in October, news agency AP quoted the country’s national public health institute as saying on Wednesday.Delhi Police summons Rajasthan CM's officer on special duty for interrogation in phone tapping case, reports PTIThe Delhi Police has summoned Rajasthan CM's officer on special duty for interrogation in phone tapping case, reported news agency PTI.Saudi Arabia confirms first case of Omicron in GulfSaudi Arabia has recorded the Gulf's first confirmed case of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in a citizen returning from North Africa, a health ministry official said Wednesday. Read moreDecision on date of resumption of international flights in due course: DGCAThe Directorate General of Civil Aviation on Wednesday said it will notify its decision regarding the date of resumption of scheduled commercial international airline services to/from India in due course. It also said that the situation is being closely-watched in view of emergence of new Covid-19 variant.US and Russian foreign ministers to hold talks on Ukraine, reports AFP citing officialsUS and Russian foreign ministers to hold talks on Ukraine, reports AFP citing officials.If all regional parties come together..: Mamata's pitch to defeat BJP“If all regional parties come together, then it will be easy to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party,” news agency ANI quoted West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee as saying on Wednesday, during an interaction with civil society members in Mumbai.15 new Covid-19 cases found in 2 nursing colleges in Tumkur, KarnatakaIn Karnataka's Tumkur district, 15 new Covid-19 cases were detected in two nursing colleges, reports ANI citing the district health officer.Depression likely to form on Dec 2, to develop into cyclone, reach AP-Odisha coast on Dec 4: IMD Pre Cyclone watch for North Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast. A Depression is likely to form by tomorrow. It is likely to intensify into a Cyclonic storm around 3rd Dec. To move northwestwards and reach north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast around 4th Dec morning.The India Meteorological Department has issued a pre-cyclone alert for North Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coast, in which it said that a depression is likely to form on Thursday and is expected to intensify into a cyclonic storm on December 3. It will move further northwest and reach Andhra Pradesh - Odisha coast around December 4 morning.Omicron: Nigeria confirms first caseNigeria, Africa's most populous country, confirmed its first identified case of the Omicron Covid-19 variant.Omicron alert: Ranchi airport begins Covid-19 testing of all passengersIn view of the Omicron variant, the Ranchi airport in Jharkhand has begun testing all arriving passengers for Covid-19, reports ANI. Delhi govt slashes VAT to 19.40%, petrol gets cheaper by ₹8 per litreDelhi government slashed the VAT on petrol from 30% to 19.40% that would reduce petrol prices by ₹8 per litre, reports ANI. The new rates would come in to effect from midnight today.PM Modi to visit Dehradun, Uttarakhand, on Dec 4, inaugurate projects worth ₹18,000 crorePM Narendra Modi is set to visit Dehradun, Uttarakhand and lay foundation stone for multiple projects worth around ₹18,000 on December 4, reports ANI citing his office. The Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor to be built at a cost of around ₹8300 crore is among the list of projects. Anil Deshmukh, Sachin Vaze appear before commission to probe corruption allegationsFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze appeared before the Chandiwal Commission, formed to probe corruption allegations made by former Mumbai commissioner Param Bir Singh, reports ANI. PM Modi wishes people of Nagaland on Statehood DayOn the special occasion of Nagaland’s Statehood Day, greetings to the wonderful people of the state. Naga culture personifies valour and humane values. The people of Nagaland are making rich contributions to India’s growth. I pray for Nagaland’s progress in the years to come. pic.twitter.com/wR2l9DppdOPrime Minister Narendra Modi wished the people of Nagaland on Statehood Day. “On the special occasion of Nagaland’s Statehood Day, greetings to the wonderful people of the state. Naga culture personifies valour and humane values. The people of Nagaland are making rich contributions to India’s growth. I pray for Nagaland’s progress in the years to come,” he tweeted.Plea in SC seeks future censoring on Kangana Ranaut's social media postA plea has been filed in the Supreme Court against actor Kangana Ranaut that sought future censoring of all social media posts by the actor in order to maintain law and order in the country, reports ANI.India reports 8,954 new Covid-19 cases, 267 deaths in 24 hours, active cases fall below 100,000India reports 8,954 new Covid-19 cases and 267 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active caseload fell by 1,520 cases, went below the 100,000-mark and stood at 99,023.Pulwama encounter: 2 terrorists killed, identification being ascertained, say police#PulwamaEncounterUpdate: 02 #terrorists killed. Identification & affliation being ascertained. #Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/RCe0s345AfKashmir police said that two terrorists were killed during the encounter in Qasbayar area of Pulwama, Kashmir. The forces are trying to ascertain the identities of the militants. Delhi air quality in ‘very poor’ category, AQI recorded at 362The air quality index (AQI) in Delhi was recorded at at 362 (overall) and it remained in the 'very poor' category, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, reports ANI. ‘Work towards ensuring people affected live without discrimination, stigma’: Mandaviya on World Aids Day 2021  On #WorldAIDSDay, let us all pledge to work towards ensuring that people infected with & affected by HIV/AIDS lead a normal life sans discrimination and social stigma. pic.twitter.com/2zJuDRW5DN“On #WorldAIDSDay, let us all pledge to work towards ensuring that people infected with & affected by HIV/AIDS lead a normal life sans discrimination and social stigma,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted.Bengal CM to meet Sharad Pawar in Mumbai today West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, currently on a visit to Mumbai, is scheduled to meet Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar today.70-year-old priest killed by suspected thieves in Jalore, RajasthanIn Jalore, Rajasthan, a 70-year-old priest was beaten to death inside his hut near a temple by suspected thieves on Monday night, reports ANI citing the police."Postmortem was conducted and the body handed over to his family. Police teams have been formed to nab the accused," DSP (Bhinmal) Shankar Lal said.Encounter breaks out between police, militants in Pulwama, Kashmir#Encounter has started at #Qasbayar area of #Pulwama. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPoliceAn encounter broke out between the police, security forces and militants in Qasbayar area of Pulwama, Kashmir, during the early hours today, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-december-1-2021-101638319784564.html
01-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi’s group photo signals a new Goa alliance. It also hurts the TMC||PANAJI: Signalling the finalisation of an arrangement between the Congress and the Goa Forward Party, Goa Forward supremo Vijai Sardesai and an independent lawmaker who earlier pledged his support to Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Tuesday and posted a group photograph on social media. His party captioned it “Team Goa”While no formal announcement of any pre-poll alliance was made, Congress leader and state in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao said that Sardesai and his fellow MLA Vinod Paliencar met Rahul Gandhi and “expressed their complete support to take on the corrupt and inept BJP Goa government in the ensuing assembly elections.”Also present at the meeting was independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar who barely a few weeks ago expressed his support to the Trinamool Congress and said he was joining the cause with them, but will formally join the party later. It appears he may have now abandoned that mission and has instead pledged support to the Congress.Sardesai didn’t mention the word ‘alliance’ in his statement after meeting Rahul Gandhi. “Met Shri @RahulGandhi along with my colleagues @prasadgaonkr13 (Independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar) and @vinod_palyekar. We agreed to fight resolutely, wholeheartedly and unitedly on behalf of the people of #Goa to end the utterly corrupt, incompetent and undemocratic reign of @BJP4Goa,” Sardesai tweeted along with a photo of the group jointly raising their hands together as a symbol of solidarity.“Continuance of Goa under @BJP4Goa rule is an impossibility! Met with Shri @RahulGandhi. Proud to be working for the 2nd liberation of #Goa with the great-grandson of the person who enabled the 1st! The curse of the communal and anti-Goan @DrPramodPSawant govt will be blown away!” he also said.Sardesai has for long been seeking an alliance with the Congress calling for a united ‘Team Goa’ to take on the BJP. Sardesai also met West Bengal chief minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee during her visit to Goa in October and reiterated his call for a united fight to take on the BJP.Sardesai also suggested that he was on board with the ‘new dawn’, a slogan used by the TMC.On October 12, Sardesai told the media that the time was ripe for a “new dawn in Goa” and that he was willing to make “any sacrifice” to ensure that an alliance to take on the BJP is in place before the polls. However, it quickly became apparent that he was leaning towards the Congress.Prasad Gaonkar’s brother joined the TMC on October 13, and his joining was billed as a ‘major announcement’ by the TMC.“I will join the TMC officially once my term in office comes to an end. My supporters and elected members of Panchayat are joining the TMC today,” Gaonkar said in October.The Trinamool Congress’s comeback was acerbic.“The two real culprits of [the] “Great Betrayal - 2017” are back together, again! Goa will not be betrayed once more and the backroom deals shall yield no fruit. Goans have moved on, sadly you have not,” the Goa TMC said replying to Vijai’s tweet.Vijai Sardesai, who launched the Goa Forward Party prior to the 2017 assembly elections canvassed on an anti-BJP plank prior to the elections but after the elections teamed up with the BJP on the ground that Manohar Parrikar, who was the then Union Defence Minister, was returning to the state as chief minister. Sardesai extended support on the condition that Parrikar is the chief minister. After Parrikar died and 10 Congress MLAs switched sides to the BJP, chief minister Pramod Sawant dropped Sardesai’s Goa Forward Party from his government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-group-photo-signals-a-new-goa-alliance-it-also-hurts-the-tmc-101638304654922.html
01-12-2021||India||After BJP’s spectacular win in Tripura civic polls, CPM’s Manik Sarkar hits back||AGARTALA: Two days after the declaration of the Tripura civic polls results, the leader of Opposition in the assembly and former chief minister Manik Sarkar on Tuesday alleged large-scale fraud in the elections in which the Bharatiya Janata Party won most of the 339 seats;Sarkar, a four-time chief minister, said people were turned back from polling centres and its party workers assaulted. “False voting was done. Many voters were forced to return from the polling centres without casting votes and many were physically assaulted,” he said.Of the total 334 civic body seats in the state, the BJP netted 329 seats including 112 seats uncontested. The CPM won only three seats, one seat each went to the Trinamool Congress and royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarma’s party TIPRA Motha.The ruling BJP got a whopping 59.01% votes in the elections held on November 25, leaving the CPM and Trinamool Congress squabbling about the second slot. The State Election Commission data indicated the CPM was a distant runner up with 18.13% of all valid votes cast for the 14 civic bodies as compared to the Trinamool Congress which ended up with a 16.39% vote share.The local body election witnessed a voter turnout of 81.54%, according to the State Election Commission.Sarkar said his party doesn’t accept the results.“Elections were not even conducted... We are not calculating about first, second or third positions. We don’t accept the poll results,” Sarkar told reporters at the CPM headquarters in Agartala.The veteran CPM leader said the poll panel was not able to ensure enforcement of the model code of conduct, accusing the BJP of triggering violence before and during polls because, he said, it knew the people won’t vote for the ruling party.“Democracy came under attack here. People are becoming discontented. Is it impossible for the Prime Minister to know what’s going on here?” he said.“Partisan fascism is increasing here. Examples of such were visible during the civic polls. These incidents can’t occur without conscious political decision, “ he said.For the future, Sarkar said the CPM party will concentrate on bringing people together over food and livelihood issues. “We will unite people to fight for livelihood issues and to exercise their democratic rights”, Sarkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bjp-s-spectacular-win-in-tripura-civic-polls-cpm-s-manik-sarkar-hits-back-101638301594436.html
01-12-2021||India||Chase by drug peddler caused accident that killed former Miss Kerala, 2 others: Kochi top cop||A hot chase by suspected drug peddler Saiju Thankachan in his luxury car led to the accident in which three people, including former Miss Kerala Ansi Kabeer, died on November 1, Kochi police commissioner CH Nagaraju said on Tuesday.Also Read | Former Miss Kerala Ansi Kabeer and runner-up Anjana Shajan killed in car crash in Kochi“Our investigation shows the accident took place when they were forced to speed away due to the chase. After the party, he (Thankachan) made some overtures which they turned down and that led to a chase,” the police commissioner said.The special investigation team on Tuesday submitted a report in the court, saying if there were no chase, all three would have been alive. The court then turned down Thankachan’s bail plea and extended his police custody for three more days.“He is a drug addict and involved in many shady deals. We have information that he harassed many girls after late-night parties. If they come up, we will register more cases. We have registered two cases against him for criminal intimidation (Section 506), culpable homicide (section 299) and other sections (of IPC),” said the commissioner. Meanwhile, former Miss Kerala Ansi Kabeer’s uncle met the commissioner on Tuesday and filed a fresh complaint against Thankachan.During investigation, Thankachan told the police that he followed them in his Audi car to warn their driver Abdul Rehman, who was drunk, police said. Rehman, however, told the police that he drove the vehicle (Ford Aspire) at the maximum speed to evade the chasing car. He also said that Thankachan had blocked their car near Kundanoor junction and threatened them to return to the hotel, police added.Also Read | Mystery deepens in ex-Miss Kerala car crash death caseThe accident took place on November 1 at around 1.30 am when the driver was trying to save a motorbike and after hitting it slightly, it turned turtle and hit a tree on the roadside. The car was mangled in the impact and it took some time to retrieve the trapped.While former Miss Kerala Anis Kabeer and runner up Anjana Shajan died on the spot, their friend M Ashiq, an advertising professional, died after a week. Their driver Rehman escaped with injuries since he was wearing the seat belt.Ansi Kabeer, a resident of Attingal in Thiruvananthapuram, was crowned Miss Kerala in 2019. Shajan, a runner up the same year was her close friend.Police suspect Thankachan is a key player who supplied drugs in late-night parties in the port city and started a separate investigation into his financial background. They also suspect that he might have blackmailed many women after such parties. They are also planning to question hotel owner Roy Joseph, his employees and Thankachan together.Also Read | Brother of former Miss Kerala runner-up seeks probe into car crashDuring investigation, police found that employees at the hotel, where the three deceased had gone for a party earlier that night, retrieved storage disk of the party area as directed by the owner, but later threw it into backwaters. The hotel owner and five of his employees were arrested on November 16, but got bail two days after. Though divers searched the backwaters for two days, they failed to retrieve the disk.Later, Kerala director general of police Anil Kant directed the Kochi commissioner to strengthen the investigation after he reportedly got some confidential information. Reports in local media suggested that there was an argument during the party and both Kabeer and Shajan left in hurry, and a vehicle followed their car. Occupants of the Audi car told police that they escorted the ill-fated car since some of the occupants were heavily drunk.
01-12-2021||India||BJP forms 13-member body to strengthen base in Andhra||The Bharatiya Janata Party, which has gained considerable strength in Telangana in the last two years, is now focussing on neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, where the party is on a weak-footing.On Monday, the BJP national leadership announced a 13-member core committee to strengthen the party in Andhra Pradesh.The committee comprises BJP state party president Somu Veerraju, former president Kanna Laxminarayana, party national general secretary Daggubati Purandeshwari, Rajya Sabha members T G Venkatesh, C M Ramesh, Y S Chowdary and GVL Narasimha Rao, party secretary Satya Kumar, former MLC P V N Madhav and senior leaders Madhukar, Nimmaka Jayaraj, Relangai Sridevi and Chandra Mouli.Besides, there would be three special invitees in the core committee: BJP in-charge of Andhra affairs Muralidharan, co-in-charge Sunil Deodhar and Shiva Prakash.“The committee will meet once in a month to chalk out an action plan for taking up various programmes to activate the party at all levels,” a senior BJP leader familiar with the development said.The BJP, which had won four assembly seats and two Lok Sabha seats in alliance with the Telugu Desam Party in 2014 general elections, drew a complete blank in 2019, when it contested independently. It could get only 0.84 per cent of vote share, much lesser than 1.28 per cent of votes polled under NOTA.Even in the subsequent by-elections and local body elections, the BJP could not put up a good show, despite entering into an electoral alliance with Jana Sena Party floated by Tollywood hero Pawan Kalyan.However, with the TDP’s graph going downwards in the recent local body elections, the BJP has realised that it can emerge as a strong alternative to the ruling YSR Congress party in the coming days, if it takes up the cause of the people on various issues.The party leader quoted above said during the recent visit to Tirupati, Union home minister and former BJP national president Amit Shah gave a direction to the senior party leaders to take up various programmes against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government.On his instructions, the BJP leaders took part in the ongoing “padayatra” (foot march) of the farmers of Amaravati and extended support to their agitation against the formation of three capitals for Andhra Pradesh.“It is the first step in the direction of our fight against the government. In the coming days, the people are going to see a rejuvenated BJP,” the party leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-forms-13-member-body-to-strengthen-base-in-andhra-101638301174750.html
01-12-2021||India||Heavy rainfall continues in Chennai, over 20k in relief camps||The number of people staying in relief camps increased to 20,836 people on Tuesday as several regions including Chennai continued to be inundated across the state even though heavy rains continued in several parts of the state.In Chennai, the Cooum River embankment was strengthened by placing about 500 sand bags in view of increase in outflow. Surplus water was being let out from reservoirs and similarly, other districts like Cuddalore too released excess from waterbodies like the Veernam lake. The five key dams that cater to the drinking water needs of Chennai have either touched 100 per cent storage like Kannankottai Thervoy Kandigai or close to full level, such as the Poondi.Thoothukudi district administration issued a flood warning on Tuesday to people living along the banks of the Thamirabarani river due to sudden inflow of water from other dams of nearly 40,000-50,000 cusecs. The Mordhana and Rajathoppu reservoirs in Vellore district too have touched full levels and surplus water is being discharged.Shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam, located in Kerala but under the control of the Tamil Nadu government, were also opened as the water level reached the limit of 142 feet. The Kerala government, however, asked the Tamil Nadu government not to open the gates during early morning hours as it could cause flooding in the low lying areas of the state.In the past 24 hours, 15 districts such as Theni received heavy rainfall, said deputy director of the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) in Chennai, V Puviarasan.“In the next 48-hours in Chennai may see isolated moderate rainfall,” he said. The hardship continued for residents in the city as localities such as Ashok Nagar, Kodambakkam, Pattalam, Perumbakkam, Semmechery continued to be flooded. Of the 561 water-logged locations here, water has been drained in 227 and work is on to bail out water from the remaining areas using high-powered motor pumps, according to the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) statement, which is using more than 750 heavy duty pumps to remove water.Traffic was diverted on at least six arterial roads where draining of water was on-going and motorists continued to face choc-o-bloks. The rains have led to damage to many roads and craters covered under water often caught motorists off guard. Authorities said repair work to damaged portions of the road is going on.However, the rains have gradually reduced from Tuesday onwards after seeing excessive rainfall throughout this November which is the second highest since 2015 for a single month.According to the RMC, from October 1 up to November 30, the north east monsoon has brought 65 cm rains for Tamil Nadu and neighbouring union territory of Puducherry which is 82% above the average rainfall and Chennai received 115 cm which is 83% in excess. Although no loss of life was reported over the past days, more than 500 cattle were killed and more than 2000 huts were damaged in the rains, said a statement from the department of revenue and disaster management on Tuesday. Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Tuesday inspected rain battered areas and distributed assistance to the affected people. The CM inspected the nearby Karappakkam lake that brimmed with flood water and discussed with officials on steps being taken to prevent flooding. Public Works Minister E V Velu inspected the collapsed portion of Palar River bridge (linking Virinjipuram and Kothamangalam regions in Vellore District) in view of heavy inflows in the river.Chennai apartment seeks 11.5 lakh compensation from GCC One of the worst affected areas due the excessive rainfall this November in Chennai has been T Nagar and one of its residential complexes have written to the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) seeking a relief of ₹11.5 lakh--the amount of expenditure they are incurring to repair their flat and possessions--which they say is “due to the gross negligence of the civic agencies.” The residential complex comprises 28 flats which were constructed 25 years ago. “Every monsoon, we face flooding in our premises, forcing the residents of ground floor flats to seek shelter elsewhere and the others to endure after-effects,” said the letter written by V S Jayaraman of the Shreebagh Flat Owners’ Association on November 27. The residents argue that to make their apartment habitable again they had to pump out flood water and water from wells and sumps which cost ₹1 lakh. Since the rain had not subsided until November 27, they still had to continue pumping out water and the expenditure had risen to ₹75,000. “Since the well water and the water in the Metrowater sumps get polluted due to flooding, we have to necessarily pump out the entire water incurring heavy expenditure,” they said. So for common purposes the flat had spent ₹1.75 lakh. Due to the flooding, families in the seven apartments on the ground floor had incurred an expenditure of ₹50,000 each totalling ₹3,50,000 while for those on first floor and above it was ₹30,000 each, totalling ₹6,30,000. “We therefore seek a total relief of ₹.11,55,000/- from the government/GCC. In view of the fact that we face the situation as above due to the gross negligence of the civic agencies, we seek the above relief immediately,” their letter noted.They also said that at a time when they purchased these apartments and moved in the road level was four feet below the floor level of the building. The relaying of the roads by the GCC without milling, over the years has led to the road level going up causing more flooding. “The dysfunctional storm water drains also add to the flooding,” they said. Since the main electricity switches and meters of the flats are installed at the ground floor, these too get submerged in the water, forcing them to turn off power to the premises to avoid electrocution. The power gets restored only when the water is fully receded. (With PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-continues-in-chennai-over-20k-in-relief-camps-101638300937778.html
01-12-2021||India||Centre forms panel to revisit ₹8 lakh income limit for EWS quota||The Centre has formed a three-member committee to review the ₹8 lakh annual income limit to identify economically weaker section (EWS) for providing 10% quota in public jobs and educational institutions, the social justice and empowerment ministry said in an official memorandum. On Thursday, the Centre informed the Supreme Court that it had taken a “considered decision” to revisit the “criteria” for determining EWS to provide them reservation. The submissions came following repeated grilling by the top court over the last two months as regards to the methodology adopted by the Centre in fixing the income criteria for EWS uniformly across the country.Also Read | Will revisit ₹8 lakh annual income limit for EWS quota, Centre tells SC“In accordance with the commitment given to the Supreme Court to revisit the criteria for determining the economically weaker sections in terms of the provisions of the explanation to Article 15 of the Constitution, the Government hereby constituted a committee, ” the ministry said in the memorandum. The panel consists of former finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey, Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) member secretary VK Malhotra and Sanjay Sanyal, Principal Economic Advisor to the government.Also Read | EWS quota: No mathematical precision to determine income ceiling, Centre tells Supreme CourtThe ministry said that the committee will re-visit the criterian in determining EWS category keeping in view the observations of the Supreme Court. “It will also examine various approaches so far followed in the country for identifying economically weaker sections, and recommend criteria that may be adopted for identifying EWS category in future,” it said.The 10% EWS quota was introduced under the 103rd Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2019 which is under challenge before a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court.Also Read | Centre can’t pull ₹8 lakh limit for EWS quota out of thin air: Supreme CourtSince the Act has not been stayed by the apex court, the government issued a notification on July 29 introducing 10% EWS quota along with 27% quota for OBC within AIQ seats for postgraduate medical courses from this academic year. By this decision, 2,500 PG seats in government medical colleges would go to OBCs and 1,000 to those from EWS.This decision was challenged in a clutch of petitions that came up for hearing on Thursday. The income criterion of ₹8 lakh fixed by the Centre was one of the grounds taken by the petitioners to question the July 29 decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-forms-panel-to-revisit-8-lakh-income-limit-for-ews-quota-101638300814729.html
01-12-2021||India||Kerala govt protests RBI’s directives on co-operatives||Thiruvananthapuram: The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala on Tuesday launched a statewide agitation against the latest regulatory measures of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to rein in primary co-operative societies and banks, calling it an “attack on the federal structure” of India. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who sat on a dharna outside the Raj Bhawan on Tuesday, said, “The RBI’s latest move is aimed at crippling the co-operative sector. Since co-operative sector is a state subject it is another attack on federal structure of the country. We will not allow this to happen.” In its directive issued last month, the RBI barred co-operative societies from using the term banks and restrained them from taking deposits from those who do not have voting rights. It also asked co-operative societies not to use locker facilities and other banking norms. The chief minister said his government will talk to other non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA)-ruled states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal to evolve a common strategy towards the directive against co-operative societies. HT has learnt that Kerala’s finance minister KN Balagopal and co-operation minister TN Vasavan have been asked to co-ordinate with other states. Vijayan said the co-operative sector is the “first point of the common man in banking solutions and any attempt to weaken it will affect the poor and marginalised sections”. The Kerala government has also decided to approach the Supreme Court over the RBI guidelines this week, Vasavan said on Tuesday. In Kerala, at least 70% of the co-operative societies and banks are being controlled by the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist). In 2019, the Kerala state co-operative bank and 13 district co-operative banks were merged to float the Kerala Bank, which now has 769 branches across the state. While the new regulations won’t affect the Kerala Bank, there are 1,692 primary agricultural societies, 1,200 rural co-operative banks and 16 urban co-operative banks that are likely to be affected. The RBI came up with provisions to regulate primary co-operative banks based on the Banking Regulation Amendment Act passed by Parliament in September last year. The directive was advertised by RBI in newspapers last week.“Co-operative sector is a state subject. The Supreme Court had made it clear that co-operative banks have right to receive deposits and grant loans. The Centre’s move to interfere with co-operative sector was stalled by the court in a plea related to 97th constitutional amendment,” said Vasavan. In July 2020, the Supreme Court struck down a portion of the 97th constitutional amendment that took away exclusive authority of states over co-operative banks. A three-judge bench of the apex court ruled that co-operative societies come under the legislative power of the state assemblies while taking exception to the fact that the amendment was passed without ratification from states. “The latest RBI announcement has created enough confusion among customers. Such measures will cripple the co-operative sector. During the Covid-19 lockdown we disbursed enough fund to the needy. Since we are facing competition from micro-finance institutions, these steps will annihilate the co-operative sector eventually,” said Sreejith Choyan, president, Kadirur Service Co-operative Bank Ltd (Kannur district). An award-winning bank, it has 11 branches and a total turnover of ₹750 crore. “Many banks have started dishonoring cheques and transactions of the co-operative banks. Customers have started raising questions after the RBI publicized its guidelines in major newspapers. Such steps will cripple co-operative banks,” said a manager of another bank, who did not wish to be named. The Opposition Congress said it will oppose any move to weaken the co-operative sector. “We will give issue-based support to the government,” said Kerala Congress president K Sudhakaran. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) justified the RBI directives. “Recently, the state witnessed several misappropriations in co-operative banks. In Karuvannur co-operative bank in Thrissur alone fraud worth ₹500 crore came to light. There is no proper auditing and supervision and most of them turned extended offices of the ruling party,” said Kerala BJP chief K Surendran. 
01-12-2021||India||Maoist party expels former central committee member||The Communist Party of India (Maoist) on Tuesday said it has expelled its former central committee and politburo member Kobad Ghandy from the outfit for abandoning the key principles of “Marxism-Leninism-Maoist thought” and adopting the bourgeois philosophy of “humanism and spiritualism.” A book written by 70-year-old Ghandy – Fractured Freedom: A Prison Memoir — after his release from jail in 2019 clearly revealed that the Maoist ideologue had completely “given up his ideology and chosen an idealistic path”, Abhay, spokesperson of the banned outfit’s central committee, said in a statement. Abhay’s statement also carried a profile on Ghandy. Born in a wealthy Parsi family in Mumbai in 1951, Ghady studied at the Doon School and graduated at St Xavier’s College, Mumbai. He later pursued chartered accountancy in London, where he was influenced by revolutionary ideology and returned to India without completing the course. He joined the CPI (Marxist-Leninist) People’s War and rose to become a member of its central committee in 1981. He played a key role in the formation of CPI (Maoist) with the merger of the People’s War and the Marxist Communist Centre in 2004, and continued to be its central committee member. The Maoist party has been banned in India and designated as a terrorist organisation under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act since 2009. Ghandy was looking after the international affairs of the Maoist outfit and held meetings with Nepalese Maoist leader Prachanda and others. He was inducted into the politburo and was entrusted with the responsibility of building up mass organisations, the statement further said.His wife Anuradha was also a central committee member, and the couple worked in Maharasthra’s Gadchiroli area, where she died of cerebral malaria in 2008. Ghandy, who was facing various cases related to Maoist activities, including conspiring against the government, was arrested in Delhi in September 2009 and was jailed till 2019. Explaining the reasons for Ghandy’s expulsion, the spokesperson said the ideologue, after his release from jail, had not “contacted the party” and had written the book, in “violation of the party constitution, democratic centralism and ideological principles”. “Ghandy claimed that there is no happiness and freedom in practising Marxism which has failed in reaching its target. With this book, he is trying to inculcate pessimism in the revolutionary camp and false allegations against the Maoist party,” said Abhay, who uses only one name. Ghandy had openly praised criminal gangs and jail authorities, Abhay said. He falsely alleged that the Maoists had close links with the mafia and often led them in jail, the spokesperson said. Ghandy had never raised his voice in support of other prisoners when in jail, Abhay alleged. “Instead, he got favours from jail authorities. He is now alleging that the Maoist party doesn’t have the people’s support and the Maoist squads are nothing but roving rebels. This is nothing but singing the tune of the ruling class,” he said. 
01-12-2021||India||Karnataka: 13 students of govt hostel, 7 of medical college test Covid +ve||Thirteen students of a government-run residential hostel in Hassan and seven medical college students in Chamarajanagar tested Covid positive on Tuesday, according to the Karnataka health department. Following the detection of positive cases, the Morarji Desai hostel of Guramaranahalli village in Channarayapatna taluk of Hassan and Chamarajanagar Medical Sciences Institute have been sealed off by the authorities. All infected students of the hostel have been shifted to a Covid care centre. All are asymptomatic and recovering well, according to the health department. It has been decided to conduct tests on the primary contacts of the infected students. “The infections were found in the routine RT-PCR tests conducted by the health department for every 15 days. The hostel students infected with Covid-19 are studying in classes 6 to 10. All of them have been isolated and are being treated,” said a statement from the health department. Senior health and revenue departments’ officials rushed to the school and shifted them to the Covid care centre. More than 115 students, who are said to be primary contacts of the infected, were also sent to quarantine centres. The school was later sealed and sanitised. Covid-19 tests were also conducted on 325 students of the Chamarajanagar Medical Sciences Institute in which seven tested positive. About 500 primary contacts of the students and staff were tested and their results came negative. The tests were conducted on another 150 students and their test results are awaited. College dean Dr Sajeev Reddy had tested positive last week and is in home isolation. About 500 primary contacts of the students and staff were also tested and their reports are negative. Following this, the district administration has stepped up screening along the Kerala and Tamil Nadu borders and people without RT-PCR negative reports are not being allowed to enter the state. Karnataka government in an advisory following recent Covid-19 clusters said that all social and cultural events, conferences, seminars, academic events, etc. in educational institutions may be postponed for two months. The official statement issued by the Karnataka government said: “All students in medical and paramedical and other such educational institutions should be screened daily for symptoms of Covid-19. And the symptomatic should be tested and treated as per the guidelines already issued.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka13-students-of-govt-hostel-7-of-medical-college-test-covid-ve-101638300694511.html
01-12-2021||India||Karnataka government mandates RT-PCR test and quarantine for int’l passengers||Karnataka health minister KS Sudhakar on Tuesday said that the government has made it mandatory for all international passengers to undergo an RT-PCR test. “Around 2,500 international passengers arrive in Karnataka daily and it is now mandatory for everyone to undergo RT-PCR testing,” he said after meeting the Covid-19 technical advisory committee (TAC). Even those passengers who test negative will have to undergo home quarantine, Sudhakar told reporters. “For those who are negative will be home quarantined for seven days. Those who are symptomatic and negative will have to undergo testing at home on the 5th day. Asymptomatic will be tested on the 7th day. If positive, they will be immediately hospitalised. And they will be treated separately,” the minister said. A senior health department official said that checking of all international passengers is underway since last week.Covid’s new variant, the Omicron virus, has been found in 12 countries across the world and to prevent this variant, all necessary precautionary measures are being taken in the state, the minister said, answering a specific questions on the variant. “Considering our population and health infrastructure, we need to be more careful than other countries. Preparations for the health care services, including availability of beds, oxygen beds, deployment of doctors and personnel, and supply of medicine, were also discussed at the meeting,” he said. Those who haven’t got vaccination should voluntarily come forward and get vaccinated and stay safe, he said, adding suggestions regarding vaccine drive and measures to increase the numbers were discussed. “41 lakh people are slated to get the second dose of Covid vaccine. Priority will be given to reach out to these people,” Sudhakar said. At the meeting, ways to effectively deal with the Omicron virus, how to control it, and what preparations are to be taken in hospitals and medical colleges were also discussed. “Using technology such as Quarantine App, tele medicine is also being considered. In addition, a panel of 10 experts has been set up to formulate separate guidelines for treatment,” the minister told reporters. Meanwhile, reassuring the people that there is no proposal to impose lockdown in the state, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has appealed to people not to heed to rumours in this regard. “There is no question of imposing the lockdown now. Normal life should go on. However, we want the people to strictly follow the Covid norms in public places. Institutions too need to function responsibly by adhering to the norms at programmes conducted by them,” the chief minister told reporters. He said the state government is keeping strict vigil against Omicron. Precautions against the Delta variant are also being tightened. “Government is tackling the issue on two fronts. Test swab samples in suspicious cases had been sent to NCBS for genome sequencing to ascertain the exact variant. International passengers are being strictly screened at airports. Those who were in contact with them are also being traced and tested,” he added. The state government has issued the guidelines for setting up clusters where a spurt in the cases had been reported. Those in the clusters are being tested again seven days after they get a positive report of the first test. About 4,000 people have been tested at SDM college in Dharwad. Similar tests are on at clusters in Mysuru, Hassan and Anekal in Bengaluru, Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-government-mandates-rt-pcr-test-and-quarantine-for-int-l-passengers-101638300575410.html
01-12-2021||India||Contacts of two South African nationals test -ve for Covid: Karnataka minister||The primary and secondary contacts of the two South African nationals who tested positive for the Covid-19 have tested negative, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday. Sudhakar on Monday had said the sample of one of the South African nationals, who tested positive for Covid-19, is ‘different from the Delta variant’. Refusing to further divulge details, the minister said that he is in touch with the Union health ministry and the Indian Council for Medical Research officials. Two travellers from South Africa tested positive for Covid-19 in Bengaluru and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to determine the variant. Officials said they tested positive for Covid during the RT-PCR tests conducted at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). The first passenger arrived in Bengaluru on November 11 and the second arrived on November 20. Both were in quarantine after the positive result. “We have sent the samples for further genome sequencing and results are expected in two to three days. But both patients don’t have any symptoms. In fact, they didn’t even require hospitalisation but we have kept them in a hospital as a precautionary measure,” he said. A new variant of the coronavirus, classified as Omicron, has spread in several parts of South Africa, forcing many countries to shut their borders. Karnataka has instituted a mandatory test-on-arrival, and a seven-day quarantine thereafter if people are negative. “We are taking every possible step to contain the spread of the new mutant strain. However, it is said to be spreading rapidly and I’m afraid we cannot stop it as India sees an influx of millions of people every day, being a large country. What we can do, however, is contain it,” the minister added. Sudhakar also said that he has sought a detailed report on the Omicron variant. “We will get clear information on December 1 about how the Omicron behaves after the genomic sequencing. Accordingly, we will initiate all measures,” he explained. Speaking about Omicron, Sudhakar, a medical professional, said he has spoken to doctors working in South Africa, who told him that the new variant is not as dangerous as the Delta variant. 
01-12-2021||India||Approached by Centre to join panel proposed by PM Modi: SKM||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of protesting farm unions, on Tuesday said a Union government official reached out to one of its leaders, requesting the names of five people who could represent farmers on a committee proposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look into issues related to cultivation and minimum support prices (MSPs).Farm unions may decide to participate in the committee if it is a “concrete” step towards guaranteeing prices of agricultural produce, farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said on Tuesday. If this happens, it could be a breakthrough in the deadlock between tens of thousands of protesting farmers and the Union government.“The SKM confirms that there was a telephone call from the Government of India to a Punjab farmer union leader, wherein the government wanted five names to be suggested from SKM’s side for a committee,” the farmers’ platform said in a statement.Charuni, a leader of the ongoing farmers’ movement against the Modi government’s policies, said farm unions may consider joining the proposed committee if it was “timebound” and its “intention” was to ensure profitable prices for farmers.In its statement, the SKM said it was “premature” to suggest names because “we have received no written communication and no details are available so far about what this committee is about, its mandate or Terms of Reference”.This is the first time since Modi announced a panel to look into farming issues that a senior leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of over 40 protesting farm unions, has spoken about the possibility of cooperating with the government.Charuni said farmers would not give up their demand for a legislation to make MSPs in agricultural markets mandatory. An MSP is a floor price for crops meant to help avoid distress sale and farmers want a legal guarantee for it across 23-odd crops.“It doesn’t matter whether I am in the committee or not but if is a concrete and time-bound step towards meeting all our pending demands, which includes a guarantee of MSP, farm unions will have no problems in joining it,” Charuni said.He said the SKM would consider this and all other issues in a meeting on December 4. “The protests would not be withdrawn until all demands are met,” he added. Charuni, along with colleague Rakesh Tikait, bolstered the farm protests by bringing it out of Punjab and expanding its sphere of influence.According to Charuni, farm unions also want monetary compensation to nearly 700 farmers who died during the course of the agitation and withdrawal of all criminal cases registered against farmers in various states.Parliament on Monday passed the bill to repeal the three farm laws, after a year of protests by farmers.Prime Minister Modi had announced during a nationally televised address on November 19 that his government was withdrawing the three agricultural laws because it couldn’t convince farmers about its benefits. Modi also announced a panel would be set up to pare costs of cultivations and making MSPs effective.The government’s decision to scrap the laws came ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous bellwether state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.The farmers’ movement against the laws first began as sporadic demonstrations in Punjab in October 2020 but snowballed into a full-blown political uprising against the Modi government, spreading to several states in the course of a year, including Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.
01-12-2021||India||Seven lose vision in one eye after cataract surgery in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur||At least seven people lost vision in an eye after contracting severe infection after undergoing free cataract surgeries at private hospital in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. Muzaffarpur district magistrate Pranav Kumar said a team has been constituted for the probe. The matter came to light after one eye of each of the seven patients had to be removed owing to panophthalmitis (severe eye infection) after they underwent the surgery at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital. “Eyes of four people were removed at the same hospital (Muzaffarpur Eye hospital) located in Juran Chhapra area of Muzaffarpur and of three others at Shri Krishna Medical College & Hospital, Muzaffarpur (SKMCH),” said Muzaffarpur civil surgeon Dr Vinay Kumar Sharma. Six others are currently undergoing treatment at SKMCH, Sharma said. He refused to share the date of removal of eyes. Dr Subhash P, one of the four members of the probe team, said, “During preliminary investigation, it was found that as many as 65 patients underwent surgery at the hospital on November 22 itself. We have come across 13 cases in which either patients’ eyes have been removed or are undergoing treatment so far.” The management of Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital admitted all of them were operated on there. “In the wake of the complaints from some patients after the operation, they were referred to other hospitals in Patna. In the meantime, we had to remove the eyes of four patients at our hospital itself,” Deepak Kumar, assistant manager, Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital, said. The matter came to light on Monday after victims’ family members approached Sharma’s office complaining about the doctors’ negligence at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital. HT spoke to some of the victims’ kin and learnt of a common thread in the tragedy. A resident of Muzaffarpur, Kaushaya Devi, in her 70’s, suffered excruciating pain along with swelling and frequent water discharge from her left eye (operated), hours after she was discharged from the Muzaffarpur hospital on November 22. “We took her to Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital and were told the need for immediate removal of the eye as it has gone past redemption and may affect the sight of the other eye,” said Chandan Kumar, Kaushaya Devi’s grandson. Some others whose eyes had to be removed after cataract surgery are Savatri Devi (Muzaffarpur), Harendra Rajak (Vaishali), Meena Devi (Muzaffarpur) and Kaushalya Devi (Muzaffarpur). Jaitun Khatoon and Jumarati Miyan, residents of separate villages in Muzaffarpur district, complained of extreme pain. “I feel like losing sight completely,” said Khatoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-lose-vision-in-one-eye-after-cataract-surgery-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur-101638299975384.html
01-12-2021||India||Row after empty liquor bottles found in Bihar assembly complex||The Bihar government led by Nitish Kumar of Janata Dal (United) faced criticism on Tuesday after empty liquor bottles were recovered in legislature premises of the state assembly. The bottles were found under a tree in the area earmarked as parking lot for two-wheelers, officials said.Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav raised the matter in the post lunch session of the state assembly, calling it was outrageous.Chief minister Nitish Kumar informed the house that he was not aware of recovery of liquor bottles on the premises of the state legislature and said a probe could be ordered on permission from Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha to ascertain how the liquor bottles found their way inside the legislature premises.“We will ask the state police chief and chief secretary to carry a thorough inquiry,” Kumar said.Responding to CM, Yadav said, “Please ensure that lower-level officials are not made scapegoats and the big fish do not go unpunished.”Officials familiar with the developments said the chief minister held a meeting with director general of police (DGP) S K Singhal and chief secretary Tripurari Sharan in the assembly in the afternoon. In the evening, the DGP told reporters that the place where empty bottles were recovered was not under CCTV coverage but all angles are being probed.Yadav accused the government of failing to implement the liquor ban. “This is outrageous. The spot is less than 100 metres away from the chief minister’s chamber. Only yesterday, the chief minister presided over a farce wherein NDA legislators took the pledge, inside the central hall here, against liquor consumption,” the leader of opposition told reporters later outside the assembly premises, adding “within 24 hours, liquor bottles have been found in the same premises.” “Prohibition in Bihar is a total failure and administering oath not to drink liquor to people is all a sham,” said Yadav. Criticising government, Yadav said: “The government will not give a logical reply and dub the entire episode of recovery of liquor bottle in the assembly premises as a conspiracy by the opposition. The chief minister must resign as he is also the home minister.”Yadav’s party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and other opposition parties, including the Congress, have been critical of the state government, especially for the last one month as the state registered 40 alleged hooch-related deaths in Gopalganj, West Champaran and Muzaffarpur districts.Liquor ban in Bihar is in force since April 2016.[Below incident -- is it related to recovery of bottles, please clarify????]Two MLAs exchange expletives in public .The state assembly premises on Tuesday witnessed unsavoury scenes when RJD legislator Bhai Virendra and BJP’s Sanjay Saraogi indulged in an ugly spat, exchanging expletives in full view of media persons before the assembly sat for the day.Reports said the trouble started when Bhai Virendra passed a caustic comment against Saraogi, calling him a person having adulterated roots. The latter hit back, accusing Virendra of being corrupt. The spat soon turned ugly and both the legislators started hurling expletives before they were pacified.
01-12-2021||India||Colour blind student challenges admission denial by FTII, SC says panel to review criteria||Christopher Nolan, the man behind several Hollywood blockbusters such as The Dark Knight, Inception, Memento and Interstellar, is a role model for Patna-based Ashutosh Kumar. Incidentally, Kumar and Nolan have one thing in common – both are colour blind, unable to distinguish between certain colours.On Tuesday, Kumar, 35, convinced the Supreme Court to consider whether he should be barred from admission to the prestigious Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) just because he is colour blind even as Nolan is revered across the globe for his keen eye for cinematic beauty. Moved by Kumar’s passion for filmmaking and his persistence, a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh decided to review of FTII’s admission criteria with respect to colour blind candidates, especially after taking into account the advancement in technology as well as medical science.The bench directed the creation of a panel of experts, comprising an ophthalmologist (a doctor who specializes in eye and vision care), a film director, a film editor, a colourist, a script supervisor, a head of department of FTII and a lawyer. “Role of the committee would be to ascertain whether colour blindness is to be perceived as a disqualification for all courses in FTII,” stated the court order, emphasising that the FTII’s regulation requires a relook on the principle of providing “reasonable accommodation” for disabled persons under the Right to Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act of 2016. Kumar applied for the three-year post graduate diploma course in film editing at FTII in 2015 and he was also short listed for the course. But his candidature was declined after he was found to be colour blind during the medical examination. The authorities cited FTII Rules which state that colour blind candidates are not fit for admission in a few courses, including film editing. Kumar approached the Bombay high court in 2016 against denial of admission to him but got no relief. The high court noted that FTII has set up an admission committee of experts from various fields to review the admission criteria and carved out six out of 12 courses at FTII in which colour blind candidates are not found suitable. It rejected Kumar’s plea, holding a court cannot interfere when an expert body has fixed eligibility criteria for FTII courses. Aggrieved by this order, Kumar filed an appeal in the Supreme Court in September 2017 through advocate Satya Mitra, and urged the court to declare that part of FTII’s prospectus disallowing persons with colour blindness from pursing the film editing course is violative of the right to equality and right to life. Arguing for Kumar before the top court on Tuesday, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves highlighted that several leading filmmakers, including Nolan, are colour blind. He also placed on record statements by some FTII’s alumni who maintained that they had no issues with various aspects of film making even though they suffered from colour vision deficiency. Gonsalves further argued that Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute does not discriminate against candidates with colour blindness or partial defect. Advocate Amit Anand Tiwari, representing FTII, submitted that the institute is sensitive to candidates with disabilities and that decision to hold colour blind candidates unsuitable for 6 out 12 courses was taken after a study by the expert committee, which also took into account the problems faced by two colour blind candidates who were admitted to the institute in a different course in 2013. At this, the bench also wondered if there was a scope for a judicial review in a case like this where FTII had taken a considered decision after a panel went into the issues. However, some recent Supreme Court judgments came in handy for Gonsalves --a 2017 judgment that allowed two colour-blind students to pursue MBBS course; a 2018 judgment that allowed a candidate with “low-vision” to pursue the MBBS course; and a February judgment that cautioned against the adoption of one size fits all approach and called on the Union government to to provide “reasonable accommodation” to persons with disability. Reasonable accommodation means necessary and appropriate modification and adjustments not imposing a disproportionate or undue burden.The bench then found it appropriate to follow the course adopted by the Supreme Court in these judgments and directed for setting up a committee of experts to review if FTII regulations need revamping. “It is an evolving process. We now have documents with details of some renowned filmmakers, some even got national awards in India, who have been colour blind...The best thing to say that with advancement of science, the issue should be revisited by a committee, within the principle of reasonable accommodation. It is futuristic thinking,” observed the bench.The bench then recorded in its order that a committee of experts, including a film director, a colourist, a script supervisor, a film editor, an ophthalmologist and head of department of the course concerned, shall be set up to examine the matter. The panel will submit its report to the court in three months. The bench is expected to name members of the committee on Monday after it consults some experts. In the meantime, Gonsalves and Tiwari have also been asked to submit a few names of the proposed members. FTII is India’s leading film institute based in Pune, Maharashtra. Its list of famous alumni include Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Naseeruddin Shah, Shabana Azmi, Om Puri, Jaya Bachhan, Santosh Sivan and Sanjay Leela Bhansali. 
01-12-2021||India||Covid patients to be hospitalised, no isolation at home in Bhopal||Bhopal: Every coronavirus infected person will have to be admitted to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Bhopal as they will not be allowed to live in home isolation, the district collector ordered on Tuesday. The move came after the active Covid-19 cases increased to 79 in Bhopal and 42 in Indore in the past 15 days, the highest since July, and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan asking district administrations to take necessary precautions. On Tuesday evening, Bhopal collector Avinash Lavaniya released detailed guidelines to contain the spread of Covid-19. “The infected people will not be isolated at home. They have to be admitted to a Covid dedicated Katju hospital. Similarly, every person from guests to caterers in functions will have to be fully vaccinated. The district administration can check the certificates through a random visit. In case of any fault, the organiser will have to pay a fine of ₹500 for every unvaccinated person who is allowed in the function.” “The fine for violating Covid-19 protocols has been increased to ₹500 from ₹100. Shop and company owners and head of all private and government offices have been asked to ensure 100% vaccination of their employees,” said Lavaniya. In Indore, district collector Manish Singh issued similar instructions. On Tuesday, 40 shops were sealed for allowing unvaccinated employees, according to the district administration. The CM also asked the districts administration to remain vigilant on new variant of Covid 19, Omicron. “The listing of all the people who returned from foreign countries is being done by the district administration. The contact tracing and genome sequencing will be done of all the returnees who will be tested positive for the virus,” said the CM. The CM said he would make citizens aware about the use of masks and social organisations will also be linked with the awareness campaign. All the medical equipment and important machines should be ready to deal with any surge, he told the officials of health department.A government statement said that instructions were issued to arrange Covid-19 tests at railway stations and airport. At present, rapid antigen tests are being done at the railway station. Instructions were also given to arrange RT-PCR test, the statement said.
01-12-2021||India||Admiral R Hari Kumar takes charge as Navy chief||Admiral R Hari Kumar, 59, on Tuesday took over as 25th chief of the Indian Navy, succeeding Admiral Karambir Singh who retired after 41 years of military service. Kumar was heading the Mumbai-based Western Naval Command before taking over the reins of the navy. The officer, a gunnery specialist, was commissioned into the navy in January 1983. Kumar has taken charge of the navy at a time when the service is in the midst of several critical inductions, including an aircraft carrier, warships, submarines and modern helicopters to bolster its combat potential. He has also assumed the responsibility amid changing power dynamics in the Indian Ocean Region where the Chinese navy is seeking to increase its footprint. “It is a great honour for me to take over as the 25th chief of naval staff of the Indian Navy. The navy’s focus is on national maritime interests and maritime security challenges. For this, we will use our full strength. My predecessors have guided the navy with visionary leadership and I will take the navy forward in the same direction and build on their achievements,” Kumar said. Kumar touched his octogenarian mother Vijayalakshmi’s feet and sought her blessings after taking charge as navy chief. The warships commanded by Kumar in a career spanning 38 years include aircraft carrier INS Viraat (no longer in service), INS Ranvir, INS Nishank and INS Kora. He has attended courses at the Naval War College, US, Army War College, Mhow and Royal College of Defence Studies, UK. In one of his earlier appointments, he served as chief of integrated defence staff to the chairman, chiefs of staff committee. In that capacity, he was closely involved with the ongoing theaterisation drive for optimal use of the military’s resources. The navy will take steps towards jointness, he said on Tuesday. Kumar has taken charge of the navy at a time when the department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, has asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of threatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars and operations, and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The setting of an April 2022 deadline for the submission of studies focusing on finalising the joint structures seeks to give new impetus to theaterisation, a long-awaited military reform. The deadline for submitting the reports has been advanced from September 2022 to April 2022. The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command. The creation of theatre commands could take up to two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/admiral-r-hari-kumar-takes-charge-as-navy-chief-101638299195441.html
01-12-2021||India||Six test Covid positive in Maharashtra after return from high-risk countries||Amid rising concerns over new coronavirus variant Omicron, six residents of Maharashtra, who recently returned from high-risk countries, have tested positive for Covid-19, health officials said on Tuesday. The patients’ samples have been sent for genome sequencing and reports are expected within a week, they added.According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), of the three who tested positive in Pune district, while one patient returned from Zambia, two others came back from Nigeria.A statement from the Public Health Department said: “Currently, six passengers, who arrived from South Africa or other high-risk countries, have tested Covid-19 positive. Of these six, one each has been found in Mumbai Corporation, Kalyan-Dombivali Corporation, Mira-Bhayandar Corporation and Pune limits, while the two Nigeria returnees come under Pimpri-Chinchwad civic body. All their samples have been sent for genetic sequencing and their contact tracing exercise is underway. All these passengers are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Genetic changes/mutation in viruses is a natural phenomenon and people should not panic.”The Zambia returnee has been identified as a 60-year-old man, who arrived in Mumbai on November 20 and took a cab to Pune. “The patient, along with his family, returned to India on November 20, via Mumbai airport and then they took a cab to Pune. The 60-year old man felt discomfort and stomach pain following which he got himself tested at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital and tested positive for the infection,” said Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of the PM health department. The patient’s family members and the cab driver have tested negative, while the 60-year-old is stable, asymptomatic and is nearing the completion of his 14-day isolation period, he added.Omicron, first found in South Africa, has been identified in at least 12 other countries. Cases have emerged in Botswana, Italy, Hong Kong, Australia, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Germany, Canada, Israel and the Czech Republic. Zambia borders three of the high-risk countries -- Zimbabwe, Botswana and Namibia.In light of this new variant, the central government has revised travel guidelines to check the spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus.The revised rules for returning international passengers has been revised by the central health ministry which includes self declaration form on Air Suvidha Portal which includes details designation address for contact tracing, details of all travellers to be shared with concerned authorities and random sampling for RT-PCR tests from countries not “at risk”Bharti said the Pune civic body is currently tracking 40 people who have recently returned from the “at-risk” countries. “The Indian Council of Medical Research, in a video conference held on Tuesday, has assured us that the current set of RTPCR kits and Rapid Antigen Test kits would be able to detect the Omicron variant,” he added.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, too, conducted a meeting on Monday on tracing such international travellers and ensuring contact tracing. “The meeting also discussed the issue of how to check the passengers arriving from abroad without landing directly at Mumbai or other airports in Maharashtra and then travelling at other places in the country by domestic airlines, road or rail. The question is how to test such people and the prime minister should be apprised of this,” a statement quoted Thackeray as saying.The order issued by the Maharashtra chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty added that passengers from other states would compulsorily require a negative RT-PCR test within 48 hours of arrival. While international passengers arriving from other than at-risk countries too would have to undergo compulsory RT-PCR test and 14-day home quarantine. If found positive, they would be shifted to a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-test-covid-positive-in-maharashtra-after-return-from-high-risk-countries-101638299194337.html
01-12-2021||India||Parliament winter session: Suspended MPs should apologise, says Goyal||Amid vehement protest by opposition members, Union minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday said the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, for their “unruly” behaviour during the last session of Parliament, cannot be reconsidered till they apologise.Also Read | Oppn anger against RS action stalls ParliamentSpeaking in the Upper House, Goyal said: “I want to bring your attention to the last day of the monsoon session. That day some MPs attacked women marshals, some attacked male marshals. They stood firm. We shudder to think what could have happened to the chair. It was important to take action to maintain the dignity of the House.”“We suggested that a committee be formed to deal with the matter. However, many opposition parties refused to be a part of it. Their contention that such a panel can only work when House is in session is wrong as the House is constant. So it’s the House’s decision to suspend them. They can make a mistake but they should apologise as everyone can make a mistake,” he added.Goyal’s remarks came in the wake of allegations by opposition parties that the motion of suspension was not in adherence to the rules and regulations of the Upper House.The minister also praised Parliament staff for showing patience and restraint in dealing with the “unruly opposition members”.“I want to congratulate Parliament officials who bore the brunt of such an attack. But when one member almost attacked the chair, there was no choice but to suspend them for a day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-suspended-mps-should-apologise-says-goyal-101638299014301.html
01-12-2021||India||Doctor can’t be held guilty of negligence just because a patient died: Supreme Court||No doctor can assure life to his patient but can only attempt to treat everyone to the best of his or her abilities, said the Supreme Court on Tuesday, as it underscored that a doctor cannot be held guilty of medical negligence just because a patient has not survived.“There is a tendency to blame the doctor when a patient dies or suffers some mishap. This is an intolerant conduct of the family members to not accept the death in such cases. The increased cases of manhandling of medical professionals who worked day and night without their comfort has been very well seen in this pandemic,” lamented a bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian.The bench added: “In spite of the treatment, if the patient had not survived, the doctors cannot be blamed as even the doctors with the best of their abilities cannot prevent the inevitable...The doctors are expected to take reasonable care but none of the professionals can assure that the patient would overcome the surgical procedures.”It underlined that there must be sufficient material or medical evidence should be available before the adjudicating authority to arrive at the conclusion that death is due to medical negligence. “Every death of a patient cannot on the face of it be considered to be medical negligence,” said the bench.The court said this while allowing an appeal filed by Bombay Hospital and Medical Research Centre against the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission’s order to pay ₹14.18 lakh to the family of one Dinesh Jaiswal, who died in June 1998 following unsuccessful surgeries of his gangrene in his limbs.The family attributed Jaiswal’s demise to negligence in conducting surgeries, absence of the treating senior doctor, lack of operation theater, and a broken-down angiography machine. The hospital, however, refuted all allegations, stating the best possible treatment by present medical professionals and within the resources available was provided.In its 2010 judgment, the national consumer commission invoked the principle of “res ipsa loquitur” (mere occurrence of certain event can lead to an inference of negligence of the other side) to hold the hospital guilty of medical negligence.But the top court on Tuesday set aside this judgment, noting the order suffered from legal as well as factual infirmities.“It is a case where the patient was in serious condition impending gangrene even before admission to the hospital but even after surgery and re-exploration, if the patient does not survive, the fault cannot be fastened on the doctors as a case of medical negligence. It is too much to expect from a doctor to remain on the bed side of the patient throughout his stay in the hospital which was being expected by the complainant here. A doctor is expected to provide reasonable care which is not proved to be lacking in any manner in the present case,” held the bench.The court underlined that there was never a stage when the patient was left unattended and mere fact that the main treating doctor had gone abroad cannot lead to an inference of medical negligence because the patient was admitted in a hospital having 20 specialists in multi-faculties.“The patient was in a critical condition and if he could not survive even after surgery, the blame cannot be passed on to the hospital and the doctor who provided all possible treatment within their means and capacity,” it said.On the aspect of delay in re-exploration after the initial surgery threw up complications due to non-availability of an operation theater, the bench noted that it was only a matter of chance that all the four operation theatres of the hospital were occupied when the patient was to undergo surgery.“We do not find that the expectation of the patient to have an emergency operation theatre is reasonable as the hospital can provide only as many operation theatres as the patient load warrants. If the operation theatres were occupied at the time when the operation of the patient was contemplated, it cannot be said that there is negligence on the part of the hospital,” it said.The court added that a team of specialist doctors was available and also attended to the patient but “unfortunately, nature had the last word” and the patient breathed his last. “The family may not have coped with the loss of their loved one, but the hospital and the doctor cannot be blamed as they provided the requisite care at all given times,” it maintained.The deceased’s family was paid ₹5 lakh as interim compensation by the top court in March 2010 when it had agreed to examine the hospital’s appeal. The bench said that this amount shall be treated as ex gratia payment to Jaiswal’s family and will not be recovered by the hospital.
