03-12-2021||Noida||Noida: Penalties worth ₹70 lakh imposed since Grap came into effect on Oct 15||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has imposed penalties worth over ₹70 lakh for violation of pollution norms in Noida since October 15, the day when guidelines listed under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) for controlling pollution in the Delhi-NCR region was imposed. UPPCB officials said within NCR, steps are being taken to control local sources of pollution, such as vehicular pollution, road dust and pollution arising from construction-related activities. In the past six days alone, penalty to the tune of ₹37 lakh have been imposed on 72 individuals and establishments for violation of pollution norms. Most of these are for construction and road dust, while some are also for operation of diesel generator (DG) sets.“Since construction activities has been banned for now, most large projects are complying with the norms and have stopped work. However, there are still small plot owners who are continuing construction activities in the city. We have flying squads and teams in the field who are checking for such cases daily,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida.He added there are instances of contractors of the Noida authority who are found not taking measures to control dust at their construction sites--- either by not keeping the construction material covered or not ensuring that the construction and demolition waste is disposed properly. “In some cases, we have penalised the contractors while in others, we have made the contractor pick up the waste from roadside and get it disposed at the designated site. We have also asked the Noida authority to carry out mechanical sweeping and water sprinkling along with the use of mist guns. We have asked the authority to sprinkle water regularly in some places where manual sweeping is done,” added Kumar.Additionally, the traffic police and the RTO have been asked to deploy more personnel in traffic prone areas to ensure vehicular movement does not stop and the traffic congestion does not aggravate the pollution levels in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-penalties-worth-70-lakh-imposed-since-grap-came-into-effect-on-oct-15-101638555413515.html
03-12-2021||Other||Agra family of four attempts suicide, elder daughter survives||The bodies of a couple were found on the office premises of the husband, located in Vanshi Vihar locality of Agra. Their daughters were found in the house, and while the younger died, the elder daughter survived.Police has recovered a suicide note in which, the husband and wife have claimed that they themselves were committing suicide and no one else should be held responsible for the deaths. Police has sent the bodies for a post-mortem examination. The reason behind this extreme step is yet to be made clear and the police is working on the status of the man’s business to ascertain if their financial position could be a reason.“Yogesh Mishra had his office in Vanshi Vihar locality within the Sikandra police station limits of Agra city. He was engaged in the business of batteries and had an office on the first floor while the ground floor was lying vacant. An employee at the office reached on Friday morning and found both, Yogesh Mishra and his wife Pratichi Mishra lying dead” SSP, Agra, Sudhir Kumar Singh, said after inspecting the spot. “The body of Yogesh Mishra was found hanging while the body of his wife was lying on the ground. A forensic team and dog squad was called up and possible evidence was collected and the bodies were sent for a post-mortem examination, the SSP said. “On enquiry, it was found that both daughters of the couple were found lying in their house in Jagdishpura area. The younger daughter had died but the elder was unconscious but alive and was shifted to hospital for treatment,” Singh said. “A suicide note has been found from the office of Mishra and signed by both husband and wife. The couple took the responsibility of their own for suicide and have urged not to blame anyone for their deaths,” the SSP said. The incident has shocked the city and the police is now relying on the post-mortem examination report and clues to be obtained from the daughter under treatment.It appears that Yogesh Mishra had planned the deaths and might have given some poisonous substance to all three, including his wife and two daughters and then hanged himself in office. However, the elder daughter survived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-family-of-four-attempts-suicide-elder-daughter-survives-101638555354401.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||14 samples of positive patients sent for genome sequencing: BMC||Mumbai Four more Covid-19 positive cases were detected by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) among passengers with international travel history or contacts taking the count to a total of 14 cases of suspected Omicron variant. According to BMC officials, all these samples have been sent for genome sequencing.On Friday, two passengers and three contacts tested positive, however, one of them was not a resident of Mumbai. Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s health department on Friday, said, “We can confirm that 14 cases have been reported in Mumbai, of which 10 are passengers and four are contacts of these 10 passengers.”According to BMC officials, the first lot of 350 samples that were sent for genomic sequencing to detect the Omicron variant is expected to be out by Sunday or Monday. The BMC has sent around 350 samples from different categories including international passengers or contacts of passengers from high-risk countries.Further, according to BMC officials, owing to the outbreak of the Omicron variant, this year it will even appeal to citizens to take darshan online on the 65th death anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar. However, those who have taken both doses of vaccine can go and take darshan physically. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednkar has appealed that citizens should cooperate with the BMC officials.The BMC in a statement on Friday said that they have ordered the closure of the Global Vipassana Pagoda at Gorai between December 5 and 7 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The pagoda is a meditation centre and a monument built as a tribute to Lord Gautama Buddha. Hundreds of followers of Dr BR Ambedkar, who visit his memorial at Dadar on his death anniversary on December 6, also visit the pagoda. Civic officials believe the decision was taken owing to the prevailing situation of Covid-19 that has a threat from the omicron variant. The pagoda was shut in December 2020 also due to similar reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/14-samples-of-positive-patients-sent-for-genome-sequencing-bmc-101638555233175.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||IIT-K student dies in road accident||A student of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IIT-K) died after he met with an accident early on Friday morning, the institute spokesman said in a press statement. This is the second student of the institute who met with an untimely death in a week.Vikas Yadav, a final year BTech student in BSBE and three others had met with an accident while they were returning home in a car. All four students were returning to their home town in a car and the vehicle met with an accident near Hallet Hospital.“Unfortunately, Vikas Yadav succumbed to injuries and passed away. The other three students are safe and are being treated for minor injuries,” IIT-K spokesperson Girish Pant said in a press release.According to Pant, on Friday, around 4:21 am, the security control room of the institute received a message about a road accident involving the students of the Institute and that they had been rushed to Hallet Hospital.“The Institute security personnel also rushed to the hospital and found that four of the final UG students of the Institute, namely Dikshant Raj Meena (BTech, CSE), Vikas Yadav (BTech, BSBE), Anil Doodhwal (BS, Earth science), and Deepak Kumar (BTech, Civil) suffered injuries following the accident.“The parents of the student have been informed about the accident. The Institute mourns the untimely and tragic death of a very bright student. We (Institute) mourn the untimely loss of a young, bright mind and pray that God gives the family and friends the strength to bear this loss.This is the second student to have died in a week. On Saturday, an undergraduate girl of the IIT-K died after slipping and falling into the Ganga at Ganga Barrage. Sejal Jain was a second year BS student in the Department of Earth Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitk-student-dies-in-road-accident-101638554813395.html
03-12-2021||Pune||Fog in Pune delays, diverts morning flights at Lohegaon airport||PUNE All morning flights were delayed for a third day at Pune’s Lohegaon international airport due to low visibility as thick fog engulfed the city on Friday. “There is low visibility in Pune due to fog. As a result, flights are delayed or diverted… All passengers travelling from the Pune Airport are requested to check flight timings with their airlines,” the airport authorities said in a tweet on Friday morning. A flyer tweeted asking airline crew to serve food as they waited for over an hour for their flight to take off. “We have been sitting in the plane at Pune airport for the last 90 minutes due to low visibility,”theunamed flyer tweeted. Due to fog, authorities had to divert four flights in the morning: Ahmedabad-Pune diverted to Mumbai, Delhi-Pune diverted to Mumbai, Chennai-Pune diverted to Hyderabad and Delhi-Pune diverted to Mumbai. After 9am visibility improved. “Visibility has improved and IAF-ATC is now allowing departure flights to take off. Passengers are requested to please check for revised flight timings before they come to the airport,” said an official tweet. “The first incoming flight UK-971 from Delhi has Landed at 09:18 . Visibility is improving and Arrivals and Departures have started. However, there may be delays. Please check your flight timings before coming to the Airport,” the airport authority tweeted at 9:30am. On Friday, 75 flights were scheduled from Pune airport till midnight. The maximum temperature was 26 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature was 18.9 degrees Celsius. As per information provided by the India Meteorological Department “Shallow fog is forecast for Saturday morning”. On Wednesday, 44 flights were delayed due to low visibility. Officials did not specify the number of flights affected on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fog-in-pune-delays-diverts-morning-flights-at-lohegaon-airport-101638554753351.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Like TMC did in WB, SP will ‘finish’ BJP in UP: Akhilesh||Hitting out at the UP government, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said the way Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee “finished” Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in West Bengal, his party would do the same with the BJP in the upcoming assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. Speaking to reporters at a press conference before taking out his ongoing Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra in Jhansi on the last day of his three-day tour of Bundelkhand region, he said, “I welcome Mamata Banerjee. The way she finished BJP in Bengal, the SP will finish the BJP in Uttar Pradesh.”When a reporter asked him if West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will ride his rath, Akhilesh said: “When time comes, we will see”. Earlier, Samajwadi Party leaders privy to the matter had said that Banerjee may ride SP chief’s rath to drum up support for him as the next chief minister of the state. According to the party’s plan, three women leaders—Mamata Banerjee, Samajwadi Party MP and film personality Jaya Bachchan and former Kannauj MP and Akhilesh’s wife Dimple Yadav—will join Akhilesh’s Vijay Rath Yatra together.As for the Congress, Akhilesh said he did not know the party’s role in UP politics but added that the people would reject it. “It is possible that the party (Congress) may get zero seats,” he said. Akhilesh also said the Bahujan Samaj Party chief had a problem with the SP carrying the ideologies of Dr BR Ambedkar and Ram Manohar Lohia together.“The party (BJP) had secured all the seats in 2017 but this time the people would make it settle for zero seats. The people will close the doors of Bundelkhand on the BJP (in the 2022 UP polls) . The double engine (referring to the BJP governments in UP and at Centre) did nothing for the (Bundelkhand) region. Instead, it closed all the projects the previous government had started,” he said.Claiming that there a wave for a change in Uttar Pradesh, the SP leader alleged, “This government has done injustice using police to an extent that can’t be imagined. It discriminated against people on the basis of caste and religion.”In a reference to the recent inauguration of the Arjun Sahayak irrigation project by the Prime minister Narendra Modi in Mahoba, he claimed that it was inaugurated by his uncle in the past. “They changed the name and inaugurated it. This is what this government has been doing for last four-years-and-a-half,” he said and added if voted to power, the Samajwadi Party would ensure proper mechanism for water supply.Taking a dig at the BJP, he said, “Many grand events were held in Lucknow to bring investments and setting up of industries. Where are they ? The people would no longer accept the false promises. The issues such as inflation, unemployment and low income of farmers would seal the fate of the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/like-tmc-did-in-wb-sp-will-finish-bjp-in-up-akhilesh-101638554573638.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: In Other Times||Call it childhood’s innocence or arrogance — but we never thought it odd that throughout our growing years in Juhu, Sunday mornings were spent in a stately, book-lined lodge, singing ancient and new age hymns under the benign gaze of long-departed European spiritualists and occultists and one very alive and present Parsi heiress and cultural provocateur — Jer Jussawalla. Bright-eyed in our crisply- ironed whites, it was here, we’d congregate, to quickly slip on our coloured satin collars, as members of the international order of the round table, an outreach of the worldwide Theosophy movement, founded by the Russian dowager Helena Blavatsky, in the late 19th century. It was electric blue for the ‘pages’, parrot green for the ‘companions’, a deep purple for the ‘squires’ and finally, the order’s ultimate achievement –a jaunty pink, to signify the attainment of ‘knighthood’.As the first few notes of a furiously —pedalled organ rose —we had to form a queue in the lodge’s verandah, overlooking the small shed that housed my kindergarten school, and when the hymn had gathered momentum, the senior-most amongst us, had to knock three times on the door. “Who Stands Without?” a voice from inside would grandly demand. And on being satisfied with our response, the door would open and our little crocodile, led by a junior page, crushed under the weight of an enormous ceremonial sword and shield, followed by a ‘thurifer’ (whose job was to gracefully swing their ‘thurible’ so that the air was filled with the fragrance of heady loban) would make its entry.Inside, there’d be chairs arranged in a semi-circle around the empty ‘throne’ bedecked in red, representing the universal power of God, in whose direction there’d be salutations and obeisance and some pretty robust singing. And the ceremony would end with Jer’s fervent prayer, delivered with eyes closed, arms akimbo:‘O Hidden Life, vibrant in every atom;O Hidden Light, shining in every creature;O Hidden Love, embracing all in Oneness;May all who feel as one with Thee,Know they are therefore one with each other.’ She was born in 1918 to Gulistan Shroff and Jehangir Jussawalla, the latter, a wealthy businessman with interests across the world, who died relatively young, leaving the young Jer, her mother and aunt well provided for, with substantial properties in Juhu. It was not unusual for wealthy Parsis to acquire sea-facing bungalows there in those days (not a stone’s throw away stood the Tata weekend bungalow, where a young Ratan Tata would often visit,) and it was here that Jer, her mum and aunts settled in a fairytale, a sea-facing mansion called Besant Villa, named after the British human rights activist and social reformer —Annie Besant — in the sleepy verdant Theosophical Colony, predicated on and dedicated to the tenets of the relatively new religion, which drew equally from older European philosophies along with Hinduism and Buddhism.It could be argued that the widely travelled and freethinking Jer, the only child of wealthy parents (who was said to have been presented with an expensive automobile on her 14th birthday) and who was an exponent of the classical western and Indian arts such as Kathak, was an early feminist and bohemian; after all, she practiced yoga, swam daily in the Arabian sea, romped around the beach in shorts, meditated, expounded peace and universal brotherhood, never married and spent her money just as she pleased.That Theosophy, founded and championed by high-minded, freethinking refined European women, would appeal to the Jussawalla ladies, with their Iranian ancestry was a foregone conclusion, certainly, all that piano playing, old lace and incense appeared to be a natural fit, for both Jer and her mother and soon Besant Villa became the centrifugal force in its growth and dissemination in the sleepy suburb. This was just as well because it could have been just as likely that the ladies could have fallen under the thrall of that other great movement, founded by another European philosopher —Karl Marx— whose ideas had enchanted their immediate neighbours including Balraj Sahni and my late parents, whose cottages lay right next door in the same colony. ***If all this gives the impression that our childhood was an esoteric precocious phenomenon crammed with solemn rites and rituals, it would be half the truth. Because as much exposure as Jer afforded us to spirituality, through our Sunday round table meetings, she made sure that there was even more emphasis given to fun and games, outings and escapades. Most of these were centred around her capacious convertible jalopy, chauffeured by her trusty old driver, who would ferry at least a dozen or so high-spirited youth, standing on the back seat of the top-down car, singing at the top of their voices, to newer and ever invigorating adventures across the city. Chances are if you came across a vociferous bunch of young people singing robustly in the back seat of a vintage jalopy in the sixties and seventies, it was us - Mumbai’s answer to the Von Trapps, down to the last guitar chord.There were trips to old people’s homes to perform small tasks and services, weekends at the Muktananada ashram or field trips to hear Swami Chinmayanada speak, along with frequent picnics, bonfires and camping expeditions. And when we were not haring around the city, we were engrossed in putting up plays like Light of Asia and The Merchant of Venice at Besant Villa and at least once a year during our school vacations, Jer would cart us all off to a hill station, where amidst trekking and picnicking, we would be afforded a scholar’s insight into the works of Bach or Oscar Wilde.What is extraordinary and speaks of the times we lived in, is that as if all this exposure to the arts, culture and religions of the world were not enough, Jer undertook all the travel arrangements, responsibility and safety of over two dozen or more high spirited young people, with minimum fuss or expense, to the enduring gratitude of our parents who busy as they were making ends meet and fulfilling their creative pursuits never questioned her largesse or her motives.As for us children and its beneficiaries, it is with a measure of shame that I say that we accepted it all without giving it much thought as one of the neighbourhood’s rites of passage.It is only now when I look back that I marvel at how much it enriched and enhanced our lives and what an act of generosity it was. ***There are no monuments to Jer, who died after a long illness in 1989, nor any statues or tributes in her name. In fact, few people outside the circle of those whose lives she impacted, so memorably have even heard of her. When we- former members of the now-defunct Juhu Round Table meet as senior citizens we tend to speak of Jer and those magical days in awe and wonder. Did they really happen?For years I put off writing about Jer as I could not even lay my hands on a photograph of her. None of her relatives could produce one and I was told that most of her documents had been washed away in the high tide during Mumbai’s floods of 2005. Last year, Besant villa, which had once reverberated with the sound of music and dance and laughter was sold to a wealthy individual who will undoubtedly turn it into a swanky condominium, another Shangri-La of luxury on Mumbai’s skyline, leaving no trace of its legacy. Then, just as I was getting resigned to the thought that I’d have to consign my memories of Jer and the round table as yet another jewel in my private memory box, as these things often happen, my efforts finally paid off -and last week two hazy, black and white pictures arrived in my inbox.Not in the most perfect of condition, but there she was, with her familiar fine-boned features and eyes dancing with life and warmth. And I knew the time had come to share the extraordinary story of Jer Jussawalla and the immeasurable contribution she’d made to the lives of a whole swathe of us growing up in Mumbai, in a time so different from these days, when freethinking, intellectual curiosity and cultural vibrancy were encouraged and celebrated rather than silenced and victimised.Of course, it hadn’t been a dream. Such people and times had existed. After all, I have the photographs...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-in-other-times-101638554395944.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||UP Law Commission submits draft gram prahari bill||The Uttar Pradesh Law Commission on Friday submitted the draft gram prahari bill to the state government and made a slew of recommendations, including minimum educational qualification for their appointment, minimum age, essential physical fitness, regular monthly remuneration and a separate law to deal with issues related with gram prahari. As for the gram praharis, the commission recommended that they should immediately inform to the officer in charge of the police station appointed for their village or beat about every important activity or development in their respective villages. Besides, they should discharge all such duties as are mentioned in Section 40 of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, the commission said. Former judge, Allahabad high court, Justice (retd) AN Mittal, chairman, Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission, submitted draft of “The Uttar Pradesh Gram Prahari Bill, 2021” to the state government. “A draft bill on Gram Prahari along with a report on the issue has been submitted to the state government covering all aspects,” Justice Mittal said. “The Law Commission has made several recommendations to the state government. His (gram prahari’s) functions are very important. He plays a very crucial role for involvement of community in police system,” he added. 
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Two more from at-risk countries test positive||Mumbai Maharashtra reported two more fresh Covid-19 cases from the high-risk countries on Friday. The state also found one Covid-19 positive case out of 224 passengers who arrived from other countries. The state health department now has samples of 30 Covid-19 positive patients from high-risk countries, of which 28 samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune and Kasturba Hospital, Mumbai, for genomic sequencing to ascertain if the new variant has made its entry into the state or not. The results will come by early next week.“In an epidemic, we have to isolate, test, trace contacts, and the administration is following the protocol,” said health minister Rajesh Tope. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said that the reports are expected to come by December 7.“Even as Maharashtra health department is on a high alert after two cases of Omicron variant were reported from its neighbouring state Karnataka, there is no plan to introduce any fresh restrictions in the state or at the entry points from Karnataka,” said Tope. The minister also said that the new strain of Covid-19 has mild symptoms. Tope said that he spoke to union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan over the situation in Karnataka. “So far, there are only two cases in Karnataka. At this point, it is not required to set up check posts and other things for two patients. As the situation develops, we will take decisions accordingly.” he added.The minister also said that the countries that have Covid-19 cases of Omicron variant have gone from 11 to 30 in two days. However, he said that people should not panic as the variant is believed to have mild symptoms, though it is highly transmissible. “There are few cases where patients had to be put under intensive care or on oxygen support. The fatality is negligible. The variant has 30 mutations, therefore, we need to take more precautions. I appeal to people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour, to get fully vaccinated, and wear a double mask,” the minister stated. Till Friday morning, 2,821 passengers arriving from high-risk countries at Mumbai airport were tested. Additionally, field surveillance of all international passengers, who have arrived since November 1 is underway. A total of 30 samples from both airport and field surveillance have been sent for genomic sequencing. Out of these, 14 are sent to NIV Pune and 16 to Kasturba Hospital laboratory.Meanwhile, Maharashtra added 664 fresh Covid-19 cases in the state, taking the tally to 6,637,289. The state also added 16 fatalities, pushing the toll to 141,149. The active cases stood at 7,132 on Friday. Mumbai added 193 cases, pushing its tally to 763,403. It also recorded three fatalities, taking the death toll of Mumbai to 16,344. The daily positivity rate on Friday was 0.59%, while the overall positivity rate was 10.08%.
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Workshop on natural farming in Varanasi’s Sevapuri block from Dec 8 to10||VARANASI A workshop on natural and cow-based farming will be organized in the country’s first model developmental block in Sevapuri from December 8 to 10, in view of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s proposed interaction with farmers in Varanasi in the third week of December. Addressing a one-day workshop in Sevapuri on Thursday, member of Kisan Samridhi Aayog Srikrishna Chaudhary said a ‘Prakritik Krishi Yatra’ would also be taken out in every nyaya panchayat in Sewapuri block to create awareness among farmers about natural farming before the Prime Minister’s visit. Chaudhary said that according to the action plan, training in natural farming would be organized for selected farmers in all the development blocks of Varanasi on December 11, 12 and 13. The farmers would be informed about natural and cow-based farming on behalf of Lok Bharti. Training about natural farming will be given in Arajiline-Kashi Vidyapeeth-Harhua and Chiraigaon-Cholapur development blocks on December 11 and 12 respectively. On December 13, training will be given to farmers of Pindra and Baragaon. On December 15 and 16, Annadata Samman ceremony would be organized, he added. Deputy director, agriculture, Akhilesh Kumar Singh said collective efforts would have to be made to create awareness among farmers about natural farming so that more and more cultivators opted for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/workshop-on-natural-farming-in-varanasi-s-sevapuri-block-from-dec-8-to10-101638553553352.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Draw inspiration from Surdas, Hawking: UM CM Yogi to disabled people||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said persons with disabilities should draw inspiration from 16th century Indian poet Surdas and English physicist, cosmologist and author Stephen William Hawking (1942-2018) and also from Tokyo Paralympics Games medallists who proved that given proper environment they can overcome tough challenges in life. “Success in Paralympics Games indicates that if given a little encouragement, ‘divyang’ people can achieve anything in life. India won 19 medals at the Tokyo Paralympics where 54 para-athletes from across nine sports disciplines represented the nation. This was India’s biggest ever contingent to the Paralympic Games. The Uttar Pradesh government recently felicitated them at a grand function. Divyang people have achieved extraordinary milestones in their lives,” the CM said.Yogi was speaking at a state-level prize and accessories distribution function held to felicitate ‘divyang’ children who excelled in academics against odds on the occasion of International Day of Persons with Disabilities at Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (DSMRU), Lucknow. UP minister Anil Rajbhar was also present on the occasion.Listing out the measures taken to help “divyangs”, the CM said, “The state government has increased the pension of ‘Divyangjan’. The budget of the department has also been increased. In collaboration with the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment, programmes for distribution of artificial limbs to differently-able people were organised in every district.”He further said the state government was giving financial assistance of ₹20,000 each to persons with disabilities for the construction of shop, ₹10,000 each if they started working as street vendors and ₹10,000 for surgeries. “For the marriage of ‘Divyangjan’, if the couple are disabled, the state government gives ₹35,000 as incentives. Divyang people may travel for free in UP government buses,” Yogi said.Congratulating the heads of the associations always engaged for the betterment of persons with disabilities, the chief minister exhorted the ‘divyang’ people saying they can contribute to country’s development in multiple ways. ‘Divyang’ children who excelled in board exam were felicitated at the function. Besides, tricycles were also distributed to ‘divyang’ people.Shagun Singh, the incharge of artificial limb workshop in the department of physical medicine and rehabilitation at King George’s Medical University, was among those feted at the function. Singh has developed a new method for making comfortable limbs and also improve their functions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/draw-inspiration-from-surdas-hawking-um-cm-yogi-to-disabled-people-101638553373330.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh cabinet approves e-auction for mining||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh cabinet has approved a proposal to carry out mining in 12 blocks of minerals in select districts of Bundelkhand, mainly Sonebhadra and Lalitpur, through e-auction. There are indications that the 12 mineral blocks have rock phosphate, andalusite, gold, gluconite (potash) and iron ore. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, along with other cabinet ministers, approved the proposal through circulation method. Five of these 12 blocks are of andalusite and one of the ore of a platinum group metal. An official press statement said this was for the first time that the state government proposed to hold e-auction for mining of minerals. The state cabinet decided to appoint SBI Capital Market Limited as the transaction advisor for management of mining blocks of minerals through e-auction and nominate MMTC Limited for two years to provide auction platform. It may be mentioned that the Geological Survey of India identified five blocks of minerals for mining in Sonebhadra and Lalitpur districts. The state mining and mineral department has also found four blocks. On September 6 this year, the union mining ministry provided a report about three blocks found by the Geological Survey of India. With this a total of 12 blocks of minerals were available in the state, it said, adding, the decision was likely to lead to increase in the state government’s revenue, boost fertilizer industry and result in creation of jobs for people. Free treatment to journalists The state cabinet has decided to provide the facility of free treatment at private as well as government hospitals to nearly 5,000 journalists (accredited at district and state level) and their families under the Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan in the state. An official press statement said the state cabinet authorised the chief minister to take any decision or make any amendment in the scheme in future. It may be mentioned that the accredited journalists are entitled to free treatment at government hospitals like the common man. It was felt that the nature of work of journalists involved risk and as there was no scheme for free treatment at private hospitals, keeping in view the urgency of treatment, a decision was taken to cover them under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-cabinet-approves-e-auction-for-mining-101638552953198.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccination: In Prayagraj, over 9.54 lakh doses administered in Nov||Breaking its own record of giving over 9.39 lakh doses of Covid vaccine set in September this year, the health department of Prayagraj administered over 9.54 lakh doses in November, said district health officials. The district health department data show that out of a total of 9,54,146 jabs administered in November, 5,01,781 were administered to women while the number of men who took the vaccine dose was 4,52,018. Officials confirmed that more women than men turned up at both urban and rural vaccination centres for the third consecutive month in November. Till November 30, a total of 45,47,795 doses had been given to eligible recipients, which included 23,70,464 men, 21,75,368 women and another 1,963 members of transgender community. The officials credit the high number of doses administered to hard work of medical teams, steady supply of vaccines as well as participation on the part of both men and women recipients of the district. Additional chief medical officer and district immunization officer (DIO) Dr Teerath Lal said, “Over 73 per cent of targeted recipients of all age groups had at least been given the first dose, while 27 percent of the targeted recipients were fully vaccinated now in the district.” Of the total 8,41,889 doses given in October, 4,40,094 doses were given to women while 4,01,428 doses were administered to men, official data show. Similarly, in September, of the total 9,39,300 doses given, 4,78,740 were women and 4,60,002 were men. With the start of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 infection in the district, 11,504 doses were given to frontline workers in January. In February, the figure of doses given to recipients, including frontline workers, was 51,575 which grew to 1,17,625 in March and increased to 1,86,853 in April. The figure crossed the 2-lakh mark in May when a total of 2,21,808 doses were given to eligible recipients of all age groups even as the figure of jabs given to recipients in June was 2,74,860 and grew to 3,52,925 jabs in July. The pace of vaccination gained momentum in the second week of August and a total of 5,84,496 jabs were given in August alone. However, figures now show that November month has broken all previous records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-vaccination-in-prayagraj-over-9-54-lakh-doses-administered-in-nov-101638552773310.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||3 Madhya Pradesh cops among 5 killed in mishap on Yamuna Express-Way||Agra : Five people, including three police personnel from Madhya Pradesh, were killed in a road accident on Yamuna Express-Way on Friday morning when a four-wheeler struck the divider at 80 km milestone under Sureer police station of Mathura district. Three others, including a cop from MP police, were injured in the accident. “The accident took place near 80 milestone of Yamuna Express-Way in Mathura district. The vehicle rammed into a divider on Friday morning at about 5 am,” informed Sirish Chand, superintendent of police (rural), Mathura. “Five people were killed, including head constable Bhawani Prasad and woman constable Heera Devi. Constable Kamlendra Yadav succumbed to his injuries while being treated in the hospital. The other two who died were driver Jagdish Kumar and one Ravi Kumar,” said Chand. “The three injured people undergoing treatment include head constable Rati Ram and two others identified as Dharmendra Kumar and Preeti. The bodies were sent for post mortem examination, “said the SP rural. It is yet again feared to be a case of a sleep-starved driver falling asleep on the wheel. The cops were from Bhudera police station in Tikamgarh district of Madhya Pradesh and were going to Bahadurgarh in Haryana for recovery of a missing girl, revealed police sources. Inaugurated in ear 2012, the 165-km Yamuna Express Way connects Agra with NOIDA. It is ill-famous for frequency of accidents. Many of the accidents take place in the wee hours, as it is found that sleep deprived drivers, driving all through the night, fall asleep on the steering wheel, say those aware about traffic norms on the highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/3-madhya-pradesh-cops-among-5-killed-in-mishap-on-yamuna-expressway-101638552352870.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Most IITs get 50% more job offers than last year||Placements at the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) is witnessing a high number of job offers in the first couple of days, with many institutes announcing that the job offers made on Day-2 was almost 50% more than what they had received last year. Similarly, most institutes have also received a high number of international job offers compared to last year.“By the end of Day 2, we had 756 students with job offers, higher than the 503 recorded last year. This is a 50% increase in selections compared to 2020,” said B V Ravi Shankar, training and placement officer, IIT-Bombay. He added that eight international companies that participated on day two made quite a few job offers.Similarly, at IIT Guwahati, 530 job offers were made by the end of day two, nearly 50.14% higher than 353 job offers made by end of the second day of placements last year.IIT Roorkee recorded the highest number of international job offers over the first three days of placements. “Thirty-one international job offers have been made in the first three days and the total job offers stand at 810, by the end of day three. We are expecting this year to be the best placement season compared to the last few years,” said a spokesperson for IIT Roorkee placement team.
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Quota for economically weak members of Kayastha community demanded||Akhil Bhartiya Chitransh Mahasabha (ABCM) on Friday held a rally to mark 137th birth anniversary of Dr Rajendra Prasad, the first president of India, where demands were raised for providing reservation for the members of Kayastha community who were financially weak.“It’s the unity that matters. We all should stand united and force the political parties to choose us as one of their candidates. We should force them to change their working pattern and thinking process. Besides, reservation should be provided to the members of Kayastha community who are financially weak,” said Subodh Kanth Sahai, president of Akhil Bhartiya Kayasth Mahasabha, who along with international president of the organisation RK Sinha attended the rally as chief guest. ABCM spokesperson Veerendra Srivastava said the rally, which was held at Uttarakhand Mahotsav Sthal on the banks of Gomti, was led by national president of ABCM Vinod Bihari Verma and aimed at making the political parties aware of “our presence”. “We want to tell them that we won’t sit quiet if we don’t get our due. We are here to fight for our rights and for the welfare of Kayasth Samaj,” he said. Sanjeev Verma, national president of ABCM also motivated the gathering and said ABCM will continue to raise the issues that bother the community. On the occasion Vinod Srivastava, K Saran, Veerendra Saxena, Subhash Chandra, Rajan Saxena, Nepolian Saxena, Vimlesh Chandra, Kavita Srivastava, Uttar Srivastava, Sanjeev Saxena, Lalit Srivastava, Sujeet Sarivastava and others were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/quota-for-economically-weak-members-of-kayastha-community-demanded-101638551453240.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Two new suspects detained in connection with Phaphamau rape, murders||A few days after the arrest of a 23-year-old youth in connection with the brutal murder of four members of a dalit family and rape of the 25-year-old victim, police have detained two youths, who are now believed to be the prime suspects in the case. The arrested youths are cousins and are being questioned by police teams.One of the accused was in contact with the woman and killed her as she was pressuring him for marriage, police said.According to police sources, the prime suspect Shashi Patel was in regular contact with the woman. The woman even reached his house to pressurise him for marriage and threatened to disclose their relationship to his kin. She even issued a threat to approach the police if he refuses to marry her. The suspect and his cousin killed the woman to get rid of her. However, police officials are collecting concrete evidence against the two suspects before disclosing the workout.As per the investigations till now, Shashi Patel is a resident of Phapahmau, while his cousin Rajneesh lives in the Soroan area. Shashi met the woman at a coaching institute, and the duo exchanged mobile numbers and was in contact through calls and chatting on the mobile phone. Later, Shashi went to Delhi for a job and had a scuffle with the woman as she wanted to marry him. Shashi belonged to a different caste and was reluctant to marry her and wanted to get rid of her. He contacted his cousin Rajneesh and planned to kill the woman.As per the plan, Shashi came to Prayagraj and left his mobile in Delhi on November 21. Here, he met his cousin Rajneesh at Shantipuram, where they arranged for an iron rod. The duo entered the woman’s house late in the night and killed her parents while in their sleep. They then killed the woman’s brother and then raped and murdered the woman in the last. The woman was raped by only one of the youths.Police said that Shashi used to call and chat through Whatsapp and asked the woman to delete the chat history. Shashi called her on November 18 for the last time and assured her that he would marry her. After that Shashi did not make any calls and left his mobile in Delhi to avoid suspicion. He also asked his cousin to leave his mobile at home. After committing the murders, Shashi went to Kanpur and returned to Delhi via bus, while Rajneesh threw the rod in a drain before returning home.After the arrest of Pawan Saroj, the duo was convinced that they were safe. However, they came under suspicion after the recovery of deleted Whatsapp chats on the woman’s mobile. Police first traced Shashi and then detained Rajneesh for questioning.SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi said suspects have been detained for questioning after receiving vital clues against them. However, other scientific evidence like fingerprints, call records etc…, are being gathered. Investigations in this direction were still underway, he added.It is worth mentioning that a 50-year-old man, his 47-year-old wife, 25-year-old daughter and 10-year-old differently-abled son was found murdered at their house in the Phaphamau area. An autopsy report suggested that the woman was raped before being killed. On the complaint of victims’ kin, police lodged an FIR against 11 persons with whom the family was locked in a property dispute and arrested 10 of them. However, police later arrested a 23-year-old labourer Pawan Kumar Saroj and claimed that he killed the woman and her family with some of his aides as she repelled her advances. The woman’s kin have raised doubts on police claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-two-new-suspects-detained-in-connection-with-phaphamau-rape-murders-101638551332946.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Varanasi: Hi-tech control room to monitor KV Corridor’s security||Equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, an integrated command and control room will be made for the foolproof security of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, said Commissioner of Police A Satish Ganesh.The security of the entire campus will be divided into two zones, with each zone having 10 sectors. State-of-the-art CCTV cameras will be installed on every corner to maintain a strict vigil.The overall force will be increased, and many new points have been included in the new security plan that has been prepared after intensive brainstorming on many aspects, added Ganesh.The commissioner of police said that balance will be maintained between the safety and comfort of the devotees. A public address system will be installed to communicate important announcements and messages to the devotees.He said that the standing security committee comprising ADG security BK Singh visited and inspected the KV Corridor on Friday. Ganesh, divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal and other officers were also present. After inspection, a meeting was held in which subjects including access control, crowd control on the premises, and counter-terrorism mechanisms were discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasi-hi-tech-control-room-to-monitor-kv-corridor-s-security-101638551033808.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: All educational institutes must implement new NEP, says Atul Kothari||The new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 has been prepared keeping in mind the Indian culture and is the third education policy after the country’s independence, informed eminent educationist Atul Kothari, national secretary of Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, New Delhi. Kothari was speaking at the inaugural function of a two-day national conference on ‘flexible academic programme’ (FAP) at Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad (IIIT-A) on Friday. Kothari further said that the earlier two education policies were also good, but the same could not be implemented fully. He said that now it is high time for all educational institutions to come forward and completely implement the new NEP 2020. He lauded IIIT-A for taking the initiative to implement the flexible academic program (FAP) at national institutes as part of NEP-2020. He further said that the quality of holistic development is pervasive in the NEP 2020. In this emphasis has been laid on the maximum use of information technology. Positive and constructive suggestions from all have been adopted in this policy. With this, the glorious ancient history and modernity of our Indian knowledge tradition will be established, he added. Director, IIIT-A, Prof P Nagabhushan, in his presidential address, emphasised the need of having a counselling system in the flexible education programme (FAP). He advocated the implementation of an academic bank of credit as envisioned by NEP. The director urged the Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas to ensure that there is continuity in the appointment of a new director or vice-chancellors in institutions of higher education. According to him, a new director should come before the outgoing director leaves the campus. No proper connection takes place between former directors and the new one as of today, he said. Prof Neetesh Purohit, the FAP coordinator, said that it is in the final stage to be activated by various institutes in the country. FAP focuses on allowing multiple exits with provisions of re-entry, along with multi-disciplinary, multi-mode, multi-lingual, lateral entry etc. features of the new education policy. The conference aims to concretise various business rules related to academics, administration and financial aspects of FAP such that a 4-year pilot run of FAP from the academic year 2022-23. Prof Ajit Chaturvedi, Director, IIT-Roorkee, pointed to the main challenges in the complete implementation of FAP, while Prof Rajeev Tripathi, Director, MNNIT, praised the effort taken by IIT-A in this regard. Prof Mandira Agarwal, IIT Kanpur, laid emphasis on the implementation of FAP. Dr Pankaj Mittal, Secretary, Association of Indian Universities, and Satish Kumar Singh, President, IEEE, UP, also spoke on the occasion. Prof Vijayshri Tiwari, registrar proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-all-educational-institutes-must-implement-new-nep-says-atul-kothari-101638550554426.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Man arrested for murdering sister in Ulhasnagar||A mentally-challenged man allegedly murdered his sister and lived with her body for two days until the neighbours complained of foul smell.The incident occurred in Ulhasnagar Camp No. 3, C Block, Sachdev Nagar.An officer from Ulhasnagar central police said, “The accused had also murdered his wife a few years ago and was in jail for five years. He was living with his elder sister recently and murdered her at night two days ago by slashing her throat. We have nabbed him.”The woman and her brother stayed alone in the flat. According to police officials, the man killed his sister by slashing her throat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-murdering-sister-in-ulhasnagar-101638550252582.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Minor girl sexually assaulted after being kidnapped from marriage function||LUCKNOW A seven-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a 25-year-old youth after being kidnapped from a marriage party in a village in Banthra on the city’s outskirts late on Thursday night, said police on Friday. They said the girl was undergoing treatment at a city hospital while the accused was still at large.Initial information about the disappearance of the girl was received at UP112 police emergency response call centre on Thursday night, after which cops carried out combing operations in the vicinity and rescued the girl, said Khyati Garg DCP (central), Lucknow. The girl informed about a youth who allegedly sexually assaulted her after putting a tape on her mouth. The police retrieved a video footage of CCTV cameras installed at the banquet hall where the girl had gone to attend the function with her family, said Garg. She said a man was spotted taking the girl along with him from the function when she was playing with some other children.“The identity of the accused has been ascertained and he is a resident of a nearby village. Efforts are on to arrest him after registering an FIR on charges of rape and under Pocso Act,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/minor-girl-sexually-assaulted-after-being-kidnapped-from-marriage-function-101638548452222.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan resident arrested for killing grandmother seven years ago||Mumbai The Mumbai crime branch arrested a 38-year-old man, seven years after he murdered his grandmother on June 11, 2014. The police tracked the accused after he called one of his relatives through Facebook messenger. Pradeep Sonawane was arrested from Kalyan on Friday. He allegedly killed his 75-year-old grandmother Shashikala Waghmare by strangulating her as she was against his second marriage. The police said that Sonawane changed his identity and was hiding in the Kalyan area with his third wife and working as a painter. According to the police, Waghmare used to stay in Andheri (East). Her daughter’ son, Sonawane, used to visit his grandmother often. His first wife left had allegedly left him because he sold her gold ornaments, said police inspector Mahesh Thakur.“He got married to another woman in 2014 but his grandmother was against it and would often fight with Sonawane over it,” added Thakur. On June 11, 2014, Sonawane went to Waghmare’s residence at night for dinner and stayed over. He got up in the wee hours and strangled her to death. He then locked the house from outside and left with her gold ornaments worth Rs. 20,000, added Thakur.The incident came to light on June 13 after neighbours noticed an odour from the house and alerted police. The Powai police registered a case and were trying to find Sonawane for two years. Around six month ago, an official of unit 10 started questioning relatives of Sonawane to get some leads on him. “Luckily, one of the relatives informed us that Sonawane called him through Facebook messenger around eight months ago. We then started working on it but by that time, he had deleted his account. But after scrutinising his friend list, we got his latest picture which his relatives confirmed. Meanwhile, we also got his mobile number based on the technical evidence and after questioning several people, said deputy commissioner of police Nilotpal.A team of seven to eight policemen stayed in Kalyan and gathered information about him and eventually found him. He was then handed over to the Powai police station for further legal action, added Nilotpal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-resident-arrested-for-killing-grandmother-seven-years-ago-101638548392097.html
03-12-2021||Patna||AIMIM MLA refuses to sing national song||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) legislator Akhtarul Iman on Friday refused to sing the national song during the concluding session of the winter session of Bihar assembly, leading to a a furore. “Why is it important to sing the national song? It should not be imposed,” Iman said. The AIMIM MLA from Amour, however, said he had no problem singing the national anthem. “But singing the national song is not mandatory in Constitution,” he said.Talking to media persons, the MLA alleged that the Speaker was trying to impose a special culture. “Was assembly not running before? Did our ancestors not have love for the country. A particular culture are being thrust on us,” he alleged.The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) was quick to react. “We have a problem with those who do not sing the national anthem and the national song. If anyone has any objection to singing Vande Mataram, it means their intentions are wrong,” BJP MLA Sanjay Singh said.Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha said the tradition of singing the national song was being followed at Parliament as well. “This is being followed in Parliament as well and it increases country’s pride,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/aimim-mla-refuses-to-sing-national-song-101638548217289.html
03-12-2021||Patna||Mukhiya shot dead: 25 including cops injured in mob attack||At least 25 people, including policemen, were injured when a mob in Jamui district turned violet after a mukhiya was shot dead on Friday, said superintendent of police (SP) Pramod Kumar Mandal.The deceased has been identified as Jaiprakash Prasad alias Prakash Mahto. He was elected as the mukhiya from Darkha Panchayat under the jurisdiction of the Aliganj block on October 1.Police said the incident took place when Mahto was on his way home after attending a function at Balda More. Unidentified assailants intercepted him and pumped five bullets into his body. He succumbed to his injuries on the way to Patna Medical College and Hospital.As the news of the incident spread, the locals blocked Sikandra-Jamui main road, torched two police vehicles and vandalised other vehicles. When police tried to remove the roadblocks, the protesters pelted stones. Police had to use lathicharge and tear gas shells to bring the situation under control. Police sources said Mahto was murdered due to old political rivalry related to the election and that the enemy hired professional contract killers to eliminate him. “Family members are yet to share anything with police. They have not submitted any written complaint,” the SP said. “The motive behind the murder is not clear,” Mandal said.. 
03-12-2021||Patna||‘Can’t remit jail term for Anand Mohan in IAS officer murder case’||The Bihar government on Friday informed the state assembly that remission of jail term cannot be granted to former MP Anand Mohan who is serving a life sentence in connection with the murder of former Gopalganj district magistrate G Krishnaiah. Replying to a call attention motion, energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said, “Anand Mohan is serving jail sentence in connection with the murder of a public servant on duty. Remission cannot be granted in the case,” said the minister. Krishnaiah was killed on December 5, 1994, by a mob on national highway in Muzaffarpur. Yadav, who was replying on behalf of the government, said 374 prisoners serving sentences had been granted remission recently and that remission board meetings are held on a regular basis. However, opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) members trooped to the well of the house alleging that the government was not giving remission to Mohan out of bias against him. Chetan Anand, RJD MLA and son of Anand Mohan, said the former MP had already completed his sentence in jail but was not still being considered for remission . Other RJD members too alleged that the government was acting in a biased manner. Several RJD members, including Chetan Anand, stage a sit-in inside the well of the house, prompting Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha to adjourn the house till post-lunch session. 
03-12-2021||Patna||Assembly incident: ‘Humiliated’ minister forgives, but Oppn wants heads to roll||Bihar’s labour resources minister Jibesh Kumar, who had alleged that his car was stopped by police inside the campus of the state assembly on Thursday to make way for Patna’s district magistrate and police chief and that he faced “humiliation”, said on Saturday that he decided to “forgive” when the two officers met him yesterday evening and apologised while promising a probe.Soon after the state assembly sat for the day in the pre-lunch session on Friday, deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad said an inquiry has been ordered into the matter. “Once the report comes, suitable action would be taken,” he said. The labour resources minister informed the house that Patna DM Dr Chandrashekhar Singh and SSP Upendra Sharma met him late Thursday evening at his residence and expressed regret and apology over the incident. “I have given them forgiveness on the condition that a thorough probe would be conducted into the whole incident and erring officials would be held accountable,” he said, adding that he was apprised that the traffic was halted as the chief minister’s convoy had passed. “I was agitated because my car was halted twice despite the fact that the CM’s convoy had passed a few minutes back,” said the minister. Describing the whole episode as insult to the legislature, Kumar also thanked the Speaker for taking cognizance of the whole matter.Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha said he had seen the CCTV footage where it was visible the CM’s convoy passed at 11.04 am and a minute later, some cars were allowed. “Again, at 11.06 am, some cars were stopped. It might have appeared to the minister that when some cars were allowed, why was his car was stopped,” the Speaker said. However, opposition members strongly demanded that a house committee should probe the whole matter and also sought a reply from the government as why no tangible action was taken against any official in the incident where a minister had felt humiliated. Among those who sought a probe by house panel were Awadh Bihari Choudhary and Lalit Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) , Shakeel Ahmed Khan and Vijay Shankar Dubey of Congress and Mehboob Alam of CPI-ML (Liberation). On the other hand, Nand Kishore Yadav of the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), to which the minister concerned also belongs, said the government had already ordered a probe and the matter should not be stretched. 
03-12-2021||Other||Botched cataract surgeries: Nine shifted to IGIMS in Patna||The district administration of Muzaffarpur, where scores of people have lost one of their eyes over the last few days allegedly due to botched cataract surgeries at a private hospital, on Friday shifted nine persons with severe eye infection to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna for treatment, officials said. Dr Babu Saheb Jha, superintendent of Shri Krishna Medical College & Hospital (SKMCH) in Muzaffarpur, said, “Nine patients have been referred to IGIMS for better treatment following a directive from higher authorities. Another 12 patients, with one of their eyes removed, are recuperating under our observation here.” About the condition of the nine patients referred to IGIMS, Dr Rajeev Kumar Singh, head of department of eye at the SKMCH, said they all had severe eye infections. “Chances of survival of their operated eyes are slim,” he said.IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal the nine patients have been put in a special ward with semi-ICU facilities. “Since they reached late (around 4 pm), only preliminary investigations like blood tests were performed today. On Saturday, specialised investigation will be done to decide the future course of treatment,” he said. “So far, we have 16 beds in the special ward but that can be increased as per needs,” he said.So far, 16 people have lost one of their eyes after they developed severe infection following cataract surgery at a free camp organised at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital on November 22.Muzaffarpur ‘s civil surgeon Dr Vinay Kumar Sharma said that in all, 328 people underwent surgery for cataract at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital between November 22 and 27. “So far, all the complaints have been received from patients who were operated on November 22. However, a team has been engaged to monitor other patients as well,” he said. Meanwhile, police have booked 14 people, including secretary, manager and doctors attached with Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital, in the case. Jayant Kant, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Muzaffarpur, said no arrest had been made as yet. “A team of medical experts is to examine the lapses, if any, by doctors who performed surgeries. The accountability would be fixed on the basis of their report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/botched-cataract-surgeries-nine-shifted-to-igims-in-patna-101638548212308.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||PM to dedicate fertiliser factory, AIIMS to east UP on December 7||GORAKHPUR Prime Minister Narendra Modi will formally inaugurate two key projects – a fertiliser factory and the newly constructed AIIMS – in Gorakhpur and dedicate them to the eastern UP region on December 7, district officials said on Friday. The PM had laid the foundation stones of these projects during a rally in the run-up to 2017 assembly elections on July 22, 2016 from Manbela ground in Gorakhpur.Modi will also inaugurate nine laboratories at the Regional Medical Research Centre at the BRD medical college, said officials. “The people of Purvanchal are happy as the PM is coming to gift them two important projects,” said BJP spokeperson Satyendra Sinha. The visit of the PM, who inaugurated the Kushinagar airport on October 20, assumes significance as UP elections are due early next year. The east UP region, including Gorakhpur, Basti, Azamgarh and Varanasi divisions, accounts for 164 assembly seats, of which BJP managed to win 115 in the previous elections. The AIIMS is being dubbed as a flagship project to give a boost to the medical infrastructure of east UP while the fertilizer factory could bolster the BJP dispensation’s farmer outreach. The factory, which was once used to be the pride of the region and was shut down following an accident in the early nineties, would also boost the agriculture sector and generate jobs here. With a capacity of manufacturing 3,850 metric tonnes of neem coated urea, the factory has been set up afresh by Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL). Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, as five-time MP of Gorakhpur, had remained vocal in Parliament for the revival of the fertiliser factory in Gorakhpur and raised the demand to restore the past glory of east UP. After becoming CM, Adityanath ensured that the two key projects were completed expeditiously. Meanwhile, tight security arrangements were made and the city was decked up with lights in wake of the PM’s visit. Roads leading to the rally ground were dotted with posters and banners with Modi’s images and appeals of local leaders urging people to attend the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-to-dedicate-fertiliser-factory-aiims-to-east-up-on-december-7-101638547011950.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra resident doctors to stop OPD services from today||Overburdened with work due to being short-staffed, resident doctors from across the state have decided to join the pan-India protests to withdraw all Out-Patient Department (OPD) services from December 4. A statement released by the central Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) read, “Due to unexpected postponement of the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET-PG) counselling, all medical colleges across India are facing an acute shortage of resident doctors. At present, only two batches of resident doctors are present in hospitals which have led to them being overburdened with work, many on the verge of a breakdown.”NEET-PG 2021 which should take place in January was postponed to February first, then April, and eventually delayed indefinitely due to a spike in Covid-19 cases. The entrance test was finally conducted in September this year, but admissions post the exam has been stayed by the Supreme Court which is currently hearing a series of petitions filed by students questioning the validity of implementation of Economically Weaker Section (EWS) and OBC quota in all India quota (AIQ) seats.In the first week of November, in separate letters addressed to the government of India, the chief justice of India as well as the National Medical Commission (NMC), several groups of resident doctors have requested that the NEET-PG counselling be kicked off at the earliest. These letters have been written by the Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA), Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA) as well as Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD).“Central MARD has decided to extend its support to the other all India resident doctor organisations and we urge the central government as well as the SC to take note of the grievance by us resident doctors and take measures to expedite NEET-PG admissions,” read a statement of Central MARD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-resident-doctors-to-stop-opd-services-from-today-101638546411947.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai vaccinates 70% of target population with second dose against Covid||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has vaccinated 70% of its target population with the second dose, which is the highest compared to other cities in the district.While Thane city has achieved merely 48% full vaccination, Mumbai has vaccinated 74% people with both the doses.The target that the corporation had to vaccinate was of 11.08 lakh people though 11.74 lakh population has been vaccinated with the first dose.The civic officials claim that reaching out to people by setting up camps at markets, railway stations and door-to-door drive have improved the fully-vaccinated per cent in the city.The pendency list of those who have missed their second dose and the ‘har ghar dastak’ programme also helped improve the per cent.“Navi Mumbai has a floating population and hence there is always a possibility that someone migrating to the city recently is not yet vaccinated. We approached people using the data from the CoWIN app, ‘my family my responsibility’ survey and the door-to-door drive since last month,” a medical officer from NMMC said.NMMC has, till now, conducted 363 sessions of ‘har ghar dastak’ programme in which 10,369 people have received their first dose and 18,035 received their second dose. The Urban Health Post heads had sensed a reluctance in some of the population to get vaccinated due to which the only way to get maximum vaccinated with their second dose was by going to them instead of waiting for them, said one of the UHP heads.“At times, people keep delaying their second dose thinking that they will take it soon but it never happens. So, when Asha workers reach out to them informing them that they do not have to go till UHP and just have to come out at the nearest camp, they come out to get the vaccination. Megaphones are used to announce in the area about the vaccination happening,” head of Turbhe UHP, Kailas Gaikwad, said.When faced with reluctance, the UHP heads have even visited places of worship with doctors to convince the religious leader of the place on why the vaccination is important. “There is also a theory among some of the alcoholics that if they take vaccination, they cannot consume alcohol for a few days,” the UHP head said.Many of them are turning up for the second dose for the certificate to get access to trains and malls. Thus, camps are set up at railway stations wherein 5,390 have been vaccinated so far.Ghansoli station has many MIDC companies nearby and this station has been getting the maximum response at camps. The reason being many a time when the workers reach the station for a ticket, they don’t get one without the certificate and then take the vaccine for the same at these camps.Meanwhile, due to the good response at the railway stations, NMMC has also added vaccination centres at Koparkhairane and Airoli.Meanwhile from Friday, the corporation also started vaccination sessions at markets in CBD, Karave village, Sector 48 in Nerul, Nerul Phase 2, Pawne, Juhugaon in Vashi and Ghansoli. “Ambulances are stationed at the market places and on the first day itself, 650 people got vaccinated,” a medical officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-vaccinates-70-of-target-population-with-second-dose-against-covid-101638546354674.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Bundelkhand Expressway to be operational this month: UP CM||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday stated that the Bundelkhand Expressway would be made operational this month and assured 24-hour power supply to all villages and cities across UP. He made these announcements while speaking at the PM Gati Shakti National Master zonal (North) programme here. “With the help of PM Gati Shakti programme, we were able to complete the Purvanchal Expressway in record time,” said the CM. “The programme has been very helpful in infrastructure development. Even during the pandemic, no development work was stopped in Uttar Pradesh,” said Adityanath. The CM said that PM Modi launched Gati Shakti – National Master Plan for Multi-modal Connectivity – to give a new impetus to infrastructure-related projects within the country. It is a digital platform to bring 16 ministries including railways and roadways together for integrated planning and coordinated implementation of infrastructure connectivity projects.“Gati (speed) and Shakti (power) symbolise each other. PM Gati Shakti is becoming a big medium for boosting infrastructure development. During the earlier governments, the schemes of development were run at the speed of a tortoise,” he said.The CM said the state government had integrated the projects of 16 departments and agencies in the first phase to strengthen the PM Gati Shakti platform. In the second phase, 11 departments and agencies were being identified for integration on Gati Shakti portal.After Independence till 2017, only one and a half expressways were built in the state, while in the last four and a half years, Purvanchal Expressway has not only been completed, but Ganga Expressway, Purvanchal Expressway, Bundelkhand Expressway, and Gorakhpur Link Expressway will soon be available for people, he emphasised.The CM launched a scathing attack on the previous governments for “neglecting development in the state” and said the Noida International Airport was now being built on the same land of Bhatta Parsaul, which had been in the news for a long time for violent clashes between the police and farmers during the agitation against land acquisition.“The foundation stone of Jewar airport, Asia’s largest, in Noida has been laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 25. The farmers of Bhatta Parsaul happily gave their land to the government after our government was formed, that too only on twice the compensation rather than four times,” said Adityanath.The CM also said that till 2017, there were only four airports in UP – Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Agra. The present government started flights from Prayagraj, Kanpur, Hindon, Bareilly, and Kushinagar airports and the state now has nine functional airports, he added. Pointing out that law and order played an important role in the development of any state, Adityanath said: “After 2017, our government improved law and order and also implemented proper system for investment in the state,” He said Uttar Pradesh was at 14th position in ease of doing business in 2015-17, but now it was on No. 2 spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bundelkhand-expressway-to-be-operational-this-month-up-cm-101638546291904.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Merely 48% fully vaccinated against Covid in Thane||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has administered 21.67 lakh vaccine doses till now. Among these, 72% have received their first dose and merely 48% are fully vaccinated.In November, the city witnessed only 30% increase in vaccination. Despite mass vaccination drives, door-to-door vaccination and special camps held across the city by TMC, the vaccination drive increased by 26% till mid-November but hardly a 4% increase has been noted in the last ten days.Among the 21.67 lakh who have been vaccinated, 14.80% are those above 60 years of age, 26% are in the 45-60 years age group and 59.47% are in the 18-44 years of age.TMC officials have noticed reluctance in the minds of people who have taken the first dose. “The slum population seems to be hesitant to get fully vaccinated. They feel that the first dose will be enough to protect them from the virus. We have been insisting on only getting the first dose till now assuming that those who get jabbed the first time will come forward to get fully vaccinated. But we realised that a follow up is required,” said Naresh Mhaske, Thane mayor.Overall, looking at the number of vaccinations in each age group, 55% to 60% have received the first jab while 35% to 40% have received the second jab.Thane city has a population of 18 lakh to be vaccinated with two doses each. Overall, around 36 lakh doses need to be administered. However, only 21.67 lakh have been administered till now.“There might be a set of population that are not yet due for the second jab. Moreover, there could be a few more that got jabbed in neighbouring cities of Mumbai or Navi Mumbai. We have a team that calls those who have only taken the first dose of the vaccine and are due to take the second. Almost 80% of the calls we have made so far have been fully vaccinated elsewhere – in a different city or through workplace vaccinations,” said Dr Prasad Patil, vaccination officer, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/merely-48-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-in-thane-101638545154211.html
03-12-2021||Bhopal||60-yr-old man cried hysterically near son’s body on track. Train mows him down||BHOPAL: A 60-year-old man, crying hysterically on a railway track right next to his son’s body, was run over by a train in Madhya Pradesh’s Hoshangabad district late on Thursday evening.The man had seen his son die by suicide on the railway tracks moments earlier and was in a state of shock, police said. “His two brothers tried to alert him (about the approaching train) but he didn’t hear... and the train hit him.,” said Gurukaran Singh, superintendent of police of Hoshangabad.His 36-year-old son, the younger of his two children, had stomped out of their house in Shohagpur town just a short while earlier after a heated argument in the family. “He (son) also threatened of ending his life. The father and his two brothers also went after him,” Singh said about the heart-wrenching incident.The son went to the railway tracks not far from the house. “He jumped before a moving train and died. The man saw the accident and started crying loudly on the track,” the district police chief said. Soon after, another train came. The man and his son used to run a furniture shop in Shohagpur town. His elder son, 38, lived in Hoshangabad town, 70km away.The two bodies have been handed over to the family after autopsy, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-sat-on-rail-track-crying-hysterically-after-seeing-son-die-also-mowed-down-101638544791705.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||IAF help sought in probe: Cops trying to ascertain motive for fighter aircraft tyre theft||LUCKNOW The Lucknow police were taking assistance from Indian Air Force (IAF) officials to investigate into the theft of a fighter aircraft tyre and trying to ascertain the motive behind the incident as the plane’s tyre was of no utility for a common man, said officials on Friday.The police had on Thursday filed a case against unidentified people under Section 379 of the IPC after one of the five tyres of the fighter jet was stolen from a truck carrying an IAF logistics consignment from the Bakshi ka Talab airbase here to Jodhpur airbase on November 27. Driver of the trailer, Hem Singh Rawat of Ajmer (Rajasthan), had stated that two SUV-borne men stole the tyre when the trailer was stuck in a traffic jam. “We have sought assistance from air force officials as certain things during investigation could be done only with their help,” said Amit Kumar Anand, Lucknow DCP (East). The police were probing all possible motives behind the theft and scanned video footages of multiple CCTV cameras installed all along the route from BKT Air Force Station to Shaheed Path in Ashiana from where the trailer driver had reported the theft.Public relations officer of IAF, Wing Commander Ashish Moghe, confirmed that the aircraft’s tyre was reported to be stolen during road transit of IAF logistics consignment on November 27. He said the IAF was providing all assistance to the police in the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iaf-help-sought-in-probe-cops-trying-to-ascertain-motive-for-fighter-aircraft-tyre-theft-101638543471593.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Ahead of civic polls, Congress reaches out to Gujarati voters||Ahead of the civic polls, Congress is looking to regain its base in the Gujarati community and have decided to highlight the economic distress and livelihood disruptions that happened due to the Union government’s decisions.The Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC) is focusing on the economic hardships faced by the businessmen and small traders, among whom Gujarati-speakers form substantial numbers. To counter the sway of political Hindutva, the Congress will focus on specific caste groups like Patidars and Gujarati Dalits and will deploy its leaders from Gujarat to spread its message in the run-up to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections. Mumbai Congress organised an interactive session with the Gujarati community in Ghatkopar on Tuesday. The session was addressed by Hardik Patel, the face of the Patidar community’s protests in Gujarat seeking reservations. Patel is also the working president of the Gujarat state Congress. “The Covid crisis exposed the real face of Narendra Modi. He did little to help the small traders and the poor. The government works for the benefit of a chosen few among the industrialists. The smaller traders and entrepreneurs are facing massive hardships…with little support from the government,” charged Bhai Jagtap, president, MRCC. Jagtap said that Patel would help sway voters from the Patidar community, which has significant numbers in Mumbai. The Mumbai Congress also plans to deploy other leaders from the Gujarat unit like the leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani, Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president Amit Chavda, senior leader Shaktisinh Gohil, and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani. “The middle-class and small traders and entrepreneurs have been hurt hard by demonetisation…but since they are into business, they cannot take a critical position openly as they fear retributive action by the present regime using agencies like the Income Tax (I.T) and Enforcement Directorate (ED). These people are very angry and upset and want to get rid of this dispensation,” Patel told HT, adding that the Central government had failed to create jobs and employment opportunities. He charged that the BJP and the RSS were trying to deflect blame by using communally polarising and emotive issues. “In politics, the mood of the people is fickle. There was a time when the Gujaratis were with the Congress in Mumbai… regardless of their political affiliations, the Gujaratis hail from the land of the Sardar (Patel). After all, (Mahatma) Gandhi and Sardar built the Congress. The people respect Congress and we are trying to meet their expectations. We will work to meet these aspirations and ensure that the Congress grows among the Gujaratis in Mumbai,” said Patel, while predicting a “shocking result” in the BMC polls. Mehul Vora, who heads the Gujarati cell of the Mumbai Congress, said that the massive groundswell of support from the Gujaratis had helped the BJP notch up significant seats from Mumbai in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha and assembly elections. Vora added that Gujarati speakers formed around 30 lakh in the city’s population, with a significant presence across the city, eastern and western suburbs. Vora blamed the triple whammy of demonetisation, a blanket rollout of GST with multiple tax rates and the lockdown for distress in the community, and society at large. “This had led them shifting loyalties to the Congress,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ahead-of-civic-polls-congress-reaches-out-to-gujarati-voters-101638543111264.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Marathi TV serial production controller arrested for sexual harassment||A 40-year-old production controller was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly molesting and threatening a 32-year-old Marathi TV actor. According to police officers, the complainant acts as a body double in Marathi serials and she has acted in popular Hindi soaps.According to the cops, on November 30, the accused - identified as Swapnil Lokhande, production controller approached the woman offering her a role in his upcoming project. She accepted the offer. However, she was shocked when the accused allegedly asked her for sexual favours, which she turned down and cancelled the agreement. She said, after she turned down his advances, Lokhande began abusing and threatening her. After repeated harassment, the actor then, approached the police and reported the incident. Officer from the Aarey Sub police station said, “We have arrested Lokhande from the Film City and booked him under sections 354, 509 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for outraging the modesty of the woman by abusing and threatening her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathi-tv-serial-production-controller-arrested-for-sexual-harassment-101638542751387.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Need for Covid vaccination in HIV positive people: Study||Only 55% of people living with human immunodeficiency virus (PLHIV) globally have taken the Covid-19 vaccine, a new study published by researchers from Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) has revealed. The team assessed vaccination data of 6,952 PLHIVs from 12 countries, who were enrolled in another randomised trial, including 469 patients from India. Their finding revealed the rate of vaccination among PLHIVs in South Asia, including India, was around 49% and that the vaccination rates varied significantly by geography. The study found that the Covid vaccination rates among PLHIVs were lowest in South Africa (18%), Uganda (3%) and Haiti (0%), while countries like the United States, Peru, Brazil had higher vaccination rates at 72%, 69% and 63% respectively. The vaccination rate in the Southeast Asia region was 41% and Sub-Saharan Africa was 18%. HIV attacks the immune system. Its chronic and advanced stage is known as acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Due to the suppressed immunity of the infected patients, they become vulnerable to catching other bacterial, viral and fungal infections and are therefore at a high risk of catching Covid-19 as well. “As this is the first report of vaccination rates among a large, international cohort of people living with HIV from diverse Global Burden of Disease regions, these findings inform the field on overall and region-specific vaccination rates,” said Steven Grinspoon, chief of the Metabolism Unit at MGH and senior author of the study in a press statement. “Given that the data highlight major inequities in rates across regions, public health officials should use these data to increase efforts to provide access to vaccines for people living with HIV, particularly in those groups vulnerable to Covid-19 morbidity and mortality.” The study was published Journal of Infectious Diseases. India has around 23.49 lakh people living with HIV/AIDS, according to a 2019 estimate report of the Government of India. But country-wise estimates of how many PLHIVs have taken the Covid vaccine are not available. In Maharashtra, there are nearly 2.5 lakh people who are currently on antiretroviral therapy (ART) and just 20% have taken the Covid-19 shots. According to the Maharashtra AIDS Control Society (MDACS) around 50,687 PLHIVs have taken the first dose and 30,402 are fully vaccinated in the state. “There has been a lot of hesitancy among the PLHIVs to take the Covid jab since the beginning of the drive,” said Manoj Pardeshi, board member of the National Coalition of People Living with HIV in India. “Some believed that they would get Covid through the vaccine, while some were paranoid about falling severely ill. We have conducted several webinars, initiated discussions on WhatsApp and have been encouraging them to take the jabs. Our efforts have worked in several pockets where the vaccination coverage improved drastically,” he said citing the example of Pune where the overall PLHIV vaccination coverage stands at 98.7%. He said that a small number of the PLHIVs who have been bedridden or confined to their homes have not been covered. “We are now reaching out to the government authorities to allow home vaccination for them and also allow booster shots for PLHIVs as their immunity with the two doses of the Covid vaccine may still not be very high,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/need-for-covid-vaccination-in-hiv-positive-people-study-101638538791037.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Malik questions NCB’s motive behind seeking transfer of top cases||Mumbai Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) slammed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday for asking the state government to hand over the top five cases under the anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of Maharashtra police’s investigation to them. NCP chief spokesperson and state minorities minister Nawab Malik asked on what basis did NCB decide which cases they wanted to take over and whether the central agency wanted to encroach on the state’s rights.According to Malik, Satya Narayan Pradhan, director-general, NCB, wrote a letter to Sanjay Pandey, director general of police (DG), Maharashtra on November 24 asking for the hand cases. “This was being under the directives of union home minister Amit Shah says the letter,” Malik said. He also tweeted a purported copy of the letter which said, “It is stated that states may, where found appropriate and expedient, consider handing over such cases (having inter-state and international ramifications) to NCB to undertake the task of trying to unearth the entire network. In this connection, DDsG (Region) and zonal directors of NCB (as per jurisdiction) will be calling on/ contacting you and follow-up with your office.”NCB deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain did not respond to calls and messages when asked about the letter issued by NCB.“The union home minister expressed his desire that every state should identify a few such cases with inter-state and international ramifications and carry investigation to logical conclusions, especially in terms of identifying and unearthing the entire network,” the letter further states.“NCB wants the top five cases to be handed over to them. We want to know the criteria if top cases will be two grams, five grams, three tonnes (of drugs) or it will be based upon the mass publicity. Following the rights being provided to them, the state government’s with the help of their own units are taking action against the drug cartels. ANC has taken more actions compared to what NCB did. If you have your own unit, why do you want cases to be transferred? Do you want to end the state’s autonomy or extort money is a question,” Malik said questioning the motive behind the move.He also sought action in the 26 alleged bogus cases in which innocent people were framed and said, “It has become clear that the zonal unit is involved in extortion activities by forming a private army, in that situation the central government will have to answer as to why they want the transfer.”“Motive and intention of the #NCB upon reading this letter appears questionable? Why are they trying to infringe upon the rights of the state government when there is no provision in the NDPS act to do so? Is there an ulterior motive? NCB must answer the citizens of India,” Malik tweeted.
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Nigerian arrested in Diva for trying to sell drug||A 44-year-old Nigerian was arrested from Diva with 250g of Mephedrone (MD). Police claimed that there could be more arrests in the case after they get the report of technical details that they have sent for testing. The Nigerian has been remanded to police custody for four days.A few days ago, an officer from Mumbra police received information about a drug dealer coming near Diva dumping ground to sell MD. A team of officials, on November 29, laid a trap and nabbed the person red handed with the possession of MD powder worth ₹2.50 lakh.A police officer said, “The accused had come to Diva to sell the drugs. He is a resident of Kharghar in Navi Mumbai and has been developing his network here. Although he didn’t reveal the name or any other information so far, we are waiting for technical details of his phones and by recovering messages to get an idea about the remaining gang.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nigerian-arrested-in-diva-for-trying-to-sell-drug-101638537770865.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Sino-Pakistani military ties, cooperation, a cause of concern: Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh||Strong military ties between China and Pakistan is a cause of concern for the Indian Navy, said the flag officer commanding-in-chief of Western Naval Command, vice admiral, Ajendra Bahadur Singh. “Cooperation between them will remain a cause of concern,” said the vice admiral when asked about the Chinese military sales to Pakistan. Singh interacted with the media on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Indian Navy’s attack on Karachi harbour by Indian missile boats on December 4, during the 1971 war, celebrated as the Navy Day each year.In the first week of November, China handed over its Type 54A/P frigate rechristened as Pakistan Naval Ship (PNS) Tughril, claiming it will ensure a balance of power in the Indian Ocean.“China has been supplying a new generation of guided-missile destroyers to the Pakistan Navy. Pakistan had a very small navy, but recently there is a marked shift, as they have started acquiring new ships to enhance their naval capabilities,” Singh said commenting on the development. “China is also supplying them (Pakistan) submarines, but we are closely observing all the developments,” he added.The Pakistan Navy has also given contracts for the construction of eight Hangor-class submarines and medium-altitude long-endurance unmanned combat aerial vehicles from China.Recently, the Indian Navy also commissioned two submarines — INS Karanj and INS Vela and a destroyer, INS Visakhapatnam, having high indigenous content. Singh also spoke about the refit of the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya that is being done at Karwar, providing “immense economic benefits to the local industry.” The Indian Navy operates in a wide spectrum of operations, ranging from high-intensity warfare to providing humanitarian assistance and disaster relief. Initially, the Western Naval Command’s focus was towards maintaining maritime security and stability through near-continuous surveillance and the presence of warships and submarines across its entire Area of Operations.It had undertaken massive Humanitarian and Disaster Relief (HADR) operations during Cyclone Tauktae in May, which turned out to be the largest search and rescue operation in the high seas, which saw the rescue of 188 persons. On the military front, it has planned Exercise Paschim Lehar on the west coast early in 2022, which will also witness participation from the Indian Army, Indian Air Force (IAF) and Indian Coast Guard (ICG).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sinopakistani-military-ties-cooperation-a-cause-of-concern-vice-admiral-ajendra-bahadur-singh-101638537590852.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||CIDCO obtains blanket NOC from Airport Authority of India for permissible heights of buildings in Navi Mumbai Airport Rehabilitation area||The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) has succeeded in getting extension of the blanket No Objection Certificate (NOC) from Airport Authority of India (AAI) for permissible heights of buildings in Navi Mumbai Airport Rehabilitation area. This will save the hassle of getting individual permissions by the applicants and accelerate development in the region.Five out of the six blanket NOCs for Sector 1 (Vadghar), Sector 24 (Vahal 1), Sector 25 (Vahal 2), Sector 25A (Vahal 3), Pushpak Nagar have been extended till January to March 2024. Efforts are being made to extend the validity of remaining NOCs for the R-1 to R-5 (Vadghar 1) area.CIDCO VC-MD, Sanjay Mukherjee, said, “CIDCO had obtained a blanket NOC from AAI regarding permissible heights for the building in the rehabilitation area in the year 2015. The validity of the said NOC had lapsed in 2020. Therefore, the applicants seeking development permissions and occupancy certificates had to approach AAI individually for getting these NOCs. To resolve the issue, CIDCO management pursued the matter with AAI and has succeeded in getting extension in validity of these blanket NOCs.” He expressed that this decision would accelerate the development of the airport rehabilitation and resettlement area.After the extension was granted, in October-November 2021, CIDCO granted seven development permissions and issued 34 Occupancy Certificates in rehabilitation and resettlement (R&R) pockets.The Unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations (UDCPRs) are applicable for CIDCO area. CIDCO had requested to permit row housing and semi-detached type development in the plots having area up to 450sqm in R&R pockets, which was considered by the state. Thereby, the plots allotted to PAPs in R&R pockets having area up to 450sqm can be developed in semi-detached and row house type pattern with permissible FSI of 1.5, within height of 13m (excluding the height of stilt floors for parking).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cidco-obtains-blanket-noc-from-airport-authority-of-india-for-permissible-heights-of-buildings-in-navi-mumbai-airport-rehabilitation-area-101638536634593.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Duration of traffic signals tweaked in Thane to ease congestion||In order to ease traffic congestion on arterial roads and busy junctions in the city, the Thane Traffic Police have started tweaking the duration of traffic signals during various time slots throughout the day.According to Traffic Police officials, the initiative was kicked off 15 days ago, and traffic patterns across Thane are still being studied so that the necessary changes can be made.Traffic police officials said that the idea was born from the observation that fixed traffic signal duration were the cause behind traffic jams at numerous junctions. Traffic signal durations are set to change automatically through the day with the duration ranging from 30 seconds to two-and-a-half minutes. The signals are operated by the Thane Municipal Corporation, and the duration is pre-programmed by civic officials.“In many cases, we observed traffic jams so long that by the time motorists at the end of the jam reached near the signal, it had already turned red again. This would cause them to stop at the same signal twice as well as cause another jam behind them due to the backlog from the previous signal. We even found some extreme cases where motorists had to stop thrice at the same signal in this manner,” DCP (Traffic), Balasaheb Patil, said.Accordingly, the Traffic Police started studying patterns during different time slots, like 8am to 11am, 11am to 4pm, 4pm to 6pm and 6pm to 8pm. The patterns were also divided on the basis of the lanes like Mumbai-bound lanes, Ghodbunder-bound lanes, etc. Police found that traffic patterns for each of these time slots as well as lanes were significantly different from each other.“For example, the Mumbai-bound lanes at Teen Haath Naka in Thane, both on the flyover as well as under it, witness the heaviest traffic from 8am to 11am and are relatively free in the evening. The situation is reversed from 6pm to 11pm. Accordingly, shortening the duration of the traffic signals during high-density hours on the relevant lanes worked wonders with traffic jams decreasing significantly,” Patil said.After noticing success during the initial phase of the experiment, the Traffic Police decided to implement the initiative throughout Thane City, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/duration-of-traffic-signals-tweaked-in-thane-to-ease-congestion-101638535972289.html
03-12-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: December 3-9||Big Gigs featuring Sapta BeatsExperience an eclectic mix of original electronic sounds, synthesisers, infectious rhythms and catchy vocal melodies as Sapta takes over the deck with his unique soundscapes blending influences from India and the West producing an energetic and compelling ‘live’ act.When: Friday, December 3; 8pm Where: High Spirits, Koregaon ParkContemporary signaturesMichelle Poonawalla is showcasing ‘Cosmos and Water Reflections’ as part of the contemporary signatures show. Curated by Sapna Kar and Rajneeta Kewalramani, the exhibition features a collection of 101 artworks by 50 contemporary Indian artists.When: Friday December 3 till Friday, December 24; 11am-6pmWhere: Monalisa Kalagram, Pingale farms, Iricen Railway Colony, Koregaon ParkBlood donation During Covid-19 blood banks have seen a drastic decrease in blood collection. Hardas Heart Foundation’s #ProjectAdhikaar organises this blood donation camp with Sahyadri hospital.For registration call: 9049348910When: Friday, December 3, 11.30 am-6 pmWhere: Hardas heart care, Fortune Plaza, Thube Park, ShivajinagarDesigner candle makingLearn how to make beautiful candles in time for Christmas, and also to light up the rooms. To register call 9822254472When: Friday, December 3; 3pm to 6pmWhere: Studio Artzone, Bhandarkar roadOpen mic: Witches of ComedyWitches of Comedy are back to producing comedy open mics in Pune. If you are free this Friday, looking for something to kick start your weekend, look no further! When: Friday, December 3; 8:00 pmWhere: The Beans Talk Cafe, Viman nagar, Datta Mandir chowkSaturday Night ‘live’: The 90s’ KidThe 90s’ Kid takes centrestage with your favourite old skool Hip Hop. His powerful beats and extravagant tunes are guaranteed to make you groove.When: Saturday, December 4; 8pm Where: High Spirits, Koregaon Park Ikebana exhibition The Bombay Chapter of the Ohara School of Ikebana is organising a two-day Ikebana exhibition in memory of the late Mona Pingale, a former vice-president of the chapter. Chapter members from Mumbai and Pune will display flower arrangements of Ohara ikebana and freestyles. For further details call Ragini Kakkar (9881494648) or Archana Vaidya (9890500920)When: Saturday, December 4; 12:30 pm to 7:30 pm and Sunday, December 5; 10am to 7:30 pmWhere: Monalisa Kalagram, Pingale farms, Iricen Railway Colony, Koregaon ParkSunday ride to Bhor’s ‘necklace point’A Sunday long ride is being organized by the Cyclelogist’s bicycle hub, where the bicycle ride will be begin from Shaniwarwada and end at ‘necklace point’ in Bhor. This ride begins at 5am and is a distance of 90km.To register and for details call +917066541459 or +917770009885When: Sunday, December 5; 5amWhere: ShaniwarwadaPaint partyPrāna Art & Decor presents an offline paint party which includes painting, cocktails/mocktails and fun. Our workshop comes with step-by-step guidance by professional artists.Fees: Rs1,499/- per personFor bookings and to register call +91 85303 48080.When: Sunday, December 5; 12pm to 3pmWhere: Hippie@Heart, Bhandarkar roadPhoenix Comedy Festival: Gaurav Kapoor and Samay RainaBrace yourself to tickle your funny bone at Pune’s biggest comedy show. Phoenix Marketcity will be hosting Phoenix Comedy Festival with Gaurav Kapoor and Samay Raina.When: Sunday, December 5; 7pm Where: Liberty Square, Phoenix Marketcity Workshop: croissant making Crisp on the outside, tender within and soothingly buttery throughout - the classic croissant appeals wonderfully to the senses. Take on the perfect technique with all the trips and tricks in this workshop and learn in simple step-by-step method to make the croissant dough into delicious sweet and savory pastries.To register call 9766622662 / 9823844393When: Wednesday, December 8; 1pm to 4:30pmWhere: Online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-december-39-101638534832913.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||ED needs to grill Sena leader Anandrao Adsul, says HC; rejects pre-arrest bail||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday rejected former Shiv Sena MP Anandrao V Adsul’s petition for anticipatory bail in a case registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the alleged ₹980 crore fraud at the City Co-operative Bank.Justice Nitin Sambre delivered his ruling after going through a status report of ED investigations shared in a sealed cover by additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who appeared for the federal agency along with lawyer Shreeram Shirsat.Justice Sambre accepted ED’s request that based on its investigation so far, Adsul’s custodial interrogation was necessary and the Shiv Sena leader should not be granted a shield against arrest.Senior lawyer Ashok Mudargi and lawyer Subodh Desai, who appeared for Adsul to seek anticipatory bail, said the former MP was already cooperating with investigations and did not respond to ED summons because he underwent an angioplasty and apprehended arrest. Adsul was summoned thrice by ED but he failed to show up for one reason or the other.The 74-year-old politician’s residential and office premises were raided by ED officials in September this year in connection with a money laundering case registered against him linked to the alleged bank fraud.His initial petition to cancel the ED case against him was rejected by a two-judge bench of the high court on October 14. In this petition, Adsul argued that the case smacked of political vendetta and selective approach by ED at the behest of Navneet Kaur Rana, an independent MP from Amravati after the high court cancelled and confiscated her caste certificate in June on his complaint.Adsul’s request for an arrest shield was rejected by a Mumbai special court last month, holding that the prima facie material against him was found to be substantial and satisfactory.The ED case was initiated after Adsul, a former chairman of the City Co-operative Bank, filed a complaint with the economic offences wing of the Mumbai Police alleging irregularities in loans granted by bank officials without securing adequate collateral in case of default.ED started investigating the former MP after the agency allegedly found that Anandrao Adsul was also a beneficiary of some of the loans extended by him without adequate collateral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-needs-to-grill-sena-leader-anandrao-adsul-says-hc-rejects-pre-arrest-bail-101638534530749.html
03-12-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Back to school considerations, beyond majority wins||The manner of democracy seems to be slowly evolving in Indian society, at least in Maharashtra and at least in the matter of education. Most of my life I have been passively suffering the “Majority wins!” notion of democracy. That’s how we used to select what game to play, what movie to watch, who gets to become team leader, and so on. Last month there was a flurry of activity in households with school-going children. A flurry initiated by a government decision. The decision was to reopen schools for physical attendance, giving some conclusion to the ongoing debate of education in post-pandemic era. (A decision which might soon change thanks to Omicron, but that itself is a sign of how governance itself is evolving into an alert and responsive institution). The government has been doing its job - and well at that. Its job is governance through law-making, policy, guidelines and so on. In the matter of education and schools, it has been consistently taking a policy and guidelines approach, which means it is taking decisions that have to be taken at the government level. A policy and guidelines approach provides a framework which defines boundaries, specifying what must be done, what should not be done, and creating space for industry, organisations and society at large to take more particular decisions in relation to their own responsibilities, without stepping on any rights that should not be stepped on. To be clear: government is aware that its decisions affect all schools in the country/state. (Am using the term government to include central and state governments instead of separating them since in my observation both are governing well and in alignment). So, schools can reopen for physical classes if they want to. It is not a law that they should. But if they do, they have to provide parents with the option of protecting their children as per their own assessment of risks by withholding or providing consent for physical school. Further, physical classes have to be conducted with appropriate protocols to ensure that the school is taking responsibility of keeping the environment safe. There are significant differences between government, government-aided and private schools. Significant differences. One of the key ambiguities of media reporting of education is that these differences are rarely reported or explained. Government policies and mandates affect each school type differently. Government and aided schools have responsibility of disseminating education to economically-challenged sections of society and as such, policies and guidelines become decisions for the schools since parents and children cannot afford to exercise preferences. The same policies and guidelines may become options for private schools where parents and students can afford to exercise preferences after weighing pros and cons against resources. International schools are higher up the ladder in private education, which also means that parents in such schools have greater say - but have often influenced school decisions on the basis of majority wins when governance has not been strong as in previous decades. Majority wins is a political concept requiring lobbying, consensus building, without any real check or balance of what is right or wrong or appropriate for all constituents. But that is not the case at the moment. A parent can choose what’s right for their children without having to take the child out of school even if a majority of others choose differently for their own reasons. Factors that affect children having to go back to physical school are many in debate and at least some of those factors have nothing to do with quality of education but to do with lifestyle and convenience. Two of the most used reasons in public policy debate is quality of in-person education and children getting left out of the mainstream due to online education. These can be valid reasons for government and aided schools, but lazy arguments when it comes to children in private and international schools, but I will leave that for another day. Our children go to Bharati Vidyapeeth’s Rabindranath Tagore School. Our family take on mode of schooling is unanimous: online. The children love online because quality of instruction is high, they get flexibility to manage their play and other activities and projects, the engagement and focus of teachers on child’s needs is excellent and they are at no additional risk of infection. We took the decision as a family after looking at the cyclical pattern of virus variants across the globe, cyclical pattern of lockdowns and restrictions, quality of life data on the aftermath of those who have been infected among our family and friends, and considering the quality of online education with respect to what our kids want to do as careers. We were able to take this call because the government provided the space for individual decisions and because the school delivered quality continuously and respects individual decisions. The education industry has been hit hard (like many others) and those employed in education have had (and still are having) a tough time. What requires attention - irrespective of the school type - is the plight of teachers. Teachers have been at the forefront of schools adapting to online teaching, then to blended teaching methods (online and offline). They have had to pick up a tremendous volume of technology skills while doing their regular work and also have had their administrative workload go up significantly. Many lost their democratic voice while they struggled to upskill and keep their jobs, some lost income, some others lost jobs, but all lost sleep and endured high levels of stress. Private schools have had as hard a time as other schools. They may not have the moral responsibility of disseminating education, but they do have responsibility of providing higher quality education to students who will hopefully improve many things for the country in the future. And they have been doing that and have also stood with parents in difficult times and maintained fee structures or cut back during the past year and half. Quality of education in a school comes from principals, teachers and other staff. It is important that schools are able to protect and enhance the employment of their staff. With governance and institutions doing their bit, I hope to have the courage and sense of responsibility to do my bit as a parent and to stand with schools and pay fees on time, and also keep in mind that reasonable hike requests from schools should not be contested on matters of physical or online school. Schools may pitch on the basis of infrastructure and facilities, but one doesn’t pay for real estate but for education. Above all else, principals and teachers are also regular people like us. They watch out for our children. We have to watch out for them. In a democracy, the eventual ideal is that everybody wins-not just the majority or the minority or interest groups. Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-back-to-school-considerations-beyond-majority-wins-101638533870651.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||4-month-old’s death in BDD Chawl blaze: 2 doctors, a nurse suspended for negligence||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday suspended two doctors and one nurse from BYL Nair Hospital for medical negligence in case of death of a four-month-old infant, who had suffered burn injuries in an incident of cooking gas cylinder explosion at BDD Chawl, Worli, on November 30.The infant, Mangesh Puri, died at Nair hospital where he was brought for burn injuries. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the hospital, said that the official order for suspension was issued on Thursday and an order for a departmental inquiry was also issued after a video clip showing the burnt victims not being attended properly became viral on social media.“Suspension order was issued after a thorough investigation of the video-clip, that became viral on the Internet. The doctors and the nurse suspended were seen in that video,” Bharmal said.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in charge of public health in the BMC said that a committee has been formed to probe the incident and action will be taken against the ones found guilty.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the BMC has blamed the ruling Shiv Sena for not taking prompt action against this incident. Earlier on Thursday, 11 BJP corporators resigned from the civic health committee. On Friday, the proceedings of the civic standing committee was adjourned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4montholds-death-in-bdd-chawl-blaze-2-doctors-a-nurse-suspended-for-negligence-101638533810461.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body installs traffic signals with Marathi countdown timer||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has recently installed a few new traffic signals at the APMC market in Vashi, where the numbers displayed on the countdown timers appear in Marathi. This is the first time that motorists in Navi Mumbai have come across such traffic signals that display the countdown numbers in a regional language and not in English. The NMMC official said that they are doing this on a trial basis to understand the feasibility of the new system. A senior officer from the electrical department said, “We installed the new signals just a few days ago and will see the kind of response we receive from motorists. If a large number of motorists complain about it, we may even remove them. We also don’t have any plan to install more such traffic signals at other parts of the city.” A section of residents has welcomed the move; while some others have criticized the civic body for it. GB More, 52, a resident of Vashi said, “Marathi is the state language of Maharashtra and we don’t see anything wrong in using it in a few traffic signals. Because of such initiatives, people who do not know the language will also learn it.” Dolly Sharma, 28, a resident of Sanpada said, “NMMC is promoting Navi Mumbai as a city of international standard. Apart from people from across the country, a huge number of foreign nationals are also staying and working here. Those people will not understand the Marathi numbers and hence will face trouble. Personally, I found this move a little conservative.” The city traffic department said that the civic body neither informed them nor took their opinion before installing the new signals. Purushottam Karad, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) said, “As far as the new initiative is concerned, we really don’t have any idea about the motive of the civic officials. As these signals were installed just a few days ago, it will be too early to talk about their feasibility.” 
03-12-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police form SIT to probe suspicious death of Dalit man||The Uttarakhand police have formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the death of a 55-year-old Dalit man who died after upper caste men allegedly thrashed him for having dinner at a wedding in the state’s Champawat district on Sunday.“Three station house officers have been included in the SIT to carry out an unbiased probe in the matter,” said police superintendent Devendra Pincha.Pincha said Ramesh Ram’s widow has accused some upper caste men of beating him for having dinner at the wedding. He added they have filed a case on the basis of her complaint under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 302 (murder) and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Pincha said the SIT has started the probe. “I have met the relatives of the deceased person and watched a video of the wedding. It does not look like murder...however everything will be clear after the probe. SIT will probe... This does not look the case of beating for having dinner...”Banshidhar Arya, a local Dalit leader, said they have been camping in the man’s village after the incident and want justice for his family. “Police must start a probe soon so that justice can be ensured and punishment is given to the accused. We are hopeful that police will soon catch the person responsible for this heinous crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-police-form-sit-to-probe-suspicious-death-of-dalit-man-101638530930000.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: No exam fee for SSC, HSC students who lost their parents to Covid-19||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government on Thursday announced that it was waiving off this year's exam fees for those Class 10 and Class 12 state board students who had lost their parents to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection during the pandemic. Calling the gesture a “small solace” on part of the government to the children who had to suffer heartbreak during this difficult phase, state government officials confirmed that the fee to be waived is for the board exams are set to be conducted in 2022.“A small solace from our side to the children who lost their parents to the pandemic,” Maharashtra school education minister Varsha Gaikwad was quoted by the PTI news agency as saying. “The fee for state board exams 2021-22 is being waived off.” “We are aware that they have gone through a lot already, but their education must continue,” she added.The exam fees for Class 10 students appearing for the secondary school certificate (SSC) exam, and for Class 12 students appearing for the higher secondary certificate (HSC) exam varies from ₹300 to ₹500.The Maharashtra government has asked schools to submit the names of those students who lost their parents to the pandemic, so the administration can initiate appropriate proceedings to waive off their board exam fees. Maharashtra State Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) had last month decided to refund only 20.85% of the nearly ₹104 crore collected as exam fees from approximately 2.9 million SSC and HSC students for the academic year 2020-21.The Bombay high court had on July 29 this year directed the state government to consider refunding exam fees after board exams were cancelled on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. SSC students paid ₹315 each as exam fee, of which the board agreed to refund ₹59, or 18.73 per cent of the original fees. Similarly, HSC students paid ₹415 each, but the board planned to return ₹94, or 22.65 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-no-exam-fee-for-ssc-hsc-students-who-lost-their-parents-to-covid19-101638528306424.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation installs traffic signals with Marathi countdown timers||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has recently installed a few new traffic signals at the APMC market at Vashi, wherein the numbers displayed on the countdown timers appear in Marathi.This is for the first time the motorists in Navi Mumbai have come across such traffic signals that display the countdown numbers in a regional language and not in English.The NMMC official said that they are doing this on a trial basis to understand the feasibility of the new system.A senior officer from the electrical department said, “We installed the new signals just a few days ago and will see the kind of response we receive from the motorists. If a large number of motorists complain about it, we may even remove them. We also don’t have any plans to install more such traffic signals in other parts of the city.”While a section of residents has welcomed the move, some others have criticised the civic body for it.GB More, 52, a resident of Vashi, said, “Marathi is the state language of Maharashtra and we don’t see anything wrong in using it in a few traffic signals. Because of such initiatives, people who do not know the language will also learn it.”Dolly Sharma, 28, a resident of Sanpada, said, “NMMC is promoting Navi Mumbai as a city of international standard. Apart from people from across the country, a huge number of foreign nationals are also staying and working here. Those people will not understand the Marathi numbers and hence will face trouble. Personally, I found this move a little conservative and inward-looking.” The city traffic department said that the civic body neither informed it nor took its opinion before installing the new signals.Purushottam Karad, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said, “As far as the new initiative is concerned, we really don’t have any idea about the motive of the civic officials. As these signals were installed just a few days ago, it will be too early to talk about their feasibility.”
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police recover tiffin bomb, four hand-grenades from Gurdaspur village||Close on the heels of the busting of two Pakistan ISI-sponsored terror modules in Gurdaspur this week, Punjab Police on Friday recovered four hand-grenades and a tiffin bomb concealed in a sack from Salempur Araiyan village of the border district. Also read: Sidhu Moose Wala ‘will be youth icon’: CM Channi as Punjabi singer joins CongPunjab Police chief Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota said that in view of the recent recoveries of RDX, hand-grenades and pistols from Gurdaspur, checkpoints have been put up across the district by station house officers under supervision of senior officials. He said that during checking at a T-point near Salempur Araiyan, the Gurdaspur Sadar SHO found a suspicious sack under a roadside bush. On checking the sack, the four hand-grenades and a tiffin bomb were found. The bomb detection and disposal teams were informed to defuse the explosives. On directions of deputy chief minister Sukjhinder Singh Randhawa, police are on high alert in the border districts and daily night duty domination operations are being carried out. ADGP-rank officers are supervising the night domination operations. Police on Wednesday recovered 0.9kg of RDX following the interrogation of Sukhwinder Singh of Lopoke in Amritsar. He was arrested on Sunday, while, on Tuesday, the district police recovered two hand-grenades. A case was registered under Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Act. 
03-12-2021||Delhi||Katrina Kaif jaise ladki chahiye: Matrimonial agents list demands of Delhi-NCR residents||What used to be the usual criteria to look for a prospective bride and groom? Educational qualification is one and salary/income was another. But that doesn’t seem to be enough today if the matrimonial advertisements are to be believed. Recently, one such matrimonial ad that went viral saw a groom-to-be demanding his prospective wife to have a specific bra size, waist size and even foot size! The ad, for sure, received a lot of backlash. But it seems that the list of absurd demands doesn’t end here, with weirder specifications adding up. “Tip top lagni chahiye ladki. My family is looking for a girl for me right now,” says Shubham Singla, civil engineer based in Punjabi Bagh, adding, “Many might give me dirty looks, but I have no qualms in saying that I want a bride who is beautiful and fair, to match my complexion and personality. And I also need someone who has a good sense of style so that we look good together.”This is just one instance. Matrimonial agents in the city list out many such specifications that people enlist, which go way beyond physical appearances. ‘No one is looking for gori girls anymore’Contrary to what is believed, Vidya, a matrimonial agent from south Delhi based Elite marriage bureau says there is very less demand for brides who have fair complexion; as opposed to the common belief. “People of late want a sober, simple and intelligent girl who is adjusting in nature. No one is looking for gori girls anymore because they feel fair girls are high maintenance. Instead, they want someone who can and will take care of their family,” she says.Starry demands!“Apna ladka chahe jaisa bhi ho, sabko bahu chahiye Katrina Kaif jaise! Those who register with us brief us saying we want so and so actor type ladki, when we ask them about their expectations,” says Mithun Kumar from VIP matrimonial services in Ashok Vihar, adding, “Jitne zyada paise wali family aati hai humare paas, utni hi popular actress type ladki chahiye hoti hai unko.”Shaadi ka budget pegle, ladke ki income baad mein“Sundar ladki toh almost sabhi ko chahiye hi hoti hai. But other than that, a lot of people are now very specific about the wedding budget. Family mein paise hone chahiye, apne status ke according shaadi ka arrangement chahiye, ye sab batein toh hum humesha se dekhte aa rahe hain. Par ab, pehle shaadi ka budget batate hain, aur phir ladka ya ladki ka salary package,” shares Nancy Naagar from north Delhi-based The Perfect Jodi. Kumar adds, “Those looking for prospective brides want the wedding to be a grand affair. So it’s not like they want only the girl’s side to foot the bill. They are more than happy to share the expenses of the wedding. But, they fix an amount, say for example 20 crore, and then say that they’ll spend half the amount and expect the girl’s side to spend the other half. Many families registering the names of their sons with us want ki unke shaadi wale budget ke according family dhundein hum.”Size of family mattersSpecifications about bride or groom’s looks are just one part of the long list of demands put forth by families looking for prospective daughter or son in law. Another aspect to this is to ensure their beloved child lives a smooth, unperturbed married life, too. “Almost all the girls and boys today want to stay away from their families. Toh jahan bhi joint family mein rehna hota hai ladka ya ladki ko, us ghar ke bachchon ke liye match fix karna gets very demanding for us. With time it’s becoming a very common specification from parents. Ab woh ye nahi sochte ki baad me bachchon ke bachche honge tab dada-dadi ya nana-nani hi yaad ayenge,” adds Naagar.‘Matchmaking hai ya showroom?’Matchmakers rue that even if a family likes another family and also the boy and girl seem compatible with each other, they often seem unsatisfied till we don’t show them more options. “Agar ladke ko ladki pasandh bhi aa jaye phir bhi family bolegi ki koi aur bhi dikhaye pehle. Unko lagta hai ki shayad koi better mil jaye. Ye matching hai ya showroom me kapde khareed rahe hain? And they keep insisting to see too many options together, which I feel mostly confuses everyone,” says says Mithun Kumar from VIP matrimonial services.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/katrina-kaif-jaise-ladki-chahiye-matrimonial-agents-list-demands-of-delhi-ncr-residents-101638528349768.html
03-12-2021||Jaipur||Four South Africa returnees test positive for Covid-19 in Rajasthan||Five members of a family, including four South Africa returnees, have been quarantined after they tested positive for Covid-19 in Jaipur while their samples have been sent for genome sequencing. The development in Rajasthan came to light a day after two men in Karnataka tested positive on Thursday for the Omicron variant of Covid-19 that was first detected in South Africa.Chief medical and health officer (Jaipur), Narottam Sharma, said a 71-year-old person was found positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He said when they conducted contact tracing, they found four of his relatives had arrived from South Africa on November 25. Sharma said samples of 14 members of the family, including the four returnees, were taken. He added that these four, including two children aged seven and 12, were later also found positive for Covid-19.Also Read: Will Omicron variant cause third wave in India? How to prevent it? FAQs answeredSharma said the four live in South Africa and arrived in Jaipur with a Covid-19 negative report via Dubai. The family was tested in Dubai on November 22 and 23. The two adults among the four are fully vaccinated. Sharma said the four attended a wedding and came in contact with relatives from Sikar. Sharma said the district health officer in Sikar has been informed about this.“As per the guidelines, the positive patients have been admitted to the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences, which is dedicated for Covid-19. Re-sampling of the patients has been done and contact tracing is on. The samples for genome sequencing have been sent; the report is awaited.”The World Health Organisation declared Omicron a variant of concern last Friday. It suggested that preliminary evidence found an increased risk of reinfections as compared to other variants of concern. The new variant is heavily mutated with up to 30 mutations in the spike protein.India has added 11 regions, including all of Europe, to the list of the “at risk” countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in the country, including post-arrival testing for infection.State health minister Parsadi Lal Meena has separately ordered random sampling in crowded places such as markets, bus stands, railway stations, tourist places, and schools to control the Covid-19 spread. He added over 28,000 samples were being taken daily. Meena said this will be increased to 100,000.Rajasthan now has 213 active cases, compared to zero on November 1. Jaipur accounts for the bulk of them -114.
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Cops file charge sheet against 33 accused in Dombivli sexual assault case||The Maharashtra police have filed a charge sheet against 33 accused who were booked in September for allegedly assaulting a 15-year-old girl sexually in Dombivli for months, an officer said on Friday.Assistant police commissioner Sonali Dhole, who is the investigating officer in the case, told HT that the charge sheet was filed last month.A second officer, who did not want to be named, said the charge sheet includes statements of 122 witnesses as well as reports of technical and forensic investigation.The accused include four minors who are currently out on bail. The remaining accused are in judicial custody. The 15-year-old on September 22 registered a complaint against 27 accused and later named six more, saying they repeatedly blackmailed her into submission using a video of her. The accused have been booked under the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-file-charge-sheet-against-33-accused-in-dombivli-sexual-assault-case-101638526489694.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chamba villagers injured in clash with J&K Police team||Residents of Jaladi village in Salooni sub division of Himachal’s Chamba district clashed with Jammu and Kashmir Police personnel early on Friday. Also read: Traffic through Rohtang tunnel restricted after snowfallSalooni deputy superintendent of police Mayank Chaudhary said nearly 30 police personnel of Doda district of neighbouring Jammu and Kashmir raided the village, 80km from the district headquarters, in the wee hours in search of a girl who had eloped with her lover. They were carrying weapons and were accompanied by civilians. Their entry was also registered at the border police post at nearby Langera. “They had informed the station house officer (SHO) of Kihar police station about the operation but started the search without waiting for the local police,” said Chaudhary. The DSP said when the residents objected, the Jammu and Kashmir Police clashed with them and fired teargas shells at the villagers. “As the situation worsened, local residents informed the Himachal Pradesh Police after which a team from the Kihar police station was rushed to the spot to bring the situation under control,” he said. Some villagers were injured in the melee and were taken to the Kihar community health centre for treatment. Chaudhary said the villagers also alleged that the raiding cops were drunk and hence their medical examination was done. They are at Kihar police station at present. “The Jammu policemen said they used tear-gas shells in self-defence after the villagers attacked them. We have spoken to senior officials of Doda police. A report is being prepared that will be submitted to the Chamba superintendent of police after which further course of action will be decided,” Chaudhary said. Jaladi is a hamlet on the border of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The area is surrounded by dense forest and sensitive due to militant activities in the neighbouring UT. 
03-12-2021||Pune||Morning flights delayed for third day at Pune airport||All morning flights were delayed for the third day in a row at the Pune airport due to low visibility on Friday as thick fog engulfed the city amid a dip in temperature.“There is low visibility at Pune due to fog. As a result, flights are delayed or diverted for the next few hours. All passengers travelling from the Pune Airport are requested to check flight timings with their Airlines,” the Pune airport authorities said in a tweet.A flyer tweeted asking an airline crew to serve them food as they waited for over an hour for their flight to take off. “We have been sitting in the plane at Pune airport for the last 90 min due to low visibility.”On Wednesday, 44 flights were delayed due to low visibility. Officials did not specify the number of flights affected on Thursday.The mercury in Pune separately dipped amid rain to 9.3 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/morning-flights-delayed-for-third-day-at-pune-airport-101638522171105.html
03-12-2021||Gurugram||Delhi air pollution: Haryana bans construction activities in 14 districts||The Haryana government on Friday ordered the closure of all schools in four districts that fall in the national capital region (NCR) in wake of the deterioration in air quality in Delhi-NCR. This includes Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar -- all four share borders with Delhi.According to the order, issued by Siddhinath Roy, additional chief secretary, of environment and climate change, construction activities have also been banned in 14 NCR districts. Only non-polluting works like plumbing, carpentry, electrical work, interior decoration and those activities exclusively permitted by the Commission for Air Quality Management for NCR and adjoining areas, will be allowed.A complete ban has also been ordered on the operation of diesel generator sets except for emergency purposes till the pollution condition improves.The order comes a day after Delhi decided to close schools in the city, due to the Delhi air quality plunging to alarming levels. The city has already closed construction and demolition activities. Only construction work in hospitals has been allowed by the Supreme Court.Delhi's air quality index remained in the 'very poor' category on Friday morning. At 9am on Friday, the air quality index (AQI) was 358, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed.Neighbouring NCR towns Faridabad (289) and Greater Noida (250) recorded 'poor' air quality on Friday morning. The AQIs in Ghaziabad (331), Gurgaon (309) and Noida (315) were in the 'very poor' category.Delhi's 24-hour AQI was 429 on Thursday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/delhi-air-pollution-haryana-bans-construction-activities-in-14-districts-101638520838109.html
03-12-2021||Delhi||12 Omicron suspects admitted to Delhi hospital, genome sequencing report awaited||A total of 12 Omicron suspects have been admitted to Delhi's Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital in the past few days, news agency ANI reported crediting sources. Eight Omicron suspects were admitted to LNJP hospital yesterday. "Four suspects have been admitted today, out of which, two have been tested Covid-19 positive while the test results for the other two are awaited," the report said. Of these four suspects, two have come from the UK, one from France and one from the Netherlands, sources added.Samples of all four patients will be sent for genome sequencing on Friday, it said.Omicron: 9 international travellers in Mumbai test Covid positive; 1 from South AfricaOn Wednesday, six patients were referred to the hospital straight from the airport, medical director Suresh Kumar had said. Out of those six, four tested positive and two had symptoms, reports said.The health ministry on Friday said the severity of Omicron cases could be low because of the fast-paced vaccination in India and the population's high exposure to the Delta variant. "Given the fast pace of vaccination in India and high exposure to Delta variant as evidenced by high seropositivity, the severity of the disease is anticipated to be low," the ministry said in a statement.All states are on alert after the Centre on Thursday said two Omicron cases have been confirmed in Karnataka, including a 66-year-old South African National, who travelled back to South Africa via Dubai and a 46-year-old doctor with no travel history.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/12-omicron-suspects-admitted-to-delhi-hospital-genome-sequencing-report-awaited-101638519939733.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Air pollution: Haryana shuts schools in 4 NCR districts||The Haryana government on Friday ordered the closure of all schools in the four national capital region (NCR) districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar following the deterioration of air quality in the national capital, Delhi, and the NCR. Also read: SC gives go-ahead to Delhi govt to resume construction work of hospitalsThere will be a complete ban on all construction activities in 14 NCR districts of the state except non-polluting works, such as plumbing, carpentry, electrical work, interior decoration and those activities exclusively permitted by the Commission for Air Quality Management for NCR and adjoining areas. A ban has also been ordered on the operation of diesel generator sets except for emergency purposes as permitted by the Commission for Air Quality Management in all 14 NCR districts of Haryana till the weather condition improves. The power department has been directed to take steps to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply in NCR districts to avoid the use of diesel gensets. In the orders issued by the additional chief secretary, environment and climate change, the closure of schools and ban on construction activities is for an indefinite period till the air quality improves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-pollution-haryana-shuts-schools-in-4-ncr-districts-101638519828853.html
03-12-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal to soon conduct trials of Covid-19 booster shots||The West Bengal government is planning to soon conduct trials of Covid-19 booster shots in the metropolis, and has started feasibility tests at different medical establishments, a senior official of the health department said on Friday.Six hospitals have come forward so far, expressing their willingness to be part of the trials, he said."We are conducting feasibility tests in the city, where we are planning to have trials of the booster dose," the official said.School of Tropical Medicine, College of Medicine & Sagore Dutta Hospital, Nil Ratan Sircar Medical College & Hospital are the three government medical facilities that have evinced interest in this regard."We have also written to the Drugs Controller General of India, and hope to get a positive reply," he said.Priority would be given to those in the healthcare sector for trials of the booster shots.“Around 600 people will be chosen primarily from the sector,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-to-soon-conduct-trials-of-covid-19-booster-shots-101638513604687.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Traffic through Rohtang tunnel restricted after snowfall||Traffic movement towards Lahaul through Atal Tunnel at Rohtang has been restricted after the valley experienced mild snowfall on Friday morning. Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police (SP) Manav Verma said only tourist vehicles and taxis with four-wheel drive are being allowed to pass through the tunnel. However, all vehicles of local residents of Lahaul-Spiti are being allowed. Also read: Omicron: 9 international travellers in Mumbai test Covid +ve; 1 from S AfricaIn case of any emergency, people can contact the District Disaster Control Room on 94594-61355 or the district police control room on 89880-92298. In view of the bad weather conditions, the Himachal Road Transport Corporation has also suspended all bus services to Kullu. HRTC regional manager Mangal Chand Manepa said, “Bus services between Keylong and Kullu have been suspended. However, bus services towards the Pangi valley of Chamba will continue.” Meanwhile, the higher reaches in Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur experienced mild snowfall while middle and low hills experienced rain. Koksar got 8.09cm of snowfall, Gondla 5.2cm, Hansa 5cm, Sumdo 3.7cm and Keylong 3cm. Snowfall was also recorded in Kaza in Spiti valley. The tourist resort of Manali was the wettest place, experiencing 8mm of rainfall. Banjar got 7.2mm of rain, Sangla in Kinnaur 6.8mm, Kalpa 5.8mm and Bhunter 4.2mm of rainfall. State capital Shimla got 0.4mm of rainfall, Bilaspur 3mm and Sundernagar and Mandi 2.1mm each. The meteorological department has forecast rain and snow till December 6. Shimla meteorological centre director Surender Pal said a western disturbance is likely to affect northwest India from Saturday night. “A yellow weather warning has been issued for heavy snowfall and rain on December 5,” he said. Meanwhile, night temperatures rose by 2-3 degrees Celsius and the average minimum temperature in the state remained above normal. Keylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti, was the coldest with a low of minus 1.7 degrees Celsius, followed by Kalpa at 2.2 degrees C. Shimla recorded a low of 5.2 degrees, Kufri 4.7 degrees and Dalhousie 7.7 degrees Celsius. Manali saw a low of 6.8 degrees, Palampur 8.9 degrees and Dharamshala 10.6 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-through-rohtang-tunnel-restricted-after-snowfall-101638513588112.html
03-12-2021||Mumbai||28 samples from Maharashtra sent for genomic sequencing||Maharashtra government tested 861 international passengers until December 2, with three of them testing positive, according to data released by the state health department. Twenty-eight samples have been sent for genome sequencing, including the three found positive on Thursday. Their reports are awaited, officials said. Meanwhile, the state recorded 796 fresh Covid-19 infections pushing the cumulative cases to 6,637,221 on Thursday. The tally of active cases further reduced to 7,209 as 952 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. It also saw 24 casualties on Thursday and the number of fatalities stood at 141,049. Raigad reported the highest toll with twelve deaths. A health department release said, “Until today (Thursday) morning, 861 international passengers have been tested with RT-PCR and 3 of them have been found positive. Samples of all three patients have been sent for genomic sequencing. Additionally, field surveillance of all international passengers who arrived since November 1 is underway. A total of 28 samples from both airport and field surveillance have been sent for genomic sequencing. Out of these, 12 are sent to NIV, Pune and 16 to Kasturba Hospital laboratory (in Mumbai). Of the 28, 25 are international travellers and three are their close contacts.” The state has managed to diminish the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic even after lifting most of the curbs as no spike was recorded in the state after the festive season that lasted almost two months. But the situation has changed since the outbreak of the Omicron variant which is being called a super mutant owing to its transmissibility. On Thursday, the state health department said that there is not enough clarity on its severity, and more information is expected to be released in the next two weeks. It has also urged the people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and inform the state health authorities if they have international travel history from the last month and are not fully vaccinated. “On November 26, the World Health Organisation (WHO) named the Covid-19 virus variant detected in South Africa and some other countries Omicron. It has also classified the Omicron variant as a ‘Variant of Concern’. Experts have expressed possibilities that owing to the genetic modification in the virus, it may possess some specific characteristics. While the transmissibility of infection seems to have increased because of this new variant, there is still not enough clarity on whether or not it will cause a severe disease and whether it will evade the immunity. More information is expected in the next two weeks or so,” stated the release. “Genetic changes or mutation in viruses is a natural phenomenon and people should not panic. The state health department appeals to the citizens that they should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, inform the state health department authorities if they have had an international travel history in the last month and those who have not taken Covid-19 vaccine or have had only one dose should complete their vaccination at the earliest,” it added. With 220 cases, Mumbai again reported the highest number of cases in the entire state and its tally reached a total of 763,206 cases till date. It also recorded one fatality taking the toll to 16,341. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 108,329 samples and had a positivity rate of 0.73%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 10.1%, according to the data issued by the state health department. The state also administered 938,930 vaccine doses on Thursday and has administered a total of 116,209,817 doses till date, according to the data available on the CoWin portal. 
03-12-2021||Bhopal||Bhopal gas leak: 37 years on, children not then born scarred forever||They were not born at the time but hundreds of children live the horrors of that intervening night of December 2-3, 1984, every minute of every day -- their bodies trapped forever in congenital disabilities such as blindness and cerebral palsy.Thirty-seven years and some three generations later, the darkness of that night when 40 tonnes of lethal methyl isocyanate leaked out of the Union Carbide plant hangs like an impenetrable cloud over the lives of untold thousands, including children as young as three whose parents were exposed to the toxin when they themselves were children.What did help was therapy and special education lessons. That has been impacted with the Covid pandemic and the months of lockdown that followed. As the world marks another anniversary, those that were left behind count their losses.The official number of deaths from what has come to be known as the Bhopal Gas Tragedy, among the world’s worst industrial disasters ever, was 2,259 but activists estimate the number could be well over 20,000, maybe double that.The effects were devastating for those who survived, and for the generations that followed. Adding to the long-term effects of those who inhaled the gas was the slow poisoning of the groundwater. Those exposed passed the effects on, leading to many children born with disabilities, including Down's syndrome, muscular dystrophy and attention-deficit disorders.Alfez is 11, Umair 13, Isha 19, Mohsin 25… Just some of the many who live their lives confined to their beds and inside their homes, helpless and totally dependent for their everyday needs. While studies continue and much is still to be known, the chain from that night 37 years ago is clear, said experts. And it is going on still.Azaan is only four years old. He has cerebral palsy, a debilitating, genetic condition that probably goes back to his grandparents who were exposed to MIC.“I was eight months pregnant when the gas tragedy happened. My daughter was born with nasal related complications though not severe,” said his grandmother.Azaan’s seizures have increased in the last six months, probably because he didn’t get regular therapy due to the lockdown. Help has come in the form of therapists from the Chingari Trust, a rehab centre, doing weekly home visits and video calls.Eleven-year-old Alfez, who suffers from attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), leads a lonely life with few people to understand him. His mother Tarannum recalls taking him to a doctor when he wasn’t even a year old and being asked whether anyone in the family was affected in the gas tragedy.It finally turned out that his father Sajid, who was then just a year-and-a-half, had inhaled the gas. Decades down the line, when he had a child, the impact was passed on. And the doctor told Tarannum, “Alfez’s medical condition is congenital.”“The lockdown interrupted Alfez’s regular therapy (which includes speech, occupational and special education at Chingari Rehab Centre). His behaviour has changed. With regular therapy, Alfez had started to speak a bit. That has stopped and now he can’t even tell us when he needs to go the toilet and soils himself.”The behavioural problems of 13-year-old Umair Ahmed, who was born with Down’s Syndrome, have also exacerbated. Much loved by his family, he has started hitting out when someone comes too close because no therapy sessions have been happening. And his attention span has decreased,Umair’s father was just four in December 1984 when he was exposed to the poisonous gas. There could be other reasons for Umair’s medical conditions and research on genotoxic and long-term effects of MIC gas are still going on.The cases are many. Hidden in the bylanes of Bhopal, each story of despair lined with the silver of a loving family which looks after their children with care and empathy.Like 19-year-old Isha Ansari, who has spastic cerebral palsy, and doesn’t have use of her hands but like any other teenager loves listening to music, watching videos and playing on her mobile – operating it all with her toes.In her case, her mother Jainab was exposed to MIC. And both parents drank the contaminated groundwater for years.Amaan, 13, whose parents were exposed to the gas, also has cerebral palsy. He can’t eat himself but loves good clothes and good food, and even tries to do some writing.The lockdown has been tough.According to his family, Amaan was doing better with regular therapy but his condition has deteriorated now. He is not able to squat as he was earlier. He had also started articulating his words but has regressed to communicating through signals.Sixteen-year-old Zoya Khan, who has an intellectual disability with a wrist drop, holds her grandmother tight when she sleeps. “She looks for me,” the fond ‘dadi’, Asha Bi, said. A few months ago, Asha Bi lost her husband. The entire family – Asha Bi, her husband and her son – were affected by the gas leak.While Zoya’s father died a few years ago, the mother doesn’t keep well.Then there is the ever smiling Nida Khan, a 13-year-old who has Down’s Syndrome with alopecia, partial or complete lack of hair. Her mother Shabana Bi was seven when she inhaled the gas.Nida loves playing with her cousin, good clothes – shorts and dresses but not salwar kurta -- and her favourite film is “Chennai Express”.The progress made over the years has been hindered by no therapy. She is struggling with her speech. Four months ago, her father passed away. Though she hasn’t been told about it, she senses his absence and sometimes looks out of the window to say, ‘Abbu hain wahan’ (father is standing there)”.Not far away, Ayushi’s mother Jyoti kissed her on her forehead and said, “My daughter needs only two things; continuous love and regular therapy.” One is ever present for the child who has cerebral palsy and an intellectual disability, the other not so much because of the pandemic.Before the lockdown, Ayushi, also 13, had learnt to sit better, started signalling when she was hungry or when she needed to go to the toilet, said Jyoti, who was five when she breathed in MIC.Her brother’s child also has medical complications like Ayushi. There could be other reasons for Ayushi’s and her cousin’s medical conditions but there are researches on genotoxic and long-term effects of MIC gas.Mohsin is older, 25 and confined to his bed. He would earlier talk and walk but fell 13 years ago and his cerebral palsy worsened.“Mohsin understands almost everything. He knows when guests come home. He recognizes us and he plays with me and his siblings. He smiles at us when he is happy”, his mother, who was three in 1984, said.And so it goes on – lives whose destinies were written that cold winter night when poison spread through the air and the water.When will it end? Experts are still looking for answers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bhopal-gas-leak-37-years-on-children-not-then-born-scarred-forever-101638498459473.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGIMER yet to apply for genome sequencing authorisation||Amid concerns of transmission of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, is unable to conduct whole genome sequencing of positive samples as it is yet to apply to the central government for authorisation.The PGIMER authorities said it will take at least another three months before the institute can officially start the process. Genome sequencing attempts to draw out the complete genetics of the virus and helps identify its variant, which aids timely surveillance and regulatory measures.Earlier, in July and August, the PGIMER’s department of virology had conducted a pilot project, in which medical experts conducted genome sequencing of some samples. The same samples were sent to other national institutes, and the PGIMER’s results were found matching with their results.“We are in the process of applying for the authorisation. It will be done within a month, and the Centre’s authorisation will take another couple of months,” said Dr Mini P Singh, nodal officer for Covid-19 testing at the PGIMER.Dr Singh said that the PGIMER has an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved lab providing round-the-clock diagnostic services for 1,500 to 2,000 samples since the onset of the pandemic. “Further, we have been a centre of excellence and established more than 75 Covid-19 labs across North India as the mentor lab,” she said.At present, the PGIMER is sending its samples for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi. Since all states send their samples to the lab, test reports get delayed by over a month. The emergence of Omicron (B.1.1.529), a new variant of concern of Covid-19, has attracted worldwide attention. It is believed to have originated in South Africa in an immune-compromised patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pgimer-yet-to-apply-for-genome-sequencing-authorisation-101638481843170.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud:Consultant held for duping Amritsar resident of ₹16 lakh in Chandigarh||An immigration consultant has been arrested for duping an Amritsar resident of ₹16 lakh on the pretext of sending his wife abroad on a study visa. The complaint was lodged by Gurwinder Singh, an agriculturist hailing from a village in Ajnala, Amritsar. In his complaint to the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh, Kuldeep Singh Chahal, Gurwinder alleged that Palwinder Singh, alias Happy hailing from Amritsar, Ravi Gupta and Chhatterpal Singh duped him of ₹16 lakh on the pretext of sending his wife abroad but neither they sent his wife abroad nor returned the money. Gurwinder said Chhatterpal had introduced him to Palwinder and Ravi as they were running an immigration consultancy, Future Framez, in Sector 34. He said the accused had demanded ₹16 lakh to send his wife Paramjit Kaur on a study visa to England. He was told the entire amount is to be paid in cash. Gurwinder had paid them the money after raising it by taking loans from friends and relatives and against his land on October 15, 2020. After taking money the accused stopped picking his phone and even closed the Chandigarh office. The police arrested Palwinder, who was produced in a court on Thursday that sent him to three-day police custody. The accused had cheating cases registered in Punjab and the police are getting details of the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/immigration-fraud-consultant-held-for-duping-amritsar-resident-of-16-lakh-in-chandigarh-101638481608893.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Balbir Sidhu meets local government director, discusses extension of Mohali MC limits||The municipal corporation(MC), Mohali, has begun preparations for the next phase of the extension of the boundaries of the MC. A team consisting mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, commissioner Kamal Garg and other officials led by former health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu met the director, local government, Puneet Goyal, on Thursday. In this meeting, mainly issues related to the extension of boundaries of Mohali and other issues related to the MC were discussed. As per information, Sidhu asked the director, local government, to complete the demarcation proceedings of Mohali as soon as possible. Simultaneously the former health minister talked to Goyal regarding taking over the work of the public health department under the Mohali MC and asked him to expedite the process.Sidhu told Goyal that the rest of the process had been completed and sent to the Local Government Department. Also, the record of the revenue department and maps finalised accordingly has been handed over to the local bodies department. He said now the department had to finalise this extended demarcation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/balbir-sidhu-meets-local-government-director-discusses-extension-of-mohali-mc-limits-101638481607816.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Tragedy averted after mobile tower catches fire in Nayagaon||A major tragedy was averted on Thursday evening when a mobile tower situated in the residential area of Nayagaon went up in flames. No loss of life was reported but the fire spread panic among the residents of the area. Also, due to the congested road, the fire tender faced a lot of difficulties in reaching the spot, the residents said. Two fire tenders were pressed into service which took 25 minutes to douse the fire. The residents also alleged that they heard a minor blast from the tower during the fire. Umesh Gulyani, president of the Nayagaon market committee, said, “We have been pressing for the stationing of a fire tender here in Nayagaon but no action has been taken so far. Secondly, the streets are congested due to heavy traffic which hampers the movement of the fire tender. We demand that a sub-fire station must be established here.” The incident occurred at a mobile tower situated atop a shop after the generator set of the tower caught fire. The flames engulfed the entire tower within seconds and the residents ran out of their houses and shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-tragedy-averted-after-mobile-tower-catches-fire-in-nayagaon-101638481606595.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Chhota Rajan gang member among 5 arrested for robbing mother-son duo||A member of the Chhota Rajan gang from Mumbai is among five arrested for robbing senior citizen mother-son duo after drugging them in Sector 36, Chandigarh. The accused have been identified as Dilip Upadhyay, 36, from Mumbai; Lokendra Ranbhadur Swar, 41, from Bengaluru; Vishnu Bhagat Sodari, 28, from Maharashtra; Depender Bahadur Tadi, alias Basant Chettri, 22, and Milan Sonu, 20, both hailing from Nepal. Milan Sonu and Deepinder Bahadur worked as domestic help in a Sector-36 house and had on October 22 stolen cash and jewellery after sedating their employers — Sarvajit Kaur, 89, and her NRI son Surinder Pal Singh, 69. The police in a press statement said Upadhyay was a member of the Chhota Rajan gang and had three criminal cases registered against him in Maharashtra. The police said the accused were a member of a 12-member gang operating from Mumbai. Talking about their modus operandi, the police said the gang leader contacted Nepali youths, who are employed as servants or cooks, through social media and collected the data of their employers and their wealth. Thereafter, they lured servants or cooks by promising them money and their safe passage to Nepal. They also gave them intoxicants to serve their employers so that they could easily commit a theft when their employers are unconscious. The police said on October 15, the gang members reached Chandigarh from Mumbai, Nepal and Delhi and stayed at different hotels. Thereafter, they called up Milan Sonu and met at a park in Sector 35, Chandigarh, and hatched a conspiracy. As per the plan, Milan served food laced with intoxicants to his owners and committed the theft with the cooperation of the co-accused. After committing the theft, they fled to Maharashtra, Nepal and Delhi in separate groups. The police have recovered the cheque books of the complainants, Aadhar cards, ₹8,000 and jewellery from the accused. A case was registered on October 23 under Sections 328 and 381 of the IPC at the Sector 36 police station, Chandigarh, in this regard. The police said the gang had committed similar thefts of approximately ₹1 crore in November in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-chhota-rajan-gang-member-among-5-arrested-for-robbing-mother-son-duo-101638481605604.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Car catches fire in Chandigarh, driver safe||A car caught fire on Thursday night in Sector 40, Chandigarh, though no casualty was reported. The driver escaped unhurt while the vehicle was gutted. The cause of fire is not yet known but short circuit is suspected. The fire was doused by fire tender. Other short storiesDAV Chandigarh wins PU Tennis Championship
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala JJP leader thrashed after he flags illegal mining||Jannayak Janata Party’s district secretary and former sarpanch of Miyanpur village in Naraingarh, Amrik Singh was allegedly thrashed by a group of men hours after he reportedly highlighted illegal mining, police said on Thursday. Singh was returning from his farm on Wednesday evening when he was attacked by around eight men, who, he claimed, were involved in illegal mining. “Around 3 pm, I apprised the mining guard about illegal mining next to a flyover near Miyanpur river. I was crossing the site when Santu, Deepu and others attacked me with sticks till passersby came to my rescue,” Singh said in his statement to the police. The 64-year-old leader received four blunt injuries on different parts of the body, police said. An FIR was lodged against Santu, 30 and Deepu, 32, under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Naraingarh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-jjp-leader-thrashed-after-he-flags-illegal-mining-101638481602978.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Won’t be a surprise if Bikram Majithia joins BJP, says Amrinder Singh Raja Warring||Underlining that Manjinder Singh Sirsa’s joining had exposed Akali’s proximity to the BJP, transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Thursday said it won’t be a surprise if SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia follows suit and joins the BJP soon. Warring, who was in Kharar to lay the foundation stone of the modern bus stand, claimed that Majithia would break the news of joining the BJP anytime. While reacting to AAP “theatrics”, he claimed that the entire opposition was rattled. Taking a potshot at Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, he said leaders like him were constrained to orchestrate inspection of a toilet at a school. Urging people to give the Congress power to keep serving Punjab in 2022, Warring said the entire world was talking about Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s work in two months. Almost 400 buses, including 70 of Badals, had been impounded, Warring said, adding that anyone flouting norms would not be spared at any cost.Lays stone of ₹6.5-cr bus standGiving a major fillip to the infrastructure in the region, Warring laid the foundation stone of the modern bus stand to be built here at a cost of ₹6.57 crore. The upcoming hi-tech bus stand will be equipped with all modern amenities. It will be developed on a 16 kanal land of the panchayat samiti in the heart of the city. “The chief minister had shared with me that he had once travelled to Kharar by bus to join an agitation and at that time buses did not stop at Kharar. He had then decided to ensure that the city gets a proper bus stand,” he said.Warring assured shopkeepers that nobody’s business would be impacted and they would be suitably accommodated in the upcoming complex. Dr Manohar Singh, younger brother of the chief minister, said the construction of the bus stand in Kharar had been the dream project of the chief minister.  He mentioned that the chief minister had recently laid the foundation stone of a state-of-the-art modern model school to be set up in an area of 5 acres at Badali village, an English medium school where around 5,000 students would be imparted quality education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-won-t-be-a-surprise-if-bikram-majithia-joins-bjp-says-amrinder-singh-raja-warring-101638481543063.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Aerotropolis project in doldrums: GMADA chief seeks action against revenue officers||Upset over land registries being carried out after a preliminary notification for acquisition for the Aerotropolis project, an extension of Aerocity, was issued, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA)’s chief administrator Vipul Ujwal has written to financial commissioner revenue, Punjab, to take action against the sub-registrar of Mohali and joint registrar of Zirakpur. It comes a day after Hindustan Times highlighted that GMADA had halted the process of issuing letters of intent (LoIs) to around 500 landowners due to the registries done by the revenue department. The project has now been delayed by at least six months. In the letter, the GMADA chief said a notification under Section 11 of the land acquisition act, calling objections from landowners, was issued in February and October 2019 for different blocks of Aerotropolis and the revenue department was informed about the same. But despite this, the registrar of Mohali and sub-registrar of Zirakpur continued with land registration till August 2020, violating the act, wrote Ujwal, adding that strict action must be taken against the officials concerned.In September this year, GMADA had started issuing LoIs for 1,600 acres of land acquired for the township. It planned to complete the process within a couple of months and begin land development in November.However, now, it has been stated that around 500 landowners will not be issued LoIs as they got their land registered after the preliminary notification for land acquisition had been issued. So far, GMADA has issued LoIs for only 600 acres of the acquired land. The process is still pending for the remaining 1,000 acres. Gurminder Singh Bakarpur, one of the landowners, said, “What is our fault? They should take action against the revenue officers and allow us the letters of intent. We will move the Punjab and Haryana high court in this regard.”GMADA had started the process of land acquisition for Aerotropolis, its seventh independent township, in May 2017. In all, 1,600 acres of land were to be acquired on both sides of the Zirakpur-Banur road.
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||2 minors die of dengue in Mohali, 19 infections in Chandigarh tricity area||With two children succumbing to dengue in Mohali, the district’s toll reached 39 on Thursday. The latest victims of the viral infection are an 11-year-old boy and 11-year-old girl. Both were residents of Sector 70 and were admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. Nineteen fresh dengue infections were also reported in the tricity on Thursday, with Chandigarh reporting 10 of them. Seven cases surfaced in Mohali while two were reported from Panchkula. Tricity’s Covid tally in single digit after 4 daysAmid concerns of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19, the daily cases in tricity are beginning to see a rise. On Thursday, eight more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity, while the single-day tally was recorded in the single digit after four days. Four infections were reported from Chandigarh, followed by three from Mohali and one from Panchkula. However, no Covid-19 related death was reported from any of the three jurisdictions on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-minors-die-of-dengue-in-mohali-19-infections-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101638480702931.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: In second list, BJP replaces ward 30 candidate||A day after announcing its first list of 23 candidates for the municipal polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday released its second list comprising seven candidates.BJP replaced Sanjeev Grover, candidate of ward 30 (announced in the first list), with sitting councillor Shakti Devshali.Two more sitting councillors, senior deputy mayor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and Sunita Dhawan were declared as candidates. Party also announced the candidature of Kuljeet Singh Sandhu, Harjeet Singh, Yogita Vicky Shera and Vijay Rana. So far, the ruling party has announced 29 candidates, and the remaining six candidates are expected to be announced on Friday.BSP announces seven candidatesThe Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) announced seven candidates for MC polls on Thursday. They included, Jasvir from ward 7, Suman (ward 9), Asha (ward 15), Babli Gehlot (ward 19), Kulwinder Singh (ward 26), Arun Parbha (ward 28) and Trilok Chand (ward 31).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-in-second-list-bjp-replaces-ward-30-candidate-101638480403607.html
03-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The show must go on||The day’s previous screening didn’t take place. Nobody turned up, the gent sitting on the chair outside the theatre’s lobby explains.Raj is one of the only two surviving single-screen cinema halls in Gurugram, and perhaps the most surreal in the entire Delhi region. The ambience is unusually casual. The friendly man lounging on the chair is substituting for the box office window. Bhanu Pratap Singh is holding a sheaf of green old-fashioned movie tickets in his hands — ₹30 and ₹50 for the two “classes” respectively. Sitting beside him is Romi, the white Pomeranian who lives in the compound.The next show is supposed to begin 15 minutes later, at 3pm. Nobody is here yet.Managing to survive the multiplex era has distinguished Raj as a small wonder. And its survival in the ongoing age of the coronavirus pandemic (when so many thriving businesses have become history) makes it doubly wondrous.“We play the movie even if only one person arrives,” the ticket seller remarks.Dating back to the 1950s, the theatre sits on the vast Gurugram real estate like a guest who has overextended their stay despite taking up so much space in the house. The cinema, with its sprawling edifice, is clearly like the bulky movie halls from yesteryears. One expects a swanky shopping mall or a high-rise condo to swallow up these precious acres any moment now. A tall facade at the front hides a sloping tin roof.The lobby inside is empty, except for an attendant watching a movie on TV. The auditorium within is utterly quiet. Most of it consists of the ground-level seating called First Class (360 seats). The more exclusive Reserve Class (160 seats), which is the theatre’s balcony, is separated by a banister. The two sidewalls are punctuated by a long row of large ceiling fans.Soon, a man tiptoes in, carrying a paper cone filled with namkeen jhalmuri. He says he is taking a brief break from his work as a “kabadi walla”. Two more men arrive. Suddenly the wide screen lights up with a muffled sound. The movie, Garam Bazar, begins.Outside, next to the main gate, beside a series of four dry water taps, a handwritten flier cautions the audience to use face masks and to maintain doori (distancing).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-show-must-go-on-101638477961452.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||A week on, Patiala MP Preneet Kaur fails to reply to AICC show-cause notice on ‘anti-party activities’||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s wife and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur has failed to respond to the show-cause notice that the All India Congress Committee (AICC) had served on her on November 24 for indulging in anti-party activities. The party had given her seven days to explain her stand on the issue of Amarinder’s exit from the party and her future plans. “We didn’t get any reply from her,” said AICC secretary and party’s Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary. Chaudhary evaded reply on as what action the party plans to take against her, saying he would not like to explain internal affairs of party in the media.Preneet was served the show-cause notice as she was seen as supporting Patiala mayor Sanjiv Sharma Bittu, who was openly siding with Amarinder, after he was asked to prove majority in the civic body House. Even Preneet had said that she was with her family (Amarinder) when the Congress served her notice. In the notice, the Congress had accused Preneet of anti-party activities, saying that ever since her husband resigned from the party and floated his own outfit Punjab Lok Congress, she made open announcements in the media about siding with her husband’s party.“Kindly explain your stand on this issue within a period of seven days. Otherwise, the party will be forced to take necessary disciplinary action,” the notice read.After Amarinder Singh resigned from the chief minister’s post after months of dissidence within the party and hinted that he would quit the Congress, Preneet had claimed that she had no intention of quitting the Congress at that time.Amarinder has already announced that he will be fighting the assembly elections from Patiala, which he represented in 2002, 2007, 2012 and 2017. Despite repeated attempts, Preneet was not available for comments.
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP will field candidates from all 117 assembly segments in Punjab: Ashwani Sharma||Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma said on Thursday that their party would field candidates from all 117 constituencies in the state Punjab in the upcoming assembly polls despite former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh having announced his pact with them.“We will fight to win and form government,” Sharma said, while talking to mediapersons in Hoshiarpur. Defending Amarinder on the issue of “unfulfilled promises,” he said that promises were made (with the electorate) by political parties and not individual leaders. Sharma questioned as to why people who were now accusing Captain of inaction were silent for all these years.“We have been opposing the Congress’ policies and its mischievous electoral agenda. The Congress formed the government by making false promises but we will not do so. We will take a vow to serve people,” he added.Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal were misleading people with tall promises which would never become a reality, he claimed.Whether the BJP would bet on Amarinder Singh or Delhi leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who, on Wednesday resigned as the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president and joined the saffron party, as its chief ministerial candidate, Sharma said it was for the parliamentary board to decide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-will-field-candidates-from-all-117-assembly-segments-in-punjab-ashwani-sharma-101638477282575.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Not Channi, but it’s ‘changi’ sarkar: Punjab CM presents report card on his 72-day tenure||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said that he was not someone who made mere announcements as nearly 60 pro-people decisions and initiatives were taken by the Congress government in the state since he took over and all of them were implemented.Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, he said, “People say it is ‘Channi sarkar’, but I am nobody. I say this is ‘changi sarkar’ (good government).” He shared details of development works and initiatives taken by the state government after he assumed the charge as CM in September, replacing Amarinder Singh. “I am not ‘ailaanjeet’ (one who only makes announcements). I am ‘vishwasjeet’ (one who wins people’s trust),” he added.“I am here to give a report card before people. We formed government to serve people. We will work with full honesty and transparency. I will not break people’s trust,” he said.Targeting the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Channi said those who do not know anything about Punjab are questioning them about “aam aadmi”. They would not give anything where they have their government and making “false promises” with people of Punjab to “grab” power, he alleged.“We made power cheaper from November 1 by ₹3 per unit for those having load up to 7 kW. In Punjab, power is the cheapest in the entire India, I am making this claim, let anyone counter me,” said Channi, accusing rivals of “misleading” people.His political rivals, he said, were misleading the public because the bills recently issued were for October and the relief will get reflected in the coming bills, he said. ‘Only a Punjabi will govern Punjab’ Reacting to the criticism by the Aam admi party (AAP) over his recently made remark ‘kala angrez’ (black Englishman) against AAP convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Channi said that the people of Punjab do not want an outsider to run the government in the state. “Also, he can’t fulfill the aspirations of Punjabis and doesn’t understand Punjabi culture and ethos. Punjabis don’t want Rs. 1,000. If he wanted to make an announcement just for the sake of it he would have announced ₹5,000 monthly honorarium,” he said. Channi said comparisons cannot be drawn between him and Kejriwal. “How can he compare himself with me? I am a true Punjabi, he’s an outsider. He can’t compete with me in understanding Punjab, its requirements, culture and ethos,” Channi said. Facing criticism, especially from the AAP over not showing any “zero” amount electricity bills, Channi said bills of 22 lakh households, who have connected load of up to 1 kilowatt and up to 200 units of consumption, are zero.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last month had brought 1 lakh “zero” amount Delhi electricity bills and dared Channi to show even 1,000 such bills of his state. “A party chief (Kejriwal) has asked to show a single zero bill. I will show you lakhs of them in Punjab. All electricity arrears of households who have connected load up to 2 kW have been waived,” he said.Referring to Kejriwal’s announcement of giving ₹1,000 per month to women above 18 if his party comes to power, Channi asked him to first implement it in the national capital. “There (Delhi) he will not give anything, here he says ₹1,000 will be given. Are we fools?” he said.Facing criticism on sand rates, Channi said the rates have been fixed at ₹5.50 per cubic feet and anyone could procure at this rate from the quarry. He said his government was also considering reducing the transportation rates for sand.Evades reply on drug case On a query on the drug issue, the CM evaded reply, as according to him, the matter was in the Punjab and Haryana high court. “Please do not ask anything on drugs as it has bearing on the case in the court,” he said. Slamming the Shiromani Akali Dal over the farm laws, he said, “The SAD is mother of these laws. They passed a law of contract farming first and they showed it to their (erstwhile) ally BJP, which later brought farm laws.”On Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu, who has been targeting his own government over some issues, Channi said all issues will be resolved. “We are working under the party and we have to implement the policies of the party,” he said. Whether he sees himself as chief ministerial face for the elections, Channi said, “No. I did not see it earlier as well. My party made me (the CM). I was neither a candidate nor am I now. Whatever the party decides I abide by it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/not-channi-but-it-s-changi-sarkar-punjab-cm-presents-report-card-on-his-72-day-tenure-101638477170323.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Manjinder Sirsa forced to choose between BJP and jail: Akal Takht jathedar||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Thursday said that senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa was forced to join the BJP, claiming that jail was the other option given to him by the ruling party at the Centre. In a video statement, he said, “When foreign rulers, including the Mughals, came to India, they after occupying the country asked the people to choose either dharma (faith) or life.” “I had a telephonic conversation with Sirsa yesterday. It appeared to me that he too was offered two options. He was asked to either join BJP or go to jail. He faced the situation similar to that was prevailing during the foreign rule,” he said.The Delhi-based Sikh leaders are also responsible for this situation as they prepared the ground for Sirsa being forced to join the saffron party. “This is a political blunder,” he said.It’s unfortunate, says SGPC chiefShiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami also slammed Sirsa’s joining the BJP as unfortunate.“The Sikh Sangat in Delhi had given a big honour to Sirsa and the party (Shiromani Akali Dal) made him president of the DSGMC. His move has sparked outrage among the Sikh community,” he said. “Due to the three agri-marketing laws introduced by the BJP, farmers had to sit on the streets for a year, during which nearly 700 people lost their lives. By joining such a party, Sirsa has hurt the feelings of farmers as well as Sikhs”, Dhami added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manjinder-sirsa-forced-to-choose-between-bjp-and-jail-akal-takht-jathedar-101638476862629.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||It’s a direct attack on Sikh institutions, Panth: Sukhbir Badal on SAD’s Sirsa joining BJP||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday termed party leader and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa’s entry into the BJP as “a direct attack on Sikh institutions and the Khalsa Panth”. Addressing the media at Kartarpur in Jalandhar district where he was campaigning for SAD-BSP alliance candidate Balwinder Kumar, Sukhbir said the BJP used coercive and dirty tactics to make Sirsa join it. “This is the BJP’s revenge against us for breaking the alliance with it and quitting the Union cabinet to stand by farmers. But we have no regrets. We are really proud of our decision. We are ready to stand up to repression and will defeat them,” said the Akali leader. Sukhbir, who also paid obeisance at Dera Sachkhand Ballan, Dera Sant Baba Pritam Das Ji and other religious places, claimed that Sirsa sent him a copy of an FIR against him a day before his resignation and that he was asked to choose between jail or join the saffron party.The central government won’t let the Akali Dal’s elected office-bearers to take charge of the DSGMC despite securing victory in the elections. “I am disappointed that instead of being true to the traditions of his religion against repression, Sirsa chose to bow down,” said Sukhbir, adding that similar cases were registered against SAD (Delhi) president Harmeet Singh Kalka and 11 other members of the DSGMC. Sirsa’s move will not have any impact in Punjab as he has no following in the state, he said, adding, “Everybody in Punjab knows that he has no roots here.” Also, he did not rule out the possibility of the BJP government at the Centre targeting other Akali leaders. Senior leaders may join BJP todaySome senior leaders from different parties in Punjab are likely to join the BJP on Friday. State chief Ashwani Sharma has cancelled all programmes related to his field visits on Friday to remain present in the press conference on the directions of the party. The state party leaders were not aware as who was joining the party. A senior leader from the Congress could be inducted by the BJP’s national leadership in the press conference at the party headquarters, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/its-a-direct-attack-on-sikh-institutions-panth-sukhbir-badal-on-sad-s-sirsa-joining-bjp-101638476322546.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Life next to landfill in Ward 26 a constant nightmare||Living right next to the Dadumajra landfill, residents of Ward Number 26 remain in anticipation of a solution to their miseries.The horrid stench is the least of residents’ troubles, as the dumping site has also exposed them to a plethora of health hazards, including allergies, asthma and skin ailments.Spread across 45.11 acres, the landfill is located right in the middle of the ward, which comprises Dadumajra Colony and village, Shahpur Colony and village, and Rehabilitation Colony, Sector 38 (W).Amid rising temperatures in the summer, fires are also commonplace at the site, leaving locals struggling with respiratory problems. Leachate leakage, every time it rains, pollutes the groundwater resources.City’s daily waste of around 450 metric tonnes (MT) is directed to this site every day, but less than 50 MT is processed at the nearby Solid Waste Processing Plant, leaving most of it rotting in the open.“For over 20 years now, the residents of Dadumajra Colony have been protesting for clearance of the dumping site, but the political representatives and MC officials have turned a blind eye to the matter. While a boundary wall has been erected around the landfill, little has been done to clear the towering legacy waste,” said Dyal Krishan, president, Dumping Ground Site Joint Action Committee.“Those living in the vicinity of the landfill are running out of resources to fund their healthcare bills. Apart from ailing health, residents even battle the stench through day and night,” he added.Absence of basic facilities and infrastructure in the ward makes matters worse. “Even though our village comes under MC’s purview, not a single park has been provided. No development work has been carried out to improve the villagers’ lives. Roads need immediate carpeting. Poor sanitation is also a cause of concern,” said Jasbir Singh, a resident of Dadumajra village. Though the residents of Rehabilitation Colony, Sector 38 (West) have access to clean drinking water and sewerage system, they say parks, roads and street lights require maintenance.Rinku Sharma, a local, said, “The councillor remains unapproachable, even though the infrastructure is crumbling. Roads need carpeting and parks need maintenance. A councillor must fulfil people’s demands.”KNOW YOUR WARDLocalities: Dadumajra Colony and village, Shahpur Colony and village, and Rehabilitation Colony, Sector 38 (West) Reserved for SC candidateVoters: 28,000KEY ISSUESDumping ground in the middle of residential areaPoor sanitation and garbage piles along the roadsIll-maintained roads, parks and public toiletsLOCAL VOICESResidents are forced to live in dirty conditions due to the garbage dump. It needs to be shifted.Dyal Krishan, president, Dumping Ground Site Joint Action CommitteeOur village has no park despite being under MC’s ambit. Roads remain riddled with potholes. Sanitation also remains ignored.Jasbir Singh, resident of Dadumajra village The ward is devoid of even basic facilities, like proper roads and parks. Sanitation suffers due to inadequate number of sweepers for the large area.Ravinder Kumar Bansal, resident of Dadumajra ColonyWater gets accumulated at various points in our area, leading to outbreak of mosquito-borne diseases. The inside lanes need carpeting.Dinesh Kumar, resident of Shahpur Colony||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhlife-next-to-landfill-in-ward-26-a-constant-nightmare-101638476203116.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Congress places it bets on familiar faces, kin of leaders in first list||The Chandigarh Congress on Thursday released its first list of 30 candidates for the municipal corporation elections scheduled for December 24. Seeking to return to winning ways in the city’s electoral politics after nearly a decade, the Congress is depending heavily on its seasoned campaigners.Some fresh faces have also been added, predominantly family members of Congress leaders, including incumbent state president’s son.Three of the sitting councillors - Gurbax Rawat, Satish Kumar Kainth and Ravinder Kaur Gujral have been retained. Former councillor Harpreet Kaur, who is the wife of sitting councillor Devinder Singh Babla, has been given ticket from Babla’s ward as it was reserved for women. The fate of its fifth sitting councillor Sheela Devi remains under suspense; the party is still to announce a candidate from her current ward area. The party’s state in-charge Harish Chaudhary on Thursday approved the list of candidates prepared by the state election committee. The committee, comprising Chandigarh state president Subhash Chawla and former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal among others, held a meeting on Thursday. “The committee scrunitised all applications in details and after discussion, finalised 30 candidates as party’s official candidates,” said a party spokesperson. The party had invited applications from prospective candidates and around 200 had applied for tickets. Facing factionalism and prospects of rebel candidates, the party was last to announce its first list of candidates among major parties. AAP announced its first list of 26 candidates on November 30 and BJP on Wednesday announced 23.Most of the party candidates who lost in previous MC election don’t find themselves in the list, though some have been given another chance. Party’s chief spokesperson and former deputy mayor Harmohinder Singh Lucky will again take on BJP’s Maheshinder Singh Sidhu from ward 2, which in 2016 election was ward 1. Lucky had lost to Sidhu in a close contest.Other last time losers in fray again include former mayor Kamlesh Banarasi Dass, Mahila Congress president Deipa Dubey, Ravi Thakur and Jasbir Singh Bunty. Turncoat Balwinder Kaur, sister of Babla, who contested and lost the last election in 2016 on a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) ticket, will contest this time on the Congress ticket from ward 22. Former councillor Jannat Jahan, former sarpanch of village Mauli Jagran Kartar Singh Thakur, brother of former Punjab minister Jagmohan Singh Kang’s brother and former councillor Jagjit Singh Kang are some of the other seasoned players in local politics who have been given tickets.Chawla’s son to contestThis election will see the entry of the city Congress president Subhash Chawla’s son Sumit Chawla into city’s electoral politics. He will contest from ward 14. Subhash, who took over as the Congress city president earlier this year, had lost his 2016 election to BJP’s Rajesh Kumar Gupta.Some of other new faces include chairman of MC’s door-to-door garbage collection federation Om Prakash Saini, wife of former mayor Gurcharan Dass Kala, Rajiv Kumar Moudgil, NSUI leader Sachin Galav, INTUC leader Naseeb Jakhar, former deputy mayor Pushpa Sharma’s daughter Saroj Sharma, former MC employee Gurcharan Singh, Youth congress leader Abhishek Sharma Shanky and Gurpeet Gabi, a local Congress leader.
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Will invite farmer leaders for talks on unresolved issues: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said that the government will soon send an invite to farmer leaders for talks.“We will send them an invitation,” said the chief minister in response to a proposal of meeting by farmer union leaders from Haryana over the issues related to the FIRs and compensation to the farmers who died during the agitation.The chief minister again urged protesting farmers to end their protest at the Haryana-Delhi borders as the government has already accepted their demand by repealing the agricultural laws.However, the chief minister did not specify any date for the meeting with the farmers. “Both (government and the farmers) have come closer and the talks will move forward if they will sit together,” the chief minister said in an interaction with mediapersons during his visit to Karnal on Thursday.CM visits MDU, faces protest against staff recruitment rules Rohtak Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar faced protests during his visit to Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) here on Thursday, against state government’s decision to recruit Class 3 and 4 employees through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and Class 1 and 2 through the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) in state universities. Among those who protested were members of the teacher associations, student body Indian National Student Organisation (INSO) and INLD Students Organisation (ISO). Khattar visited the MDU and paid tributes to former Haryana deputy chief minister late Mangal Sen on his death anniversary and released a book on his life. He also inaugurated a renovated indoor gymnasium and laid the foundation stone of a kabaddi hall. Speaking on the occasion, Khattar said Mangal Sen contributed to society and nation with the mantra of ‘Sewa parmo dharam’. Jannayak Janta Party’s student wing INSO put up posters outside the MDU campus, questioning the educational qualifications of vice-chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh and seeking a probe into his PhD degree. Delegations of ISO, INSO and other student bodies submitted separate memorandums to chief minister Khattar and urged to revoke his government’s decision to recruit employees in universities through HPSC and HSSC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-invite-farmer-leaders-for-talks-on-unresolved-issues-khattar-101638475782948.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Police job aspirants get support from farmers in Sangrur||On the third consecutive day of indefinite protest against alleged embezzlement in the ongoing police constable recruitment process, the job aspirants, who were staging a dharna on the Sangrur-Ludhiana road, got support from farmer unions on Thursday. The protesters alleged that over 72 hours of the protest had passed but the state government had not paid heed to their concerns.Naujawan Sangharsh Committee state leaders Jaspal Singh Tollawalia, Raman Gill and Lakhvir Kaur, in a statement, said farmer union leaders joined their protest and assured support, but the government was stuck in “corruption and nepotism”.Hundreds of job aspirants have been blocking traffic at Dhuri overbridge, seeking transparency in the recruitment process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-job-aspirants-get-support-from-farmers-in-sangrur-101638475427824.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Roadways’ daily income is now ₹1.05 crore: Warring||Punjab transport minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring on Thursday said that following the crackdown on tax evaders and illegal bus operators, the daily income of PRTC and Punjab Roadways had risen to ₹1.5 crore, which was enough to generate 12,000 jobs in the transport department.He said the Punjab government will soon buy new buses with the profit and provide employment to thousands of unemployed youths of the state.He was speaking at the “Khulli Charcha Warring De Naal” programme, organised by senior Youth Congress leader Kamil Boparai. He said, “The 2012 order by the Punjab and Haryana high court against the illegal extension of bus permits was not implemented properly. We have implemented it in toto and cancelled 680 such permits.”He stressed that if the illegal extension of permits had been revoked in 2012 itself, the state exchequer would have earned ₹1,380 crore, which could have been spent on public welfare.Alleging a ₹6,600 crore scam in the transport department for the past 14.5 years, Warring said a special investigation team will be formed to thoroughly investigate it and anyone found guilty, will not be spared.Taking a jibe at former CM Capt Amarinder Singh and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Warring alleged that both were hand in glove and sold the interests of the state to the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-roadways-daily-income-is-now-1-05-crore-warring-101638475426541.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Nabbed shooter had also killed gangster Rana Kandowalia: Moga police||The shooter of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, who was arrested for firing at the nephew of Moga deputy mayor Ashok Dhamija, was also among the four shooters who had gunned down gangster Rana Kandowalia outside a private hospital in Amritsar in August this year, SSP Surinderjit Singh Mand said.Police had arrested Monu Dagar, a resident of Revali village in Sonepat on Wednesday after he, along with his associate, Jodha of Amritsar, fired at Pratham Dhamija and his father, Sunil Dhamija.Amid the melee, their pistol got jammed and they could fire only one bullet that hit Pratham’s foot. Sunil was also injured as one of the attackers hit him in the head with the butt of the pistol while trying to escape.Meanwhile, police are still silent on the motive behind the attack on the deputy mayor’s kin.“Monu is facing 10 cases of murder, attempt to murder and dacoity in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The Haryana Police had also announced a reward for his arrest. We have recovered a 9mm pistol and 1,000 intoxicating tablets from his possession. Further investigation is on to arrest the absconding accused,” said Mand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nabbed-shooter-had-also-killed-gangster-rana-kandowalia-moga-police-101638475425418.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab deputy CM urges Centre to strengthen India-Pakistan trade ties||Taking note of the absence of Pakistani traders and exhibitors at the 15th Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX), Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni on Thursday said the state government will urge the Union government to help strengthen trade ties between India and Pakistan through expos like PITEX.While inaugurating the expo, he said residents of the holy city wanted to purchase Pakistani products at PITEX, but exhibitors from across the border could not participate in it due to visa issues. “It would be ideal if we could have Pakistani traders around next time. We will try and convince the central government to normalise trade relations with Pakistan, as it is beneficial for Punjab as well,” he added.The five-day expo, which will continue till December 6, has been organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) and hosted by the Punjab government, with an aim to strengthen industrial relations with nations within and beyond Asia.The event features traders from Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, West Bengal and Uttarakhand, along with some from countries like Egypt, Turkey, Thailand and Afghanistan.Soni appealed to industrialists to expand and establish new industries in Punjab, stating that the state government was fully committed to providing all kinds of facilities to the industry.Tejveer Singh, secretary, industry and commerce, said more than ₹1 lakh crore investment had been made in Punjab over the last four years. “We have identified tourism as a thrust sector, and will be providing many fiscal incentives to tourism and hospitality. This expo is back after one year and we know how much anticipation it creates. It helps our tourism and economy very positively,” he added.Earlier, PHDCCI secretary general Saurabh Sanyal urged the government to push for better trade relations with Pakistan, and invest more in tourism and start-up culture.RS Sachdeva, chair, Punjab state chapter, PHDCCI, echoed his sentiments and said, “Trade relations with neighbours are essential, especially for a border area like Amritsar. The government should also build exhibition centres and hotels to push for tourism, especially local tourism, as the pandemic has hampered international commute.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-deputy-cm-urges-centre-to-strengthen-india-pakistan-trade-ties-101638475424252.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal promises free, high quality education to every child in Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday promised free and quality education in government schools to those born in Punjab and announced to give an ex gratia of ₹1 crore to families of the soldiers or police jawans who die in line of duty if AAP comes to power in the state. Giving free and quality education to all those born in Punjab will be the responsibility of our government, said Kejriwal while announcing his fourth “guarantee” for the people of Punjab during the party’s Tiranga Yatra in Pathankot. “Everyone, whether poor or rich, will get quality education. We will build new schools. Delhi’s 25% budget is used on education,” said Kejriwal. He said services of temporary teachers will be regularised and their pending issues will be resolved. “Like Delhi, I guarantee we will improve the education system in Punjab,” he said. “We will make Punjab an education hub,” he added. Hailing contribution of Punjabis, especially from the Gurdaspur and Pathankot, to the country’s defence forces, Kejriwal while announcing the “fifth guarantee”, said if any soldier from Punjab or police jawan lays down life in any operation, his party’s government will give a ex-gratia of ₹one crore to next of kin on Delhi’s pattern. Kejriwal has already promised up to 300 units of free electricity for each household, 24-hour power supply, free treatment and medicines at government hospitals besides ₹1,000 per month to women above 18 if his party comes to power in the state. Kejriwal also kept up the attack on Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over the “kale angrez” jibe, saying he may be dark complexioned but his intent is clear and he doesn’t make false promises. “Ever since I have announced that each woman in the state will be given ₹1,000 per month, Channi has been targeting me. A few days ago, he taunted me for wearing ordinary clothes, but I want to tell him I have no problem with this,” he said. “When I will give ₹1,000 to each woman, I will be happy to see our mothers and sisters purchasing new suits for themselves to wear,” the AAP leader said in Amritsar. Earlier, Kejriwal said: “The highest number of recruits in the Indian Army is from Pathankot and Gurdaspur, and several have sacrificed their lives while defending the borders of the nation.” The party leaders said the “Tiranga Yatra” was dedicated to the country’s unity, integrity and brave warriors. It started from the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk ( in Pathankot) with a large number of AAP leaders, volunteers and supporters, and ended at Dhangu Chowk on Dalhousie Road, after passing through various markets of the city. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-promises-free-high-quality-education-to-every-child-in-punjab-101638475423149.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bride shot at within hours of marriage at Rohtak village||A bride was shot at by three unidentified assailants at Rohtak’s Bhali Anandpur village here on Wednesday night, just a few hours after her marriage, said police.In his complaint to the police, Mohan, a resident of Rohtak’s Bhali Anandpur village, said he got married to Tanishk of Sampla village on Wednesday evening. “After our marriage ceremony, I, my wife and brother Sunil were going back home. When we reached near a temple in my village, three unidentified assailants came in a vehicle and intercepted our car. They fired shots at my wife and snatched my brother’s gold chain before fleeing. My wife received serious injuries and is undergoing treatment at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) and her condition is critical. The assailants came in a Toyota Innova car (HR-69 A 6848),” he added.Rakesh, in-charge of Bahu Akbarpur police station, said they have registered a case against the unidentified assailants under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 341, 34, 379-B of the Indian penal code (IPC) and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act, 1959.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bride-shot-at-within-hours-of-marriage-at-rohtak-village-101638475363127.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cloudy conditions lead to dip in temperature in Ludhiana||Cloud cover in the past two days has led to a fall in the maximum temperature in Ludhiana. According to the meteorological department of PAU, light drizzle is expected between December 3 and 5, which will help in bringing down the pollution level and settle the suspended particulate matter.According to the National Air Quality Index, a central agency monitoring pollution level, with 205 points, the air quality of the city remained in the ‘poor’ category and PM 2.5 remained the main contributor, which affects the lungs. Head of the climate change and agricultural meteorology department, Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, said the temperature on December 2 was the lowest recorded after 25 years. It was on this particular day in 1996 that the observatory had recorded a maximum temperature at 20 degrees Celsius, she said. She said that the average maximum temperature recorded is 23.6 degrees Celsius. However, the minimum temperature remained relatively high with 12.4 degrees Celsius. Sidhu said it was largely because of overcast conditions. She said the average minimum temperature remains 7.5 degrees Celsius during this time of the year. Ludhiana: Four idols found damaged in Talwandi Khurd, FIR lodgedTension prevailed in Talwandi Khurd village of Dakha after unidentified accused damaged four idols at the Sheetla Mata Prachin Mandir. The Dakha police have registered an FIR following the statement of Charanjit Singh, priest of the temple.He said he saw the damaged idols when he arrived in the morning and immediately informed the villagers. Later, they called the police.ASI Pritam Masih said that a case under Section 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) of the IPC has been registered and the police are scanning the CCTVs to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cloudy-conditions-lead-to-dip-in-temperature-in-ludhiana-101638474884092.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Challan no gospel truth, court ought to separate chaff from grain: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that a trial court is well within its power to summon additional accused even as his name did not figure in the challan presented by an investigating agency in a criminal case. The high court bench of justice Meenakshi I Mehta observed that charge-sheet submitted regarding the innocence of any person cannot be taken to be the gospel truth and the court is well within its power to “separate the chaff from the grains” to find out the truth regarding the culpability of any person who has not been arrayed as the accused or has not been sent up to face the trial. “...the same (evidence submitted) need not be of the level to come to the conclusion that if the evidence goes unrebutted, the same would lead to the conviction of the person proposed to be summoned as the additional accused and rather the same has to be just somewhat higher than the one required to be considered at the time of the framing of the charge,” the bench said. The court dismissed a plea from six persons, who were summoned as additional accused by the court. Their names figured in the FIR but after investigation, their names were dropped. Subsequently, they were summoned as additional accused by the trial court, a decision challenged in the high court in 2018. The FIR was registered on July 10, 2017 for criminal intimidation and under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Complainants, several villagers, belonging to Dalit community in Hansi area of Hisar, had stated that a scuffle broke out between some youngsters from Brahmin and Dalit communities over the turn to get water. Following the registration of an FIR, the accused party, the upper castes, threatened social boycott of the Dalits if they didn’t settle for a compromise. A ‘munadi (declaration)’ was effected that none of the members of Dalit community in the village will enter the fields belonging to the upper castes. Even the dairy owners stopped providing milk to Dalit families, it was alleged. Subsequently, when a challan was filed, only one person was named as accused by the police. During the trial, a witness reiterated allegations against the lone accused and even others and subsequently, the court ordered summoning of six more named in the FIR. The accused persons had submitted in high court that allegations against them were based on ‘hearsay’. Construing the allegations levelled in the FIR and reiterated by the complainant in his depositions as ‘hearsay evidence’ does not suffice at all, the court said, adding that at this stage, clean chit can’t be given to the petitioners at a time when lone accused also faces same set of allegations and is already facing the trial. It also came to light that the manner in which investigations were carried out is already before the Supreme Court. 
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Auto agency manager shoots self to death, reason uncertain||A manager of an automobile agency ended his life by shooting himself in his head at his house in Shri Chand Colony of Mundian late on Wednesday, police said. The body was sent to the civil hospital for postmortem examination by the Jamalpur police, who initiated investigation to ascertain the reason behind the extreme step.The 33-year-old manager had attended a function in the daytime and returned home late on Wednesday, the police said. Around 11pm, he locked himself in his room and shot himself in his head with his licensed revolver. After hearing the gunshot, his family members rushed to the room and took him to a hospital, where doctors pronounced him dead on arrival.ASI Subhash Raj said no suicide note was found from the spot. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. He is survived by wife and two children.26-year-old man jumps off elevated road, fractures both armsA 26-year-old man attempted to commit suicide by jumping off an elevated road on Thursday morning. According to his family, the man was reeling under depression and it was his second bid to end life in the past four days. He has fractured both his arms and currently undergoing treatment at the civil hospital. His father said he was pursuing a bachelor’s degree in engineering and was diagnosed with depression about two years ago. The father said he was undergoing treatment for his condition and had also shown improvement. ASI Somnath, who is investigating the case, said they will record the statement of the man to know the reasons behind his attempt to end life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-auto-agency-manager-shoots-self-to-death-reason-uncertain-101638474644360.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Minor among two held with illegal weapons in Faridkot||With the arrest of two persons, including a minor, with three illegal weapons near Bir Chahal in Faridkot, the district police on Thursday claimed to have averted a murder plot. The accused has been identified as Nikhil Kataria of Bazigar Basti in Faridkot city. Police have secured his custody for further investigation, while the minor boy has been sent to the juvenile home. Police have recovered two .32-bore pistols and .32-bore country-made pistol along with eight live cartridges from their possession. Faridkot senior superintendent of police (SSP) Varun Sharma said recently an audio clip went viral on social media in which some people threatened to kill one Harmanpreet Singh, alias Keedda. “A few months ago too, some people attempted to kill Harmanpreet at the Faridkot judicial complex, he said. “With the help of the social media cell, the Faridkot police managed to identify both the accused and they were arrested with the illegal weapons,” the SSP said. “During interrogation, Nikhil confessed that he and his aide were planning to kill his rival Harmanpreet. We are tracing their links to know the source of weapons,” he added. A case under the Arms Act has been registered at the Faridkot city police station. Harmanpreet is already facing cases under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minor-among-two-held-with-illegal-weapons-in-faridkot-101638474643180.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak land release case: Haryana seeks recall of SC order for CBI probe||The BJP-led Haryana government has sought the recall of the July 7 Supreme Court (SC) orders whereby an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was ordered into the release of land in Rohtak to real estate developer, Uddar Gagan Properties, during the reign of Congress with Bhupinder Singh Hooda at the helm. The state government in a recall application filed before the apex court has taken the ground that handing over the case to the CBI at this stage was not in the interest of justice since a detailed inquiry has been conducted in the matter by the state government wherein all the legal and technical issues have already been considered. Also, disciplinary action against officials found guilty in an inquiry conducted by senior IAS officer Anurag Rastogi has been initiated and shall be concluded soon, it said. The state has argued that the facts concluded by Rastogi in his report were not taken clearly on record by the SC and July 7 orders were passed merely on the basis of submissions of amicus curiae. The recall application accompanied by an affidavit from director, town and country planning, K Makarand Pandurang, will be heard on December 6 by a bench of Justice Uday Umesh Lalit and Justice S Ravindra Bhat. “The judgment and order under review suffers from error apparent on the face of the record and that permitting the order to stand would occasion a failure of justice and that the judgment suffers from material irregularity which requires correction in review. In this case the inquiry has been properly conducted by the state government hence de-novo (fresh) inquiry by the CBI is in the teeth of the settled provisions of law,’’ said the interlocutory application. ‘CBI not to be influenced by multiple inquiries’ The SC in its July 7 order had said that the matter shall be looked into by the CBI without in any way being influenced by the reports and conclusions as stated in this order. The apex court was referring to the outcome of the multiple inquiries ordered by the state government which as per the amicus curiae, Jaideep Gupta, only concluded that there was “systemic failure” rather than considering the individual actions of those who were responsible. Grounds taken to seek recall of CBI probe order The state government in its recall application has also taken the ground that the principles applicable for transferring a case to the CBI as laid down by the apex court in various cases is not made out in the present case and therefore transfer of the case is not called for and to that extent the order warrants review, it said. The application said that explanation given in the July 7 judgment by relying upon the decision passed in the case of Rameshwar (Manesar land case) needs a second look in view of the law settled by the apex court in catena of judgments. “There is no similarity in the present case and the case relied upon by the apex court (Manesar). It is pertinent to mention that facts and issues involved in both the cases are different. Hence it would be grave miscarriage of justice to pronounce an identical order in the present case by equating it to Rameshwar matter. There are some vital facts to be taken into account in the present case which have escaped the attention of the SC,” the government has argued. The application also said that the SC in a catena of judgements held that only on account of special reasons where it is felt that an investigation by the local police would prove to be ineffective that directions have been given to the CBI to take up the investigation. There were no such special reasons in the instant case which warranted the directions being given to the CBI to conduct investigations, it said. The land matter and multiple inquiries •About 850 acres was proposed to be acquired in 2002 for residential-commercial sectors in Rohtak by HUDA. The award was though passed for 422 acres in April 2005. •Uddar Gagan Properties in March 2005 entered into collaboration agreements with farmers whose land was under acquisition. •The developer got a licence to develop a colony on 280 acres in June 2006 and the corresponding land was released from acquisition. •The licences were addressed to the owners but remitted to the builder. This was followed by execution of sale deeds in favour of the builder through power-of-attorney holder of the land owners. •In May 2016, the SC quashed the land released from acquisition and transferred licences to HUDA. •The SC also asked the state government to inquire into the legality and bona fides of the action of the persons responsible for illegally entertaining the applications of the builder and releasing the land to it. •CM, ML Khattar on March 13, 2018 announced in the state assembly that the government has decided to refer the Uddar Gagan matter to CBI. He later backed down and instead ordered an inquiry by a retired judge, Justice RS Madan. •Justice (retd) Madan recommended another inquiry by a senior financial commissioner rank officer into the role of land acquisition officer (LAO), estate officer of HUDA and office of the Rohtak deputy commissioner regarding delivery of possession of the acquired land. 
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Three held for planning to kill religious leader in Bathinda||The district police on Thursday arrested three persons for planning to kill an unidentified religious leader.The accused have been identified as Jagseer Singh, Manpreet Singh and Kulwinder Singh of Bathinda district.Bathinda superintendent of police (investigation) Tarun Rattan said the preliminary investigation revealed that the accused had conspired to attack a religious or political personality with intent to cause riots.A .32 bore pistol was recovered from Kulwinder, said the SP.However, police authorities did not share any other detail of the alleged criminal conspiracy or affiliation of the accused with any radical outfit.Rattan said teams have been constituted to arrest five more persons of the gang.“CIA team had an input about the suspects aiming at creating unrest. They were arrested near Ballianwali. Accused are being questioned for more information,” added the SP. A case was registered under sections 153-A (indulge in wanton vilification or attacks upon the religion) 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon) 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offense committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Arms Act at Ballianwali police station.Incidentally, the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) at Fazilka recovered two hand grenades from the Ring Road in Bathinda on November 28. No accused was held in the case as the SSOC claimed that two motorbike-borne unidentified managed to flee leaving behind a bag containing grenades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-held-for-planning-to-kill-religious-leader-in-bathinda-101638474463259.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Four test positive for Covid in Ludhiana, samples sent for genome sequencing||Amid the threat of Omicron variant, four fresh cases of Covid were detected in the Ludhiana district on Thursday. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said none of the four persons testing positive were NRIs, nor they had any history of international travel. They have been quarantined and their samples sent for genome sequencing, he added. In the wake of the Union health ministry’s advisory on the new Covid-19 variant Omicron, the Punjab health department has issued guidelines asking frequent international travellers and NRIs visiting the state to undergo mandatory coronavirus tests. If tested positive, the passengers will have to go through a genome sequencing test to ensure that they are not suffering from the new virus variant, the advisory says. A letter in this regard was issued wherein the health department asked all civil surgeons, vice-chancellors of medical and animal husbandry universities, medical colleges and private testing laboratories to share the data of such patients.“If any international traveller comes to your institution or laboratory and is found corona positive, a sample should be sent immediately to the Government Medical College, Patiala, for genome-sequencing test,” the letter reads.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr SP Singh has also urged residents to get both the doses of vaccine at the earliest and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. It was on November 28 that the district had logged four Covid cases, while no infection was reported in Ludhiana on Wednesday. As many as 87,668 people in the district have tested positive so far, of whom 85,540 have successfully defeated the virus. The contagion has claimed 2,110 lives in the district till now. Meanwhile, four fresh cases of dengue were reported in the district, taking the total tally to 1,804.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-101638474342593.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Crackdown on pvt buses: HC reserves order on plea by Akali leader’s firms||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday reserved judgment on pleas by two major private bus operators of Punjab. On November 22, firms of SAD leader Hardeep Singh Dhillon --- New Deep Bus Service and New Deep Motors --- had moved the high court alleging that 24 buses were impounded on different dates in October. After a part payment was made, the authorities re-impounded six buses and in some cases, permits were cancelled on November 12, the plea alleged. As of the second set of petition that was filed by the Badals-owned Orbit Aviation Private Limited, challenging cancellation of permits on November 12, the HC had asked the government to release 32 buses of the operator as an interim measure. The government has submitted that it acted as per the law. In one case, transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring was made as party, who told court that he was not responsible for cancellation of permits and action was taken as per the rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/crackdown-on-pvt-buses-hc-reserves-order-on-plea-by-akali-leader-s-firms-101638474283789.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress MLA Kuldeep Vaid accuses Kejriwal of trying to befool public ahead of Punjab polls||Congress MLA Kuldeep Vaid slammed Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal for trying to befool the public ahead of assembly elections, at a meeting held in village Bhattiyan on Thursday.The meeting was conducted with the residents and Congress leaders regarding the development projects taken in Dhandra cluster over the past years.Vaid lambasted Kejriwal for allegedly not having any control over his party workers as many AAP MLAs have now shifted to Congress party and he also accused him for trying to bribe women in the state by making hollow promises of giving ₹ 1,000 per month to them, if voted to power. He said, “Congress will contest elections on the agenda of development and form the government in the upcoming assembly elections. Development projects worth crores have been taken up in Dhandra cluster in the last five years. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-mla-kuldeep-vaid-accuses-kejriwal-of-trying-to-befool-public-ahead-of-punjab-polls-101638474282474.html
03-12-2021||Gurugram||Right-wing groups threaten to disrupt namaz in Gurugram today||Members of right-wing groups on Thursday threatened to disrupt namaz again on Friday and informed the district administration about their intention to adopt any means, including violence if necessary, to stop Muslims from offering Friday prayers in public places. Following the threats, the district administration and the Gurugram police have decided to deploy personnel on a large scale at the 20 designated namaz sites to prevent a law-and-order situation on Friday.“We are keeping a close watch on the situation and no one will be allowed to take law and order into their own hands and disturb peace in the city,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram. The police have already prepared a plan and assigned duties to personnel to be deployed at the 20 designated sites, said officials. Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police (west), said 700 police personnel will be deployed across the city, including 200 at the Sector 37 site, where namaz was disrupted last Friday too. “We are well-prepared and will take strict action against anyone who tries to disrupt namaz or try to disturb law and order. Quick response teams will be deployed along with rapid action force and there will be heavy police presence at all sites so that we can keep a close watch on suspects planning to disrupt namaz,” he said.Members of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, an umbrella organisation of Hindu right-wing groups, which has been protesting against namaz in public places, said they had given a month’s time to the administration to stop the practise of namaz being offered on public land. “Our only submission to the district administration was that prayers not be held in the open. But Muslims continued to do so. Now the situation is getting tense and despite an assurance that they will not do so, Muslims are still using open spaces and land which belongs to area residents,” said Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, legal adviser of the Samiti.Last month, the Gurugram administration reduced the number of designated namaz sites from 37 to 20 after objections were raised by residents in several areas. Dinesh Bharti, president of Bharat Mata Vahini, who was earlier arrested for interrupting namaz, also met the deputy commissioner on Thursday and handed over a memorandum. “I have also written to the chief minister and a complaint has been submitted at the CM’s window on Thursday. Issues related to open namaz are gaining momentum across the city and Hindu groups and locals are unhappy. There is only one solution and that is to stop namaz in the open; else there will be law and order issues,” he said.On Tuesday, a member of a Muslim group in Gurugram had filed a police complaint against three right-wing leaders — Dinesh Bharti, Kulbhushan Bhardwaj and Mahaveer Bhardwaj — for allegedly hurting religious sentiments with their remarks, while protesting against namaz in the open. No case has been registered as yet, said police, adding that allegations were being looked into.Altaf Ahmad, founder, Gurugram Nagrik Ekta Manch, a civil society group, said they plan to meet the deputy commissioner of police, west, on Friday before the namaz to know why no FIR had been registered on their complaint. “We will also meet the deputy commissioner and seek an assurance on the safety and security of the faithful. The threats have become routine every Thursday and are unlikely to stop till the administration takes a strong view,” he said. Over the past three months, right-wing groups have tried to disrupt namaz being offered in open spaces in sectors 47, 12, 37 and Sirhaul Village. On November 5, Hindu groups organised a Govardhan Puja at the site in Sector 12A, where namaz used to be offered on Fridays. The protesters also performed a havan (puja) at a site designated for holding Friday prayers in Sector 37 and also disrupted namaz in Sirhaul village, Sector 18. Both the latter locations were among the 20 sites designated for Friday prayers by the district administration and Muslims who had to move away from the spots said such protests amounted to harassment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rightwing-groups-threaten-to-disrupt-namaz-in-gurugram-today-101638474222448.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Maluka takes on Sisodia over ‘poor condition of schools’ in Punjab||The Congress government on Thursday got an unexpected support from veteran Akali leader Sikander Singh Maluka against attack by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on the state of government schools and standard of education in Punjab.Former education minister Maluka, who has been nominated as the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate from the Rampura Phul seat, took to the social media to dismiss Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia’s charges that government schools in the state are in a shambles.He invited Sisodia to visit his native place Maluka in Bathinda district to compare the quality of education at the rural schools with institutes run by the Delhi government.On being contacted, Maluka, head of SAD’s farmer cell and core committee member, said he was hurt as the AAP leadership continued labelling Punjab an underdeveloped state in education and other sectors. There is always a scope for improvement and education should be a priority sector, he said. Maluka’s support to the Congress government may leave his party red-faced.“It is not that I have a soft corner for the Congress or the chief minister. But I do not agree with a tradition that a leader has to second unfounded charges by others to attack a common political opponent,” he added.Earlier in August this year too, Maluka had expressed strong resentment against the SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on the distribution of tickets.Maluka was keen to contest the forthcoming assembly polls from Maur and wanted his son to be fielded from Rampura Phul. He had also stated that the ‘one family, one ticket’ policy was selectively imposed on him.However, he later fell in line and agreed to contest from Rampura Phul, from where he would contest for a sixth consecutive term.“Image of Punjab is my priority. I stand against Congress politically, but consider it my duty to challenge any unfounded claims made by the AAP to portray Punjab in a bad light. I remained education minister in Parkash Singh Badal-led government for nearly two years and have seen the improvement in public education in the last over one decade. Few cases found here and there with poor facilities in schools cannot be generalised,” he added.Maluka said two government senior secondary schools at Maluka are known for maintaining high academic standards and having impressive infrastructure.“Students here excel in sports and co-curricular activities. Children from adjoining villages prefer studying at government schools. My village is not an exception but scores of government schools across the state have impressively improved their standards in the past over a decade,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/maluka-takes-on-sisodia-over-poor-condition-of-schools-in-punjab-101638474162888.html
03-12-2021||Delhi||Centre: No request on making Chennai airport an embarkation point for Haj pilgrimage||Centre on Thursday said it had not received any request from Tamil Nadu for inclusion of Chennai airport as an embarkation point for the Haj pilgrimage next year.Replying to a question raised by DMK leader T R Baalu in the Lok Sabha, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the embarkation points for the Haj pilgrimage has been reduced from 21 to 10 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic after considering the protocols prescribed by the Saudi Arabian government.Making a Zero Hour reference, Baalu protested against scrapping Chennai as the embarkation point for the Haj pilgrimage and said pilgrims from Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and southern Andhra Pradesh will have to travel all the way to Kochi, which has been named as an embarkation point for undertaking the pilgrimage.“We have to go to Saudi Arabia to perform Haj. We have to follow the Covid protocol set by that government. We have done this keeping in mind the Covid protocol,” Naqvi said.Also, “The Ministry has not received request from the state Government of Tamil Nadu to include Chennai Airport as an Embarkation Point. However, a reference has been received from S Venkatesan, MP, Lok Sabha, Madurai, Tamil Nadu, on the issue and the same has been suitably replied to,” he added. Naqvi said a Haj Review Meeting was held in the Minority Affairs Ministry on October 22 with the Ambassador of India to Saudi Arabia, Consul General in Jeddah, officials from the External Affairs, Civil Aviation and Health Ministries and representatives from airlines.“The arrangements and guidelines for Haj 2022 have been made under special circumstances due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said.The minister said the provisions and restrictions included reduction in the number of embarkation points to 10 major airports – Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Guwahati, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kochi, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai and Srinagar. PTI SKU RCJ IJTaffidavit||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-no-request-on-making-chennai-airport-an-embarkation-point-for-haj-pilgrimage-101638474103572.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Parents among nine booked for murder after woman’s body retrieved from pyre in Haryana||Police retrieved the half-burnt body of a 21-year-old woman, who had married against her family’s wishes, from the pyre at Fatehabad’s Dhangar village on Wednesday and booked her parents and seven others for murder.The victim, Shiksha, had married a youth, Anoop Kumar, of the same village against the wishes of her family members, it is learnt. She had got a job in a private company in Chandigarh and the couple had been staying there.A police official said the victim had told her mother about the marriage after which she was asked to return home and assured that the wedding will be solemnised as per rituals. Shiksha’s husband Anoop told the police that he received a call from an unknown woman, who told him that his wife had died and her family was cremating her. After this, Anoop called the police and told them that my wife may have been killed by her family members for marrying against their wishes.Fatehabad SP Surender Singh Bhoria said the police, along with the fire brigade and forensic experts, rushed to the cremation ground and retrieved the half-burnt body from the pyre.“We have registered a murder case against the woman’s mother, father Mahender Singh, uncles Sunder, Kalu, Atmaram and four others. The post-mortem report will reveal the exact cause of death,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parents-among-nine-booked-for-murder-after-woman-s-body-retrieved-from-pyre-in-haryana-101638474102451.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC helping land mafia, alleges UK national; civic body rebuts charges||A UK national, Dhilpreet Singh, on Thursday accused the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) of helping the land mafia to ‘grab’ his 1.75 acres worth about ₹150 crore in Raghunath Enclave by demolishing the existing residential unit, a charge refuted by the civic body. Residing in Mohali currently, Dhilpreet said it was his ancestral property and a few neighbours had moved court in 2019 claiming that the site was reserved for a park when Raghunath Enclave was established. “The case is still subjudice, but it seems like the land mafia, which is allegedly patronised by a cabinet minister, is trying to grab the land with the help of MC,” Dhilpreet alleged.He claimed that MC officials conducted a demolition drive on Thursday morning in presence of heavy police force and razed the main gate and residential unit without serving any notice.“A part of Raghunath Enclave was carved out of our land when my grandfather sold it in the 80s. The ownership of the land in question has also been challenged earlier and the court had in 2012 and 2015 ordered that the land belongs to us. Further, the court ordered that even if the MC comes to know about any encroachment made by the owner, it has to follow procedure and serve notice before taking any action,” he said.“But the MC demolished the structure in contempt of the court orders. The MC is aiding the land mafia which is suspectedly trying to grab the land,” he added. “The MC teams have been visiting the site since the last week of October and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal was also apprised of the same through an email in the past. A complaint regarding the same was also submitted with the vigilance department, but to no avail,” Dhilpreet said.“Furniture, air conditioner and other items kept inside the residential unit have also been damaged by the MC. We will file a contempt petition against the civic body. An FIR will also be lodged against the MC after discussing the matter with my lawyer,” he added.Meanwhile, assistant town planner (ATP) MS Bedi said as per the record, the site was earmarked for a park and the horticulture wing of MC was directed to construct the same at the site.“The horticulture wing apprised the senior officials of the encroachment on the site, following which the building branch was directed to demolish the structure. A notice was also served. The MC is not aware of the case filed by the locals in this regard and neither any court orders were presented by the owner or his staff at the site,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-helping-land-mafia-alleges-uk-national-civic-body-rebuts-charges-101638474042525.html
03-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka BJP MLA seeks reshuffle of cabinet citing inefficiency||The problems for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka continue to compound as its own legislator complained about non-performance of the state government. Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand BJP legislator from Bijapur city (Vijayapura), on Thursday said non-performers should be removed from the government. “After December 10, there will be big changes in the state. There will be a change in the cabinet. Those who are ministers, will take their performance into account and those who have non-performed will be changed,” Yatnal said. The statements come at a time when differences within the Bommai-led government appear to be on the rise. Senior BJP leader, who was upset on Basavaraj Bommai succeeding BS Yediyurappa, had even backed industries minister Murugesh Nirani Nirani the top job. Yatnal said there were no likely change of Bommai but added that “the person” Eshwarappa should become chief minister. Though Yatnal does not hold any senior positions within the party or government, the decision not to take action against his repeated tirades against Yediyurappa, several party colleagues and now Bommai indicates to the possibility that he may have the backing of the party high command, people aware of the developments said. Yatnal said ministers barely come to Vidhana Soudha and are instead running after the chief minister. The developments not helping the Bommai government that was already reeling under various charges of corruption including Bitcoin scandal and money laundering among others. “There is some dissatisfaction (within the party). To make that go, the chief minister must reshuffle the cabinet after consulting with all legislators,” Yatnal said. The legislator said the chief minister must review the performance of ministers every week or 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-bjp-mla-seeks-reshuffle-of-cabinet-citing-inefficiency-101638473987546.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab first genome sequencing lab gets operational in Patiala||Punjab’s first state-run Covid-19 whole genome sequencing laboratory got operational at the government medical college, Patiala, on Thursday.Director-principal of the college Harjinder Singh said the VRDL laboratory, having been recognised by the Indian Council of Medical Research as one of the top five laboratories in India for Covid-19 RT PCR testing capabilities, has successfully processed around 313 genome sequencing samples to date. “The genome sequencer and supportive equipment have been donated by a US-based non profit organisation, PATH, as part of its ongoing Covid-19 response support to the state, “he added.Laboratory in-charge Dr Rupinder Bakshi said in the wake of uncertainties regarding the recently discovered ‘variant of concern’ B.1.1.529 strain of Covid-19, renamed as Omicron by the World Health Organization, the genome sequencing facilities at the laboratory will aid Punjab in gearing up and recognising such circulating strains of the virus within its population in order to devise appropriate and necessary containment measures and strategies. “Given that epidemics and pandemics may become more common in the future, such capabilities and surveillance will be crucial in pre-empting catastrophes and minimising damage,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-punjab-first-genome-sequencing-lab-gets-operational-in-patiala-101638473982804.html
03-12-2021||Bangalore||Comedians slam Karnataka govt over growing ‘intolerance’||Comedians, members of the art fraternity in Bengaluru and other places fear the growing climate of intolerance in India’s IT capital continues to transform rapidly under the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its attitude to condone actions of vigilante groups.Opposition to standup acts by comedians Munawar Faruqui and Kunal Kamra, they add, are the latest in the long list of incidents of how these right wing groups and their political masters are choking what used to be a conducive space for artists to perform.“India is a parody account of democracy,” Kamra, the standup comedian, told Hindustan Times.Kamra’s scheduled show in Bengaluru was cancelled after the comedian received threats and venue organisers decided not to let out their space for his performance. Barely a week ago, comedian Munawar Faruqui too was forced to cancel his show after the police asked venue operators not to let out space as it could lead to disruption of peace, harmony and end up hurting religious sentiments.Once a melting pot of different cultures, music, art and people, Bengaluru has earned global acceptance for its prowess in technology and startups but has rescinded on its rich heritage, comedians say.Two rising comedians -- Arnav Rao and Kjelth Shrest -- were scheduled to record their shows before Kamra’s but the cancellation has thrown more challenges in their chosen career path.“Why are people who are against us not speaking up openly?” Rao asked as a significant section of this fraternity attribute a large part played by Tejsavi Surya, the firebrand and controversial BJP MP from Bengaluru South.The transformation in Bengaluru has been quite rapid as Kamra and Faruqui have performed several times in the city. Some shows are no more than a month old.“Standup comedy is about that person bringing his perspective, experience and world view. Kamra and Munawar have performed in Bengaluru before. Why are they suddenly persona non-grata? When somebody is threatened with violence, how is that overlooked?” Suman Kumar, a script writer and author said.So what changed!A section of the artists believe this kind of vigilantism is emboldened under chief minister Basvaraj Bommai who is trying hard to fit into the extreme right wing narrative after he was picked over several other senior BJP leaders to replace BS Yediyurappa.“For politicians it is the best way to get promoted and noticed,” Garv Malik, another standup comedian said. “I think our institutions are way stronger than what they think a comedian can cause harm.”Karnataka has seen a series of incidents where moral policing, hate crimes and communal violence appear to be on the rise.Three teenagers, who did a small dance video outside ‘Talacauvery’, considered a holy site in Kodagu district were warned and forced to apologise.Vigilantes parading as activists and “custodians of culture” are running riot in Karnataka, which at least until now, was considered among the more progressive states in the country.“When sentiments are hurt, it is natural that there are actions and reactions. Even the youth should keep in mind these sentiments and act accordingly,” Bommai said on October 13 which appeared to be justification of the rising instances of moral policing in the state.Groups that have openly threatened violence on anyone they consider “controversial” continue to carry out their acts with impunity, artists said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/comedians-slam-karnataka-govt-over-growing-intolerance-101638473804016.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Implement schemes in Delhi first before making promises in Punjab: Majithia to Kejri||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Thursday asked Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to first implement the promises he was making to the people of Punjab, including granting allowance of ₹1,000 per month to women as well as free power supply of 300 units per bill cycle, in Delhi if he was really sincere about keeping his word.“Kejriwal portrays to have a solution to every problem of other states, but he has no solution of problems of Delhi. He is promising to regularise contractual employees in Punjab, but why he is not making such employees regular in Delhi?” saked Majithia, who was here to campaign for Shutrana candidate Vaninder Kaur Loomba. Kejriwal had done nothing in Delhi till now except propaganda, he said, adding that “even the 200 units of power offered free of cost to citizens of Delhi are not utilised because the scheme has a clause that the entire amount will be charged if the consumption increases by even one unit above 200.” Majithia also asked state Congress president Navjot Sidhu to tell why he had failed to take up his challenge and appear in court in the drug case. “I had challenged him but he preferred to run away. I again challenge him to announce Charanjit Singh Channi as the party’s chief ministerial candidate if the former is doing such a good job,” he said. The SAD leader said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi was trying to escape the responsibility for the abject failures of the Congress government by blaming former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for it. “The fact is that Channi was part of the team which swore on the Gutka Sahib along with Capt Amarinder. Channi has been a cabinet minister all along,” the SAD leader said. 
03-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka govt pegs damage due to rains at ₹11k cr||The Karnataka government on Thursday said that the state had suffered losses of ₹11,916.30 crore worth of rain and flooding-related losses. This includes crop losses of nearly 10 lakh hectares that totalled that has led to damages to the tune of ₹8,960 crore, according to a statement by the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA). “In November 2021 due to 2 successive depressions over the Bay of Bengal and a trough in the Arabian Sea caused unprecedented and insistent rainfall over the state. The state received widespread heavy rainfall and recorded 592% more than normal, which is the second-highest in the last 60 years. The region wise rainfall departures from normal shows that, South Interior Karnataka recorded 876% more rain, which is (the) highest in (the) last 60 years,” the government said in a statement on Thursday. “North interior Karnataka recorded 417% more, Malnad recorded 502% more, and the Coastal region recorded 498% more rain, which is 2nd highest in (the) last 60 years in all these three regions. The synoptic conditions, which triggered untimely heavy rainfall, led to a flood-like situation.” Over 376 animals have died in the state and 20,083 homes have been damaged in the rains that have battered Karnataka in October and November. Damages to civic and public infrastructure like roads, bridges, dams, tanks and electrical equipment have been estimated to ₹2,630 crore. However, under State Disaster Relief Fund norms, Karnataka can claim ₹1,281.92 crore, the government said in a statement on Thursday. Karnataka and several other states in the country continue to receive unseasonal rainfall that has added to the misery of the covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown. Karnataka has been particularly vulnerable as the state swings between droughts and floods each year, adding to the piling problems for the state’s farming community who continue to endure hardships like plummeting prices of produce, damaged crops due to floods or droughts, lack of compensation and several other reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-govt-pegs-damage-due-to-rains-at-11k-cr-101638473687673.html
03-12-2021||Other||Kerala high court slams police over Mavunkal affidavit||Outraged by Kerala police filing an application to close a pending petition against self-styled antiques dealer Monson Mavunkal and the “accusations” against the judge hearing the matter contained in the affidavit accompanying the plea, the Kerala high court said wearing the khaki does not mean one can say anything against the judiciary.The high court said the contents of the affidavit were “extremely disconcerting” and “an attempt to browbeat” the court into backing off.Justice Devan Ramachandran dismissed the application and also considered imposing costs on the police officer who had filed the affidavit containing accusations against him and the court, but refrained from doing so on the request by the Director General of Prosecution.“Suffice to say the interim application (IA) of this nature -- which in my view is intended to browbeat the court and force a particular result -- should not have been advised or attempted and more so never pressed with the vehemence as exhibited today at the bar with the Director General of Prosecution praying that the writ petition be closed today,” the judge said.The application was filed in a plea by Mavunkal’s former driver-cum-mechanic -- Ajith E V -- alleging harassment by his former employer and some police officers close to him.Ajith, represented by advocates Philip T Varghese and Thomas T Varghese, had alleged that the harassment started after he made certain disclosures to police in connection with a cheating case against the self-styled antiques dealer.The court said that till now it had thought the investigation was going well and therefore, was going to close the petition after taking on record the reply filed by the Enforcement Directorate, but the affidavit “changes everything”.“I was going to close the matter today, but now I think there is something more than what meets the eye,” the judge said. The court expressed its displeasure after perusing the affidavit filed by the head of the crime branch, which is investigating the cases against Mavunkal, in support of the application, “ascribing motives” to the judge of surprising the police with material from the public domain.Justice Ramachandran said the affidavit accused him of forcing the police to produce documents and “breaching confidentiality”.“If you wear khaki, it does not mean you can speak anything against the court. They (police) should know where they stand in protocol,” the judge added. The court noted that the tenor of the averments in the affidavit by a senior police officer was “overbearing and recriminatory”, adopted an “unmistakable condescending tone” with regard to judicial orders and observations, was “disturbing” and contained “misdirecting asseverations”. The court also noted that the averments in the affidavit were “sarcastic” and asked “is he (officer) trying to make fun of the court?” Mavunkal was arrested by the district Crime Branch which has been investigating a cheating case of ₹10 crore from different people. Mavunkal had allegedly borrowed the amount from various people saying he was in need of funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-high-court-slams-police-over-mavunkal-affidavit-101638473685370.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: GLADA razes illegal colony||Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) demolished an under-construction colony in Ladian Kalan on Thursday on the direction of additional deputy commissioner (ADC, urban development) Sandeep Kumar.Kumar warned colonisers of strict penal action if they indulge in illegal construction and urged them to adopt a legal way and get licenses from GLADA, if they want to carry out their business in a hassle-free manner.On November 6, GLADA had stopped illegal construction of two residential colonies in Threeke area.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSTax professionals raise issue with GST filingThe executive members of Indian Taxation Advocates Association organised a meeting with newly appointed GST assistant commissioners, Shivani Gupta and Manmohan Singh on Thursday. Felicitating the officers on their appointment, the members led by advocate Jatinder Khurana, state president of Indian Taxation Advocates Association, apprised the officials of the problems being faced by the businessmen and tax professionals in filing GST returns. The officials assured to resolve their grievances and urged businessmen to avail the benefits of One Time Settlement (OTS) policy floated by the government for pending cases. Ludhiana MC health officer accused of slapping clerkA health officer of the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has been accused of slapping and harassing a clerk deputed in the civic body’s sub-office near Middha Chowk. The clerk had submitted a complaint with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Wednesday, following which additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal visited the office on Thursday to inquire the matter. Meanwhile, Dachalwal stated that nothing concrete has come to light as of now and efforts have been done to resolve the dispute, but the clerk has not been able to back the allegations with proof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-glada-razes-illegal-colony-101638473684274.html
03-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram reports 19 Covid cases in a day, highest after five months; tally at 77||The district reported 19 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday -- the highest number of infections reported in a day since June this year. The active Covid-19 case tally in the district now stands at 77, according to the officials.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO) of Gurugram, said, “This is the highest number of Covid-19 cases Gurugram has witnessed since June. Infections had been in single digits or went up to a maximum of 11 or 12 cases a day in the past five months. There is no particular cause as to why so many Covid-19 cases were being detected in a single day. The patients were detected as part of a regular testing. There is no cluster formation in the district as of now.”The highest single-day Covid count recorded in the district in June was 21.Nine Covid-19 patients recovered in the district on Thursday. Gurugram has reported a total of 181,728 Covid cases, and 180,726 recoveries so far.In the view of the new Covid-19 variant, Omicron, which is believed to be “highly contagious”, the district administration said on Thursday that strict action will be taken against those not wearing masks or not following Covid-19 protocols.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, issued fresh directions on Thursday in compliance with the guidelines given by the Haryana government to prevent the spread of the Omicron infection. According to the orders, it is mandatory for all residents to follow Covid-19 protocols, including social distancing and wearing masks. Those found without masks will be fined and penalised. Officials of all the departments concerned, such as police and municipal corporation, have been instructed to ensure that the standard operating procedure is strictly followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-reports-19-covid-cases-in-a-day-highest-after-five-months-tally-at-77-101638473682362.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Woman accuses father-in-law of raping her for five months||A 24-year-old woman has accused her father-in-law of raping her for the last five months, police said on Thursday. The woman, who also claimed that she was threatened by the accused, later shared her ordeal with her mother-in-law, who encouraged her to approach the police. On the basis of the woman’s complaint, Jamalpur police have registered a first information report (FIR) against the accused. The victim, a resident of Bhamian Kalan, mentioned in her statement to police that she had married in December 2017 and had a three-year-old son. Her husband is an auto-rickshaw driver, who used to stay out of the house during the daytime, she added. The woman told the police that her father-in-law had been raping her for the past five months. The accused also warned her against disclosing about the sexual assault and threatened to kill her mother if she did, the victim said. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Dalvir Singh, who is investigating the case, said the FIR has been registered under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused at the Jamalpur police station. A hunt is on to nab him, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-accuses-father-in-law-of-raping-her-for-five-months-101638473627227.html
03-12-2021||Gurugram||Mercury falls in Gurugram after light rain, air likely to remain ‘very poor’||The city recorded a drop in the daytime temperature on Thursday after it rained intermittently since the morning, with the maximum temperature recorded at 18.6 degrees Celsius (°C) -- seven degrees below the normal. The minimum temperature, meanwhile, was recorded at 11.5 degrees Celsius -- four degrees above the normal.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Gurugram received a rainfall of 4mm till 5:30pm on Thursday. It rained due to a western disturbance, and the city witnessed cloudy skies since Wednesday, said officials.A weather bulletin issued by the Meteorological (Met) Centre Chandigarh on Thursday evening -- a regional centre of the IMD -- predicted that Haryana is likely to see mist or shallow fog at isolated places from Thursday to Sunday.“Under the influence of a western disturbance, seen as a cyclonic circulation over North Pakistan and the neighbourhood, isolated to scattered rainfall has been likely in Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh between December 2 and 3. Due to this, Gurugram received a light rainfall on Thursday, which also brought down the maximum temperature by almost seven degrees below the normal,” said Manmohan Singh, director of Met Centre Chandigarh.At 377, Gurugram on Thursday recorded the air quality index (AQI) in the ‘very poor’ category for the ninth consecutive day, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Neighbouring Delhi and Faridabad recorded the AQIs at 429 and 428, respectively, both in the ‘severe’ category. In Gurugram, only the Gwal Pahari weather station recorded the AQI in the ‘severe’ zone on Thursday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) for Gurugram (north), said, “The air quality has been slightly better in Gurugram following the strict implementation of all directions by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM). Teams of officials are keeping everything in check, and people violating norms are being penalised... Only the Gwal Pahari weather station recorded the air quality in the ‘severe’ category as local sources of pollution, such as road dust, is higher. But we have intensified the sprinkling of water there too.”City-based air quality experts, however, said that the difference in the quality of air in Delhi and Gurugram was due to different wind directions.Sachin Panwar, a Gurugram-based independent air quality scientist, said, “The actual difference in particulate matter (PM2.5) levels between both the cities is not much. The only difference is due to the wind direction. Delhi has primarily seen northwestern wind direction in the past few days, and Gurugram has seen westerly and northeasterly winds. That is why the surface wind in Gurugram was higher, and the pollutants could be dispersed.”Thursday’s rain is likely to help in bringing down the pollution levels in Gurugram over the next 24 hours, only if the intensity increases or the rain continues for a longer duration, he added. “The city is likely to see rainfall on Friday too, but if not, the air quality can worsen due to high moisture content in the air as the pollutants will get trapped and hold up in the lower atmosphere,” Panwar said.According to the Air Quality Early Warning System (AQEWS) forecast for Delhi-NCR, winds are likely to remain slow or calm in the region between December 3 and 5, which is unfavourable for the dispersion of pollutants. The air quality is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ category because of this, according to the forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mercury-falls-in-gurugram-after-light-rain-air-likely-to-remain-very-poor-101638473625992.html
03-12-2021||Gurugram||Fresh TDR policy to help in land acquisition for critical infra in Gurugram||The Haryana government on Thursday notified a fresh Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) policy to allow several important rights to be monetised easily, said officials. The move comes with an aim to address the lack of roads and civic infrastructure in urban areas where land acquisition has become a major obstacle due to high cost.The fresh policy envisages that the TDR certificates, obtained by a landowner, can be divided into smaller parts so that these can be purchased and transferred digitally.Officials of department of town and country planning (DTCP) said that by making TDR certificates divisible and transferable, the policy could attract land owners who otherwise prefer to sell only the land. Land owners, whose land have been earmarked for roads, green belts, colleges, and hospitals in the development plan can apply for TDR certificates under the fresh policy.A TDR certificate refers to the government awarding extra floor area ratio to the land owner for surrendering part of his land for building a critical infrastructure.A land owner can monetise the certificate by selling it to a developer for the construction of an additional area according to the rules mentioned in the fresh policy.“The fresh TDR policy will attract more land owners as these certificates can be divided into smaller parts and also be transferred. Land is required to build critical infrastructure in many urban areas, but the cost of acquisition is too high, making it difficult to build roads and related amenities,” said RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), adding that the new policy would be easier to implement.According to the policy, which was notified on November 16, TDR certificates issued in a specific development plan can be utilised in that plan only. The certificates can be split into multiple certificates, but not for a space less than 50 square metres; and can be transferred only through the DTCP portal. It also stated that any land can also be surrendered to set up sites such as colleges, hospitals, and other amenities which are considered part of external development. The TDR certificates shall be created, stored, and transferred only in digital format, it added. City-based landowners, meanwhile, said that this policy could help only if the TDR certificates can be monetised easily and are purchasable. “The land owners must be able to realise the cost of their land by selling these development rights with ease. Otherwise, these would become only a piece of paper. The government also needs to ensure a fair mechanism to be set up,” said Suresh Yadav, a land owner from Tikli village, adding that there was a need to ensure that these TDR certificates have wide acceptance among the developers. Pankaj Tomar, a real estate dealer, said that in the present era of cash crunch, this scheme can help in building key infrastructure and farmers can get the land monetised with the help of TDR certificates. “The city urgently needs roads, lanes, drains... and this policy could help in getting crucial land by making it easier for landowners to get TDR certificates,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fresh-tdr-policy-to-help-in-land-acquisition-for-critical-infra-in-gurugram-101638473624885.html
03-12-2021||Gurugram||Sirhaul underpass finally gets power line, lights to be turned on today: NHAI||Commuters at the Sirhaul underpass near Ambience Mall on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway will be able to use the underpass at night from Friday, after a month-long delay, as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has finally got an electricity connection there, officials said on Thursday.The underpass will be electrified from Friday after the NHAI got Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam’s (DHBVN) permission for electricity connection there on Thursday, said the NHAI officials. The highway authority used generator sets for lighting the road till now, and vehicular movements were closed there from 10pm every night.Saurabh Singhal, NHAI consultant, said that they had applied for the electricity connections a few months ago. “We have received the permission for the electricity connection on Thursday, and now the underpass will be operational during night as well, as there will be light all the time. We were forced to close it for vehicular movement during the night hours due to the lack of power connection, but it will remain operational now,” he said.The underpass near Ambience Mall was formally opened for traffic from November 1 this year, after the highway authority conducted a week-long trial to check safety and movement of vehicles inside the structure. Now, commuters do not have to go to Delhi’s Rajokri to take a U-turn, and can reach Ambience Mall and DLF Phase 3 in a shorter period of time.The initial deadline for the completion of work at the underpass was September 2020, after it began on March 5, 2019. However, because of the government-imposed construction ban later that year due to pollution, and subsequently the Covid-19 pandemic in early 2020, the project got delayed several times. The length of the U-turn underpass is 377 metres, and the entire stretch including access roads is 1.5-kilometre-long with a 559-metre-long and seven-metre-wide service road. The width of the underpass is 14 metres and the vertical clearance of the tunnel is 5.5 metres. A speed limit of 40 kilometre per hour (kmph) has been set on the facility.A 455-metre-long flyover at Shankar Chowk, which was opened earlier in XXX (Month/Year), was also built as part of this project and a speed limit of 30kmph has been set for the grade-separated flyover.
03-12-2021||Other||GMDA taps illegal links, reduces non-revenue water from 50% to 11% in 4 months||Gurugram: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has reduced non-revenue water (NRW) along the Basai-Dundahera pipeline by tapping illegal connections from 50% to almost 11% in four months, said officials on Thursday.NRW is the water released by the authority but “lost” due to leakage, theft or otherwise before reaching the customer,  thus generating no revenue.NRW sources stood at 50% in August, which has been reduced to 11% by November-end, said officials of GMDA’s smart city department.During a meeting of the core planning committee on Tuesday, Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA, directed the officials to ensure that the NRW is reduced by 2% more within two the next months.“There is a 1,200mm water pipeline between Basai and Dundahera, which is 15-kilometer-long, and there are several underground tanks from where illegal water connections are taken. In August, nearly 50% of the water supply was under NRW category, which has been brought down to 11% by November-end. We are trying to reduce it to below 10%... 10 such additional connections have been identified, which will also be disconnected,” said PK Aggarwal, smart city division, GMDA.Several illegal connections have been primarily identified in areas like Sheetla Mata Temple, Palam Vihar, Old Delhi-Gurugram road, and nearby areas. The focus is now on tapping illegal water connections in three to six inches long stretches, and fixing the smaller connections, according to the officials.The authority has been taking preventive measures like tapping flowing water which earlier used to get wasted, installing water flow meters, and setting up flow control devices for equitable distribution of water among others.Directing the officials concerned, Rajpal said, “Infra II division may take action for individual illegal connections and install meters on the line wherever needed. The leakage of water may be identified, and non-revenue water may be reduced by 2% more in the next two months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gmda-taps-illegal-links-reduces-non-revenue-water-from-50-to-11-in-4-months-101638473622481.html
03-12-2021||Bangalore||‘No need to panic’, say govt, experts after Omicron cases in Karnataka||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday said the detection of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus is not a reason for panic. All in the active cases of the new variant reported in the state, all patients are either asymptomatic or showing mild symptoms, said the minister on Thursday. Talking to the media in Bengaluru, the minister said in Delta variants there were several complications such as breathing problems, however, no such problems have been reported in the case of the new variant. “The symptoms are very mild, but we request people to take all precautions as earlier, especially wearing masks. From our end, we will increase testing in the coming days and take all measures needed. We are on top of the situation, there is no need for panic,” he said. Dr CN Manjunath, a member of the technical advisory committee (TAC), said it was a natural process that the virus mutates, and “we are learning about it”. “From what we have understood so far, especially from those working closely with the variant in South Africa, is that the virus is not dangerous. In more than 95% of the cases, no hospitalisation was required. So, I don’t think there is any need for panic,” he said. The doctor said the Omicron has created a panic among people and it was important that the government and other agencies should provide sufficient information to the people to ensure that the panic is addressed. “As of now, this is just a name change. From Delta, we are seeing Omicron. As long as we follow the Covid-19 protocols, it will not create another wave,” he added. Talking about the further steps taken by the government, KV Trilok Chandra, special commissioner (health), BBMP, said steps will be taken to increase testing and vaccination in the city. “A meeting has been called by the chief minister, following which more measures to be taken to control the variant would be announced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-need-to-panic-say-govt-experts-after-omicron-cases-in-karnataka-101638473562395.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 34 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Thursday reported 34 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,03,352, according to a medical bulletin.With on Covid-related fatality in Gurdaspur district, the death toll reached 16,606, it said. The state recorded a positivity rate of 0.14%. The number of active cases in the state also rose to 344, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, maximum 10 were detected in Hoshiarpur, seven each in Jalandhar and Pathankot. With 18 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86,402, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-34-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101638473502441.html
03-12-2021||Bangalore||Doctor with no foreign travel history infected with Omicron: Karnataka govt||Officials of the health department and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) remain clueless about how a person got infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus any history of international travel.Unlike other infected person, who travelled from South Africa, where the variant was first detected, patient number two is a local resident and doesn’t have any history of international travel, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said. As per the chronology given by the BBMP, the first case of Omicron reported in Karnataka was that of the 66-year-old South African, who arrived in Bengaluru on November 20. He tested positive for the virus on the same day, and he was isolated. BBMP reports read that none of his 24 primary contacts and 240 secondary contacts tested positive for the virus. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta told HT that patient number two didn’t have any contact with the South African national. The report on patient number two says that he is a 46-year-old resident of Bengaluru and was working as a health care worker. Health minister Sudhakar further confirmed that he was a doctor working with a private hospital in the city. He developed fever and body ache on November 21 and tested positive the next day. Since he had a low CT value (which indicates a high viral load), his sample was sent for genomic sequencing. When asked how patient number two got the new variant without travelling abroad or coming in contact with South African national, Sudhakar said: “The patient must have come in contact with someone with travel history. We are still tracking it.” The BBMP commissioner refused to comment on the issue. The government has also confirmed that the patient was in home isolation between November 22 to 24 and on November 25, he was shifted to a hospital. However, he was discharged on November 27. The patient number two had 13 primary contacts and 205 secondary contacts. Out of which, three primary contacts and two secondary contacts have tested positive for Covid. They are currently at a government hospital, and they are not showing any severe symptoms. A senior health department official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the department or the BBMP doesn’t have any information about the source of the variant. “We believe the answer for this question could be found in the contact tracing. He will verify if any of the patient’s contacts have travelled abroad,” he said. However, K V Thrilok Chandra, special commissioner, BBMP (health), told HT that none five contacts of patient number two have any travel history. “As of now we don’t know how he (patient number two) got the new variant,” said Chandra. A member of Karnataka’s technical advisory committee said it was possible that variant must have entered the state before restrictions were put in place. “It is conjecture at this point, and it would be difficult to give a definite answer. Since all patients and their contacts have no history of travel, we can also assume that the variant must have come early. But there is no need to panic. There is no evidence suggesting that this variant is deadly. So, we should focus on handling this variant,” said the doctor who didn’t want to be named. 
03-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC raps cops for transferring sexual assault case to Ghaziabad without pro||“It is unfortunate that institutions supposed to protect the life and liberty of common citizens are quick to shirk their responsibilities,” the Delhi high court said while strictly censuring the Delhi Police for its conduct in transferring a case of sexual assault of a woman to a police station in Ghaziabad.Justice Subramonium Prasad said the failure to register a regular FIR cost precious time that could have been utilised in conducting the investigation and could have also led to the destruction of crucial evidence.“This court finds it unfortunate that institutions that are supposed to protect the life and liberty of common citizens are quick to shirk their responsibilities. This invariably weakens the trust of common citizens that is imposed in these investigative agencies,” the court said in a 15-page judgment passed on November 30.The observations came on plea by a woman resident of Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, who alleged that she was sexually assaulted and raped in multiple places, including Delhi, over a prolonged period of time, spanning several years. The woman sought restoration of investigation by the GTB Enclave police station in Delhi, which she claimed had illegally transferred her case to the Indirapuram police station in Ghaziabad.The woman said on July 23, 2019, she filed an FIR disclosing various incidents of sexual assault and rape committed against her between 2008 and 2019 at various places, including in a place under the jurisdiction of GTB Enclave police station. The Delhi Police registered a “Zero FIR” and transferred the investigation to the UP Police.A Zero FIR can be lodged at any police station, irrespective of where the crime has taken place.The plea sought directions to the station house officer of the GTB Enclave station to continue the investigation by registering the FIR and withdrawing the one given to Indirapuram police station.Directing the GTB Enclave police station to register a regular FIR and investigate the case, the court said the GTB enclave police did not delve into whether the petitioner resided in the city or what the specific time, date and place of the alleged incident was .“By embarking on a journey of trying to get the investigation transferred to Ghaziabad, station GTB Enclave has displayed a failure in dispensation of their obligation to take into account the seriousness and gravity of the offence that has been disclosed by the petitioner in the complaint,” the court said.It said that it is irrelevant that the petitioner is not a resident of Delhi and mere disclosure that one of the incidents had taken place within the vicinity of GTB Enclave police station was sufficient for an FIR to be registered at that station, and not a Zero FIR, as was done in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-raps-cops-for-transferring-sexual-assault-case-to-ghaziabad-without-probe-101638473442451.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: Ludhiana administration launches campaign to raise voter awareness||The district administration launched the three-month long “I Vote, I Lead” campaign in collaboration with city-based NGO, Initiators of Change, at the DC office complex on Thursday. The campaign is aimed towards maximising participation of voters in the upcoming state assembly elections.The campaign was launched by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Jagraon additional deputy commissioner-cum-SVEEP nodal officer, Ludhiana, Dr Nayan Jassal. A team of more than 200 young volunteers from the city will participate and conduct several activities in a phased manner.The organisation has been working on voting rights and voter awareness with the district administration since 2015. Present at the launch were chairman of Initiators of Change, Gauravdeep Singh, president Arshia Lekhi, vice-president Neeraj Jolly and sub-divisional magistrate of Raikot ,Gurbir Singh Kohli.The campaign has been launched at state level under the guidance of S Karuna Raju, chief electoral officer, Punjab, and various activities will be conducting in two phases under it. In the first phase, seminars will be conducted at colleges to raise electoral literacy among first time voters. In the second phase, which starts from mid-December, activities such as nukkad nataks, flash mobs, human chains, bike rallies and marathons will be organised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-ludhiana-administration-launches-campaign-to-raise-voter-awareness-101638473325810.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Model’s ‘bareheaded’ photoshoot at Kartarpur ‘isolated incident’: says Pak||Pakistan on Thursday summoned a senior diplomat from the Indian high commission in Islamabad to the ministry of foreign affairs to convey its view that a model’s “bareheaded” photoshoot at the revered Gurdwara Darbar Sahib was an “isolated incident”.On Tuesday, India had summoned the charge d’affaires at the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi and conveyed its deep concern over Pakistani model Sauleha’s photoshoot at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, describing it as a “desecration” of the sanctity of the holy place.Sauleha’s “bareheaded” photoshoot for a Pakistani clothing brand at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib set the social media abuzz on Monday as many people accused her of hurting the religious sentiments of the Sikh community. The model later deleted her photos from her Instagram page and posted an apology.Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, located in Pakistan’s Narowal district, is the final resting place of Sikh faith’s founder Guru Nanak, who had spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur.In a statement, the foreign office said that a senior diplomat from the Indian high commission was summoned to the ministry of foreign affairs and told that it was “an isolated incident involving an individual at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib.” “It was conveyed to the Indian diplomat that the incident was swiftly addressed and clarified,” it said.It said that Pakistan accords highest primacy to the rights of the minorities and sanctity of religious places and revered sites of every community is ensured in Pakistan.Indian authorities must focus on ensuring effective protection of their own minorities and places of worship from instances of desecration, hate crimes and mob lynching, the foreign office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/models-bareheaded-photoshoot-at-kartarpur-isolated-incident-says-pak-101638473262403.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||PAU employees’ protest enters Day 2||The hunger strike launched by the Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU) teachers’ association leader HS Kingra entered its second day on Thursday. According to an association member, Kingra was showing sign of weakness but he is still keeping well. On the other hand, DPL employees of PAU continued to stage a protest outside Thapar Hall of university on Thursday. The protesting employees stated that they have been working at meagre income and many of them have been working on contractual basis for the past 20 years, but still they are not being regularised.The employees have been protesting in open ground for the past three days and intend to continue their agitation until their demands are met.It may be noted here that on Wednesday, the teachers’ unions of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), along with members of the Chowkidar DPL PAU Welfare Association, had carried out a massive protest rally outside the Thapar Hall of the PAU.The teachers’ union had demanded revision of the UGC pay scales and withdrawal of the decision to unlink universities from the scales, while contractual and DPL employees pressed for regularisation of old employees and increase in pay scale.Ashwani Kumar, president of the GADVASU Teachers Association, had said that higher educational institutes from across the state remained closed in support the ongoing protest.Addressing the protesters, Jagwant Singh, general secretary of the PFUCTO, had criticised the state government for its inability to address the “genuine” demands.“The government is bent upon destroying the public funding education institutions as they are hand in glove with private universities. This struggle is less about the scales and more about the future of higher education,” he had saidChamkaur Singh, president of the Chowkidar DPL PAU Welfare Association, had said they would continue to fight for their demands. The security guards, gardeners and other employees had also left their duties at 5pm and joined the protest outside Thapar Hall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-employees-protest-enters-day-2-101638473088438.html
03-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka on alert after 2 positive Omicron results||The union health ministry on Thursday said India’s first cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 were reported from Bengaluru in Karnataka, triggering an alarm bell in the state.“Two cases of Omicron have been found positive on a 66-year-old male and a 46-year-old male. We got the results very late last (Wednesday) night,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary at the union ministry of health and family welfare, told reporters in Delhi. “All primary and secondary contacts have been identified and are under isolation.”While Agarwal refused to divulge any more details about the two positive cases, Gaurav Gupta, commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), said one of the patients is a South African national who arrived in Bengaluru on November 20 and the second patient is a health worker in Bengaluru.The confirmation came after genome sequencing results returned from a laboratory under the INSACOG after the samples were sent by the Karnataka government for verification.The World Health Organization (WHO) labelled Omicron a virus of concern on last Friday, and the UN health body suggested that preliminary evidence found an increased risk of re-infection with this variant, as compared to other variants of concern.Talking to HT, Gupta said patient number one, who is a South African, came to Bengaluru on November 20. “The patient is 66-year-old. His samples were collected on November 20, at the (Kempegowda) international airport on the day of his arrival. He had come from South Africa via Dubai. He came to India with an RT-PCR negative test report, but he was tested positive,” said Gupta.A report from BBMP read that after the Covid test, he had checked into a hotel in the city. After he tested positive, a doctor from the Urban Primary Health Care Centre visited him for a physical triage and found him to be asymptomatic and was asked to isolate himself at the hotel. “On November 22, his test samples were collected and sent for genomic sequencing via BBMP,” read the report.It further added that the patient took self-examination on November 23 and was tested negative. On getting this negative report at 12.34 am on November 27 he left from Bengaluru to Dubai. The local authorities were informed when he left.Karnataka’s minister for health and family welfare Dr K Sudhakar said patient number 1 had 24 primary contacts and 240 secondary contacts. “The samples were collected from these contacts on November 22 and 23. All of them have tested negative. Even though they have tested negative, we are constantly monitoring their health,” the minister said.Unlike the first patient, who arrived from South Africa, where the variant was first detected, patient number two is a resident of Bengaluru without any travel history. According to BBMP’s report, patient number two is a 44-year-old male and a health care worker.“On November 21, he developed fever and body ache. He underwent an RT-PCR test on November 22 around 10 am and by 4 pm, he was declared Covid positive. Since he had a low CT value (which indicates a high viral load), his sample was sent for genomic sequencing,” read the report.The patient was in home isolation between November 22 to 24. On November 25, he was shifted to a hospital and was discharged on November 27, said the report. “He (patient number 2) had 13 primary contacts and 205 secondary contacts. Out of which, three primary contacts and two secondary contacts have tested positive for Covid-19. They are currently at a government hospital, and they are not showing any severe symptoms. We have sent their samples for genome sequencing,” said the health minister.It remains unclear how patient number two, who doesn’t have a travel history or contact with patient number one contracted the new variant which wasn’t detected in India before. “No comments,” said BBMP commissioner Gupta when asked about the source of the new variant in the second patient.Health minister Sudhakar too didn’t give any answer to this question.Following the detection of the new variant, the Karnataka government has asked the concerned officials to increase testing and tracking at the various airports in Karnataka. The government on Tuesday issued directions to test all international passengers arriving in the state. BBMP commissioner Gupta said while the guidelines for the general public – such as avoiding crowds and wearing masks – continue, the BBMP will increase the number of samples sent for genome sequencing.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is in New Delhi to meet union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya to seek permission to administer the third dose of vaccine to frontline workers in the state, is expected to return to Bengaluru on Friday. Officials at CM’s office said a high-level meeting will be held on his arrival to discuss further steps to be taken.
03-12-2021||Delhi||Fewer Covid-19 penalties as Delhi caseload remains low||Penalties for violations of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in Delhi fell to a six-month low last month, showed records from district administrations, as the infection’s caseload continued to remain at record lows in the national capital.Data seen by HT showed that 93,583 challans were issued and 2,078 FIRs registered between November 1 and 25 for violations of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as masking and distancing. In comparison, the Delhi saw 127,862 challans and 5,884 FIRs in October, and 169,370 challans and 5,849 FIRs in September. The last time prosecutions were this low was in May when 85,175 challans were issued and 1,803 FIRs filed.
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Pre-anesthesia clinic inaugurated at DMCH||Pre-anethesia clinic (PAC) was inaugurated in the OPD block of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Thursday.Principal Sandeep Puri said the clinic will help decrease hospital stay of the patients during surgery. and will serve to provide comprehensive evaluation of patients by experienced anaesthesiologists.Professor and head of department of anaesthesia Anju Garewal said that PAC plays a vital role in evaluating and optimizing medical and surgical co-morbidities prior to surgery, especially in an era of enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS). This evaluation includes detailed medical checkup, physical examination, necessary pre-operative investigations and rehabilitation measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pre-anesthesia-clinic-inaugurated-at-dmch-101638472782905.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: NHM workers demand regularisation, hike in salaries||Employees of National Health Mission (NHM), Punjab, staged a protest at the civil surgeon’s office on Thursday demanding regularisation of jobs and hike in salaries.The employees had on November 25.announced an indefinite protest at the civil Surgeon’s office and participated in a state-level protest rally in Kharar on Tuesday. However, their demands are yet to be fulfilled. The protesters include community health officers, doctors, nurses and other clerical staff.District account officer Dinesh Kumar said that 300 employees of NHM, Ludhiana, and 12,000 from across the state are on indefinite strike. He added that the state government had recently introduced the Punjab Protection and Regularisation of Contractual Employee Bill 2021, but NHM employees have been kept out of the list.“Despite performing our duties even amid the Covid crisis, our rights are always denied,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-nhm-workers-demand-regularisation-hike-in-salaries-101638472544036.html
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||North Zone national basketball c’ship to kick off in Ludhiana from December 6||The 71st North Zone Senior National Basketball Championship will be held at Guru Nanak Stadium in Ludhiana from December 6 to December 10 under the aegis of the Basketball Federation Of India.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary of Punjab Basketball Association, said that six men’s and six women’s teams from Delhi, Haryana , Himachal Pradesh , Jammu and Kashmir ,Chandigarh and Punjab will participate in the tournament. All the teams will play matches as per round robin league basis and 30 matches will be played in both categories.The three top teams from both categories will participate in the 71st Senior National Championship in Chennai from January 23 to January 30, 2022.PBA president RS Gill said that many international basketball stars from Punjab including Jagdeep Bains and NBA stars Amyjot Singh , Amritpal Singh and Princepal Singh will also be seen in action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/north-zone-national-basketball-c-ship-to-kick-off-in-ludhiana-from-december-6-101638472244008.html
03-12-2021||Noida||30 beds reserved at Noida Covid Hospital for international travellers||With cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 coming to the fore in India and the state government issuing directions to check the spread of the infection, the district health department on Thursday reserved 30 beds in two wards of Noida Covid Hospital in Sector 39 for all international travellers who test positive for Covid-19.Both the district administration and the health department are taking precautionary measures to tackle any sudden surge in Covid-19 cases or any case of the Omicron variant in Gautam Budh Nagar. All oxygen plants set up over the past six months are also being reviewed to see if they are functional.Depending on the severity of cases, patients will be either transferred to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida or be treated in the Noida Covid hospital, said officials.“Most L-1 (non-critical) patients may be in home isolation; L-2 (complicated) patients will be taken to the Noida Covid Hospital and L-3 (critical) patients will be taken to GIMS. If cases increase further, we will scale up the number of beds at other facilities,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer.However, no separate ward has been allocated for patients infected with the Omicron variant or those travelling from high-risk countries. Officials said with about 55 countries already on red alert, nearly all international travellers need to be monitored. Also, by the time reports of the genome testing--to determine the variant of the virus--arrive, the treatment of the patient will already begin. “We held discussions and initially thought of reserving one facility for patients infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19. We don’t have a single case of the Omicron variant yet. The test reports take time to come and isolation is done as soon as possible,” said Dr Sharma.The department has received a list of 292 international travellers who arrived in Noida between November 15 and 29 from ‘at risk’ countries. The list includes all countries in Europe, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. There are about 44 European countries.Of the 292 travellers, 45 of them were tracked till Thursday morning while teams have been deployed to track other travellers. Officials said it is a difficult task to track all travellers as often they cannot be contacted at the addresses and contact numbers provided to them.Officials said that no sample has been sent yet for genome testing in the district as none of the 292 travellers who arrived in Noida from high-risk countries have tested positive for Covid-19. However, officials admitted that cases are expected to increase as more travellers will be tracked over the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/30-beds-reserved-at-noida-covid-hospital-for-international-travellers-101638472062207.html
03-12-2021||Noida||Private school in Noida running without recognition from state education dept||A private school in Noida’s Sector 40 has been found to be allegedly running without recognition from the district basic education department and has been summoned to give a clarification for the same on December 6, failing which it will face strict action. According to a letter issued by the assistant director of basic education, Meerut division, to basic education officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, The Khaitan School in Noida’s Sector 40 has neither acquired recognition from the district basic education officer nor from the assistant director of education (basic), Meerut division for the basic school (classes 1-8). The letter, dated November 15, states that under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act (2009), the school cannot operate without a certificate of recognition from the state education department. The BSA has been directed by the assistant director to take appropriate action against the school according to the rules and regulations of the Act. “As per rules, every school has to give a declaration form to the district basic education officer, informing about their intention to start primary school. After three months, the department inspects the school and issues the recognition certificate 60 days from the inspection. Only then the basic school, that is classes 1-8, can be started,” said Dharmendra Saxena, district basic education officer. Saxena said the school has the recognition for holding classes 9-12, which has to be obtained from the district inspector of schools. On Thursday, Saxena summoned the school to give a clarification by December 6, failing which action will be taken against the institution.“A teacher from the school filed a complaint with the joint director of the state education department regarding the school’s recognition, following which it was found that they have not been recognized by the education department,” said Saxena. The Khaitan School was established in 1995 in Noida and currently has over 3,900 students enrolled from nursery to Class 12. Reena Singh, principal of the school, has refuted the allegations. “We have all the required documents to show that we are recognized by the state government’s education department. These allegations are baseless and have been levelled against the school with vested interests,” she said. Saxena added that the matter will be investigated. “We have summoned the school authorities and their documents will be checked. We will impose a penalty on the school if they are found to be in violation of the rules. If the school is found to not have taken recognition, they will be asked to apply for it.” Meanwhile, Manoj Kataria, founder of Gautam Budh Nagar Parents Welfare Society (GBPWS), said parents are shocked to learn about the allegations. “Such allegations on a reputed city school have come as a shock to parents whose children have been studying there. We hope authorities conduct a survey of all other schools in the district as well so that such discrepancies can come to the fore”. 
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana industrialists raise their issues with police commissioner||To apprise the police department of problems being faced by the industrialists and doctors pertaining to the traffic and law-and-order situation in the industrial hub, the Police Public Foundation (PPF) organised a meeting between representatives of industry and police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar at a hotel on Pakhowal Road on Thursday evening.Representatives of different industrial sectors including textile, bicycle, auto parts and sewing machines participated in the meeting and 60 doctors were also honoured for their service during the pandemic.The industrialists raised issues like the security and safety of workers in industrial areas, chronic issue of traffic jams across the city and drug menace etc. Industrialist and vice-president of PPF, Mridula Jain, said, “We have sought a solution to the road blockades by protesters in the industrial hub. A lot of time is wasted due to the traffic jams. A place has to be designated and after that, police should act strictly to block the roads during the protest.” The industrialists stated that the police were also urged to intensify patrolling especially in industrial areas and focal points to stop the incidents of snatching from labourers/workers. Prominent industrialists including SC Ralhan, SS Bhogal and Avtar Bhogal participated in the event.Knitwear and Textile Club president Vinod Thapar stated that industrialists demanded a solution for the problem of traffic jams, especially near Preet Palace in the morning when they leave for work. Further, the police were urged to intensify patrolling, especially in old city areas including Gandhi Nagar and Dal Bazar, as snatchings have been recently reported from the areas even during the day.Senior vice-president of PPF, Neeraj Satija, said, “The aim of the meeting was to bridge the gap between the police and industry. Various issues were raised and Bhullar assured that the problems will be solved in the coming time. The doctors also raised concern over the incidents wherein the families or relatives of patients create ruckus in hospitals by levelling false allegations of negligence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialists-raise-their-issues-with-police-commissioner-101638471882453.html
03-12-2021||Noida||Greater Noida allottees junk Yeida’s appeal to end court case on interest waiver||Allottees of an industrial plot scheme -- ‘YEA-2013 open-ended scheme’ -- have refused the appeal of the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) to end a court case related to a waiver of interest, said officials on Thursday.The allottees filed a case in Allahabad high court, seeking the waiver of interest after they got allotment of their plots. They sought waiver of interest on the ground after the Yeida failed to give them possession of their plots, saying they should be free of paying an interest imposed on the remaining cost of plots.“Why should we pay interest on the remaining plot cost, when the Yeida is yet to ready the industrial sector, develop basic civic facilities, and handover possession of the plots? We demand that the Yeida declares a ‘zero period’ from the date of allotment to the date of possession, enabling the allottees to only pay the principal cost of plots... The authority has urged us to withdraw the case (filed in Allahabad high court), and it has only approved an interest waiver for two years, but that is not enough,” said Righabh Nigam, secretary of Yamuna Expressway Entrepreneurs Association (YEEA).Yeida launched the scheme in 2013, with promises of offering plot possessions at the earliest. It had allotted 816 plots in Sector 32, located along the 165km Yamuna Expressway, at a rate of ₹5,500 per square meters. According to the scheme, the authority had allowed the allottees to pay half-yearly instalments for the plot cost, and charged 12% interest on the same.The authority has failed to develop roads, drains, water lines, electricity networks, and other utility services among others. It could not even hand over possession of the plots as the authority itself is yet to acquire patches of the land in Sector 32 from farmers, said the officials.“The farmers still perform agricultural activities on these land patches. It should either handover possession to the allottees, or waive off interest on the plot cost,” said Tejveer Rana, president of the YEEA.On July 23 this year, Yeida decided to waive off interest for two years -- from April 1, 2018, to March 31, 2020 -- after the allottees refused to pay the interest for the entire period. The authority said that they have developed all the basic civic amenities in some parts of the land, and the remaining land is being acquired. “We will soon acquire the remaining land and handover the possession to the people concerned,” said a Yeida official, requesting anonymity.Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of Yeida, refused to comment on the issue as the matter is on trial in the Allahabad high court.
03-12-2021||Delhi||Frequent closures a logistical nightmare, say Delhi schools||With the Delhi government announcing the closure of schools on account of pollution once again, schools said they are now compelled to put their plans of full-fledged resumption of classes and various services on hold. The uncertainty surrounding in-person classes has also created logistical challenges, they said. Sudha Acharya, chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference, which has over 120 Delhi private schools as members, said abrupt and frequent closures were leading to a learning loss among children and also preventing schools from making any long-term plans. “We had just reopened after making so many arrangements and now schools have been asked to shut again. We are compelled to change the timetable every time such decisions are announced. All our planning has gone haywire. Teachers and students are confused since there is not much predictability. We don’t know whether we will be able to conduct final exams in schools or not,” said Acharya. She said parents were also under pressure since they had recently purchased new uniforms and made arrangements with private transportation services for ferrying their wards to school and back. The frequent closures have disrupted transport services, canteen and cafeteria functioning, and also the working of non-teaching staff. “Parents were arranging for carpool services and vans so that they could send children to school. Even uniforms were purchased. All that has been derailed. Working parents, especially, will have to reschedule their days now that schools are closed again,” said Acharya. Laksh Vir Sehgal, principal of Bal Bharati Public School, Ganga Ram Hospital Marg, said the on and off nature of in-person classes was causing a lot of logistical challenges. He said the school employed several contractual employees and relieving them of duty time and again was inconvenient for both parties concerned. “We had called these employees back to work in the hopes that in-person classes would continue normally. Now, we will have to lay them off for some days at least. Their income is also affected,” said Sehgal. Jyoti Arora, principal, Mount Abu Public School, said repeated closure of schools was disappointing and sought a long-term solution since pollution spikes have become an annual phenomenon. “Policymakers must come together and deliberate on the rising pollution levels. Shutting schools is a symptomatic treatment. We need a strategic therapy for a long-term solution,” said Joshi. The school’s plans of starting the school bus service from Monday have been halted due to the closure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/frequent-closures-a-logistical-nightmare-say-delhi-schools-101638471711849.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Temples not an election issue for BJP: Maurya||PRAYAGRAJ: UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said on Thursday that temples and temple corridors were not election issues for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Reiterating his controversial statement made in a tweet on Wednesday wherein he spoke about construction of a grand temple in Mathura, Maurya said while a grand Ram temple was being constructed in Ayodhya and work was underway on the Kashi Vishwanath corridor project in Varanasi, wait was on for the construction of a temple at Krishna Janmabhoomi site in Mathura, believed by millions of Hindus as the birthplace of Lord Krishna. The temple site, a subject of multiple court cases, is located inside an Aurangzeb-era mosque in Mathura and shares its premises with a prominent Krishna temple. Maurya maintained that the allegations of polarization being levelled against him for his tweet were wrong. In an informal chat with media persons here where he laid the foundation stone for the construction of UP Public Service Commission’s residential campus in Rajapur, Maurya said, “I am a devotee of Lord Ram, Shiva and Krishna and have expressed my feelings as a devotee. Those who used to oppose Shri Ram temple continuously are now going to bow their heads on the doorsteps of Ramlalla. In the coming time, the same scene will be seen in Kashi and Mathura also.” On November 28, the Mathura district administration had imposed prohibitory orders under CrPC section 144 following an announcement by the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha to install an idol of lord Krishna at the deity’s “actual birthplace”, which it claims is inside the mosque. After the foundation stone laying ceremony, Maurya left for Kaushambi where he held meetings with BJP office-bearers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/temples-not-an-election-issue-for-bjp-maurya-101638471462184.html
03-12-2021||Delhi||Work starts on Delhi’s first pet crematorium; to be ready by March||In about a year, Delhi will have two pet crematoria, managed by the municipal corporations of Delhi. The work orders have been issued for the facility being built by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) in Dwarka’s Sector 29, official said on Thursday, while the North Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to build a facility and the corporation commissioner Sanjay Goel has included the project in the budgetary proposals for 2022-23. A senior veterinary department official from North corporation said the request has already been sent to the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the land-owning agency, for allocation of land. “The primary goal is to ensure the scientific disposal of pet carcasses, especially those of dogs that are suspected to be rabid; the carcasses should not end up at landfill sites,” a north corporation official said, adding that the project will be taken up on pulic-private partnership (PPP) model, once the DDA approves the land.Meanwhile, after several plan revisions, the work order for the pet crematorium in Dwarka’s Sector 29 have finally been issued. Dr Ravindra Sharma, director of veterinary services, SDMC, said the project will be carried out on a PPP model and the private company has started site levelling and foundation work. “According to the final site plan, two furnaces with 150kg and 200kg capacity are being set up at the crematorium being built over a 700 square metre area. The 150kg unit will be used for pets while the 200kg furnace will be used for stray dogs,” he added. Sharma said the design of the crematorium incorporates wet scrubbers and air purifiers and the facility will be largely smokeless and eco-friendly.SDMC has fixed two slabs for dog cremations — ₹2,000 for a less than 30kg dog carcass and ₹3,000 for dogs weighing more than 30kg. “The cremation of a dog takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and there will be a cooling off period of 30 minutes,” the veterinary director said. The site plan also incorporates lockers for storage of ashes and also a prayer room.The south corporation has a four acre plot in Sector 29 where the civic body plans to set up a dog complex, apart from the crematorium. A sterilisation centre for dogs is currently operational. The site had become a point of controversy in April and May, when the city was faced its worst wave of Covid-19 yet and mortality rates shot up.The civic body had decided to create temporary pyre platforms there with a goal of expanding the daily cremation capacity. Ultimately, the site was never used for human cremations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/work-starts-on-delhi-s-first-pet-crematorium-to-be-ready-by-march-101638471343677.html
03-12-2021||Noida||Toll tax on Delhi-Meerut Expressway may start from next week, says NHAI||The collection of toll tax on the Delhi Meerut Expressway is likely to begin next week as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has taken up the process of calculating the toll tax after its toll fee notification was recently approved by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). The DME was thrown open to the public in April this year but no toll tax was being charged from commuters plying on the stretch. According to the NHAI, levying a toll tax on the expressway has the potential to fetch an annual turnover of about ₹111.39 crore with cars/jeeps/light motor vehicles accounting for about 82% of the traffic and bus/trucks and other heavy vehicles accounting for 14%. The 59.77km 14-lane DME has three phases — Phase 1 links Sarai Kale Khan and UP Gate; Phase 2 connects UP Gate and Dasna and Phase 4 connects Dasna and Meerut. Phase 4 is a six-lane 32-km access-controlled alignment between Dasna and Meerut. “The toll fee notification has been approved by the ministry (MoRTH;) this also includes the method to calculate the rates. A gazette notification will be issued soon. Once we receive the gazette notification, the toll rates will be published,” said Arvind Kumar, project director of NHAI. “We are expecting to complete the process of finalising the toll rates in the next two to three days; the toll collection is likely to start from next week.The company selected for toll collection has been asked to ready its equipment for the trial run,” said Kumar. Earlier in August, the NHAI rolled out tentative toll rates for the expressway when it invited bids from interested agencies. According to the proposed rates, a car travelling the full length of the DME will have to shell out ₹140 as toll tax, which is about ₹2.33/ kilometre of the distance travelled. For the purpose of calculating the distance travelled, the NHAI has installed automatic number-plate readers (ANPRs) at all entry and exit points. The entry/exit points of the expressway are located at Akshardham, Indirapuram, near Dasna, near the interchange of the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, near Bhojpur and near Partapur in Meerut. NHAI officials said that the toll tax will be determined by the distance travelled and the amount will get deducted from the FASTag system linked to the vehicle. In case of vehicles which don’t have FASTags, the authority will charge double the toll tax at the exit points. In February, the Union government had made it mandatory for all vehicles to be linked to the FASTag system, which enables a vehicle to pass through toll plazas without having to pay in cash and cut traffic queues. “No two-wheelers, three-wheelers or slow-moving vehicles will be allowed on the expressway lanes,” said an official from NHAI. The DME has three inner lanes on each side, which are dedicated expressway lanes. Four outer lanes on each side are dedicated highway lanes, where commuting will be toll free.
03-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools shut again after push from SC||Hours after the Supreme Court criticised the reopening of schools as pollution levels shot back up, the Delhi government ordered all educational institutes shut until further orders -- a move experts said will prolong the learning crisis wrought by Covid-19 while doing little for the health of children who are likely to be exposed to the same air at home.Also Read | SC pulls up Delhi govt for opening schools amid rising air pollution levelThe air quality index (AQI) shot up to the severely polluted category to reach 429 at 4pm on Thursday, as a thick smog hung in the air under overcast skies. The rapid deterioration prompted the top court to take a hard line during the hearing, when it set a 24-hour ultimatum for the Delhi and Union governments to act on pollution.“The schools had remained closed for a very long time and the decision to reopen them was made because pollution levels were decreasing in Delhi at that time. But as we can see right now, the pollution levels have started rising again. The government is constantly monitoring the situation. We have now decided to close the schools for all classes, once again from tomorrow (Friday),” environment minister Gopal Rai said on Thursday, shortly after the court hearing.The apex court on Thursday expressed its dissatisfaction with the measures to control high pollution levels.“We feel that nothing is happening and the pollution keeps increasing... only time is being wasted,” Chief Justice NV Ramana said during the hearing, giving the Centre 24 hours to come with a “creative” action plan.The court specifically criticised the Delhi government’s decision to reopen schools and said that “three-year-olds and four-year-olds are going to schools but adults are working from home”.Also Read | Frequent closures a logistical nightmare, say Delhi schoolsAbhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the Delhi government, said: “There are various reports on learning loss due to school closure during the pandemic and therefore, it was decided to reopen the schools with the option of online teaching. But if this court wants us to reconsider, we will do it.”To this, the judges said: “Don’t use our shoulders to fire shots. You are the government. You do your work. Who will sit at home when you open schools? You tell us about your decision tomorrow”.After the Covid-19 outbreak first hit India, schools in Delhi were closed on March 12, 2020. On January 18, 2021, schools were opened for classes 10 and 12, keeping practical work and board exam preparations in mind. On February 5, schools were reopened for the students of classes 9 and 11. The second wave of Covid-19 forced schools shut again from April 9. From September, reopening began in phases: with classes opening for 9-12 grades first, before the remaining were allowed to return to in-person attendance from November 1.Pollution then forced schools to shut again for 13 days.The month went on to record the worst air quality since, 2015, when the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) started maintaining pollution records.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said the frequent closure of schools was taking a toll on children, who were disappointed and perplexed by the abrupt closure. Joshi said relying too much on online classes will have long-term consequences for students.“Schooling is an important part of growing children’s life. Their childhood is getting affected due to the closure of schools. Schools are not a place for academics alone. The whole process of growing up and making friends, social and emotional interactions, has been affected. Adolescent children especially are getting affected. Their confidence is taking a toll. We can notice how students are becoming unsure of themselves,” said Joshi.The position was echoed by clinicians. “Children or adults are born to co-regulate. After staying at for home so long due to Covid, they were already tired. With the closure of schools once again, they are disenchanted. Children are craving a sense of normalcy. Their mood, appetite, attention space, and interaction are getting affected as they stay at home for long,” said Clinical psychologist Dr Seema Hingorani, describing what she said were mental health impacts of keeping children away from schools.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia clarified that even as schools shut, examinations for classes 10 and 12 will continue as before. “In view of pollution, all schools in Delhi will remain closed till further orders. However, the examinations related to the board will run as per the pre-determined schedule,” tweeted Sisodia on Thursday. Schools will also be allowed to conduct examinations for students in classes 9 and 11, school heads and officials in the education department said.On the directions of the Supreme Court, Delhi over the last one month has intermittently imposed a ban on the entry of trucks into the city, except those carrying essential items, banned construction activities and had also closed schools briefly.Currently, all of these restrictions have been reimposed.“For the past two months, we have been running an anti-dust campaign. All construction-demolition work is already suspended in Delhi, trucks from outside Delhi are also banned from entering Delhi,” Rai said.He added, “We have also started a special bus service to and from government offices so that people don’t have to take their private vehicles to come to work. The capacity of metros and buses has already been increased. I would appeal to everyone that they should use public transport and avoid using private vehicles as much as they can.”Experts said that Delhi cannot rely on emergency action and ignore pollution control measures year-round.“This season is proof that we need to concentrate more on comprehensive pollution control measures instead of only waking up when the pollution levels start worsening. Fire fighting can only help to a certain extent but unless emission from pollution sources is controlled throughout the year, you will not see any concrete difference,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).
03-12-2021||Delhi||Over 100 cases of child pornography registered, 50 held in Delhi in two days||The Delhi Police said on Thursday that it has registered over a 100 cases of child pornography, in the past couple of days, and arrested nearly 50 persons in connection with these cases, as part of a newly launched drive to tackle the crime, which is rampant on social media and the internet. Most of these cases were registered and persons arrested based on inputs received from a US-based agency that works on identifying missing and exploited children, police said. The cases were registered at the cyber police station created in each of the 15 police districts of Delhi. More registration of cases and arrests of suspects are likely in the coming days, senior police officers privy to the operation said.Deputy commissioner of police, intelligence fusion and strategic operations (IFSO) KPS Malhotra said the cases were registered and arrests made following preliminary investigations carried out by cyber experts posted with the IFSO. He said child pornographic contents on the internet were detected and the alleged offenders were identified with the help of the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC), a USA-based private organisation, which is working on such cyber crimes in coordination with India’s National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).Malhotra said NCMEC works on cases of missing and exploited children and it had coordination with all the major social media platforms to trace such children. “The NCMEC also scans the contents of the internet to identify child exploitation videos, child pornographic contents, online enticements and contact offences,” said Malhotra.A contact offence is criminal offence such as rape, assault, or robbery in which there is a physical contact between the victim and perpetrater, police said.“The NCMEC reviews these reports and shares them with the appropriate law enforcement agency or the Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) task force in the US. In addition to the information provided by the reporting party, NCMEC typically adds geo-location information (if appropriate) and cross-references identifying information such as email addresses, user names, or IP addresses with the existing Cyber Tipline Reports (a centralised reporting system in the US to flag instances of online exploitation of children). The details are shared with nodal agencies of the country concerned and further distributed to the state concerned,” he said.According to Malhotra, the Delhi Police also receives similar information from NCMEC. The inputs received in the recent past were developed by cyber experts posted in the IFSO stations. The IP addresses and other details of persons, who uploaded objectionable content related to child pornography, were collected and verified.“Once the crimes and the location of the offenders were confirmed, cases were registered at the cyber police station concerned and the suspects arrested. So far, 50 such suspects have been arrested. The number will increase in the coming days. We (Delhi Police) have a zero-tolerance policy against child exploitation and child pornography,” Malhotra said.
03-12-2021||Delhi||Price of ‘popular’ rapid PCR test slashed by ₹400 at Delhi airport, to cost ₹3,500||The cost of the rapid PCR test at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport has been reduced from ₹3,900 to ₹3,500, officials said on Thursday, adding that the price was slashed after finding that these tests had more takers as compared to the RT-PCR tests, which costs only ₹500. What makes these rapid PCR tests more popular is the rapid turnaround time, as its name suggests — a person gets a report within 45-60 minutes as opposed to the four-hour waiting time for an RT-PCR test report.Following the new guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on November 26, passengers from “high risk” countries — South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, Israel and all European countries— are now required to take a Covid-19 test on their arrival at the airport, even if they are in possession of a negative test report, obtained within 72 hours prior to boarding, or are fully vaccinated. The heightened vigilance in the country is to keep at bay the Omicron variant of the Covid virus, which was declared a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organization (WHO) recently.Also Read | Long queues at Delhi airport as checks to keep Omicron at bay kick inChetan Kohli, COO at Genestrings Diagnostic, which runs the Covid-19 testing facility at the Delhi airport, said almost 75% of all fliers from high-risk countries were opting for a rapid PCR test over the RT-PCR test, simply because of the reduced waiting time. “The decision to reduce the cost was a conscious one. We are not focusing on profits but to provide accessible testing to all fliers,” said Kohli.Genestrings says till 7pm Thursday, over 3,000 tests were conducted, while on Wednesday, the first day of the new guidelines, around 2,100 tests were conducted. “The data of positive cases will be shared directly with the Delhi government,” he added.Also Read | 4 more international travellers test Covid positive at Delhi airport: OfficialsRapid tests were launched at the Delhi airport in August 2021, at a starting cost of ₹4,500. Officials say over time, they have been able to reduce the cost of raw materials and testing kits. “As compared to the European market, these rates are fairly low. We have been able to optimize testing and reduce the price from the initial ₹4,500 to the present ₹3,500,” Kohli said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/price-of-popular-rapid-pcr-test-slashed-by-400-at-delhi-airport-to-cost-3500-101638471114664.html
03-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti conservation project wins two Unesco awards||Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti has received two awards at the Unesco Asia-Pacific Awards for Cultural Heritage Conservation this year. The conservation initiative at Nizamuddin bagged the Award of Excellence and Special Recognition for Sustainable Development Award. The conservation project is the only award-winning entry from India. Conservation efforts at Nizamuddin Basti are being undertaken by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture in partnership with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, Archaeological Survey of India, Delhi Urban Heritage Foundation and the Dargah Committee and resident community groups of Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti since 2007. The conservation efforts include the restoration of over 20 historic monuments clustered around the 14th century mausoleum of Sufi saint Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya. Stakeholders are also working towards the revival of local crafts and job creation. The citation of the award states that the jury applauded the Nizamuddin Basti project for its “outstanding achievement in placing heritage at the heart of the sustainable development agenda” and noted that “through an innovative People-Public-Private partnership model, the project overcame major socio-economic challenges and improved health, education and well-being, particularly for women and youth”. Ratish Nanda, CEO, Aga Khan Trust for Culture India, said that the trust had tried to demonstrate that conservation and development were interlinked through its work at Nizamuddin. “We have tried to leverage cultural assets for socio-economic development of the community. The monuments have been coupled with performance areas and water-harvesting facilities have been created near the baolis. Through our efforts, we have demonstrated that conservation and development go hand in hand and cultural assets can be used to improve quality of life,” said Nanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-nizamuddin-basti-conservation-project-wins-two-unesco-awards-101638471043659.html
03-12-2021||Noida||Uttar Pradesh issues fresh guidelines for claiming Covid death compensation||The Uttar Pradesh government late Wednesday issued a fresh set of guidelines stating that a compensation of ₹50,000 must be paid to the next of kin of each patient who died of Covid-19 in the state. According to the guidelines issued by additional chief secretary Manoj Kumar Singh, the scope of what constitutes a Covid-19 death has also been widened to include patients who died within 30 days of a positive Covid test or within 30 days of them being clinically ascertained to be Covid positive, both in-facility and outside. The guidelines also include patients who were in hospital/in-patient facility for a period of 30 days but died later, after being discharged. It also said if a death due to Covid is not indicated in the death certificate, it should not hinder the compensation process as documents such as the RT-PCR/rapid antigen test/clinical determination through investigation will be sufficient to make a successful claim. The district officials said the latest order, with a broadened scope to determine eligibility, will increase the number of applications from families claiming Covid deaths. The state’s directions came in the wake of a petition filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, a resident of Ghaziabad, before the Supreme Court. On October 4, the court passed an order making ex gratia payments mandatory. While passing the order, the a bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna said: “...it can be presumed either no wide publicity has been given by the concerned states or UTs with regard to the compensation offered for death of a person who had died due to Covid-19 or the concerned claimant is not made aware where to apply.”According to the state control room figures, Uttar Pradesh recorded 22,911 Covid deaths till November 30. These include 461 deaths in Ghaziabad and another 467 in Gautam Budh Nagar. According to the government’s submission to the Centre, the state received 3,071 applications for compensation, against the 22,898 deaths reported till November 26. It added that an amount of ₹541.5 lakh was disbursed as ex gratia to 1,083 families and the remaining claims are being processed.“The Supreme Court constituted a grievance committee on my petition. The purpose of the said committee is to provide a platform to those families who believe that their family member(s) died of Covid-19 but because one reason or the other, they could not get a Covid death certificate,” said Bansal. “If a family succeeds in its claims, then definitely the state’s tally of Covid deaths will increase,” he said. Officials of the Ghaziabad district administration said the latest guidelines is likely to increase the number of applications seeking ex gratia.  “We are expecting more people to apply for compensation as the scope of deaths has been broadened for awarding compensation. It is now up to the state officials whether they will correspondingly increase the official Covid death toll or not,” said Ravi Srivastava, additional district magistrate (finance and revenue), Ghaziabad. However, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar Suhas LY said the guidelines may not impact the Covid death toll much. “The guidelines issued have a broader scope for the deaths but it seems that it is for the purpose of awarding compensation. It may not increase the overall death count as such,” he added. Health experts said there could be patients who died after testing negative for Covid-19. “If the guidelines have increased the scope of deaths, then there is every possibility that more applications will pour in. Further, there is no harm if the death count increases. If families of such patients get compensated after ascertainment of death due to Covid, such cases should be included in the death toll,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of the Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). 
03-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: MCD schools add over 150,000 students as enrolments jump||The number of students who enrolled in primary schools run by Delhi’s three municipal corporations witnessed a significant increase in the current academic year (2021-22). The data from the education departments of the three civic bodies shows that the enrolment figures in the 700 schools of North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North DMC) primary schools went from 267,000 in the last year to 341,000 in the current academic year. Similarly, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (EDMC) 354 schools witnessed an increase from 162,000 students to 225,000 while the South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) numbers went up from 291,000 to 305,000 in 592 primary schools.Cumulatively, the number of primary school students enrolled in the 1,646 schools run by the three corporations has gone up from 720,000 in 2020-21 to 871,000 this year.Meanwhile, school closures and mergers in the last six years have led to the number of primary schools reducing from 719 to 700 under North DMC; 605 to 592 under SDMC; and 367 to 354 under EDMC, the official data shows.Municipal functionaries attribute the jump in numbers to the facilities being provided in the schools. EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that the schools provide students with free education, bags, dry ration as well as multiple subsidies. “We have also decided to start offering English medium education in all our schools based on the demands of the parents,” Aggarwal said, adding that the trans-Yamuna area comprises a large number of households from economically disadvantaged backgrounds. Inderjeet Seharwat, leader of the House in SDMC, said special drives have been carried out by SDMC teachers to survey drop-outs and municipal schools have witnessed improvement in standards.In September, the Delhi government also reported a similar trend of a large number of students shifting from private schools to government schools. Around 240,000 students studying in various private schools applied for admission to government schools in the Capital and, over 160,000 students were admitted to government schools. According to data released by the directorate of education, 236,522 applications were received by about 1,030 government schools.To be sure, the rise in government school enrolment numbers is being observed all over India. Last month, Pratham’s annual status of education report (ASER) 2021 analysed the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns on schooling in 25 states and union territories. ASER suggested a shift from private to government schools as enrolment in private schools decreased from 32.5% in 2018 to 24.4% in 2021.The private school association states that poor economic condition, free dry ration and closure of private primary schools led to this situation. RC Jain, president of Delhi State Public School Management Association, said that a large number of private primary and nursery schools closed down due to high building rentals, salaries and associated operational costs. “The paying capacity of parents has also reduced due to the pandemic. When the schools reopen, we will see a reverse migration,” he added.Khagesh Jha, an education activist, who heads the organisation Forum for Indian Parents, said that the main reason behind the rise in enrolment is that the families are no longer able to afford private school education and prefer the free alternative-- government schools. “There has been no improvement in the education being provided in these schools. The shift is taking place due to economic distress,” he said. Jha added that the enrolment data needs to be audited against the physical attendance of students when the schools reopen fully. Jogi Ram Jain, the standing committee chairman of North DMC did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhimcdschools-add-over-150-000-students-as-enrolments-jump-101638470922357.html
03-12-2021||Pune||Number of students in Pune’s civic schools dwindling||PUNE: While the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021 indicates that more students have enrolled in government schools vis-à-vis private schools during the pandemic, admissions to civic schools in Pune have continued to drop according to civic officials. In the past four years, the number of students in civic schools has dropped by 6,750.As per data from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) education department, the number of students studying across all classes in civic schools has gone down year after year. This is so despite the fact that Pune district’s zilla parishad (ZP) schools are seeing a rise in admission rates due to Covid-19.Despite being called ‘the Oxford of the east’, Pune city’s very own civic schools are not seeing a positive response from both students and parents in the city. As per data from the PMC education department, the strength of students has been decreasing year after year over the past four years. This is in contradiction with the rise in admissions in zilla parishad schools in the past three years, which rose from 233,977 in 2019 to 235,000 till July 16, 2021, as reported by Hindustan Times on July 19, 2021. The primary reason for this rise is the high school fees charged by private schools which feel even higher due to the financial hit taken by the middle class during the pandemic.Additional municipal commissioner Dnyaneshwar Molak who heads the education department, said, “It is true that admissions in government schools are rising as more parents are now preferring government schools mainly because of the constant calls by private schools to pay up fees and parents unable to afford the fees. Out of the 256 schools that the PMC runs, 51 are English medium schools since more parents now prefer education in the English medium. We also have one CBSE board school named after former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi at Parvati. We are also working on various strategies to attract more parents into enrolling their kids in PMC-run schools and also to upgrade our school’s education methods with the latest techniques.” ASER’s annual report has shown that more students are being enrolled in government schools owing to the high fees in private schools and the pandemic- and lockdown-induced inflation. However with regard to Pune city schools, the strength of students in civic schools continues to fall year after year. The Pune zilla parishad (ZP) has also seen a rise in the number of admissions however the civic-run schools in the city are yet to see any positive growth Overall strength of students in PMC schools2018 – 95,3852019 – 92,7422020- 90,4382021 – 88,635 *Source: PMC education department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/number-of-students-in-pune-s-civic-schools-dwindling-101638470863380.html
03-12-2021||Delhi||MRP set for 428 liquor brands, govt tells Delhi HC||The Delhi government on Thursday informed the high court that it has registered 489 alcohol brands, of which it fixed the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) for 428 till November 30.In a chart the Delhi government provided justice Rekha Palli with, it said that out of the 428 brands of alcohol with fixed MRPs, 300 were Indian brands and 128 were foreign.The document was provided to the court while it was hearing a plea by 16 retail liquor vendors, challenging the Delhi government’s decision to levy license fees from November 1, 2021.The petition sought that the collection of license fees be postponed till November 17, while contending that the MRPs had not yet been fixed.On the last date, the court had recorded the assurance of the Delhi government that it would not take any coercive action against the petitioners for non-payment of the license fees.The court had asked the Delhi government to give an updated chart on the registered brands.On Thursday, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi said that in the wake of the recent developments, the petitioners cannot be provided with interim protection throughout.The court agreed to the contention, however, since the chart was not on record, the judge posted the matter for hearing on Tuesday. It granted time to the petitioners to go through the chart submitted by the Delhi government.The petitioners, represented by advocate Sanjay Abbott and Tanmay Mehta, are successful bidders of L-7Z (zonal licence for retail vend of Indian liquor and foreign liquor) and L-7V (retail vend of Indian liquor, foreign liquor in a zone).The pleas sought to restrain the government from demanding the sums of money in the form of licence fees or security deposit and also to direct the authorities not to levy or demand licence fees from successful bidders until the government performs its own obligations under the tender terms and conditions and the Delhi Excise Policy 2021-2022.One of the pleas filed by the 16 retailers said there was a great delay in initiating the process of registration of brands and fixation of MRP by the Delhi government.It claimed that until October 30, not even a single brand had been registered within Delhi under the new excise policy, nor had the MRP been fixed for various liquor brands.It said the process for determination of MRP for retail sale is a time-consuming exercise and if the scheduled date of commencement of business is November 17, as specified by the government, it is a complete breach of obligations on the part of the authorities in delaying the registration of brands and determination of MRP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mrp-set-for-428-liquor-brands-govt-tells-delhi-hc-101638470804252.html
03-12-2021||Other||Cleanliness drive in Kashi ahead of KV Corridor inauguration||A cleanliness drive has been launched across the city ahead of the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath (KV) Corridor by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 13. The drive will however specially focus on KV Corridor and its surroundings, officials said. Municipal commissioner Pranay Singh inspected the localities around the KV Corridor on Thursday. Singh instructed the officials remove banners and posters pasted around the KV Corridor and also directed his staff to get the garbage filled bags, found lying in some localities, removed. He instructed city health officer Dr NP Singh to carry out cleanliness drive in the localities around the KV Corridor. “It should be ensured that there is no problem of sewer overflow /sewer jam anywhere in the localities around the KV Corridor,” he ordered. Singh also laid stress on timely garbage collection. He also said regular spraying of insecticides on the main path and connecting lanes to the KV corridor should be done. “I am monitoring the cleanliness drive and before the inauguration the KV Corridor and its surroundings would be completely clean,” the city health officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cleanliness-drive-in-kashi-ahead-of-kv-corridor-inauguration-101638470802362.html
03-12-2021||Lucknow||Change political scenario, Priyanka exhorts women in Moradabad rally||MEERUT Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi lashed out at the BJP, SP and BSP on Thursday and called upon people to make their leaders accountable. She also said the public should compel them to do the politics based on development and welfare instead of religion and community. Addressing the party’s ‘Pratigya Rally’ in Moradabad on Thursday, Priyanka tendered her apology for arriving at her ‘sasural’ ( in-laws’ home) after a long time. She welcomed all party leaders and guests after mentioning their names in her ‘sasural’. “ Mai aap sabhi ka apni sasural me swagat karti hu”, ( I welcome you all at my in-laws’ place) she said. Assailing the BJP for rising prices,, she called upon women and girls to come forward to change the present political scenario.“You ( women) are 50 per cent in population and have all potential to change politics”, said Priyanka and exhorted them to empower themselves. She assured all possible assistance to them in their efforts to change the present communal and caste-based politics into ‘ development and welfare’-based. She accused the Modi government of ruining small businessmen and snatching jobs from youths and said so far papers of 12 competitive exams had been leaked which had dashed the job aspirations of millions of youths. She said that Moradabad was known as ‘ the brass city and artisans and traders worked hard to take the city to global fame. Its total export of brass items was over ₹8000 crore till few years ago which had now been reduced to ₹2000 crore and over 3 lakh artisans had lost their jobs. “It happened due to faulty implementation of GST and notebandi”, she said. Mentioning her party’s ‘pratigya’ (resolve), she said the Congress would provide 20 lakh jobs, industrial hubs would be developed in every district, loans of farmers would be waved off, electricity bills halved, financial assistance would be given to small businessmen and also promised ₹1000 pension to elderly, free treatment up to ₹10 lakh and many more things after her party assumed power in UP. On farmers, she said, “Modiji didn’t utter even a few words in Parliament over deaths of farmers during their movement” and also reminded people about deaths of farmers in queue for purchasing fertilizers and committing suicide after failing to procure it in Bundelkhand. She said that over ₹4000 crore of sugarcane payment was still pending in UP and the central and state governments pretended shortage of funds. She also assailed the SP and BSP and said there was a new slogan of Samajwadi Party:” Aa rahe hai Akhilesh”. She asked where he was when a woman was gang raped and her body was set on fire by police, when a Valmiki family was tortured in Agra and when a minister’s son ran his vehicle over farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. She also asked where was the BSP when a dalit girl was raped and her family hacked to death in Agra? She claimed that Congress leaders and workers kept on raising peoples’ issues and more than 18500 workers were lodged in jail in the past few years. Party’s state president Ajay Kumar’ Lallu’ was also lodged in jail for 28 days for raising public issues. Chattisgarh’s chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, UPCC president Ajay Kumar’ Lallu’ and other leaders also addressed the gathering and targeted Modi and Yogi governments for inflation, farmers’’ movement and deteriorating law and order situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/change-political-scenario-priyanka-exhorts-women-in-moradabad-rally-101638470742939.html
03-12-2021||Noida||Two men arrested for stealing mobile phones, laptops in Noida||Two people allegedly involved in the theft of mobile phones and laptops of students from different housing societies and paying guest facilities for the past six months were arrested by Noida’s Sector 39 police on Thursday. Police have recovered eight laptops, four mobile phones and two knives from the suspects-- Mohammad Uzair (23), and Mohammad Aman (22), both residents of Kiratpur in Bijnor.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said police had received complaints of mobile phones and laptops getting stolen from the areas falling under the jurisdiction of Sector 39 police station. “We registered cases and launched the investigation. We found that the modus operandi in each of the theft case was same. We scanned CCTV footage and found the suspects used to carry a bag on their shoulder to pretend as students. They used to check different rooms in the PGs and steal valuables,” said Singh.On Thursday, police received information about the movement of the suspects in Noida’s Sector 98 area. “A team from Sector 39 reached the spot and found two suspects riding a motorcycle. The police checked their bags and found the stolen mobile phones and laptops,” said Singh. The suspects had stolen the motorcycle, which they were riding, six months ago from New Delhi, said police. During the interrogation, the suspects revealed that sometimes they roamed in different sectors and societies and identified cars which had laptop bags inside. “They used to break the windows and steal laptops and valuables. They then sold the stolen valuables to people in their native village in Kiratpur. They also sold the valuables in Delhi,” said police. Singh said 18 cases of theft were registered against the suspects at different police stations in Noida. “Four other members of the gang are on the run. The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-men-arrested-for-stealing-mobile-phones-laptops-in-noida-101638470683842.html
03-12-2021||Delhi||Open, shut case: Umpteen closures widening learning gap, say Delhi schools||The repeated closure of schools is harming learning and adversely impacting the mental development of children, heads of schools in the national capital said on Thursday, after the state government’s latest closure order, which came after censure from the Supreme Court over Delhi’s hazardous air quality levels.Administrators pointed out that shutting schools was not a solution to Delhi’s prevailing pollution problem and that frequent closures had thrown schools into disarray, while leaving students and other stakeholder continually uncertain.Also Read | Delhi schools shut again after push from SCSudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said, “We need a sustainable solution to counter pollution. How can schools be closed on and off in line with the AQI levels,” said Acharya, who is principal of ITL Public School in Dwarka.Schools have been shut four separate times since March last year – twice owing to concerns over Covid-19, and twice in less than three weeks because of the pollution. Experts have, however, repeatedly pointed that the pollution levels are as bad indoors as they are outside, if not worse. Schools were allowed to call all students for in-person classes starting November 1. They were then shut for a week on November 13, after the top court then pulled up authorities over the city’s air quality. Schools then reopened three days ago, on November 29 as pollution eased marginally.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said that the frequent closure of schools was taking a toll on children, who were disappointed and perplexed by the repeated shutdowns. She said an “over-reliance” on online classes will have long-term consequences for children.“School is an important part of a growing child’s life. Their childhood is getting affected due to the closure of schools. Schools are not a place for academics alone. The whole process of growing up and making friends, social and emotional interactions, has been affected. Adolescent children especially are getting affected. Their confidence is taking a toll. We can notice how students are becoming unsure of themselves,” said Joshi.Manika Sharma, director of The Shri Ram Schools in Delhi-NCR, said that the uncertainty surrounding closures was taking a toll on children who were happy to be back in school after a long time.“The closure order is disappointing. It’s important for children to come to school and be with friends and teachers. For their mental health, it’s important that they mingle around. The school is taking care of them and following all protocols,” said Sharma.Bharat Arora, general secretary, Action Committee of Private Unaided Schools, a consortium of more than 2000 schools across Delhi, said that children were gradually getting used to the routine of coming to school but the closure had put everyone on the back foot again. “The entire private school fraternity has been disturbed for two years. Everyone must come together to support children coming back to school,” said Arora.Dr Suneela Garg, professor in the department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and member of the Lancet Commission on Covid-19-India, said, “It makes no sense to close schools at the moment for air-pollution. the air that the children breathe is the same at their home and at the schools. Yes, the children should not be allowed to play in the open when the pollution levels are high. But, they have already lost out on so much because of the Covid-related closures. Schools should remain open with social distancing, masking, and hand hygiene practises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/open-shut-case-umpteen-closures-widening-learning-gap-say-delhi-schools-101638470682588.html
03-12-2021||Delhi||Traffic disrupted as group of farmers headed to central Delhi is stopped at Mukarba Chowk||Traffic movement was disrupted for nearly an hour on one side of the road (towards Delhi) between Singhu border and Mukarba Chowk in outer Delhi on Thursday afternoon as the police placed barricades and stationed vehicles to stop around 70 farmers, including Nihangs (armed Sikh warriors), from moving towards central Delhi in their private vehicles.On being stopped, protesters told the police that they were headed to Gurdwara Bangla Sahib in New Delhi to pay tributes before leaving for their respective home towns. Since no prior permission was taken from the police for the journey en masse, the police refused to allow them passage, even for the purpose of visiting the gurdwara.A few senior police officers, including deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Brijendra Yadav, arrived at the spot and pacified the agitated farmers and Nihangs. When farmers insisted that they only wanted to visit the gurdwara and not hold any protest, senior officers put forward certain conditions that included travelling on buses arranged by the police and returning to the protest venue after paying tributes at the gurdwara, police officers present at the spot said.“They accepted our conditions, parked their vehicles on the roadside and boarded two buses arranged by us. Escorted by police, the buses reached Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, where farmers paid tributes and returned to the Singhu border protest venue on the same buses,” said DCP Yadav.Police said the group of 70, including Nihangs, women and children, managed to enter Delhi around 2pm, using alternative routes passing through Singhu village. Since they were in private vehicles and crossed the border in a scattered manner, the police personnel present at the border could not spot them. But as vehicles grouped on the main highway, a few personnel spotted Nihangs in a few vehicles and alerted senior officers.At Mukarba Chowk, about 10 kilometres from Singhu border, police placed multiple layers of barricades on the carriageway towards Delhi and stopped all vehicles. Due to the barricading, movement of vehicles was disrupted and as tailbacks lengthened, diversions were made through alternative routes. After nearly an hour, the barricades were removed and traffic restored, the police said.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions spearheading the protest against the now repealed farm laws, are continuing with their protest at Delhi’s borders demanding a legal guarantee for MSP (minimum support price) for crops and withdrawal of cases against farmers, among others. On Monday, Parliament passed the bill for repealing the three contentious farm law, 10 days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the laws will be taken back in the face of sustained protests, lasting for almost a year. President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday gave his assent to the Farm Laws Repeal Act 2021, effectively repealing the laws.When asked about Thursday’s incident, SKM leader Sarvan Singh Pandher said, “The SKM is unaware of any such movement to Delhi as they had not informed us about it. It seems that some farmers planned to visit the gurdwara to pay tributes for our successful agitation that forced the government to repeal the three farm laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-disrupted-as-group-of-farmers-headed-to-central-delhi-is-stopped-at-mukarba-chowk-101638470625665.html
03-12-2021||Other||Krishna Janambhoomi-Shahi Eidgah issue: Mathura police on alert despite Hindu bodies calling off protests||The district administration and police are working to ensure foolproof security in and around the Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and adjoining Shahi Eidgah in Mathura city area despite various Hindu organisations calling off their proposed protests in the region on December 6. Additional police force has been called from nearby districts to ensure enough security. The city area has been divided in different zones for better management, officials said. Organisations, including the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha (ABHM) had earlier given a call for ‘jalabhishek’ on December 6 at the birth place of Lord Krishna, that they claim is inside the Shahi Eidgah which shares its boundary with adjoining Sri Krishna Janambhoomi. ABHM president Rajyashri Chaudhari later withdrew the call and many others followed suit. “ABHM, Sri Krishna Janambhoomi Mukti Dal, Narayani Sena and Dev Murari Bapu have called off their proposed protests and marches on December 6 but we aren’t taking any chances. We have appealed to people outside Mathura to avoid visiting the city on December 6. No permission has been granted to any individual or organisations for protests. Prohibitory orders have been enforced and strict action would be taken against the violators,” said SSP Mathura Dr Gaurav Grover. “The city police will be assisted by PAC. The CRPF is deployed at Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and adjoining Shahi Eidgah. The city has been divided in eight sectors, 4 zones and 2 super zones for efficient monitoring. Police and its cyber cell are keeping an eye on social media and those spreading rumours are being warned to respect the sensitivity of issue,” the SSP said. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had tweeted on Wednesday that like Ayodhya and Kashi, preparations were underway for a grand temple in Mathura. Thakur Raghuraj Singh, a BJP leader in Aligarh supported Maurya. “The deputy CM is justified in his demand on ‘janambhoomi’ of Lord Krishna,” Singh said. 
03-12-2021||Noida||Police launch probe after journalist receives threats from terrorist outfit||Police have registered an FIR against unidentified persons after a journalist, Aditya Raj Kaul, allegedly received five threat mails from ISIS Kashmir last month. Kaul has been a journalist for over 13 years and worked with several prestigious organisations. He filed a complaint at Surajpur police station on November 24 and a case was registered on November 27. “Most of my reportage revolves around Kashmir and Pakistan-based terrorist organisations and their activities against Indian security forces and common people. I had widely reported on the recent killing of Hindu minority community in Kashmir and also non-local street vendors from Bihar and UP. I had also widely written on the successful visit of home minister Amit Shah to Kashmir,” Kaul said in his FIR. Talking to HT, Kaul said he received the first three threat emails on November 23 from isiskashmir@gmail.com and two more from an email id isiskashmir@yahoo.com on November 28. “I have been vocal for these issues on social media, due to which the suspects sent me these threat emails. They do not want me to write. These are the same kind of threat messages that BJP MP Gautam Gambhir recently received. The same email IDs have been used in both the cases,” he said. “We accept the responsibility for Pathankot blast. We will also target politicians and journalists in the upcoming elections in Kashmir,” reads one of the emails. In another email,the suspect warned Kaul--“Do anything but you are on our hit list, you can’t hide in Delhi for long.” The journalist said he has also informed Delhi police’s cyber cell about the issue. “The agencies investigating the matter informed me that the origin of these emails is Karachi in Pakistan. Noida police have provided me with a personal security officer,” he said.Deputy commissioner of police (intelligence fusion and strategic operations, IFSO) KPS Malhotra said, “We received a complaint and carried out the technical investigation, which traced the IP addresses of the concerned email IDs to Karachi. Further technical examination is being carried out by our teams to get some more breakthroughs.”Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said a case has been registered against unknown persons under Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. “The cyber cell is investigating the matter. Primary investigation shows the IP addresses used in these emails are from outside India. We have scaled up security and patrolling outside the journalist’s house,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-launch-probe-after-journalist-receives-threats-from-terrorist-outfit-101638470442480.html
03-12-2021||Delhi||Ghazipur landfill bio-mining: Inert disposal to be carried out; rates fixed for transportation||The standing committee of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) approved the proposal for the disposal of inert material generated by the bio-mining of Ghazipur landfill site on Thursday. As part of the ₹7,74 crore project, the inert material will be deposited in low-lying areas of Tughlaqabad, Mithapur, Maharani Bagh, and other designated sites, the proposal cleared by the committee states. The civic body also fixed the rates for transportation of the inert material. The proposal states that ₹10.8 per tonne per kilometre will be charged for a distance of 10-20km while ₹8.74 per tonne per kilometre will be charged for distance beyond 20 kilometres.EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that the agency will have to manage the loading, transportation as well as unloading of inert material, for which sites have been designated. “The disposal of inert material generated after the bio-mining process remains one of the key challenges. We will call for open tenders to find the lowest bidders for transporting inert material,” he remarked.Bio-mining through trommel machines separates various components of legacy waste such as plastic, paper, cloth, sand, bricks etc. Excavation and mining of old legacy waste is carried out and it is fed into the main trommel through a conveyor belt. The trommel consists of a cylindrical rotating sieve while air is blown from one end to the other. Heavy stuff like soil, stones fall closer through the cylindrical sieve while lighter components like plastic/paper fall at the farthest end. The various components of mixed waste can be separated based on varying size or sieves or holes in the trommel machine. A senior EDMC official said that the Ghazipur landfill site has about 140 lakh tonnes of legacy waste accumulated over past two decades and though the various constituent components of waste vary, the trommelling process leads to 65-70% inert material generation(90095 lakh tonnes). “Shortage of space for disposal of inert material has been a primary hurdle in execution of the landfill levelling project,” the official remarked.The EDMC project report states that National Highways Authority of India has agreed to take inert material for construction projects in Maharani Bagh near DND, Maharani Bagh to Jaitpur junction, Jaitpur to sectors 62-65 and Faridabad-Ballabhgarh bypass section of NH-148. “A communication has also been received from DDA to use inert at one of its Tughlaqabad site,” the report states. The proposal cleared on Thursday targets at clearing 2 lakh tonnes of inert material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ghazipur-landfill-bio-mining-inert-disposal-to-be-carried-out-rates-fixed-for-transportation-101638470328263.html
03-12-2021||Pune||NGT send notice to Maan gram panchayat over garbage, sewage dumping||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) Western Zone has issued notice to the sarpanch of Maan village gram panchayat and other authorities for garbage and sewage dumping in the vicinity of an urban residential project called Cliff Garden Condominium in VH Township in the village.Notices were also sent to the chief executive officer of Pune zilla parishad, collector of Pune district, Maharastra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), and Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA).The order to that effect was issued by the NGT Western Zone bench comprising of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and expert member Dr Arun Kumar Verma on November 23 and made available on Thursday.“Saurabh Kulkarni, learned counsel appearing for the applicant would submit that the legal notices have been sent to all the authorities and responding to the same, the Maharashtra State Pollution Control Board (MSPCB) has called upon the local body to the action taken with regard to the alleged compliant vide letter dated November 12, 2021, prays for short accommodation to submit the additional materials. Issue notices to respondent numbers 1, 2, 3,6 and 8 on all permissible modes, notice returnable on January 3, 2022,” read the court order by NGT.The residents of the society claim that the sarpanch and the panchayat of Maan village dump raw, untreated sewage, garbage, and on occasion, burn the collected garbage in the south side of the residential project.When the project was under construction, the home-buyers invested money for the green cover and clean environment. However, after the possession of the houses in 2019, the Maan panchayat has cut trees to make access roads to the open ground adjacent to the project where they dump garbage and sewage. A letter to that effect was written to MPCB and other respondents in 2020 but fell on deaf ears, according to the residents. The registrar of NGT had also issued letters to the respondents before the original application was registered at the tribunal before it was registered as a case. However, that letter also met with zero response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ngt-send-notice-to-maan-gram-panchayat-over-garbage-sewage-dumping-101638470326957.html
03-12-2021||Delhi||Rain has little impact as air quality slides to severe in Delhi||Delhi’s air quality deteriorated to the “severe” category on Thursday, with the slight drizzle recorded in the city having little impact on clearing up the pollution.While rains generally have a positive impact on air quality, experts said that persisting cloud cover and slight drizzle for a brief period may actually have a detrimental impact on air quality as the rain adds to the existing moisture in the air, trapping pollutants locally. The cloud cover also does not allow pollution to escape.
03-12-2021||Pune||Pune IT engineer duped of ₹91k by matrimonial platform match||An IT engineer from Pimpri-Chinchwad was duped of ₹91,000 by a man under false promises of marriage. The 28-year-old complainant woman met the man through a matrimonial platform.The two decided to get married after which the man claimed that he needed money for his mother’s medical treatment. The woman transferred ₹91,000 to an account of a nationalised bank in Udupi region of Karnataka. However, the woman later learned that the man had given her a false name.After the woman confronted him about the false name, they had a fight and cancelled their wedding. After the fight he started avoiding her demands for return of her money which is when she lodged a police complaint. The transaction happened in the last week of November.“They matched on November 24, and the man asked for money on November 26. The fight happened soon after. The man seems to be in another state. We are investigating the case,” said Police sub-inspector Vijay Bhongle of Sangvi police station who registered the case.A case has been registered under sections 420 (cheating) of the Indian penal code along with section 60 (C) of the Information technology act, 2000 at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-it-engineer-duped-of-rs-91k-by-matrimonial-platform-match-101638469902225.html
03-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro ridership only half of the figure projected by DMRC: CAG report||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) actual ridership has only reached 51.97% of its projected ridership and the operational cost ratio -- the ratio of operating cost to income generated -- has increased from 48.9% in 2011-12 to 80.5% in 2019-20, according to the Comptroller and Auditor General of India’s (CAG) report on DMRC’s implementation of its Phase III. The 116-page report, which is critical of the DMRC’s revenue generation from property development and operational management, was tabled in the Lok Sabha on Thursday by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs.
03-12-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh suspended for ‘dereliction of duty’||The Maharashtra government on Thursday suspended former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh from service for alleged dereliction of duty and initiated disciplinary proceedings against the officer facing charges of extortion and corruption.Also Read | Court cancels proclamation order against Param Bir Singh in extortion caseAn order issued by the state home department said the 1988-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was suspended under section 3 and 4 of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules 1969. While section 3 refers to suspension, section 4 pertains to subsistence, an allowance during the suspension period.The order, signed by deputy secretary Venkatesh Bhat, mentioned four criminal cases against the former top cop on charges of corruption, extortion, violation of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act at police stations in Marine Lines, Kalyan and Thane.Singh was appointed as director general of home guards on March 18 after his removal as Mumbai Police commissioner on March 17 in the aftermath of explosives being found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia.He was absconding for more than six months before appearing before the police and a judicial commission November 25 and November 29 respectively.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who was in hospital after surgery on November 12 and discharged on Thursday, cleared the proposal for the suspension on Wednesday.Also Read | Uddhav Thackeray signs order suspending ex-Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh“Besides the criminal cases registered under various sections of Indian Penal Code, Param Bir Singh has also been found guilty of dereliction of duty in the Antilia explosives scare case. He remained absent from his duty without informing the state government and producing medical certificates. He did not even inform us after coming back last week. This has been a violation of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules 1969,” a senior official in the home department said, seeking anonymity.Days after his removal as the top cop, the officer had written a letter to Thackeray, alleging that then home minister Anil Deshmukh had directed crime branch officials to collect ₹100 crore every month from businessmen in Mumbai. Deshmukh, who resigned later, has denied the charge.The inquiry commission looking into these allegations directed Singh to record his statement, but the IPS officer, who was virtually incommunicado since May, turned up only last week after the Supreme Court granted him relief from arrest.According to the home department official cited above, as the state does not have the power to dismiss any IPS officer, it will submit a detailed report to the central government along with an inquiry report for further action.“We will send a detailed report on the charges faced by him and the outcome of the investigation. The decision whether to recommend his dismissal will be taken at an appropriate time,” the official added.The order also said that during the suspension period, Singh should not leave his headquarter, the office of DG Home Guard, without permission of the state director general of police.Besides Singh, deputy commissioner of police Parag Manere was also suspended under similar charges. During the period of Manere’s suspension his headquarter will be Nagpur SP office and he will not be able to leave it sans permission. Singh was found guilty in a departmental inquiry by additional chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty for dereliction of duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty-101638465041527.html
03-12-2021||World||Mexico reports first case of Omicron variant, patient with mild symptoms||Mexico on Friday announced its first case of the coronavirus Omicron variant, in a traveller from South Africa, but the government said it was not considering border closures as a counter-measure.The variant was detected in a 51-year-old from South Africa with mild symptoms, under-secretary of health Hugo Lopez-Gatell Ramirez said on Twitter.An epidemiologist by training, Lopez-Gatell Ramirez said closing borders and blocking the movement of people and goods "are not useful measures for containing variants."Vaccination was key to reducing Covid-19 hospitalizations and deaths, he said."We call on you to remain calm and to continue taking measures to prevent infections" such as mask-wearing, social distancing and regular hand-washing, Lopez-Gatell Ramirez tweeted.Mexico, with some 128 million people, has reported more than 294,000 coronavirus deaths -- the world's fourth highest number -- and 3.9 million cases.On Wednesday, President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said about 86 percent of Mexicans older than 18 have been vaccinated, nearly all with two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-reports-first-case-of-omicron-variant-patient-with-mild-symptoms-101638555020293.html
03-12-2021||World||Canada health body recommends Covid booster shots for all adults||Canada’s National Advisory Committee on Immunization (NACI) on Friday recommended booster shots of the Covid for all adults as the new Omicron variant is identified in more countries.The Canadian health body, that provides the government with medical and scientific on immunisations, said the third dose of the vaccine jab can be offered to those aged over 18 if they completed their full primary series of vaccination at least six months earlier, noting evidence of decreasing protection from the vaccine against Sars-CoV-2 over timeNACI “reviewed the latest data that suggest protection against infection decreases over time since completion of a primary Covid-19 vaccine series,” it said in its recommendation. And while protection against severe illness remained generally high, it could decrease over time for some people, such as older adults. In such cases, a booster dose can “enhance protection against the infection”. “Booster doses of Covid-19 mRNA vaccines can increase the immune response and are expected to offer enhanced protection against infection and severe disease and may help reduce spread of infection,” it said.Health Canada,the department government responsible for national health policy, in November approved the mRNA jabs manufactured by Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna for booster shots.“Real-world data suggest that a booster dose of mRNA Covid-19 vaccine provides very good short-term effectiveness against Sars-CoV-2 infection. Long-term effectiveness of booster doses will continue to be monitored,” NACI added.“Waning protection trends observed in other countries give us cause for concern,” said Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam. “NACI’s updated evidence-informed advice on booster doses will assist health authorities in vaccine program planning and delivery to ensure Canadians are provided with the best possible protection as the situation evolves.”Health Canada, on Thursday, said, “If it is necessary to modify existing vaccines, Health Canada has a pathway that allows for an efficient review, while maintaining the same high standards for safety, efficacy and quality before approving.”It added the department was working with international partners and manufacturers to “assess the potential impact” of Omicron on approved test kits, vaccines and treatments.“Genetic variations of viruses— such as the virus that causes Covid-19― are common. That’s why Health Canada has systems in place to quickly and effectively respond to any necessary changes to health products,” it said.“Although protection against severe disease remains high in the general population, we know that protection against infection can decrease over time. We have also seen an increase in the risk of severe disease for select groups who are vaccinated, particularly older adults,” NACI chair Dr Shelley Deeks said on Friday. “Offering booster doses will help ensure that protection against severe disease remains high, and may have an impact on spread in the community as well. It is important to note that there is no information yet on the impact of the new variant, Omicron, on the effectiveness of the vaccine.”
03-12-2021||World||Biden ‘preparing’ new policies to halt Russian invasion of Ukraine||US President Joe Biden on Friday said he was preparing fresh policies to halt any Russian plans to invade Ukraine after Washington and Kiev reported Moscow had massed troops near its border.Tensions have skyrocketed in recent weeks after US Secretary of State Antony Blinken warned Moscow against an invasion.Kiev said Russia has deployed around 115,000 troops near its borders, on Moscow-annexed Crimea and in two eastern regions held by pro-Russian rebels.The Kremlin denied the allegations and accused the United States of stoking tensions."What I am doing is putting together what I believe will be the most comprehensive and meaningful set of initiatives to make it very, very difficult for Mr. Putin to go ahead and do what people are worried he may do," Biden told reporters on Friday.The Kremlin said Friday a video call would take place next week between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Biden.Kremlin foreign policy adviser Yuri Ushakov told reporters a date had been agreed but would not be announced until final details of the talks have also been set.Despite increased contacts between the two rivals since Putin and Biden met for the first time at a summit in Geneva in June, tensions have remained high.As well as the Ukraine conflict, Russia and the United States continue to argue over cyberattacks and the staffing of their embassies, after several waves of diplomatic expulsions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-preparing-new-policies-to-halt-russian-invasion-of-ukraine-101638549473071.html
03-12-2021||World||UAE signs mega weapons deal with France, buys 80 Rafale fighter jets||France announced the signing Friday of a 16 billion-euro (USD 18 billion) armaments mega-contract for the sale of 80 of its upgraded Rafale warplanes to the United Arab Emirates.The French Defense Ministry said the deal was France's largest-ever weapons contract for export. It came as French President Emmanuel Macron is in the Emirates on the first stop of a two-day visit to the Persian Gulf. There was no immediate confirmation of the signing from Emirati officials.Manufacturer Dassault Aviation said the UAE is buying the upgraded F4 version of its multi-role combat aircraft. That will make the Emirates Air Force the first Rafale F4 user outside of France, it said.The deal offers a shot in the arm for France's defense industry after the collapse of a $66 billion contract for Australia to buy 12 French submarines.Dassault Aviation boss Eric Trappier called the sale “a French success story" and “excellent news for France and for its aeronautical industry.”The purchase marks a sizeable step up for the UAE's military capabilities in the oil- and gas-rich region. Charles Forrester, a senior analyst at Janes, said the fighter “will significantly upgrade UAE's airpower capabilities in terms of strike, air-to-air warfare, and reconnaissance."Dassault said the Rafale will give the UAE "a tool capable of guaranteeing sovereignty and operational independence."Macron and Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the crown prince of Abu Dhabi, were present at the contract signing, it said.French defense officials were jubilant. The defense minister, Florence Parly, said the deal “directly contributes to regional stability.”France has deep ties to the United Arab Emirates, a federation of seven sheikdoms on the Arabian Peninsula, particularly since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The UAE opened a French naval base in 2009 at Abu Dhabi's Port Zayed.French warplanes and personnel are also stationed at Al-Dhafra Air Base, a major facility outside the Emirati capital of Abu Dhabi that's also home to several thousand American troops.Macron's keen interest in forging personal relationships with Abu Dhabi's crown prince and his counterpart in Saudi Arabia, Mohamed bin Salman Al Saud, makes him a welcome guest in the region. Both Gulf leaders value a degree of pragmatism when discussing democracy and human rights — issues on which their countries have been heavy criticized by rights groups and European lawmakers — while pursuing business opportunities.Months after Macron was elected in 2017, he traveled to the UAE to inaugurate Louvre Abu Dhabi, built under a $1.2 billion agreement to share the name and art of the world-famous museum in Paris.In September, Macron hosted Abu Dhabi's crown prince at the historic Chateau de Fontainebleau outside Paris, which was restored in 2019 with a UAE donation of 10 million euros ($11.3 million).The UAE and France have also become increasingly aligned over a shared mistrust of Islamist political parties across the Middle East, and backed the same side in Libya's civil strife.A senior French presidency official who spoke to reporters ahead of the trip on customary condition of anonymity said Macron will “continue to push and support the efforts that contribute to the stability of the region, from the Mediterranean to the Gulf.”Gulf tensions will be discussed, the official said, in particular the revived talks about Iran's nuclear deal with world powers, following the U.S. withdrawal from the agreement by President Donald Trump. Gulf countries have long been concerned by Iran's nuclear ambitions and influence across the region, particularly in Iraq, Syria and Lebanon.“This is a hot topic,” the French official said, adding that Macron discussed the issues in a phone call Monday with Iran's president. He will talk about the call and the issues — including the nuclear deal talks in Vienna — with Gulf leaders, who are “directly concerned by this subject, like all of us but also because they are (Iran's) neighbors,” the official said.France, along with Germany and the U.K., thinks the 2015 nuclear agreement — with minor tweaks — is the way forward with Iran, analysts say. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have bitterly opposed the West's negotiated deal with Iran.“Although the Gulf countries did not like the West's deal with Iran, the prospect of it falling apart acrimoniously is also bad for them and arguably presents worse risks,” said Jane Kinninmont, a London-based Gulf expert with the European Leadership Network think-tank.“Their view has always been the West should have gotten more out of Iran before sealing the deal,” Kinninmont said. “But if the West walks away with nothing, the Gulf countries are beginning to understand that their security will not improve as a result.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-signs-mega-weapons-deal-with-france-buys-80-rafale-fighter-jets-101638537663948.html
03-12-2021||World||Pakistan to allow transportation of Indian wheat and medicines in Afghan trucks||Pakistan said on Friday it will allow 50,000 tonnes of wheat and medicines to be shipped from India to Afghanistan via the Wagah land border crossing in Afghan trucks, ending an impasse over the transportation of the humanitarian aid.India had said on Thursday it is was engaged in discussions with Pakistan to work out modalities for supplying the life-saving medicines and wheat to Afghanistan and insisted that no conditions should be attached to the shipping of the relief materials.The Pakistan government’s decision was conveyed to the charge d’affaires of the Indian high commission at the Foreign Office in Islamabad. “The Indian government was also urged to proceed quickly to take necessary steps to expeditiously undertake the delivery of the humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan,” said a statement from Pakistan’s foreign ministry.There was no word on the development from the Indian side.The Pakistani statement said the government had decided to “allow the use of Afghan trucks for transportation from Wagah border to Torkham”, a key border crossing between Pakistan’s Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province and Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province.The statement reiterated the Pakistani side’s position that it was allow the transportation of the wheat and medicines from India via the Wagah border crossing on an “exceptional basis for humanitarian purposes”. The statement added that Friday’s decision reflected the Pakistan government’s commitment and seriousness to facilitate the proposed humanitarian aid.Pakistan had earlier linked its decision to allow the transportation of the relief materials to the condition that the goods be moved only by Pakistani trucks. India made the proposal for shipping the wheat and medicines to the Afghan people via Pakistani soil on October 7, and received a response from the Pakistan government only on November 24.“Since then, we have had discussions with Pakistan on the modalities of this supply...Let me reiterate our belief that humanitarian assistance should not be subject to conditionalities,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday.The Indian side was keen on using its own trucks or Afghan vehicles in order to ensure that the relief materials directly reached the Afghan people without being diverted. The Indian side also envisages the aid will be distributed only through the UN and its agencies.
03-12-2021||World||Laos opens $6bn railway line built under China’s BRI||A 1000 km-long high-speed railway linking China and the southeast Asian country of Laos was inaugurated on Friday as part of President Xi Jinping’s signature Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), a global infrastructure project.The $6 billion railway, connecting the Chinese city of Kunming with Laotian capital Vientiane was built by a Chinese state-owned company, with China bearing 70% of all construction costs.While both governments have hailed the project as mutually beneficial and a win-win initiative, economists have warned that it could complicate Laos’ challenges, among the poorer southeast Asian nations, in repaying external debt.President Xi and his Lao counterpart Thongloun Sisoulith jointly witnessed the opening of the China-Laos railway via video link on Friday. The construction of the project started in December 2016, and a train departing from Kunming in the morning will arrive in Vientiane in the evening on the same day, according to China State Railway Group. “With a maximum operating speed of 160 kilometers per hour, trains running on the route will take passengers from Kunming to Vientiane in about 10 hours, including customs clearance time,” a state media report said on Friday.There are several bridges and tunnels on the route.“The bridge and tunnel ratio is quite high with that in Chinese section up to 87 percent and Lao section up to 63 percent, including the 1,651-metre Ban Ladhan Mekong Bridge, 1,459-metre Luang Prabang Mekong Bridge, 9,384-metre Ban Sen No. 2 Tunnel, 9,296-metre Ban Nakok Tunnel,” the state-run Xinhua news agency reported.Laos state news agency KPL on Thursday said the project was part of the government’s strategy to convert Laos “from a landlocked country to a land-linked one”.The railway will “generate very positive economic returns” for China and possibly other countries, but it is harder to see “exactly what the economic benefits are going to be” for Laos, Scott Morris of the Centre for Global Development in Washington told the Associated Press.“This is essentially a Chinese public infrastructure project that happens to exist in another country,” he said.Chinese media, however, said it will benefit both countries.“The China-Laos railway will bring great convenience to trade and travel between the two countries and become an important part of the north-south artery of the Indo-Chinese Peninsulas in overcoming land transportation difficulties and developing its economy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/laos-opens-6bn-railway-line-built-under-china-s-bri-101638533150309.html
03-12-2021||World||India, Canada cooperate on inquiry into activities of pro-Khalistan activist||India is confident of securing cooperation of Canadian law enforcement authorities in the ongoing investigation into the activities of pro-Khalistan Canadian resident Hardeep Singh Nijjar.An Indian official confirmed that Nijjar was among those focused upon during discussions with Canadian law enforcement when a two-member team of Indias’ National Investigation Agency (NIA) visited Ottawa in early November.“Material” related to Nijjar’s activities were shared with the Canadian interlocutors and the NIA was assured of cooperation.The NIA team was in Ottawa at the invitation of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) and also held meetings with the International Crime and Counter-terrorism Bureau of Global Affairs Canada and with senior officials from the International Affairs Division of Public Safety Canada.At the time, a release issued by India’s high commission in Ottawa noted the visit was intended, among other matters, to ensure “better coordinating investigation against entities and individuals suspected of terrorism and to discuss other criminal matters”. India had also sought the listing of the separatist group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) as a terrorist entity by Canada. Nijjar, originally from Jalandhar and a resident of Surrey in British Columbia, is SFJ’s principal figure in Canada.Perhaps not coincidentally, days after the NIA team returned to India, the agency filed a chargesheet against Nijjar before a special court in New Delhi, under the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, related to planning terror acts in India.Nijjar and the SFJ have denied any involvement in terrorism though they openly support secession and are behind the non-binding Punjab Referendum, which is currently in progress. SFJ’s legal counsel Gurpatwant Pannun told the Hindustan Times India was “using charges of terrorism” against Nijjar as “a weapon to stop him from promoting Khalistan Referendum Campaign in Punjab”.He also said their lawyers were “preparing to seek records from (the Justin) Trudeau government about the meeting between NIA and Canadian law enforcement”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-canada-cooperate-on-inquiry-into-activities-of-pro-khalistan-activist-101638528289186.html
03-12-2021||World||Germany to ban the unvaccinated from public life, as Merkel & Scholz back jab mandate||Germany will soon ban unvaccinated people from certain facets of public life, which includes access to non-essential stores, restaurants, sports, and cultural venues, as the country looks to introduce a general vaccine mandate as part of efforts to curb further spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The announcement was made on Thursday by German chancellor Angela Merkel, who said a decision on the measures was taken at a meeting with federal and state leaders.Also Read | Germany moves toward mandatory Covid-19 shots as Europe clamps downOnce these sweeping curbs on unvaccinated people are imposed, those in Germany not yet inoculated against Covid-19 shall be barred from accessing cultural and leisure-related activities nationwide. They will also not be allowed to enter bars, restaurants, and cinema theatres, according to a draft document signed off by the nation's leaders.What's more, the unvaccinated will also be banned from Christmas markets, a major slap in the face keeping in mind the upcoming festive season, and there will also be restrictions on the number of people they can socialise with.The unvaccinated people will still be allowed to meet others in private settings, but only in very limited numbers. A household with an unvaccinated person over 14 can meet with only two people from another household; the limit does not apply when everyone is vaccinated.“The situation in our country is serious,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin, calling the measures an “act of national solidarity”. In what is likely to be her last news conference as chancellor, Merkel also brought up the highly contentious idea of a general vaccine mandate, which will force the population to get inoculated against Covid-19.Informing that the country's parliament would be debating the proposal with input from the national ethics committee, Merkel said the mandate could take effect as early as February next year.Also Read | Unvaccinated people lead Covid 4th wave in Germany: Report“In light of this situation, I really think it's necessary to pass such a mandate,” Merkel said, adding that she would have voted for it if she were still a lawmaker.Meanwhile, Germany's finance minister Olaf Scholz, who is expected to be elected chancellor by a center-left coalition next week, has also backed a general vaccine mandate, but he favours letting lawmakers vote on the issue according to their personal conscience rather than party lines. “If we had a higher vaccination rate, we wouldn’t be discussing this now,” he said.Germany reported as many as 73,209 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday. The Robert Koch Institute also reported 388 new deaths from the coronavirus, bringing the fatality toll since the start of the pandemic to 1,02,178.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-germany-to-ban-the-unvaccinated-from-public-life-as-merkel-scholz-back-jab-mandate-101638522429174.html
03-12-2021||World||Women aren’t property, but…: Taliban’s latest decree on marriages, property||The Taliban government in Afghanistan said on Friday women should not be considered "property" and must consent to marriage as it released a decree on women's rights.The Taliban government decree failed to mention women’s access to education or work, which have been major concerns from the international community."A woman is not a property, but a noble and free human being; no one can give her to anyone in exchange for peace...or to end animosity," the Taliban decree said, according to Reuters.Also read | US team expresses deep concerns over Afghans' abuses at Doha meet with TalibanThe decree released by spokesperson Zabihillah Muhajid stated the rules governing marriage and property for women, saying women should not be forced into marriage and widows should have share in their late husband's property.It also said courts should take into account the rules when making decisions and religious affairs and information ministries should promote these rights.Also read | Dead or alive? On the trail of Taliban's supreme leader Hibatullah AkhundzadaWomen were banned from leaving the house without a male relative and full face and head covering and girls from receiving education by the Taliban during their previous rule in Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001.The Taliban have said they have allowed high schools for girls in some provinces to open but, many women and rights advocates have remained sceptical of the assurance made by the Sunni Pashtun group.Also read | Taliban executed, forcibly disappeared over 100 ex-security personnel: ReportHundreds of thousands of Afghans have fled the country after the Taliban recaptured the country in August this year, looking to escape persecution and a collapsing economy in the face of international sanctions.The international community has made women's rights a key element of any future engagement with Afghanistan, where it has frozen billions in central bank funds and development spending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/women-aren-t-property-but-taliban-s-latest-decree-on-marriages-property-101638522499358.html
03-12-2021||World||'Drowning in garbage': Ukraine struggles with trash crisis||For stray dogs and scavenging birds, Landfill No.5 outside the Ukrainian capital Kiev is a treasure trove of trash, but the mountains of overflowing and noxious garbage are plaguing residents.Nina Popova, a 73-year-old retired accountant who lives in the nearby village of Pidgirtsi, says life there is a misery."It reeks. We're all sick. We have heart problems and difficulty breathing," Popova told AFP outside her modest brick cottage.Breathing heavily, she added that her children "suffocate" when they come to visit.Covering 63 hectares (156 acres), the sprawling dump outside Kiev is one of the largest in Ukraine and part of network of more than 6,100 landfills.Already at capacity, it was slated for closure in 2018, with garbage diverted to a new site. But the new facility was never constructed and trash is piling higher and higher.The story of the site points to a larger problem in the country.Thirty years after Ukraine gained independence from the Soviet Union, it lacks a functioning waste management system and requisite resources to tackle a garbage crisis that is perpetuating public health and ecological concerns.The president's office concedes that most landfills are overflowing and fall short of safety standards. It estimates some 33,000 illegal dumps have proliferated throughout the country."It's not a secret to anyone that Ukraine is drowning in garbage. And every day, every minute the situation is getting worse," then-deputy head of the presidency, Yulia Svyrydenko, warned in September.'Lever' to halt climate changeShe made the comments at a meeting of local and regional officials after President Volodymyr Zelensky voiced concerns. But the problem has much wider ramifications.Globally, landfills like the one menacing Popova's neighbourhood contribute to climate change as a major emitter of methane, a gas 30 times more harmful than CO2 according to the United Nations.UN Environment Programme executive director Inger Andersen in May said reducing methane was "the strongest lever we have to slow climate change over the next 25 years".To address the problem, Kiev introduced a law in 2018 requiring households to sort waste to aid recycling efforts.The order has largely been ignored and just four percent of the approximately 10 million tonnes of household trash produced annually is sorted, according to the presidency.Added to that, there is only one waste incinerator -- dating from the Soviet period -- to serve the entire country of 40 million. It lacks capacity to handle waste even from Kiev.The crux of the problem is that Ukrainian authorities are either unwilling or unable to pay more to better process garbage, analysts said.Kiev shells out less than 10 euros ($11) to process a ton of waste compared to 100-170 euros in Western European countries, explained Svyatoslav Pavlyuk, executive director of the Ukrainian Association of Energy-Efficient Cities.'It's scary'"This sum isn't enough to actually treat waste. It only covers its transportation to a field and its placement in the ground," Pavlyuk said.Yevgeniya Aratovska, a 42-year-old economist, took matters into her own hands six years ago, launching a small sorting site in Kiev called No Waste Ukraine."I realised that a lot of people didn't even know that it's necessary to sort," Aratovska said.Khrystyna Richmanenko did not realise how much waste she was producing until she started sorting it. "It's scary," the 29-year-old teacher remarked.She added that there were no recycling centres near her home or official instructions on where to find one."You have to look for yourself how to do it properly," she added.More than 45 percent of Ukrainians say a lack of recycling bins is the main obstacle to more sorting, according to a November poll.Analysts added that authorities should do more to raise awareness among Ukrainians about the impact their waste has on the environment.Ultimately, said environmental activist Kostiantyn Yalovyi, what was needed is a drastic increase in funding to better handle waste.Even though that investment would be likely to fall on Ukrainians and trigger protests, the stakes of doing nothing were much higher."If today we don't start sorting and generally change Ukrainians' attitude towards garbage, the entire country could turn into a landfill", Yalovyi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/drowning-in-garbage-ukraine-struggles-with-trash-crisis-101638520760614.html
03-12-2021||World||Fueled by Omicron, fourth Covid-19 wave hits South Africa||South Africa is being hit by the fourth wave of Covid-19 infections driven by the Omicron variant which has been detected in seven of the country's nine provinces, Health Minister Joe Phaahla said on Friday.Omicron, which has raised global fears of a surge in infections, was first detected in southern Africa last month and has prompted governments across continents to impose travel curbs and take other measures to contain it.Phaahla told a media briefing that he hoped that the variant could be managed without causing too many deaths.He urged South Africans to get fully vaccinated, adding that the country could manage the fourth wave without stricter lockdown restrictions over Christmas.“We can still manage this in a manner where the government doesn't have to invoke serious restrictions over the next few days if we all just do our basic duties of the safety measures, but also if more and more of us who are eligible ... approach their nearest vaccination sites,” Phaahla said.Top scientist Michelle Groome of South Africa’s National Institute for Communicable Diseases said at the briefing the country was facing an “unprecedented rise” in infections over a short time due to Omicron.The infections were also moving from the younger age cohort into older people, she said.It was important for surge preparedness to include paediatric beds and staff as there have been increased admissions among children under four, she said.Omicron has been listed as a “variant of concern” by the WHO and scientists are still gathering data to establish how contagious Omicron is, and the severity of the illness it causes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fueled-by-omicron-fourth-covid-19-wave-hits-south-africa-101638521329385.html
03-12-2021||World||Civilians among 10 dead in Iraq attack blamed on IS: Officials||At least three civilians and seven Iraqi Kurdish peshmerga fighters have been killed in northern Iraq in an attack blamed on the Islamic State jihadist group, the forces said Friday.The jihadists attacked the village of Khidir Jija, south of Arbil, late Thursday, killing three civilians, a statement said.The peshmerga, Kurdistan's armed forces, launched an operation in response, and seven fighters died when "an explosive device planted by IS elements" blew up.The three civilians, siblings aged 11-24, were children of a village official, a relative told AFP.IS seized swathes of Iraq in a lightning offensive in 2014, before being beaten back by a counter-insurgency campaign supported by a US-led military coalition.The Iraqi government declared the Sunni extremists defeated in late 2017, but the jihadists retain sleeper cells which continue to strike security forces with hit-and-run attacks.Late last month, five Iraqi Kurdish peshmerga fighters were killed and four wounded in a roadside bombing claimed by IS.That bombing, south of the city of Sulaimaniyah, underlined the "serious threat" IS still poses to the Iraq's autonomous Kurdistan region, the region's prime minister Masrour Barzani said at the time.str/tgg/lg/dv||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/civilians-among-10-dead-in-iraq-attack-blamed-on-is-officials-101638520777612.html
03-12-2021||World||Omicron Covid-19 variant: US, Australia detect new cases as several countries impose restrictive measures||The United States and Australia announced their first locally transmitted cases of the Omicron variant as authorities worldwide rushed Friday to stem the spread of the heavily mutated strain of Covid-19.The World Health Organization has said it could take weeks to determine whether Omicron is more transmissible and whether it causes more severe infections -- as well as how effective current treatments and vaccines are against it.But the new variant, first reported by South Africa, has already cast the world's recovery into doubt, with the EU health agency warning it could cause more than half of Europe's Covid cases in the next few months.More than two dozen governments have now detected cases of the variant -- including India, one of the countries hardest-hit by the coronavirus pandemic since it first emerged nearly two years ago.A preliminary study by South African researchers suggests the strain is three times more likely to cause reinfections compared to the Delta or Beta strains.The research, which has not yet been peer reviewed, was described as "very concerning" by Michael Head, a scientist at the University of Southampton.Ten cases have so far been confirmed in the United States, including five in New York announced Thursday, one in Los Angeles county, and one in Hawaii.The Hawaii case and one in Minnesota both involved residents with no recent international travel history -- signaling the strain is already circulating inside the country."This is a case of community spread," the Hawaii Health Department said.The cases were reported as US President Joe Biden outlined his plans to battle Covid-19 during the winter, with new testing requirements for travelers and a surge in vaccination efforts."It's a plan that I think should unite us," he said.All incoming travelers will need to test negative within a day before their flights, and rapid tests that currently cost $25 will be covered by insurance and distributed free to the uninsured.Australia on Friday, too, reported a student with no history of foreign travel had tested positive for the variant.The case, detected in the country's largest city of Sydney, comes despite a sweeping ban on non-citizens entering the country and restrictions on flights from southern Africa.And just a day after Singapore reported two cases of the strain, neighboring Malaysia on Friday reported its first infections with the variant.The case was detected in a foreign student travelling from South Africa, who had arrived in Malaysia on November 19, Health Minister Khairy Jamaluddin said.The case was only confirmed on December 2, after officials conducted genome sequencing on some samples taken from recent arrivals at Kuala Lumpur airport, he said.Sri Lanka also announced its first Omicron case, a citizen who returned from South Africa.Restrictions reimposedThe variant's detection and spread represent a major challenge to efforts to end the pandemic, with several nations already reimposing restrictions many had hoped were a thing of the past.In Germany, outgoing Chancellor Angela Merkel said large parts of public life would be "open only to those who have been vaccinated or recovered" from Covid-19 ahead of a vote by the country's parliament on mandatory immunizations.It is not yet clear when the latest measures will go into effect, but the plans include a blanket ban on entering bars, restaurants and cinemas for anyone who is unvaccinated or not recovered from Covid, according to a document signed off by the leaders of the country's 16 states.The agreement also includes new restrictions on large gatherings and the closure of nightclubs in areas with a weekly incidence rate above 350 infections per 100,000 people.Fireworks will be banned on New Year's Eve to stop large crowds from gathering, according to North Rhine-Westphalia state premier Hendrik Wuest.Rising infections of the Delta variant had already forced European governments to reintroduce mandatory mask-wearing, social distancing measures, curfews or lockdowns in a desperate attempt to limit hospitalizations, leaving businesses fearing another grim Christmas.India has yet to impose new blanket international travel bans, but its health ministry earlier this week ordered all inbound travelers from "countries at-risk" to undergo mandatory post-arrival Covid testing, along with the random testing of other international arrivals.WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has warned of a "toxic mix" of low vaccination and testing rates creating a "recipe for breeding and amplifying variants."And the United Nations said Thursday that the pandemic has pushed tens of millions more people into poverty, estimating that 274 million people would need emergency assistance next year as economies suffer with Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-covid-19-variant-us-australia-detect-new-cases-as-several-countries-impose-restrictive-measures-101638515660944.html
03-12-2021||World||Measures against delta work for Omicron variant too: WHO||World Health Organisation officials in the Western Pacific say border closures adopted by some countries may buy time to deal with the omicron coronavirus variant, but measures put in place and experience gained in dealing with the delta variant should remain the foundation for fighting the pandemic.While a few regional countries are facing surges, COVID-19 cases and deaths in many others have decreased and plateaued, WHO Regional Director for the Western Pacific Dr. Takeshi Kasai told reporters Friday in a virtual news conference broadcast from Manila, Philippines.“Border control can delay the virus coming in and buy time. But every country and every community must prepare for new surges in cases," Kasai said. “The positive news in all of this is that none of the information we have currently about omicron suggests we need to change the directions of our response."Much remains unknown about the new variant, including whether it is more contagious, as some health authorities suspect, or if it makes people more seriously ill, and whether it can thwart the vaccine.Kasai said omicron has been designated a variant of concern because of the number of mutations and because early information suggests it may be more transmissible than other variants of the virus. More testing and observation is necessary, he said.Thus far, four countries and regions in the Western Pacific — Australia, Hong Kong, Japan and South Korea — have reported cases of the omicron variant, said WHO Regional Emergency Director Dr. Babatunde Olowokure. That number is likely to go up as more cases are discovered globally, Olowokure said.India, Singapore and Malaysia have also reported their first cases in the last 24 hours.“In terms of what countries should be doing now, our experiences over the last few years, especially in responding to delta, provides a guide of what we need to do, as well as how to cope with future surges in a more sustainable way," he said.Those include full vaccination coverage, social distancing, mask wearing and other measures. Those can then be calibrated in response to the local context, Olowokure said.The goal is to “ensure we are treating the right patients in the right place at the right time, and so therefore ensuring that ICU beds are available, particularly for those who need them," he said.Despite the positive trends in handling the pandemic in the Western Pacific region, largely through high vaccination rates, “we cannot be complacent," Kasai said.Globally, cases have been increasing for seven consecutive weeks and the number of deaths has started to rise again too, driven largely by the delta variant and decreased use of protective measures in other parts of the world, he said.“We should not be surprised to see more surges in the future. As long as transmission continues, the virus can continue to mutate as the emergence of omicron demonstrates, reminding us of the need to stay vigilant," Kasai said.He warned especially about the likelihood of surges due to more gatherings and movement of people during the holiday season. The northern winter season will likely bring other infectious respiratory diseases such as influenza alongside COVID-19, Kasai said.“It is clear that this pandemic is far from over and I know that people are worried about omicron," he said. “But my message today is that we can adapt the way we manage this virus to better cope with the future surges and reduce their health, social and economic impacts."The WHO Western Pacific Region includes 37 countries and areas from Palau to Mongolia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/measures-against-delta-work-for-omicron-variant-too-who-101638512639381.html
03-12-2021||World||Omicron: Canada speeds up Covid-19 booster dose campaign||Canadian health authorities are scrambling to accelerate timelines for administering booster doses of Covid-19 vaccines as concerns over the Omicron variant of the virus grow.At least two provinces in the country have announced that they are expanding administration of booster doses. Alberta has announced that it will provide the third dose of a vaccine approved for boosters to those above the age of 18.Meanwhile, Ontario, the country’s most populous province announced on Thursday it is expanding its booster eligibility to those above 50 from December 13.As yet, the National Advisory Committee on Immunisation (NACI) has only recommended boosters for those above 70 and certain vulnerable demographics, including frontline healthcare workers and residents of long-term care homes.However, an updated recommendation is expected, perhaps as early as on Friday, expanding the eligible population. NACI has suggested a gap of at least six months between the completion of the primary series of vaccination and the booster. Thus far, boosters manufactured by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna have been approved in Canada.But given the arrival of the Omicron variant, there may be reconsideration of information related to boosters since they were approved earlier. In a tweet on Thursday evening, Health Canada said, “If it is necessary to modify existing vaccines, Health Canada has a pathway that allows for an efficient review, while maintaining the same high standards for safety, efficacy and quality before approving.”It added the department was working with international partners and manufacturers to “assess the potential impact” of Omicron on approved test kits, vaccines and treatments.“Genetic variations of viruses - such as the virus that causes Covid-19 - are common. That’s why Health Canada has systems in place to quickly and effectively respond to any necessary changes to health products,” it said.Announcing the expanded booster programme, Ontario’s Deputy Premier and Minister of Health Christine Elliott said, “Vaccines continue to be our best protection against Covid-19.”“Achieving the highest vaccination rates possible remains our best tool to protect us, reduce the risk of Covid-19 transmission, and fight the significant surge of new cases and the new Omicron variant,” Dr Kieran Moore, the province’s chief medical officer of health, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-canada-speeds-up-covid-19-booster-dose-campaign-101638515748882.html
03-12-2021||World||Gita Gopinath: From scoring 45% in Class 7 to becoming IMF No 2||Gita Gopinath will take over as the first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund from January next year replacing Geoffrey Okamoto. Gita Gopinath has served as the IMF's chief economist—the first woman to hold the post in IMF’s history— for three years.Kristalina Georgieva, IMF's managing director said Gopinath’s contribution to the institution's work has already been exceptional, especially her "intellectual leadership in helping the global economy and the Fund to navigate the twists and turns of the worst economic crisis of our lives.""As the pandemic continues its grip on us, the work of the Fund has never been more critical and international cooperation never more important. I am very thankful to Kristalina and the Board for this opportunity, and so look forward to collaborating closely with all the incredibly brilliant and committed colleagues at the Fund, working with whom has been an absolute privilege," Gopinath said.Born in December 1971 in West Bengal’s Kolkata, Gita Gopinath grew up in Mysuru in Karnataka. According to her father TV Gopinath, Gita was interested in sports, learned the guitar and also participated in a fashion show, but she gave it all up to focus on studies.Also read | In surprise move, IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath to take top leadership role“The girl who used to score 45 per cent till class seven, started scoring 90 per cent. I never asked my kids to study and had not put any restrictions on them. Their friends came home, stayed over to study and play. Till SSLC, both my girls used to go to bed by 7.30pm and wake up early,” Gopinath said in an interview to The Week in 2018.“After school, Gita joined Mahajana PU college in Mysuru, and pursued science. Later, though her marks were good enough for engineering and medicine, she decided to do a BA (Hons) in economics,” he added. Gita chose economics to pursue a career in the civil services, joined Lady Shri Ram College for Women (LSR) in Delhi and topped all three years, according to her father. She gave up her intention to join the civil services and “wanted to do an MBA as it fetched good money.” “She topped Delhi University and created quite a flutter by bagging the gold medal as LSR had beaten St Stephen’s for the first time, and by just two marks,” TV Gopinath said.Also read | IMF warns of 'economic collapse' unless G20 extends debt reliefAccording to The Week, Gopinath was the head of Raita Mitra, a farmers’ collective and her mother, VC Vijayalakshmi ran a very popular playhouse for 35 years. They are from KeralaAfter she graduated, Gita Gopinath joined the Delhi School of Economics where she met her husband Iqbal Singh Dhaliwal. She joined the University of Washington in Seattle for a fully-funded PhD programme of five years and received her PhD in economics from Princeton University in 2001.She was an assistant professor of economics at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business. Gita Gopinath joined the faculty of Harvard University in 2005 and is on leave of public service from its economics department where she is the John Zwaanstra Professor of International Studies and of Economics.Also read | IMF applauds India’s net zero 2070 pledgeShe was the economic adviser to Kerala chief minister from 2016-18 and has also served as a member of the Eminent Persons Advisory Group on G-20 Matters for the Union finance ministry.She was named as one of the 25 Most Influential Women of the Year by the Financial Times in 2021. In 2019, Foreign Policy named her one of the Top Global Thinkers, in 2014, she was named one of the top 25 economists under 45 by the IMF and in 2011 she was chosen a Young Global Leader (YGL) by the World Economic Forum.She has also been awarded the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman, the highest honour conferred on overseas Indians, by the Indian government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gita-gopinath-from-scoring-45-in-class-7-to-becoming-imf-no-2-101638514940331.html
03-12-2021||World||'Sorry Imran Khan': Embassy tweet mocks PM, asks for salary; Pakistan says account hacked||The official Twitter handle of Pakistan Embassy Serbia on Friday posted a public message on the social media platform asking Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan how long does the government expect the government officials to remain silent when they have not been paid for the last three months. As the message created a stir on Twitter that Imran Khan is facing a ‘rebellion’ from his government officials, Dr Arslan Khalid, focal person to Imran Khan on digital media, tweeted that according to the information from the foreign office, the account was hacked.After an hour and half, the tweets were deleted. The Twitter account of Pakistan Embassy Serbia is a verified handle and has 1,553 followers. The video and the message went viral within minutes of being posted as apart from raising the issue of salary non-payment, the post had a video taking a swipe at Imran Khan. "With inflation breaking all previous records, how long do you expect Imran Khan that we government official will remain silent & keep working for you without been paid for past 3 months & our children been forced out of school due to non-payment of fees. Is this #NayaPakistan?" the tweet read. In another tweet, the writer wrote, "I am sorry Imran Khan, am not left with another option."The tweet comes with a music video mocking Imran Khan's statement, 'Aap ne ghabrana nahi'. "If soap becomes costlier, don't use. If wheat becomes dearer, please don't eat," the lyrics of the song said with Imran Khan's 'Aapne ghabrana nahi' video inserted in between. The music video is by Saad Alvi, which was released on March 8. The title of the song is Aap ne ghabrana nahi. The Twitter account of Pakistan's embassy in Serbia is hacked as per information from foreign office and @ForeignOfficePk is conducting an enquiry into it.The foreign ministry is looking into the matter, Dr Khalid tweeted.According to Pakistan media Dawn, apart from Arslan Khalid's tweet, the foreign office has not issued any statement regarding the incident. 
03-12-2021||World||Dead or alive? On the trail of Taliban's supreme leader Hibatullah Akhundzada||When the Taliban overran Kabul in mid-August, seizing power for the second time, the years-old mystery over the whereabouts of the movement's Supreme Leader Hibatullah Akhundzada deepened further.Whether the elderly cleric is alive or dead is something many Afghans are uncertain about, and even the most dedicated analysts have doubts about who is really leading the group.AFP went on the trail of the elusive leader, and the findings are inconclusive.On October 30 -- two months after a Taliban spokesman insisted Akhundzada was alive and well in Kandahar -- rumours swirled in the southern city that the "emir" had delivered a speech at a Koranic school, or madrassa.Taliban officials gave their stamp of authenticity to his appearance at the Hakimia madrassa, releasing a crackling audio recording lasting more than 10 minutes."May God reward the oppressed people of Afghanistan who fought the infidels and the oppressors for 20 years," intones an aged and echoing voice, said to be that of Akhundzada.His public profile had previously been largely limited to annual written messages released for Islamic holidays.In one of the poorest suburbs of Kandahar, between a litter-strewn stream and a dirt track, two Taliban fighters stand guard in front of the Hakimia madrassa's blue-and-white gate.It has become something of a magnet since October 30, attracting curious -- albeit respectfully distant -- crowds of Taliban supporters.- 'Watching and crying' -When the supreme leader visited, he was "armed" and accompanied by "three security guards", the madrassa's head of security Massum Shakrullah told AFP."Even cellphones and sound recorders" were not allowed into the venue, he added.One of the students, Mohammed, 19, said "we all were watching him and were just crying".Asked if he could confirm that it was definitely Akhundzada, Mohammed said he and his peers were so overjoyed that they "forgot to watch... his face".The need for Taliban leaders to keep vanishingly low profiles became especially pronounced in the last decade of war, as deadly US drone strikes multiplied.Akhundzada rose to the top spot after one such strike killed his predecessor, Mullah Akhtar Mansour, in 2016.He quickly secured the backing of Al-Qaeda chief Ayman al-Zawahiri, who called him "the emir of the faithful".This endorsement by Osama bin Laden's heir helped seal his jihadist credentials with the Taliban's long-time allies.The Taliban have released just one photograph of Akhundzada -- five years ago, when he took the group's reins.And even that photo, depicting him with a grey beard, white turban and a forceful gaze, was taken two decades prior, according to the Taliban.The supreme leader's appearance scotched "rumours and propaganda" about his death, said Maulvi Said Ahmad, who heads the madrassa where Akhundzada reportedly appeared.He looked "exactly the same" as in the famous photo, said Mohammad Musa, 13, who watched from afar.- 'Long been dead' -Officials of the ousted Afghan regime and many Western analysts are sceptical, believing that Akhundzada died years ago.For them the madrassa visit was a carefully choreographed deception.There is a precedent -- the Taliban pretended founder Mullah Omar was alive for two years following his death in 2013.Akhundzada himself "has long been dead and had no role before the takeover of Kabul", one security official of the former regime told AFP.He was killed alongside his brother in a suicide attack in Quetta, Pakistan, "about three years ago", the source believes.This theory, sometimes with slight variations, is seen as credible by several foreign intelligence agencies.A separate regional security source told AFP that "nobody would confirm and nobody would deny" Akhundzada's purported death.The Pentagon and the CIA, meanwhile, did not respond to AFP's request for comment on the rumours of Akhundzada's death.- Eminent scholar -In Panjwai, a district on a vast arid plateau near Kandahar, everyone knows of the Akhundzadas, a line of respected theologians.The emir was born in the village of Sperwan."At the time of the Soviet invasion (1979) fighting broke out in the village and Hibatullah left for Pakistan," Niamatullah, a young fighter and former student of the supreme leader, told AFP.After this first move to Pakistan, Akhundzada became a respected scholar and earned the title "Sheikh al-Hadith", a distinction reserved for the most eminent scholars of the Prophet Mohammed's sayings.In the early 1990s, as the Islamist insurgency was taking hold in the wake of the Soviet occupation, Akhundzada, then in his thirties, returned to the village.He would hold consultations with visitors from "the city and from Pakistan", remembers Abdul Qayum, a 65-year-old villager.According to snippets from his official biography, his rise was meteoric after the Taliban took power in Kabul in 1996.After running the local madrassa, he became a judge at Kandahar provincial court, then head of the military court in Nangarhar in eastern Afghanistan until 2000.By the time the Taliban were forced from power in late 2001, he was heading Kabul's military court.Akhundzada then fled to Pakistan, finding sanctuary in Quetta.His mastery of Islamic law made him the head of the Taliban's shadow justice system and the acclaimed trainer of a whole generation of fighters who graduated through Quetta.- 'Centre of gravity' -Akhundzada was "the centre of gravity for the Taliban... keeping the group intact", one Pakistan-based Taliban member told AFP.According to this source, who says he has met the supreme leader three times -- the last time in 2020 -- Akhundzada does not use modern technology.He prefers to make phone calls on landlines and communicates via letters to the Taliban officials who now make up the government and with whom he retains a strong rapport.He would have given the green light to the final offensive against the old regime and kept track of operations from Kandahar, where he had already been discreetly installed for several months, the Pakistani source said.The continued fear of elimination, even after the end of the war with the Americans, explains Akhundzada's continued low profile, several Taliban sources say.And if he were already dead, a regional security source said, concerns over the rival Sunni extremist group, the Islamic State's local chapter (IS-K), would in part explain the Taliban concealing the news -- as any such announcement could prompt defections."If they announce Akhundzada is no more and we are looking for a new emir, it will factionalise the Taliban and IS-K could take advantage," he said.Despite the speculation, the Taliban insist nothing is untoward.The emir is "leading in an orderly manner", a spokesman told AFP, adding "it is not necessary" for him to appear publicly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dead-or-alive-on-the-trail-of-taliban-s-supreme-leader-hibatullah-akhundzada-101638499178664.html
03-12-2021||World||In surprise move, IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath to take top leadership role||International Monetary Fund Chief Economist Gita Gopinath is set to take over from Geoffrey Okamoto as the institution’s No. 2 official, the institution said Thursday.The move comes as a surprise because Gopinath, the first woman to serve as the IMF’s chief economist, had said in October she planned to rejoin Harvard University in January to retain her tenured facility post after three years of public service.The IMF said in a statement that “some realignment in the roles and responsibilities of the fund’s senior management team is being undertaken.”By tradition, the first deputy managing director is nominated by the U.S. and appointed by the IMF managing director. The Treasury endorses this choice and is pleased the job responsibilities of this role are being restored, according to a person familiar with the department’s position who asked not to be identified.The first deputy managing director “will take the lead on surveillance and related policies, oversee research and flagship publications and help foster the highest-quality standards for fund publications,” the IMF said. Gopinath led the IMF’s research department through the pandemic era and a 2020 recession that was the worst peacetime decline since the Great Depression. She joined the Washington-based lender at the start of 2019, succeeding Maury Obstfeld, after having taught in Harvard’s economics department since 2005. She holds a doctorate in economics from Princeton University, where Ben Bernanke was among her advisers before he became Federal Reserve chairman. Another adviser was Ken Rogoff, one of Gopinath’s predecessors as IMF chief economist.Okamoto, who took the first deputy MD position in March 2020, plans to return to the private sector, according to the statement. Before joining the fund, he was the U.S. Treasury Department’s acting assistant secretary for international finance and development, and a veteran of President Donald Trump’s trade negotiations with China. While at the fund, he helped guide it on country issues and in strengthening its relationships with key multilateral groups including the Group of Seven and Group of 20, the IMF said. During their time at the organization, the IMF issued a record $650 billion of reserves to help nations confront the Covid-19 crisis. The institution also weathered accusations that Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva improperly influenced a World Bank ranking of China’s business climate when she was a top official there. The scandal brought IMF data and forecasts under increasing scrutiny and poses a challenge to the fund in terms of protecting its reputation and credibility.Georgieva repeatedly denied any wrongdoing, and the IMF board in October said its investigation didn’t conclusively demonstrate that she played an improper role in the report in question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-surprise-move-imf-chief-economist-gita-gopinath-to-take-top-leadership-role-101638495467628.html
03-12-2021||World||'Very concerning': South Africa study shows Omicron's ability to evade immunity from prior infection||A preliminary study by South African scientists suggests that the Omicron variant is associated with a substantial ability to evade immunity from prior infection and is three times more likely to cause reinfections compared to the Beta or Delta variants. There were 35,670 suspected reinfections among nearly 2.8 million individuals with positive test results for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Those who tested positive for Covid 90 days apart were considered to have suspected reinfections.The paper is available on a medical preprint server and has not yet been peer-reviewed."Recent reinfections have occurred in individuals whose primary infections occurred across all three waves, with the most having their primary infection in the Delta wave," tweeted Juliet Pulliam, director of the South African DSI-NRF Centre of Excellence in Epidemiological Modelling and Analysis.The researchers also observed a recent surge in the number of reinfections in individuals who already had multiple suspected infections from mid-November. The study may have significant implications for public health measures, particularly in countries with high rates of immunity from prior infection.Omicron threat: US' new testing rules to increase hassle for inbound travellersPulliam said the authors didn’t have information about the vaccination status of individuals with suspected reinfections and therefore could not assess whether Omicron also evades vaccine-derived immunity. The scientists are planning to quantify the extent of Omicron’s immune escape for both natural and vaccine-derived immunity.“Data are also urgently needed on disease severity associated with Omicron infection, including in individuals with a history of prior infection,” Pulliam wrote.Praising the research as "high quality”, Michael Head, a scientist at the University of Southampton, said that the analysis look “very concerning”.“Might this all still be a 'false alarm'? That is looking less and less likely," he said in a statement, reported news agency AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-linked-with-substantial-ability-to-evade-immunity-from-prior-infection-south-african-study-101638494167458.html
03-12-2021||World||Germany's Merkel at farewell ceremony: Don't tolerate hate||Outgoing Chancellor Angela Merkel called on Germans to stand up to hatred, at a military ceremony Thursday bidding her farewell after 16 years in office.Merkel was honored with a traditional military musical performance and march in front of almost all the country's political elite — save for the far-right Alternative for Germany, who weren't invited.“Our democracy also lives from the fact that wherever hatred and violence are seen as a legitimate means of pursuing one's interests, our tolerance as democrats has to find its limit,” said in a speech ahead of the ceremony.The event, which was held at the Defense Ministry rather than in a more public setting due to pandemic constraints, involved a parade and a brass band playing three songs of Merkel's choice.The first piece was “You Forgot the Color Film” released in 1974 by East German-born punk singer Nina Hagen. In it, the singer recounts a young woman’s lament that her boyfriend failed to take color pictures of their beach holiday.Hagen, like Merkel, grew up in East Germany, but emigrated to the West in 1976 after clashing with the communist country’s authorities.Merkel explained that the song was “a highlight of my youth, which is known to have taken place in the GDR.” East Germany was officially known as the German Democratic Republic.“By chance, (the song) is also set in a region that was in my former constituency" on the Baltic Sea, she added. “As such, it all fits together.”Her second choice was a popular chanson by German singer Hildegard Knef called “It Shall Rain Red Roses for Me.” She was presented with a bouquet of the flowers.The final piece chosen by the daughter of a Protestant pastor was an 18th century Christian hymn, “Holy God, we Praise thy Name.”Merkel remains caretaker chancellor until her successor, the Social Democrat Olaf Scholz, is sworn in next week. She wished him and his new center-left government “all the best, good luck and much success.”The long-time leader also urged her audience to “always see the world through the eyes of others too” and to work “with joy in your hearts.”Before Thursday evening's ceremony, she met other federal and state leaders to agree on new measures to curb coronavirus infections in Germany.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germanys-merkel-at-farewell-ceremony-don-t-tolerate-hate-101638489903031.html
03-12-2021||World||Omicron threat: US' new testing rules to increase hassle for inbound travellers||US President Joe Biden on Thursday announced stricter restrictions for inbound travellers regardless of their nationality or vaccination status amid global alarm over Omicron variant of coronavirus. The new travel guidelines would require air travellers entering the United States to produce a negative test for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) within one day of boarding their flight.This is expected to increase hassle for inbound travellers as the previous period was three days.“This tighter testing timetable provides an added degree of protection as scientists continue to study the omicron variant,” Biden said.The spokesperson for the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said that the new testing requirement would strengthen the “already robust protocols” for international travellers.The federal mask mandate requiring passengers to wear face masks on planes, trains, and buses has also been extended to March 18. The mandate was scheduled to expire in mid-January.What India's 2 Omicron cases reveal: How the variant spread, symptoms, CT valueWhile the new travel requirements of vaccination or negative test have not been extended to domestic fliers, White House press secretary Jen Psaki told a press conference that “nothing is off the table.” The fresh guidelines underscore the urgency with which the White House is acting in the wake of the Omicron variant first identified in South Africa but has been detected in many countries since then.However, the hassle has somewhat been offset by other relaxations, including allowing the use of rapid antigen tests instead of requiring more costly PCR tests. The insurance companies have been directed to cover the cost of the Covid test, which could be an added relief for the travellers.White House said that the new testing rules are expected to take effect early next week.The United States has reported cases of Omicron variant from California, Colorado, Minnesota, and New York state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-threat-us-new-testing-rules-to-increase-hassle-for-inbound-travellers-101638490733068.html
03-12-2021||World||Trump tested Covid positive days before 1st presidential debate, reveals book||Former US President Donald Trump had tested positive for the coronavirus disease, days before his maiden presidential debate with challenger Joe Biden last year, according to a new book which is written by his then-chief of staff Mark Meadows. As per the report by the UK daily -- The Guardian, which obtained an advance copy of The Chief's Chief, a memoir by Meadows, Trump had tested positive for Covid-19 just three days before his September 29, 2020 election debate with Biden.The initial symptoms were mild and were taken to be a cold, the upcoming book recounts. Meadows also wrote that the positive Covid-19 test was quickly followed by a negative, shortly before the presidential debate.On October 2, Trump announced on Twitter he and his wife Melania had tested positive for Covid-19. However, despite the negative test, as claimed in the report, Trump fell seriously sick due to the infection and was flown to the presidential facility at Walter Reed National Military Medical Hospital a day later. He received intensive treatment for three nights there.According to Meadows' account, the positive result came through just as Trump was leaving the White House for a campaign rally in Pennsylvania on September 26.A second test, that Meadows said was a more accurate kind, gave a negative result shortly afterwards. Trump took this as "full permission" to continue his schedule, including that night's rally and the Biden debate three days later, Meadows said in his book.The latest developments have raised fresh questions on Trump about potential safety risks faced by the attendees of the debate. If the claims are confirmed, it would further show that the Trump administration, which has already faced heavy criticism for showing negligence in managing the pandemic, did not take the virus seriously.According to the book, Trump's campaign also did not inform the debate organisers about the positive test. "I didn't want to alarm the public," Meadows wrote in the book explaining why he allowed Trump to continue with his schedule after the second, negative test.Meanwhile, Trump has denied the claims. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Trump said, "The story of me having Covid prior to, or during, the first debate is Fake News. In fact, a test revealed that I did not have Covid prior to the debate," he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-tested-covid-positive-days-before-1st-presidential-debate-reveals-book-101638412517754.html
03-12-2021||India||TTD ropes in experts to find solutions to landslides on Tirumala Hills||The landslides triggered by heavy rainfall on the hills of Tirumala, a major pilgrim centre in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, in the early hours of Wednesday caused extensive damage to the ghat road so much so that it will take at least three to four weeks to repair it, officials said.The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the temple of Lord Venkateshwara on Tirumala, has sought help from a team of engineering experts from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and Chennai, to find a permanent solution to prevent landslides in future, as thousands of pilgrims travel on the ghat road every day.TTD trust board chairman Y V Subba Reddy, who held a meeting with the experts from the IITs and engineering officials on Friday, said the second ghat road (used for the uphill journey of pilgrims from Tirupati to the hill shrine of Tirumala), and its retaining walls, which suffered huge damages due to Wednesday’s landslides, would be restored at least by December end.Reddy asked the engineers to suggest measures to ensure that the remaining part of the hill which caved in, should not witness further landslides.“The parts of the hill, identified as a potential threat to pilgrims travelling on the ghat road should be sealed using chemical technology or removed carefully. The safety of the pilgrims is paramount and we are prepared to spend any amount of money to prevent further landslides,” the TTD chairman said.He asked the experts – K S Rao from IIT, Delhi and S Sripad from IIT Madras, along with retired chief engineer of TTD Ramachandra Reddy – to come up with a report on how to avert landslides in future.A senior official of the TTD said the team of experts, who went round the areas where landslides occurred to study the nature of rocks and the causes for the landslides, is expected to submit a report to the TTD by Tuesday.“According to preliminary assessment, it would take at least three months to come up with a lasting solution for the landslides on Tirumala,” the official said.An expert from Delhi IIT, K S Rao told reporters that unprecedented rains on the Tirumala hills for over a week, resulted in the landslides. “The rocks that rolled down the hills were of the weight of 30-40 tons each and hence caused extensive damage to the ghat road and the retainer walls at four to five places. There is a likelihood of rock falls in five to six other spots in future,” he said.Rao said there were rain-triggered landslides on the Tirumala ghat road in 2017, too, but this time, the magnitude was greater. “During 2017, critical spots were cushioned with mesh fencing, rock belting and other such means of technology,” he said.The experts called for creation of a proper drainage system along the ghat roads and the Seshachalam forest and hill ranges, so that there is no percolation of water on the hills leading to landslides.The TTD chairman directed that the authorities take steps for allowing traffic through a link road that connects the second ghat road beyond the damaged portion, from Saturday, after examining the safety aspects.At present, traffic for to-and-fro travel to Tirumala is being allowed only on the first ghat road on alternate hours – one hour for the uphill journey and one hour for the downward journey. “This is resulting in the pilgrims waiting for hours at Tirumala, Alipiri foothills and bus stand. If the people are allowed to take the link road, it will ease the traffic to a large extent,” Reddy added.
03-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 4, 1979 — Hockey wizard Dhyan Chand dead at 74||New Delhi- Hockey wizard Dhyan Chand who mesmerized the world with his brilliant stick work for more than three decades, passed away at 4-23 a.m. at the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences here today (December 3). Dhyan Chand was 74. He is survived by his wife, seven sons and fore daughters.Dhyan Chand had been ailing for some time in Jhansi before he was brought to Delhi on Nov 23 and admitted to AIIMS. He had several complications like cancer of the lever, diabetes and kidney trouble. Eventually he succumbed to the first ailment.Dhyan Chand developed respiration failure last evening and by about 00-30 a.m. the doctors slated intensive resuscitation. He collapsed at about 4-25 a.m.Hundreds of friends, relatives, hockey officials and others thronged the hospital on hearing the news. The body is being flown to his home town Jhansi in the afternoon and according to his son, Ashok Kumar, will be cremated there tomorrow morning.Born at Allahabad on Aug. 28 1905 Dhyan Chand achieved immortal fame with his artistry and skill in hockey. Popularly known as “dada” to friends and admirers, he represented India in three successive Olympics-1928 at Los Angeles, 1932 at Amsterdam and led the victorious India team in the 1936 Berlin Olympics. A story goes about the Berlin Olympics that Dhyan Chand was invited for a cup of tea by Adolf Hitler after India had routed Germany in the final.Dhyan Chand was at that time an ordinary sepoy in the Indian army when Hitler came to know about his rank he was reported to have offered him the title of Field Marshal if he would migrate to Germany.Another story is that most of the Europeans did not believe the way Dhyan Chand used to sprint down with the ball glued to his stick. In fact, some people are reported to have examined his stick to find out whether —some- thing like a magnet was attached to his stick. They were left bewildered when they found nothing.Dhyan Chand rose to the rank of a Major and retained it till his retirement In 1986. He was the recepient of Padma Bhushan in 1956 and then joined the Rajkumari Amrit Kaur coaching scheme in 1961 a0 the chief hockey coach.In the hospital at the AIIMS, last he talked about hockey was his distress at Mehboob not coming upto his expectations.PTI adds: From Amsterdam Olympics in 1928 to those at Los Angeles 1932, and Berlin 1936, Dhyan Chand enthralled the world of hockey. A ‘wizaed’, a ‘juggler’ he was hailed by connoisseur and critic alike. But to Dhyan Chand hockey was not only an art but also a science in which came into play the laws of force, of spatial magnitude.At Berlin, efter India beat Germany in the final 8-1 (six scored by Dhyan Chand), astride the victory stand, he was asked by Hitler “What are you?” Dhyan Chand: “A Sepoy in the Indian Army.”Hitler: “If you were a German, I would have made you at least a major-general.”India was then an enslaved nation, but on freedom. Dhyan Chand was not considered worthier than to be a major, to which rank he was elevated. But more honoured he was in 1956 on conferment of Padma Bhushan by President Rajendra Prasad.World War II blitzed two Olympics, one to have been held In Tokyo in 1940 and another in 1944. It also ended the career of Dhyan Chand who last played international hockey in 1948 leading an Indian team to East Africa. On return he hung up his stick for good.Yet in the shortened span of his career in the international arena, Dhyan Chand scored around 400 goals, a record that has not been equalled in the last 25 years in the course of which eight Olympics were held, nor will it perhaps ever be equalled, let alone surpassed.As a hockey player he was incomparable even among his illustrious contemporaries, Jaipal Singh Dara and his own brother, Roop Singh, with whom he made a perfect combination, the former as centre forward and the latter as inside-left.Hockey in the first quarter of the century was a pastime of the British military officers and confined to cantonments. Dhyan Chand took it to the cities of India to give birth to Indian hockey. The Indian Hockey Federation (IHF) was born in 1925.Born in 1906, in Allahabad, Dhyan Chand joined the Indian Army as a sepoy, spending most of his time in Jhansi. It was here that he perfected his game which he began playing at the age of 17.In 1926, Dhyan Chand was a member of the Indian Army team which toured Australia and New Zealand. The team won all its matches to put India on the world hockey map. That was Dhyan Chand’s preparation for the first Olympics, in which India could only participate under British flag, on the withdrawal of the British national team.After Amsterdam came the Los Angeles Olympics which too India won, defeating the United States by 24 coals of which eight came from the stick of Dhyan Chand. En route matches were played in Japan and on landing in California.For the Berlin Olympics, Dhyan Chand led India. He was at the zenith of his career, that war practically ended.On his retirement in 1948, Dhyan Chand devoted himself to coaching and took a hand in shaping the 1948 and 1952 Olympic teams under Kishan Lal and Digvijay Singh “Babu”.If Dhyan Chand helped in the birth of Indian hockey, he had also the misfortune of seeing its decline and fall at Rome in 1980.Indian hockey is dead, so Dhyan Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-december-4-1979-hockey-wizard-dhyan-chand-dead-at-74-101638549532457.html
03-12-2021||India||PM Modi to lay foundation of Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor tomorrow. Details here||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple projects worth around ₹18,000 crore in Uttarakhand, including the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor. An official release issued by the Union ministry of road transport and highways said a significant focus of the Prime Minister's visit to the state will be on projects to improve the road infrastructure, which will make travel smooth and safer and increase tourism in the region.The Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor (from Eastern Peripheral Expressway Junction to Dehradun) is itself being built at a total cost of around Rs. 8,300 crore, and it is in line with the Prime Minister's vision to boost connectivity in the areas which were once considered far-flung.What are the 4 sections of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor?According to the central government, the entire length of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor from Akshardham (starting point) to Dehradun will be divided into four sections: Section 1 is being developed to six lanes with 6L service road being in built-up reach, with complete access control, and is divided into 2 packages. Package 1 falls in the Delhi portion in the length of 14.75 km and out of this 6.4 km is elevated. Package 2 falls in Uttar Pradesh in the length of 16.85 km and out this 11.2 km is elevated. This section would start from Akshardham Temple near Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) and pass through Geeta colony, Khajurikhas, Mandola, etc. This highway aims to decongest North East Delhi and also enhance the development potential of Tronica city, Mandola Vihar Yojana of the Uttar Pradesh government.Section 2 is planned six lanes fully access controlled and the entire length is in Greenfield, passing through the districts of Baghpat, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, and Saharanpur. The detailed project report (DPR) is complete. The land acquisition process is currently on and the respective forest and environment clearance proposals have been applied.Section 3 starts from the Saharanpur bypass and ends at Ganeshpur. The entire length has recently been completed to 4 lanes by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Necessary underpasses and service roads are being planned to make it fully access controlled to achieve a minimum speed of 100 km/hr.Section 4 is planned six lanes with complete access controlled. This section primarily passes through a reserve forest in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Of the 20 km, 5 km is Brownfield expansion and 15 km is realignment comprising of elevated wildlife corridor (12 km) and approaches to a tunnel (structure 340 m). Rights-Of-Way (ROW) is restricted to 25 metres in general due to wildlife concerns. All forest and wildlife clearances for this section have been obtained.What are the features of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor?What are the major benefits of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-of-delhi-dehradun-economic-corridor-tomorrow-details-here-101638546369110.html
03-12-2021||India||Karnataka imposes fresh curbs, vaccination mandatory to visit public spaces||The Karnataka government on Friday said that only fully vaccinated people will be allowed in public spaces like theatres and educational institutions among other places as fresh restrictions were announced to contain the growing threat of the Omicron variant of the novel Coronavirus.“The entry to malls, cinema halls/theatres shall be allowed only to persons who are vaccinated with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for Revenue said on Friday in Bengaluru.The minister added that parents of children below 18 years will have to mandatorily be vaccinated in order for the latter to attend physical classes, he added.The statements come a day after the Union government confirmed the first two known cases of the Omicron variant of the virus in Karnataka.The fresh curbs have raised apprehensions in the southern states where unverified Whatsapp forwards of possible lockdowns have been doing the rounds. Conflicting statements from ministers have only added to the prevailing confusion in the state as chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and his cabinet have not been in sync.“It is reiterated that there shall be strict implementation of a five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccination and enforcing adherence to Covid-19. appropriate behaviour,” according to the new guidelines.The government reiterated that all events in schools and other public places have to be put off at least until January 15, 2022.However, the government also said that the scheduled winter session of the state legislature in Belagavi, about 500 km from Bengaluru, will start from December 13.Gatherings in marriages will be limited to below 500.“The cultural activities/fests and functions in all educational institutions should be postponed till 15th January 2022. Compulsory testing of health workers, old persons above 65 years and persons with comorbidities will be undertaken by the Government,” the guidelines issued by the state government read. Even government officials will have to be completely vaccinated.The state government has been trying to increase its vaccination coverage to help reduce the impact of a possible third wave in the state.According to data, coverage for the second dose in the state has increased to 62%. The percentage of those who have received the first dose has reached 92% as a total of 7.50 crore doses have been administered till date.But there appears to be little regulation on election campaigning as all three major political parties continue campaigning for the December 10 MLC polls.“There shall be intensive containment (micro containment measures) and active surveillance in clusters/area reporting higher cases to contain the spread locally,” according to the government.Karnataka has already put in place restrictions for people coming in from Kerala and Maharashtra. The government also made it mandatory to carry out testing of all passengers coming from abroad at Bengaluru and other airports.Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for higher education, information technology, biotechnology, science and technology on Friday said that several other countries had implemented such restrictions and Karnataka too had similar ideas.“There aren’t any countries that have made it mandatory but there are a few who have made some restrictions for unvaccinated people in public spaces like malls, cinema, schools, colleges, offices,” Narayana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-imposes-fresh-curbs-vaccination-mandatory-to-visit-public-spaces-101638548752325.html
03-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad’s storm surge impact to be amplified by spring tide||Cyclone Jawad has formed over westcentral Bay of Bengal on Friday which is likely to touch and move along the Odisha coast on Saturday. Jawad coincides with a new moon night’s spring tide which is likely to amplify the storm surge associated with Jawad.The deep depression over westcentral Bay of Bengal intensified further into Cyclone Jawad (pronounced as Jowad) on Friday afternoon over westcentral Bengal and lay about 420 km south-southeast of Vishakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh), 530 km south-southeast of Gopalpur (Odisha) and 650 km south-southwest of Paradip (Odisha).Jawad is likely to move north-westwards, intensify further and reach west-central Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh – south Odisha coasts by Saturday morning. Thereafter it is likely to recurve north-northeastwards and move along Odisha coast reaching near Puri around Sunday noon. Subsequently it is likely to continue to move north-northeastwards along coastal Odisha towards West Bengal coasts. Jawad’s intensity is likely to increase to a severe cyclone with wind speed of 90 to 100 kmph gusting to 110 for some hours on Saturday.“Though we are not expecting major intensification of this cyclone, the impact of Jawad may be amplified because of the new moon and spring tide. The storm surge due to Jawad is expected to be .5 to 1 metre but when coinciding with spring tide it can be two to three times higher. Extremely heavy rainfall is also expected. The impact of tidal waves will be higher. Jawad is expected to touch Odisha coast on Saturday and then it will move along the coast,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.“Fourth December being a new Moon day, higher astronomical tides of about 2-4 m height are likely along the coast of Odisha & West Bengal,” IMD has warned.Jawad’s track is unusual for December. Cyclone Burevi had formed last year on December 2 and made landfall in Sri Lanka. “Its not unusual for cyclones to develop in December but normally the track is either towards Tamil Nadu or towards Bangladesh and Myanmar, its very unusual to see a tropical cyclone moving towards Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts in December,” added Devi.Moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely over south coastal Odisha and north coastal Andhra Pradesh and heavy to very heavy rainfall over north coastal Odisha and adjoining interior districts and also over coastal districts of Gangetic west Bengal on Saturday.Moderate rainfall at many places with heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Gangetic West Bengal and north Odisha and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura and heavy rainfall at isolated places over west Bengal.Gale winds speed reaching 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph is likely to prevail over westcentral & adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal from Friday evening and gradually increase becoming 90-100 kmph gusting to 110 kmph over northwest & adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal from the evening of Saturday for the subsequent 12 hours. Squally wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph likely to commence along & off North Andhra Pradesh – Odisha coasts from the mid-night of Friday and increase gradually becoming 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph from Saturday, for the subsequent 12 hours. Squally wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph also likely to commence along & off West Bengal coast from Saturday evening and become Gale wind speed reaching 60-70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph from the morning of Sunday for the subsequent 12 hours. Sea condition would be High (6 – 9 m wave height) over central Bay of Bengal during next 12 hours and High to very High (9 – 14 m wave height) over west-central & northwest Bay of Bengal from Saturday for the subsequent 24 hours. Sea condition will be rough to very rough over along & off North Andhra Pradesh – Odisha coast from the midnight of Friday and become High to very High from Saturday afternoon, for the subsequent 12 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-s-storm-surge-impact-to-be-amplified-by-spring-tide-101638547852089.html
03-12-2021||India||Goa Archbishop nudges govt to preserve Old Goa heritage precinct||PANAJI: Goa Archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrão has called on the state authorities to preserve the Old Goa heritage precinct lest it loses its world heritage status granted by UNESCO amid continuing protests by civil society groups who want a structure built with dubious permissions, which were recently revoked, to be demolished.At a gathering on the occasion of the feast of St Francis Xavier, revered in Goa as Goencho Saib (lord of Goa), the Archbishop, the much-respected head of the Christian community in Goa, called on the Goa government to “refrain from any acts and decisions which are illegal and detrimental to the preservation of the religious and heritage sanctity of Old Goa.”“We well know that this site is not only a holy site but also a historical and a prominent site of global cultural heritage. Being that as it is, it is our responsibility as well as the law to give this place the respect it deserves,” the Archbishop said. “We should know that any undue or offensive interventions even by legitimate stakeholders in and around these monuments can have grave consequences and even attract the derecognition of their world heritage status which would be a tremendous and severe loss to Goa,” he said.The Archbishop also expressed solidarity with the civil society protests including an ongoing hunger strike being undertaken by the Save Old Goa Action Committee demanding the demolition of a structure built in violation of heritage norms. A two-storeyed structure being built barely metres from the protected monuments within the UNESCO recognised heritage precinct of Old Goa being built by Manish Munot, the husband of BJP national spokesperson Shaina NC and a local collaborator -- Suvarna Lotlikar, the wife of Goa Cricket Association chief Suraj Lotlikar -- has snowballed into a major political controversy. The project proponents applied for licence of repair and reconstruction claiming that there was a damaged structure.While there did exist a small ‘shed’ known as loja in Portuguese - it was used to store coconuts at the site - the project representatives submitted a photograph of an old palatial house that was claimed to be the existing structure.The Goa Town and Country Planning Department has since revoked the permissions granted to the site citing false representation while applying for a licence including incorrect ownership documents, building a structure taller and wider than the original structure they were seeking to ‘repair’ among other illegalities.The Town and Country Planning Department has further written to the local panchayat to “initiate necessary action” on the structure since the permissions have been revoked. Once the capital of the expansive Portuguese maritime empire, much of Old Goa now lies in ruins except for a few churches and other structures that are now being preserved by the Archaeological Survey of India and are also considered sacred from a religious point of view.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-archbishop-nudges-govt-to-preserve-old-goa-heritage-precinct-101638547131957.html
03-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nearly 65 trains cancelled in Andhra due to cyclone Jawad and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Trains cancelled and schools shut in Andhra ahead of cyclone Jawad’s landfallNearly 65 trains from Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh scheduled for Friday and Saturday have been cancelled in wake of cyclone Jawad. Read more.18 out of 16,000 international flyers tested positive for Covid-19: MandaviyaUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday informed Parliament that among 16,000 passengers from 'at-risk' countries who have been tested for Covid-19 with the RT-PCR method, only 18 people have been found to be infected so far. Read more.Congress slams Centre for having ‘no record’ of farmers’ death, demands compensationThe Congress on Friday produced a list of martyred farmers who lost their lives during the agitation against the controversial farm laws and slammed the BJP-led Centre over their remark in Parliament that the government did not have any record of such deaths. Read more.'He didn't seek my counsel. I imposed myself on him': Gavaskar reveals having a word with Mayank Agarwal before 2nd TestThe legendary Sunil Gavaskar has revealed that he got into Mayank Agarwal’s ears during the first India vs New Zealand Test in Kanpur and offered him some advice. Read more.Abhishek Bachchan says Aishwarya Rai ‘allowed’ him to work, said: 'You go act, I'll take care of Aaradhya'Abhishek Bachchan, in a recent interview, said Aishwarya Rai Bachchan has ‘immensely’ contributed to his acting career. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nearly-65-trains-cancelled-in-andhra-due-to-cyclone-jawad-101638544469711.html
03-12-2021||India||Omicron variant: What we know so far on cases in India and vaccine efficacy||Even as fears over Omicron rise across the world, the Union health ministry on Friday said the new variant of the coronavirus disease is expected to cause less severe infections in India, owing to vaccinations and a prior exposure to the Delta variant that had infected nearly 70 per cent of the population during the second wave of pandemic.The country has so far reported two cases of the Omicron variant -- both in Karnataka, following which its state government announced preventive measures, including compulsory two-dose vaccination for entering malls, cinema halls or theatres, and for parents of school or college-going students.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has also directed officials to increase screening of international passengers at airports, asked educational institutions to postpone their public events, and limit gatherings, meetings, conferences to 500 people.Here's what we know so far on the Omicron variant in India:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-what-we-know-so-far-on-cases-in-india-and-vaccine-efficacy-101638536803021.html
03-12-2021||India||US took 50 years to fine-tune joint structures, integration is complicated, says Navy chief||The US military took almost 50 years to fine-tune its current joint command and control structures after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour during World War II highlighted the need for greater coordination among American forces, India’s new navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar said on Friday. His comments, in response to a question on jointness, were a broader attempt to put across the complications associated with creating integrated commands at a time when India is inching towards rolling out its theaterisation plan to enhance the military’s effectiveness and reshape the conduct of future operations. “Jointness and integration can’t happen in a very, very short time. If you look at the US military, it has taken almost 50 years,” the navy chief said at his annual press briefing on the eve of Navy Day. “The thrust for jointness came after the Pearl Harbour attack. I am not saying that we should take a similar time but it’s a complicated process, and it’s not something which can just be put together in a short time,” the navy chief said.The US military’s joint command and control model is the outcome of the Goldwater-Nichols Defense Reorganization Act passed by the Congress in 1986. Kumar said the navy fully supported the ongoing defence reforms to enhance tri-service synergy. The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four integrated commands --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command. “We are looking at the establishment of the Maritime Theatre Command in the near future, which would further buttress joint planning and joint application of force. The details are being worked out and may be finalised by the middle of next year,” said Kumar, who took over as navy chief on November 30. He was closely associated with the theaterisation drive in a former role as chief of integrated defence staff to the chairman, chiefs of staff committee (COSC). The department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat who is spearheading the theaterisation drive, last month asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of theatre commands and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The deadline for submitting the reports was advanced from September 2022 to April 2022. Elaborating on the proposed Maritime Theatre Command, Kumar said the existing command and control structures would largely remain intact with a lean “theatre command organisation superimposed on them.” The charter of the Maritime Theatre Commander will largely be operations, with little administration or maintenance role, he said. “The navy chief at some point will be responsible only for raising, training and sustaining forces. But certainly, the chief will be in the loop for operations as well because he will be part of the COSC,” Kumar said. . “These are the broad contours that we are looking at. It may happen in six months...it may take a little longer. The timeframe will depend on how we resolve the complexities involved and the nitty-gritty of theatre commands,” Kumar said. Any structural changes to an effective organisation to ensure future readiness require detailed deliberations among stakeholders and smooth transition management, said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), the former director of the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies. “Security challenges dictate that we set up theatre commands at the earliest,” Bhatia added. The armed forces currently have 17 single-service commands spread across the country. The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force have seven commands each, while the Indian Navy has three. Creating theatres would involve merging the existing commands.The army’s Northern Command is the only single-service command that will stay outside the scope of the military’s theaterisation drive because of its critical role. The Udhampur-based command is responsible for guarding the country’s borders with Pakistan and China in the north, and is the nerve centre of counterterrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir. Kumar said the creation of DMA and the post of CDS two years ago was “the single most important” higher defence organisation reform in the Indian military since Independence. “The benefits include clear dissemination of national policy objectives to the military, greater awareness of national challenges, direct responsibility and accountability to the political executive, faster decisions and approvals and fewer layers of bureaucracy,” the navy chief said. The appointment of a CDS was one of the most significant recommendations made by the K Subrahmanyam-led Kargil Review Committee (KRC) that was constituted in the immediate aftermath of the 1999 Kargil war to examine lapses that allowed Pakistani soldiers to occupy strategic heights, the initial sluggish Indian response, and suggest measures to strengthen national security. On the challenge posed by the Chinese navy seeking to increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region, Kumar said the Indian Navy was keeping the region under constant surveillance and tracking the deployments of the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN). “We have our plans in place. There is constant surveillance by our aircraft and mission-based deployed ships. The Chinese activities and deployments are kept under close watch,” he added.
03-12-2021||India||Out of 16,000 international flyers in India, 18 tested Covid-19 positive, says health minister||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday informed Parliament that among 16,000 passengers from 'at-risk' countries who have been tested for Covid-19 with the RT-PCR method, only 18 people have been found to be infected so far. The minister's statement came amid growing fears of the spread of Omicron as India reported two cases of the new variant a day ago.“RT-PCR testing of over 16,000 passengers arriving on 58 flights from 'at risk' countries done so far. Eighteen of these tested positive in RT-PCR testing, their genome sequencing is underway so that it can be determined if they have Omicron variant,” he said while addressing the Lok Sabha during the Question Hour.Mandaviya further said genome sequencing for Omicron detection is underway for such international passengers.India's two of the first cases of Omicron variant of the coronavirus were reported in Karnataka on Thursday. Samples of several other international flyers arriving in Mumbai and Delhi, among other cities, are undergoing tests to identify the strain."A decision on booster dose and jabs for children will be taken on the basis of scientific advice," the health minister added while appealing to opposition parties to trust scientists.Mandaviya said the government has taken several measures to make the country ready for any future challenges and adopted the buffer stock policy to ensure that all states have enough medicines to deal with any further surge in Covid-19 cases."Under the Narendra Modi government, work is going on to strengthen weak health infrastructure. Without blaming previous governments that ignored health infrastructure, the government worked for results. In the last two years, decisions taken under the leadership of PM Modi show that this government works with willpower and not power," he said during a discussion on India's Covid-19 management.Mandaviya also highlighted that with 25,000 cases and 340 deaths per million population, India had "one of the lowest (cases) in the world" and slammed the Opposition's attack for allegedly hiding the actual number of Covid-19 fatalities during the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-of-16-000-international-flyers-in-india-18-tested-covid-19-positive-says-health-minister-101638531560077.html
03-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad landfall: Trains cancelled and schools shut in Andhra, 46 NDRF teams deployed in 3 states||Authorities in Andhra Pradesh on Friday ordered closure of schools and cancelled a large number of trains in view of Cyclone Jawad that is likely to reach the coasts of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha in the next few hours.About 65 trains from Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh scheduled for Friday and Saturday have been cancelled, senior divisional commercial manager of Waltair division of East Coast Railways, AK Tripathi, told news agency ANI.Besides, the district administrations of Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam have ordered a closure of all schools till Saturday.Earlier in the day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the deep depression over the Bay of Bengal intensified into Cyclone Jawad at 11.30am. It is expected to move northwestwards and reach the coasts of north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha by Saturday morning before changing route to make landfall near Odisha’s Puri on Sunday noon.After the landfall process, the cyclone is expected to reach a maximum sustained wind speed of 80-90kmph gusting to 100kmph. Earlier, the Met department said the cyclone would primarily affect Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Gangetic West Bengal.In its latest bulletin, the IMD has forecasted heavy rainfall alert over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south coastal Odisha for Friday and heavy to extremely heavy falls over the same areas for Saturday. Meanwhile, a very heavy rainfall alert has been issued over Gangetic Bengal for Saturday.Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram that are located in north coastal Andhra Pradesh are expected to be affected by the cyclone, while Ganjam, Puri, Gagapati and Jagatsinghpur will be impacted in Odisha.Due to the heavy rain, IMD DG Mrityunjay Mahapatra said electric and telephone lines could be disrupted in Andhra Pradesh.Due to heavy rainfall, electric&telephonic lines can be disrupted. Cyclone alerts are announced in the coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh. This can turn into a cyclonic storm and is likely to reach Vishakhapatnam by the evening tomorrow: Mrityunjay Mahapatra(DG, IMD) pic.twitter.com/Imh7bTRPcHMeanwhile, the Odisha government has cancelled leaves of state employees and asked them to report to work on Sunday in view of cyclone Jawad. The state government has also cancelled the popular International Sand Art Festival and the Konark Festival, which commenced from December 1.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed as many as 46 of its teams across Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Odisha. “They are prepositioned there. IDS is on alert if the situation arises to airlift any of the teams,” said NDRF director general Atul Karwal, adding that a total of 18 teams are on standby.(With bureau inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-cancelled-and-schools-shut-in-andhra-ahead-of-cyclone-jawad-s-landfall-101638534822384.html
03-12-2021||India||Congress slams Centre for having ‘no record’ of farmers’ death, demands compensation||The Congress on Friday produced a list of martyred farmers who lost their lives during the agitation against the controversial farm laws and slammed the BJP-led Centre over their remark in Parliament that the government did not have any record of such deaths. “The Centre said that the Ministry of Agriculture has no record of these 700 martyred farmers. But we did some homework and as it turns out, there are 403 people who the Government of Punjab has compensated with ₹5 lakh.....Why doesn’t the Government of India have the decency to give compensation to the families of the martyred,” questioned Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at a press conference. He added that if the government is having difficulties procuring the names of the martyred farmers, then they can refer to Congress’ list and provide the families with ex gratia.The Wayanad MP added, “The Prime Minister admitted his mistake and apologized to the nation. As a result of that “mistake”, 700 people have died. The government should pay a minimum compensation for the sacrifices they (farmers) made.” He also alleged that PM Modi would do anything for his industrialist friends.Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party were unavailable for comment.Through a written reply, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told the Lok Sabha on December 1 that the government did not have any record of farmers who died during the protest and therefore there was no question of compensation to the families. This is the second time the Union government has informed Parliament it had no information on farmers’ death at various protest sites. During the Monsoon Session too, held in July and August, the government said it had no data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-slams-centre-for-having-no-record-of-farmers-death-demands-compensation-101638535070558.html
03-12-2021||India||Karnataka issues new Omicron rules, bans unvaccinated people from public spaces||A day after India's very first Omicron cases were detected in Karnataka, the state government on Friday issued fresh orders related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wherein it banned unvaccinated people from accessing certain facets of public life, such as parks, shopping malls, and cinema theatres.The new orders also prohibited any gathering and cultural event at schools till January 22 next year. The decisions were taken at a meeting, chaired by Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, to discuss the government's action plan with senior ministers, administration officials, and public health experts.Here are the key pointers from the new Omicron guidelines issued by the Karnataka government:Two men in Karnataka have tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the union health ministry said on Thursday. They are the country’s first cases of the new variant of concern.“Two cases of Omicron have been found positive: a 66-year-old male, and a 46-year-old male. We got the results very late last night,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary at the union ministry of health and family welfare, told reporters. “All primary and secondary contacts have been identified and are under isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-issues-new-omicron-rules-bans-unvaccinated-people-from-public-spaces-101638530508032.html
03-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Cyclone Jawad to make landfall near Puri and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Deep depression intensifies into Cyclone Jawad, to make landfall near PuriThe deep depression in the Bay of Bengal intensified into Cyclone Jawad on Friday afternoon, according to the Indian Meteorological Department. Read moreCovid cases, deaths per million in India one of lowest in world, says Mandaviya in ParliamentUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said in the Lok Sabha that statistics related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India were one of the lowest in the world. Read moreOdisha cancels int'l sand festival in Konark in view of Cyclone JawadThe Odisha tourism department on Friday called off the Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival in view of the impending cyclonic storm ‘Jawad’. Read morePunjab Police recover tiffin bomb, four hand-grenades from Gurdaspur villageClose on the heels of the busting of two Pakistan ISI-sponsored terror modules in Gurdaspur this week, Punjab Police on Friday recovered four hand-grenades and a tiffin bomb concealed in a sack from Salempur Araiyan village of the border district. Read moreTadap movie review: Ahan Shetty makes an aggressive but starry debutA heroic entry on a motorbike driving through hills, a song in the background, a joint being rolled and a few closeup shots of a rugged man. Before we see Ahan Shetty's face on screen, we see his punch breaking the door, making a debut in style. Read moreWATCH: Virat Kohli shows his displeasure as controversy surrounds India captain's dismissal for duck in 2nd Test vs NZVirat Kohli's return to the Indian team was marred with controversy as the captain was dismissed for a four-ball duck against New Zealand on Day 1 of the second Test in Mumbai. Watch hereAnand Mahindra posts incredible pictures of Kerala’s Kochi. Seen them yet?Anand Mahindra often takes to Twitter to share various kinds of posts. From motivating shares to funny posts to pictures capturing the beauty of India, his tweets are of different types. See here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cyclone-jawad-to-make-landfall-near-puri-and-all-the-latest-news-101638530279670.html
03-12-2021||India||On govt's no data of dead farmers, Rahul Gandhi offers to submit list in Parliament||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said his party will submit in Parliament a list of farmers who passed away during the protest against three central laws in the past one year.Hitting out at the Narendra Modi government for stating that it had no data on such deaths when asked about compensation, Gandhi said it was a lie.“A question was asked in Parliament whether the government proposes to provide financial assistance to the kin of farmers who died during the farmers' agitation. The ministry answered that it has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise.”He asked why the PM did not have the dignity to compensate farmers who have died. “The PM himself has said that he has made a mistake and apologised to the nation. As a result of that mistake, 700 people have died. Now you are lying about their names. Why don't you have the decency to give them what is their due?” Gandhi said.“How can the government say they have no data on farmers' death? The Punjab government and others have names, so why such lies?”“The Punjab government was not responsible for farm laws that led to the protests. It still gave ₹5 lakh each to families of 403 deceased farmers. It also gave jobs to 152. We also have a list of 100 names from other states and a third list which is public information of names that can easily be verified. But the government says that such a list does not exist,” he added.He further said the Modi government was unlikely to accept the farmers’ demands beyond repeal of farm laws. “Its intention is not right,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-govt-s-no-data-of-dead-farmers-rahul-gandhi-offers-to-submit-list-in-parl-101638530739673.html
03-12-2021||India||Taking a new step, says singer Sidhu Moosewala after joining Congress ahead of Punjab polls||Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala said on Friday he wants to raise the voice of his people as he joined the Congress party month ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab.Moosewala, whose real name is Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu, hails from Moosa village in Mansa district and his mother is a village head."It's my first press conference. Just three years back, I started singing. Now after four years I am taking a new step. Mansa is not that much developed, a part of this area raised me, I will raise my voice from here," Moosewala was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Sidhu Moose Wala 'will be youth icon': CM Channi as Punjabi singer joins CongThe singer has faced criticism for allegedly promoting violence and gun culture in his songs.Nine people, including Moosewala and six policemen, were booked at the Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5, 2020, under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act over a video showing the singer firing from a private weapon at the shooting range surfaced on social media.The same people were booked in Barnala on May 4 as Moosewala was seen firing from an official assault rifle at a shooting range at Badbar village of the district in another video.Also read | Court grants bail to singer Sidhu Moose Wala in Sangrur firing caseDeputy superintendent of police (DSP) Daljit Singh Virk, Julkan station house officer (SHO) Gurpreet Singh Bhinder, three assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) and other police officials were suspended.Sidhu Moosewala was granted bail by a local court in a case involving firing at the Ladda Kothi shooting range in the Sangrur district in July last year.Sidhu Moosewala joined the Congress party in presence of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the party’s unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu in Chandigarh.Also read | Barnala officer investigating Sidhu Moose Wala firing case changed, two SITs formed"He has won the hearts of everyone. He is a son of a farmer and his father is an ex-army officer. I am sure he will make Congress party proud," Channi said."Sidhu Moosewala is not new to Congress party. His mother is a sarpanch and I am sure he is going to be a youth icon. It's a proud moment for us. Whether or not he will fight the election, it will be decided later. Soon, he will meet the high command of the party as well,” Sidhu said."People like his singing. He is a popular international figure. He writes and sings songs in his own way. We welcome Moosewala Sahab, I am sure he will earn the same name in politics as he earned in singing."Punjab is scheduled to hold assembly polls in 2022.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taking-a-new-step-says-singer-sidhu-moosewala-after-joining-congress-101638528536238.html
03-12-2021||India||Odisha cancels int'l sand festival in Konark in view of Cyclone Jawad||The Odisha tourism department on Friday called off the Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival in view of the impending cyclonic storm ‘Jawad’. The department said the decision was taken based on reports of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and advisories issued by special relief commissioner PK Jena on Jawad reaching the coasts of Odisha.“We regret to inform you that the Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival held in Konark are being called off with immediate effect,” it said in a statement.Jena said the deep depression in the Bay of Bengal may intensify as cyclonic storms in the next eight to 10 hours. “The state administration has prepared its response measures for a possible landfall in Ganjam, Puri or Jagatsinghpur. Expected associated wind speed will be 80-100kmph,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Cyclone Jawad: Low-pressure system intensifies into cyclonic storm, to make landfall near Odisha's PuriEarlier, IMD director general said the cyclonic storm is likely to reach the west-central Bay of Bengal off the coast of north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha by Saturday morning. The name of the cyclone -- 'Jawad' -- has been proposed by Saudi Arabia.A low-pressure area had developed over the Andaman Sea on November 30. It intensified into a depression on December 2 and further into a deep depression on Friday morning. It turned into a cyclone on Friday noon, the IMD DG said.Very heavy rainfall is likely to start in north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south coastal Odisha by Friday evening. The intensity of rainfall is likely to increase on Saturday, he said.Also read | States brace as Cyclone Jawad nears, PM holds review meetA red colour warning has been issued for the Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur districts of Odisha. The red colour warning has also been issued for Andhra Pradesh's Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts for Saturday.The IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over West Bengal on Saturday and Sunday, and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura on Sunday and Monday.Sea conditions will remain unsafe for shipping and fishermen in central and north Bay of Bengal from Friday to Sunday.The IMD has been issuing regular bulletins with the latest forecast to all the states concerned."Off-shore and alongshore operations along the coast of north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal should be judiciously regulated on Friday and suspended on Saturday and Sunday to ensure safety of life and property," it said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cancels-int-l-sand-festival-in-konark-in-view-of-cyclone-jawad-101638528516939.html
03-12-2021||India||After a hiatus, Kodiyeri Balakrishnan returns as Kerala CPI(M) secretary||After a gap of one-year, senior leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan returned to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) as state secretary on Friday, the party’s secretariat said. He was on leave for one-year citing health reasons. The chief reason behind his long leave, however, was the arrest of his second son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with a drug haul in Bengaluru last year. After spending one year in jail, his son was granted bail by the Karnataka High Court last month. After his son’s arrest, the party veteran offered to quit but the party granted him long leave citing his health condition. Suffering from cancer, later he went to the United States for treatment. A member of the CPI (M) politburo, Balakrishnan rose from the ranks having started his career as a student activist. Later he was the party district secretary of Kannur and was home minister in VS Achuthanandan’s ministry. Close to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, he is known for his organisational prowess but his family life often created problems for him. Besides Bineesh Kodiyeri, his first son Binoy Kodiyeri is also mired in a paternity case. A Mumbai-based woman accused him of raping her for years on the pretext of marrying her. In her complaint with the Mumbai Police, she said, Binoy had been exploiting her and she has an eight-year-old son out of this relationship. The former employee of a dance bar in Dubai said she did not know Binoy was already married and that he repeatedly lied and promised that he would marry her. The case is pending before the Maharashtra High Court now. His second son Bineesh Kodiyeri got into trouble in August 2020 after the arrest of one Anoop Mohammad and two others in Bengaluru and Mohammad later named Bineesh and said he was his business partner. Finally, the ED took over the case and Kodiyeri was arrested and charged under Section 19 (1) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. In the charge sheet the ED said he pumped in unaccounted for money into the bank account of alleged drug peddler Mohammad and took hefty returns due to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-a-hiatus-kodiyeri-balakrishnan-returns-as-kerala-cpi-m-secretary-101638528829799.html
03-12-2021||India||‘Not a subject of politics’: Mandaviya tells opposition over oxygen-related deaths during Covid-19 second wave||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday urged opposition parties to stop doing politics over the deaths related to the shortage of oxygen during the deadly second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.While replying to a question from the opposition on the coronavirus pandemic, the Union health minister asked them to “take note” of the efforts taken by the Centre in mitigating the crisis."Sadly, even in such a situation, many people did not refrain from playing politics. I appeal, take note of our honest efforts. This is not a subject of politics," Mandaviya said during the Question Hour in the Lok Sabha.Also read | Covid cases, deaths per million in India one of lowest in world, says Mandaviya in ParliamentMandaviya also said as many as 19 states responded to the Centre’s query on deaths related to the shortage of oxygen during the second wave and only Punjab replied saying four deaths were being investigated.He said that the Union government had made “all possible efforts” to ensure the availability of oxygen and augmented production after the demand for the life-saving gas swelled during the second wave."The politics around oxygen started with the second wave of Covid-19 and some states went to courts and showed increased demand for oxygen in their respective states to get favourable orders. Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked chief ministers not to hide any number related to deaths due to Covid-19 or oxygen," Mandaviya said.He also said the Centre wrote thrice to states regarding the issue. "We made it public. Still, politics is happening," he added.During Parliament’s Monsoon Session earlier this year, the Centre said no deaths due to oxygen shortage were specifically reported by the states.During the proceedings later in the day, Mandaviya also said the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths per million population in India was among the “lowest in the world.”There were 25,000 cases and 340 deaths reported per million population in India, according to the data provided by the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-subject-of-politics-mandaviya-tells-opposition-over-oxygen-related-deaths-during-covid-19-second-wave-101638527586824.html
03-12-2021||India||India finds key place in Germany’s new coalition treaty||India and the Indo-Pacific have found a prominent place in the treaty concluded by the three parties that will form the next coalition government in Germany, reflecting the importance of the partnership between the two countries. The recent German elections have resulted in the formation of a tripartite coalition for the first time by the Social Democrats, Greens and Free Democrats. The three parties finalised a deal for governing the country and outlined the way ahead in a coalition document released in Berlin on November 24. This document has a “strong reference” to India and the importance of strengthening the Indo-German strategic partnership. “India is mentioned very prominently in the coalition treaty, signalling the ever-growing importance of the partnership between the two countries,” the German embassy said in a statement. The coalition agreement includes an extensive section on the Indo-Pacific and why the region is important for German foreign policy. The agreement mentions the importance of an “intensive dialogue on peace and security in the Indo-Pacific”, and India is also mentioned in the context of the EU-India connectivity partnership and a planned free trade agreement (FTA). “Germany sees India as a central partner for solving the world’s biggest challenges: Questions of energy, climate change, food security and international peace. The incumbent German government has thus stressed on continuity of the policy towards India, as set forth by Chancellor Angela Merkel for 16 years,” the statement said. The tripartite coalition marks the beginning of a new era in German politics, as Merkel is not running for office after 16 years of being the Chancellor. “The fact that India finds a mention in the new and unprecedented three-party coalition shows the growing significance of India and the region for Germany’s foreign policy,” the statement said. The historically strong India-Germany ties were further strengthened by the strategic partnership agreement signed in 2001. The coalition agreement states this strategic partnership will be strengthened. India-Germany ties were also deepened by the establishment of inter-governmental consultations between the heads of state and their cabinets. Germany is one of two European countries that have unveiled an official policy on the Indo-Pacific region, and its document was published last year. Together with France, Germany pushed at the European Union for an EU Indo-Pacific strategy, which was released in April this year. The coalition agreement also proposes to create a points-based immigration system to draw in qualified workers, to phase out coal by 2030 and commits Germany to 80% renewable energy, to allow immigrants to apply for citizenship after five years and permit dual citizenship, to lower the voting age to 16, and to legalise the regulated sale of cannabis. 
03-12-2021||India||Will Omicron variant cause third wave in India? How to prevent it? FAQs answered||With two confirmed cases and several more suspects of Omicron in India so far, the government has ramped up all measures to contain the worrisome coronavirus variant from spreading further.However, this has not stopped the growing anxiety among citizens after having witnessed the devastation caused by the Delta variant during the second wave of coronavirus pandemic.To keep fears at bay, the Union ministry of health and family welfare along with The World Health Organization (WHO) released a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs).Here are five key questions answered:How did Omicron become a ‘variant of concern’ and how is it detected?Omicron, the latest known coronavirus variant, first reported in southern Africa in November, has shown a “very high” rate of mutation.“Given the collection of mutations in Omicron, which earlier individually have been associated with increased infectivity and/or immune evasion, and the sudden rise in the number of positive cases in South Africa, World Health Organization has declared Omicron as a Variant of Concern (VoC),” the Centre said.Omicron variant is detected using the most accepted testing method for SARS-CoV-2, that is, the RT-PCR method, followed by genome sequencing for final confirmation.What precautions should be taken?Measures to prevent Covid-19 infection with Omicron remains the same as previous strains – wearing a mask properly, taking both doses of Covid-19 vaccine, social distancing and maintaining ventilation to the maximum possible.Are existing vaccines effective against Omicron?“There is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work on Omicron,” the Centre noted, dismissing speculations that vaccination is ineffective against the latest variant of the coronavirus.While studies show the new strain can cause reinfection among vaccinated citizens, the government said that “vaccines are expected to still offer protection against severe disease and, vaccination with the available vaccines is crucial".Is the third wave likely soon?South Africa has declared the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic with the emergence of the Omicron variant.However, the government has said, “given the fast pace of vaccination in India and high exposure to Delta variant as evidenced by high seropositivity, the severity of the disease is anticipated to be low”.“Omicron cases are increasingly being reported from countries outside of South Africa and given its characteristics, it is likely to spread to more countries including India,” the health ministry also said.How is India responding to the Omicron outbreak?The Centre, with the help of the scientific and medical community, is monitoring the situation closely and issuing guidelines from time to time to avoid another surge of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-omicron-variant-cause-third-wave-in-india-how-to-prevent-it-faqs-answered-101638519814353.html
03-12-2021||India||Covid cases, deaths per million in India one of lowest in world, says Mandaviya in Parliament||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said in the Lok Sabha that statistics related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India were one of the lowest in the world.He said India recorded 25,000 virus cases and 340 deaths per million population and this was one of the lowest tallies in the world. The minister further said a total of 3.46 crore people contracted the virus of whom 4.6 lakh died, adding the fatality figure was 1.36 per cent of the cumulative tally.The minister said instead of blaming previous regimes that ignored health infrastructure, the Narendra Modi-led central government was undertaking work to strengthen the same. “Without blaming previous governments that ignored health infrastructure, we worked for results. In the last two years, decisions taken under leadership of PM Modi show that this government works with willpower and not power,” he said.Mandaviya said the first Covid-19 case in India was reported on January 13, 2020, in Kerala, but the first meeting of the joint monitoring committee constituted by Centre was held on January 8. “It means we were alert, a committee had been formed before the case was reported and it had started working,” he added.Speaking about vaccines and research, the minister said there was a time when it took three years for approval if someone did research on a vaccine. “Hence,  nobody used to do research. We scrapped those rules and the nation got vaccine after research within a year - this facility has been given by the PM,” he said.Earlier in the day, the health minister asked opposition parties in Parliament to stop playing politics over oxygen shortage during the second wave of the pandemic and take note of the Centre's efforts to ramp production of the life-saving gas to meet the surge in demand.Addressing the Lok Sabha during the Question Hour, he said the Union government made "all possible efforts" to ensure the availability of oxygen and increased its production following a rise in demand during the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-deaths-per-million-in-india-one-of-lowest-in-world-says-mandaviya-101638524320951.html
03-12-2021||India||Karnataka minister hints at restricting access for unvaccinated to public spaces||The Karnataka government on Friday said that it is contemplating emulating the German model in Bengaluru and other places wherein the unvaccinated will be restricted from entering public spaces.Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for higher education, information technology, biotechnology, science and technology on Friday said that several other countries implemented such restrictions and Karnataka too had similar ideas. “There aren’t any countries that have made it mandatory but there are a few that have made some restrictions for unvaccinated people in public spaces like malls, cinema school colleges, offices,” Narayana said. “So, if you want to go to public spaces, you should be mandatorily vaccinated’’ is something our government has made very clear. Our chief minister has also made it very clear that unvaccinated people should not go to public spaces,” he said, adding that the state government is “thinking” on implementing the same. The conflicting statements of the Basavaraj Bommai-led state government have on more than one occasion, added to the confusion among the state’s population over the last year and a half. The government has been deliberating on restrictions after at least two cases of Omicron, the new strain of the novel coronavirus disease, were detected and became the first known cases in the country. Ministers in Karnataka have often shared their views on the pandemic as well as restrictions in front of the media, adding to the apprehensions of another lockdown in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-hints-at-restricting-access-for-unvaccinated-in-public-spaces-101638524451073.html
03-12-2021||India||'Needlessly provocative': Shashi Tharoor on BJP's protest in Parliament||Members of Parliament from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday staged a protest in Parliament against the "unruly" behaviour of the opposition party leaders in the ongoing winter session. The MPs staged a protest at the same site where leaders of opposition parties were holding a protest against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members.Reacting on the same, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said, "It was needlessly provocative of the BJP MPs to come here and rub salt in the wounds.""If anything the BJP should have shown solidarity," Tharoor said adding, "My colleagues were unjustly expelled by a party that has institutionalised disruption."Since the commencement of the winter session of Parliament on Monday, there have been continuous disruptions in the functioning of both Houses due to the protests by the members of opposition parties.In a move that further fuelled the anger in opposition leaders, 12 MPs of Opposition parties in the Rajya Sabha were suspended from the winter session on the very first day on Monday for their alleged unruly conduct towards the end of the monsoon session in August when marshals were called after Opposition members stormed the Well of the House during the passage of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021.The suspended members comprise six from the Congress -- Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh. It also includes two from Trinamool Congress (Dola Sen, Shanta Chhetri), two from Shiv Sena (Priyanka Chaturvedi, Anil Desai) and one each from CPI (Binoy Viswam) and CPM (Elamaram Kareem).The winter session is likely to conclude on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/needlessly-provocative-shashi-tharoor-on-bjp-s-protest-in-parliament-101638521063655.html
03-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: Deep depression intensifies into cyclonic storm, to make landfall near Odisha's Puri||The deep depression in the Bay of Bengal intensified into Cyclone Jawad on Friday afternoon, according to the Indian Meteorological Department. IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra told a media briefing that the present wind speed of the cyclonic storm, currently about 420 km south-southeast of Vishakhapatnam, is between 60-70 kmph gusting ton 80 kmph. Mohapatra said that Cyclone Jawad is moving north-northwest and is expected to change the route and make landfall near Odisha's Puri on Sunday noon. By Saturday morning, Cyclone Jawad is likely to reach the west-central Bay of Bengal off North Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coast, the area which is expected to witness the maximum impact.IMD has suggested a total suspension of fishing operations and urged people in affected areas to remain indoors. The Met department said that there must be regulated traffic in the cyclone area and movement should be restricted.Warnings related to heavy rainfall forecast and high wind speed has been issued for Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, and Gangetic plains of West Bengal.Cyclone Jawad likely to hit Andhra, Odisha coastline on SaturdayThe IMD has predicted heavy fall in isolated places in north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south coastal Odisha from Friday evening as Cyclone Jawad moves further towards the coast. North coast Andhra Pradesh including Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram is likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places.The Met department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy falls (more than 20 cm) over Odisha's Gajapati, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur districts on Saturday. Isolated places over north coastal Odisha are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on Sunday. Cyclone Jawad could also bring heavy rainfall at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura from December 5-6.Atul Karwal, director-general of the National Disaster Response Force, said that a total of 46 NDRF teams have been prepositioned in Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. He added that the Cabinet secretary will hold a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee at 4 pm today to review the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-latest-update-low-pressure-system-intensifies-into-cyclonic-storm-to-make-landfall-near-odisha-s-puri-101638519116776.html
03-12-2021||India||‘PM’s apology incomplete’, says Rahul Gandhi over farm laws, poses 4 questions||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s apology during his announcement to repeal the three contentious farm laws last month would be “incomplete” without fulfilling the demands of the farmers protesting against the three laws.Rahul Gandhi also said Modi should explain in Parliament how he would “atone” for bringing in the three “anti-agriculture” laws.“As PM has apologised for making the anti-agriculture laws, so tell Parliament how will you atone,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi and went on to pose four questions to Modi.जब PM ने कृषि-विरोधी क़ानून बनाने के लिए माफ़ी माँगी तो संसद में बतायें कि प्रायश्चित कैसे करेंगे-लखीमपुर मामले के मंत्री को बर्खास्त कब?शहीद किसानों को मुआवज़ा कितना-कब?सत्याग्रहियों के ख़िलाफ़ झूठे केस वापस कब?MSP पर क़ानून कब?इसके बिना माफ़ी अधूरी! #FarmLawsThe first question was about the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which eight people, including four farmers, died in October. Gandhi asked when will Ajay Kumar Mishra, the Union minister of state for home affairs, be removed from his post. Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra was allegedly present inside one of the vehicles which rammed into a group of protesting farmers, killing four of them.Gandhi then asked about the government’s plan on the compensation amount to be given to the families of the farmers who lost their lives during the agitation.Notably, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on December 1 the government had no record of the farmers who lost their lives during the year-long protests against the laws and hence the question of compensation does not arise.Also read | Eye on polls, Priyanka assures waiver of farm loan, dues for sugarcane farmersThe Congress leader also questioned the government over the cases lodged against the protesting farmers. “When will the false cases against the satyagrahis be taken back?” Gandhi asked in his tweet.Tomar said earlier that the matter would be dealt with by the concerned state governments.Gandhi then asked when a law on the minimum support price (MSP), a key demand of the farmers, would be drafted. The legal guarantee on MSP and withdrawal of cases registered against the farmers have been the major demands made by the protesting farmer unions.While the three laws have already been repealed after the government passed the Farm Law Repeal Bill, 2021, in Parliament during the ongoing Winter Session, the farmer unions have continued their protests pressing for the fulfilment of other demands.The opposition has criticised the Union government for passing the repeal bill without any discussion in the house.Earlier in the day, Congress MP Manickam Tagore moved an adjournment resolution in the Lok Sabha demanding a discussion on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident as well as the removal of Mishra from his position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pms-apology-incomplete-says-rahul-gandhi-over-farm-laws-poses-4-questions-101638519486562.html
03-12-2021||India||Omicron may be less severe due to vaccination, prior infections: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Friday said the severity of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from the Omicron variant in India could be low due to the "fast pace" of vaccination and high exposure to the Delta variant. The ministry said that the new variant of concern is likely to spread to more countries including India but the scale and magnitude of the rise in infections is still not clear."Given the fast pace of vaccination in India and high exposure to Delta variant as evidenced by high seropositivity, the severity of the disease is anticipated to be low," the ministry said in a statement. "However, scientific evidence is still evolving."The ministry highlighted that Omicron has been declared a variant of concern by the World Health Organization (WHO) based on the observed mutations, their predicted features of increased transmission and immune evasion, and preliminary evidence of detrimental change in Covid-19 epidemiology, such as increased reinfections.INSACOG says booster doses against Covid-19 for people above 40 ‘may be considered’ in view of OmicronIt stressed the importance of getting vaccinated against Covid-19 with the available vaccines as they are expected to still offer protection against severe disease. While the ministry said the definitive evidence for increased remission and immune evasion is awaited, a preliminary study by South African researchers suggests that the Omicron variant is associated with a substantial ability to evade immunity from prior infection. According to the study, the VoC is three times more likely to cause reinfections compared to the Beta or Delta variants.The paper is available on a medical preprint server and has not yet been peer-reviewed.India has reported 9,216 new Covid cases in the last 24 hours as the active caseload stood below 1 lakh. Meanwhile, the cumulative vaccination coverage has exceeded the 125 crore mark, with 73.67 lakh doses administered on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-may-be-less-severe-due-to-vaccination-prior-infections-health-ministry-101638515360759.html
03-12-2021||India||Organisations seek better facilities for Bhopal gas tragedy survivors amid Covid||On the eve of the 37th anniversary of the Bhopal gas tragedy, members of four organisations demanded better medical facilities for gas survivors amid the Covid-19 as the mortality rate of gas-affected people was found higher than other people, according to a joint statement issued by them. The organisation paid homage to the victims of the gas tragedy which took place near the Union Carbide factory by lighting candles at the plant. Shailendra Chaurasia of the Community Research Unit of Sambhavna Trust Clinic said, “The gas-affected survivors of December 1984 tragedy faced complication due to Covid-19 also. It is clear from the official data of deaths due to Covid-19 and a study of the trust that the rate of deaths of the population affected by the Union Carbide’s poisonous gas was five times higher than the common population. Now that the threat of the third wave is looming, it is very important that the government immediately provides special facilities to the Bhopal gas victims to save them from Covid.”According to official data of the health department, 1,003 people died of Covid-19 between April 2020 and July 2021 and out of the total, 467 were gas survivors. The total infected patients are 1,23,704 and the number of infected gas survivors is about 30,000 only. Chaurasia, however, urged the state government to hold a survey to assess the impact of Covid-19 on the health of gas tragedy survivors. The survivors’ organizations in Bhopal also condemned The Dow Chemical Company, USA, for its systematic discrimination against survivors of the gas disaster and victims of groundwater contamination. “Dow Chemical’s premium product Chlorpyriphos is banned in the USA for causing possible neurological damage, reduced IQ, loss of working memory, and attention deficit disorders and birth defects. However, in India, Corteva, a corporation with close ties to Dow Chemical, sells Dow Discriminates Banner.png Chlorpyriphos with the trade name Dursban without mentioning its health hazards or its regulatory ban in the USA,” said Rashida Bee, president of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmchari Sangh. Shahzadi Bee of Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha said, “In 2014, Dow donated water filtration systems and over 100,000 US dollars in aid to Flint, Michigan, in response to contamination of the city’s drinking water source. However, in Bhopal, mercury and cancer-causing chemicals have been found in the breast milk of nursing mothers living in areas affected by groundwater contamination due to hazardous waste from the Union Carbide factory and Dow refuses to clean up its toxic waste.” According to Rachna Dhingra of the Bhopal Group for Information & Action, “In 2005, a Dow joint-venture pleaded guilty and paid 84 million dollars criminal fine for participating in an international conspiracy to fix the prices of synthetic rubber in violation of the Sherman Act. In India, Dow has ignored six separate summonses to appear in the court’s proceedings in the disaster claiming that Indian criminal courts have no jurisdiction over TDCC. Dow Chemical’s double standards are evident in every aspect of their operations.” “In USA, Dow is paying for clean up of 171 contaminated sites including the Tittabawassee and Saginaw river plains near its headquarters in Midland Michigan. But on the matter of cleaning up the ongoing contamination in Bhopal, Dow says it is the responsibility of the Madhya Pradesh government,” said Nousheen Khan of Children against Dow/Carbide. The organizations presented facts to counter Dow CEO, Jim Fitterling’s claims to non-discrimination by being on the Advisory Board of an LGBT+ organization. They also released a letter from senior LGBT+ activist Peter Tatchell asking Jim Fitterling to own up to the legal responsibilities for the Bhopal Gas Tragedy. Sanjana Singh an LGBT+ survivor of the Bhopal disaster said, “Fighting discrimination against LGBT+ people teaches us to fight against all forms of discrimination in society. It is wrong for Fitterling, who came out as gay in 2014, to make claims of inclusivity while heading a company that starkly discriminates against the Bhopal survivors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/organisations-demand-better-medical-facilities-for-survivors-of-bhopal-gas-tragedy-amid-covid19-101638516711312.html
03-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Booster doses against Covid-19 for 40+ ‘may be considered’, says INSACOG and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Booster doses against Covid-19 for people above 40 ‘may be considered’: INSACOGAmid the ongoing discussions about the necessity of a booster dose against Covid-19 in the country, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium or the INSACOG in its latest weekly bulletin said that a booster vaccine dose for people above 40 years of age “may be considered” in its first such recommendation. Read moreGita Gopinath: From scoring 45% in Class 7 to becoming IMF No 2Gita Gopinath will take over as the first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund from January next year replacing Geoffrey Okamoto. Gita Gopinath has served as the IMF's chief economist—the first woman to hold the post in IMF’s history— for three years. Read moreSidhu Moose Wala 'will be youth icon': CM Channi as Punjabi singer joins CongPunjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala on Friday joined the Congress ahead of the legislative assembly elections. Read moreBob Biswas movie review: Abhishek Bachchan-led Kahaani spin-off is a routine action thrillerDiya Annapurna Ghosh’s Bob Biswas raises an interesting question that it doesn’t answer. Someone who loses their memory and regains it might remember their family, friends, and colleagues. Read more'But Kohli said nothing about it': Laxman shocked at India's injury blows; names Rahane, Ishant, Jadeja's replacementsBatting legend VVS Laxman expressed surprise over the news that the trio of Ajinkya Rahane, Ravindra Jadeja and Ishant Sharma have been injured and will take no part in the second Test between India and New Zealand at Mumbai's Wankhede Stadium. Read moreAfter Raataan Lambiyan, African duo lip syncs to Kusu Kusu. Video wows peopleIf you’re a regular user of the Internet, chances are you have already seen the video of the siblings from Tanzania who mesmerised people with their lip syncing performance to the song Raataan Lambiyan from the movie Shershaah. Read moreAhead of Navy Day, marine commandos display spectacular skills in MumbaiA rehearsal was held ahead of Navy Day celebrations in Mumbai. The beating retreat was performed at the Gateway of India. In a video, Navy commandos & aircraft can be seen displaying skills. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-booster-doses-against-covid-19-for-40-may-be-considered-says-insacog-and-all-the-latest-news-101638515665312.html
03-12-2021||India||Sidhu Moose Wala 'will be youth icon': CM Channi as controversial Punjabi singer joins Congress||Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala on Friday joined the Congress ahead of the legislative assembly elections. A widely popular face of Punjab who has been vocal about his support to the farmers' agitation, Mossewala was inducted into the party by Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the party's state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Upon his joining, the chief minister said Moose Wala is an "international icon". "I am sure he will make the Congress party proud, I welcome him on behalf of Congress," Channi said, according to news agency ANI."Moose Wala has won the hearts of everyone. He is a son of a farmer and his father is an ex-army officer," Channi said. "I am sure he is going to be a youth icon," he added.It is not clear whether Moose Wala, whose real name is Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu, will contest in the upcoming assembly elections, slated to be held next year. Speaking on the same, Channi said, it is yet to be decided.For now, he will meet the high command of the party, Channi said.After joining the Congress, Moose Wala said that one of the reasons to join the Congress is to raise the voice of Punjabis. "It's my first press conference. Just three years ago, I started singing. Now after four years, I am taking a new step. Mansa is not that much developed, a part of this area raised me, I will raise my voice from here," he said.The singer hails from a small village of Punjab named Moosa in the Mansa district of Punjab. His mother is a village head. He has been subject to criticism by some for promoting violence and gun culture in his songs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-moose-wala-will-be-youth-icon-cm-channi-as-controversial-punjabi-singer-joins-congress-101638514395836.html
03-12-2021||India||Special task forces formed in NCR to check pollution||The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas late on Thursday ordered the closure of all educational institutes in the region until further orders and the formation of task forces in Delhi and adjoining states to ensure its pollution control directions are followed. It issued separate orders in this regard and revised a set of restrictions to be put in place for pollution control.The commission said the industries operating on non-PNG or other unclean fuels will be allowed to operate only for eight hours from Monday to Friday and remain closed over the weekends. The entry of trucks into Delhi, except those carrying essential items, will also continue to remain banned.The Delhi government earlier on Thursday ordered the closure of educational institutions to protect children from pollution levels in the national capital as per the Supreme Court’s direction. It earlier banned construction activities and disallowed the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items.The Air Quality Index (AQI) shot up to the severely polluted category (429) at 4 pm on Thursday as a thick smog engulfed the city. The rapid deterioration in the air quality prompted the court to set a 24-hour deadline for the Delhi and Union governments to act. At 11 am on Friday, the AQI was 357 in the very poor category.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said schools remained closed for a long time and the decision to reopen them was made because pollution levels were decreasing. “But...the pollution levels have started rising again. The government is constantly monitoring the situation. We have now decided to close the schools for all classes again from...(Friday).”The court on Thursday expressed dissatisfaction over the pollution control measures. “We feel that nothing is happening and the pollution keeps increasing... only time is being wasted,” Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said as he issued the 24-hour deadline for a “creative” action plan.
03-12-2021||India||INSACOG says booster doses against Covid-19 for people above 40 ‘may be considered’ in view of Omicron||Amid the ongoing discussions about the necessity of a booster dose against Covid-19 in the country, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium or the INSACOG in its latest weekly bulletin said that a booster vaccine dose for people above 40 years of age “may be considered” in its first such recommendation.The body made the recommendation in light of the risks posed by the new B.1.1.529 or the Omicron variant of Covid-19 to the country. It also highlighted the vaccination of all those who are unvaccinated yet and are “at-risk.”It said that while the antibodies from the current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise the Omicron variant, the risk of severe disease caused due to the variant is likely to be reduced.Also read | Omicron cases in India: Share plan on booster Covid vaccine dose, Oppn asks govt“Vaccination of all remaining unvaccinated at-risk people and consideration of a booster dose for those 40 years of age and over, first targeting the most high-risk / high-exposure may be considered, since low levels of neutralising antibodies from current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise Omicron, although risk of severe disease is still likely to be reduced,” the INSACOG said in the bulletin.The body said that genomic surveillance would be critical for the early detection of the variant and would help in enabling the necessary public health measures.“Genomic surveillance will be critical for early detection of the presence of this variant, to enable necessary public health measures. Monitoring travel to and from the known affected areas, and contact tracing of COVID-19 cases with an epidemiological link to the affected areas has been implemented along with increased testing,” INSACOG said.The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), the advisory group to the government on vaccines, had said in late November that a policy on the booster and additional doses of the vaccine could be expected in two weeks.Earlier on Thursday, two confirmed cases of the Omicron variant were detected in Karnataka. While the patients have not displayed any severe symptoms for the disease, all primary and secondary contacts have been identified and tested for the disease, Union health ministry’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/booster-doses-against-covid-19-for-people-above-40-may-be-considered-insacog-101638513385825.html
03-12-2021||India||'You want to ban industries in Pakistan': CJI after UP blames Pak for pollution||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday told the Supreme Court that UP industries have no role in the rising pollution in the NCR and polluted air from Pakistan deteriorates the air quality of the Capital. 'So you want to ban industries in Pakistan?' Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said in reply.Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar appearing for the UP government told the Apex Court that Delhi air quality is affected by the polluting air coming from Pakistan. He said the eight-hour operation window is affecting the sugarcane and milk industries in Uttar Pradesh. The CJI-led bench asked the UP counsel to go to teh Commission with the grievance and let them decide on the issue.The Commission for Air Quality Management has constituted an enforcement task force to look into the pollution situation in the NCR, a day after the Supreme Court bench gave a 24-hour deadline for some concrete actions to combat the rising levels of pollution.After hearing the steps that have been taken in the last 24 hours, the court allowed the Delhi government to go ahead with the construction work of hospitals.The commission informed the Supreme Court that a five-member enforcement task force has been set up to contain air pollution in Delhi and NCR. Around 40 such squads would monitor the implementation of measures suggested by it to deal with pollution, the panel said. Seventeen such flying squads have been constituted to ensure the implementation of various measures mandated by the court and the panel. The number would be raised to 40 within 24 hours, the affidavit said.The Supreme Court was hearing a plea filed by environmental activist Aditya Dubey and law student Aman Banka, who sought directions to provide stubble-removing machines to small and marginal farmers for free.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-want-to-ban-industries-in-pakistan-cji-as-up-blames-pak-for-pollution-101638512828966.html
03-12-2021||India||CAG report on Bihar finances raises red flags||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) flagged the Bihar government over pendency of utilization certificates (UCs) against grants given to different departments to the tune of ₹79,690 crore and non-adjustment of abstract contingent bills (AC) bills to the tune of ₹9155 crore till March 2020, in its latest state finances audit report for the year ending March 31st, 2020. The CAG’s state finances report was laid in the state assembly by deputy chief minister cum finance minister Tarkishore Prasad. In the report, the audit body also made a strong observation about the finances of the state highlighting that the state witnessed a decrease of ₹7561 crore (5.74%) in revenue receipts during the year 2019-20 as compared to the previous year, primarily due to decrease in tax transfers from the government of India and own no tax revenue. The CAG, which audits financial transactions of the state government, also observed that the state has witnessed revenue deficit in 2019-20, a first since 2008-09 because the revenue expenditure (money spent in meeting the current level of services and payment and past obligation) is higher than revenue receipts. “The buoyancy ratio of revenue expenditure with revenue receipts as well GSDP is lowest in the last five years which is not a good sign of the state finances,” the report observed. The CAG also pulled the state government for higher savings and non-surrender of funds while highlighting that there were 158 personal deposit accounts (PD) accounts with a closing balance of ₹3312 as of March 2020. The audit body has also said that there were 253 PL (personal ledger) accounts amounting to ₹26,997 crore, including eight new PL accounts existing in 66 treasuries as of March 31, 2021. “There were 70 PL accounts in which discrepancies were found between the closing balance of 2018-19 and opening balance of 2019-20. Out of these, 53 were reconciled as of 22.12.2020. Action is underway in AG office to remove discrepancies in other PL accounts,” the report said, adding that non-reconciliation of balances of PL accounts periodically and not transferring the unspent balances lying in PL accounts to the consolidated fund before the closure of the financial year entails the risk of misuse of public funds, fraud and misappropriation. On the pendency of UCs, the CAG report has made strong observations stating that “though such instances of UCs feature in the reports of C&AG regularly, there has been no improvement in the situation. In many cases, the same recipients continue to receive grants from the same departments, even while the UCs for earlier grants are pending. High pendency of UCs is fraught with the risk of misappropriation of funds and fraud”. The major outstanding UCs as of March 2020 were found in the departments like the panchayati raj ( ₹16,915 crore), education department ( ₹15,158 crore), social welfare department ( ₹12613 crore) and rural development department( ₹8808 crore). The CAG has also taken exception to the high pendency of non-reconciliation of abstract contingent bills with detailed contingent bills (withdrawals from treasury adjusted with vouchers). The report has said 1383 AC bills amounting to ₹644 crore (15.22 percent of the total drawn AC bills in 2019-20) were drawn in March 2020 alone, indicating how the withdrawals were primarily to exhaust budget provisions and reveal inadequate budgetary control. The central audit watchdog has indicted the state government for the high pendency of UCs and non-reconciliation of AC/DC bills in the past also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cag-report-on-bihar-finances-raises-red-flags-101638512449094.html
03-12-2021||India||Solar eclipse 2021 or surya grahan: How to watch, timings, visibility in India||Some people in the southern hemisphere will have a chance to witness a total or partial solar eclipse on Saturday, December 4, when the moon moves between the Sun and Earth for one last time this year. The Moon will fully or partially block the Sun’s light in the southern hemisphere, casting a shadow in some areas on Earth. Antarctica will be the only place on Earth to experience a full solar eclipse as the Sun, Moon, and our planet will fall in a direct line.In some places where the three celestial bodies won’t be exactly lined up, viewers will experience a partial solar eclipse. People living in Saint Helena, Namibia, Lesotho, South Africa, South Georgia and Sandwich Islands, Crozet Islands, Falkland Islands, Chile, New Zealand, and Australia will see a partial solar eclipse.Many viewers will need to get a clear view of the horizon to see the solar eclipse since, at several locations, it will occur before, during, and after sunrise or sunset.How to experience the solar eclipse from countries where it won’t be visible?People in India and all other countries in the northern hemisphere can see the solar eclipse via a live webcam. Weather permitting, Nasa will live stream a view of the total solar eclipse from Union Glacier, Antarctica on YouTube and on nasa.gov/live. The streaming will start at 1:30am EST (12pm IST) and the stream ends at 3:37 am (2.07pm IST).
03-12-2021||India||SC gives go-ahead to Delhi govt to resume construction work of hospitals||The Supreme Court on Friday gave a go-ahead to the Delhi government to resume the construction work of hospitals after the Delhi government filed an affidavit seeking the same. The construction activities in Delhi are shut after air quality plunged to alarming levels. They were resumed by the Delhi government on November 22 in view of the improved air quality, but the top court revived the ban on November 24 in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR).In the affidavit, filed earlier in the day, the Aam Aadmi Party-led government informed the top court that it had started to revamp the hospitals and the construction of 7 new hospitals is underway to prepare for the third wave of the coronavirus. "But due to the construction ban, work has stopped," it stated as it asked the top court to exempt construction work at hospitals from the ban."Work is being carried out in 19 government hospitals to provide better health infrastructure in the national capital for the benefit of patients," the Delhi government told the court in the affidavit.The affidavit was filed as the Apex court is hearing a plea seeking emergency steps to control the worsening air quality situation in the national capital.The top court also expressed satisfaction over fresh steps by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM). The committee has constituted an enforcement task force to monitor compliance with the anti-pollution measures. Earlier in the day, the commission also told the court that it has already constituted 17 flying squads to take punitive measures against violators and will increase the number to 40 in the next 24 hours.On Thursday, the court pulled up the Delhi government over the lack of concrete steps to curb pollution. Hearing the case, the court also asked why it reopened the schools while it had asked the elders to work from home. On Friday, however, the court said it did not ask the government to shut schools; it only sought to know the reason why the government resumed physical classes, it said. As of now, physical classes have been suspended in Delhi starting from Friday.The matter will now again heard by the court on December 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-go-ahead-to-delhi-govt-to-resume-construction-work-of-hospitals-101638510261595.html
03-12-2021||India||Omicron: 'Covid variants will keep coming, but..,' says doctor||A day after India confirmed the first cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, executive director of Fortis hospital in Delhi, Ashok Seth on Friday said that such "mutations will keep coming". He also stressed that the people should not panic and instead remain cautious about the health protocols, mandated by the ministry of health. "Coronavirus variants will keep coming. We don't need to panic but remain cautious and proactive. We can protect ourselves from any variant if we're fully vaccinated and observe Covid appropriate behaviour," said Dr Seth, according to news agency ANI.The central government on Thursday informed that two people have tested positive for the Omicron variant, first detected in South Africa, in Karnataka. This includes a 66-year-old South African male and a 46-year-old doctor.As the country increased the Covid testing at airports under the containing measures, more international travellers continued to test positive for Covid-19.Nine international travellers, including one from South Africa, who arrived at Mumbai International Airport between November 10 and December 2 tested positive for Covid19, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation informed. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing.A passenger from Singapore was also found positive of the Covid-19 at the Tiruchirappalli International Airport. The person has been admitted to a private hospital, while the administration has sent the samples for genome sequencing to Chennai and Bengaluru.Classified as a 'variant of concern', Omicron was first reported from South Africa on November 25. In view of the Omicron, dozens of countries have imposed travel restrictions on the southern African nations since the mutation was discovered.India has also added several countries to the list from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in the country, including post-arrival testing for infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-more-covid-variants-will-keep-coming-but-says-doctor-101638509854191.html
03-12-2021||India||Goa lawmaker resigns amid resistance within BJP over his expected induction||Goa Forward Party (GFP) lawmaker Jayesh Salgaocar resigned from the state assembly late on Thursday and said he will join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) a day later amid resistance within the party over the expected induction.The opposition to Salgaocar’s entry forced state BJP chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade to dissolve a local block unit as its members gathered at the party headquarters and raised slogans against the leadership. The members accused the leadership of “using and throwing” the hardworking functionaries and betraying the party principles.Karan Govekar, a BJP functionary, told the media outside the headquarters that they were promised that the party’s workers would be respected and one among them would be given the ticket from Saligaor, which Salgaocar represented in the assembly. “It did not matter who. We want the party worker to be respected. Instead, they have now betrayed us, and without taking us into confidence, they have brought in a candidate who has called the BJP a dirty party,”Tanavade said the decision to induct Salgaocar into the BJP was taken as surveys showed the party would become stronger with his entry. “No decision has been taken to give him a ticket. We have welcomed him into the party to strengthen it,” Tanavade said.Salgaocar, who said he will join the BJP on Friday after submitting his resignation, skipped the meeting of GFP chief Vijai Sardesai and legislator Vinoda Paliencar with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Tuesday. Sardesai announced plans to ally with Congress for the state assembly elections early next year after the meeting.Salgaocar earlier went incommunicado. Sardesai said he was unable to contact him.On Thursday, GFP issued a notice to Salgaocar asking him to respond to his “constant anti-party activities.” It cited his “behaviour and conduct” and said it clearly indicates his intent is to work with the BJP “for personal gains thereby compromising the values and policies of the party”. He was given 24 hours to respond.Salgaocar is the second lawmaker to resign from the assembly since Congress’s Luizinho Faleiro quit to defect to the Trinamool Congress in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-lawmaker-resigns-amid-resistance-within-bjp-over-his-expected-induction-101638509748631.html
03-12-2021||India||Supreme Court clarifies it never asked Delhi government to shut schools||A day after the Delhi government suspended physical classes in the schools of the capital owing to the increasing levels of pollution, the Supreme Court on Friday clarified that it did not ask the government to shut schools. It only asked the reasons behind the change in the stance of the government, the Chief Justice of India-led bench said as it continued hearing the case. The Apex Court on Thursday gave the Delhi government a 24-hour deadline to place some concrete steps against pollution. As the government listed the decisions it took, including that of the suspension of physical classes, the Supreme Court gave go-ahead to the Delhi government for the construction works of hospitals.5-member task force to monitor compliance amid ‘very poor’ air quality in DelhiThe bench on Thursday questioned the government why it allowed the office-going population to work from home while it resumed physical classes for school children, exposing them to the threats of hazardous pollution. As the Delhi government informed the court on Thursday that coming to school is voluntary and online classes are also going on, the court observed that if there is an option, people will send their kids to schools. Following the rap of the Supreme Court, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai announced the suspension of physical classes starting from Friday for an indefinite period, until further notice. The minister also said that physical classes resumed from November 29 based on the pollution condition of the Capital at that time. On Friday, advocate Abhishek Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government, submitted to the court that schools have been closed. He also added that physical classes were on only for 17 days in November.The CJI said some sections of media have projected the Supreme Court as villains. "We’ve observed, don’t know whether it's intentional or not, Some sections of media try to project we are villains and we want the closure of schools. You had said we were closing schools & introducing work from home. And see today newspapers!" the CJI said.Adding to CJI's comment, Singhvi said one newspaper reported the hearing as if it took place in administrative combat.The Supreme Court was told the Commission for Air Quality Management has constituted an enforcement task force to monitor compliance with the pollution directions. The commission informed the court that it has already constituted 17 flying squads to take punitive action against violators and will increase the number to 40 in the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-clarifies-it-never-asked-delhi-government-to-shut-schools-101638508323398.html
03-12-2021||India||Omicron: 9 international travellers in Mumbai test Covid positive; 1 from South Africa||Amid a growing omicron scare, nine international travellers, including one from South Africa, who arrived at Mumbai International Airport between November 10 and December 2 have tested positive for Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Friday. Samples of all nine travellers have been sent for genome sequencing for further investigation regarding the variant, BMC added.This comes a day after India detected its first Omicron cases when the samples of two Covid-19 positive fliers from South Africa to Bengaluru came out positive for the new worrisome variant. A new study published on Thursday by scientists in South Africa suggested that Omicron is three times more likely to cause reinfection in a person compared to Delta or Beta strains. The Union government, however, has asked citizens not to panic but follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated without delay.The Centre has already imposed various restrictions for stringent surveillance at the airports and tightened testing measures.Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government dismissed media reports claiming Omicron cases being detected in the state. “The passenger from Singapore arrived at Tiruchirappally at 3.30 AM (on Friday). He tested positive and has been shifted to the local medical college where he has been quarantined. His sample will undergo genome sequencing and we have a facility here… it will also be sent to a lab in Bengaluru and only after that result would we come to know if he is infected with Omicron," state health minister Ma Subramanian, told reporters in Chennai.India registered 9,216 new COVID-19 infections on Friday. Deaths rose by 391 to a total of 470,115, while the active cases stand at 99,976, the Union health ministry data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-9-international-travellers-in-mumbai-test-covid-positive-1-from-south-africa-101638507234905.html
03-12-2021||India||Flats allotted to migrant workers, urban poor in 3 states under Centre’s scheme||At least 4,444 government-funded flats have been allotted to migrant workers and urban poor in three states under the Centre’s Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme, the government has told Parliament.The scheme was launched last year as part of the Covid-19 relief package and around 90,000 government-funded flats have been identified under ARHCs across the country, according to the housing and urban affairs ministry.In a written reply to a question on Thursday, housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri told Lok Sabha the flats have been provided in Ahmedabad and Surat (Gujarat), Chittorgarh (Rajasthan) and Chandigarh. He added the ministry has approved the construction of 78,885 dwelling units by public and private agencies across the country.Existing vacant houses constructed under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) and Rajiv Awas Yojana have been included in the ARHCs scheme. The scheme, a part of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana- Urban, will end in March 2022. It is being implemented either by giving existing vacant government-funded flats on rent to migrant workers or allowing private and public entities to construct flats on their land and giving them on rent.“Public/Private Entities may use ARHCs to provide accommodations to their own workers/labourers as well as serve the requirements for neighbouring entities. Further, guidelines permit collaboration with other entities/organisations or get migrant labourers/urban poor through aggregators by deducting the rent directly from the salary/fee/any kind of remuneration, etc of tenants,” Puri told the Lok Sabha.The scheme was launched last year after the Covid-19 pandemic led to large scale reverse migration of workers, who mostly live in the slums clusters or informal settlements in cities. Migrant workers, mostly involved in informal sectors, were at the receiving end because of the strict restrictions due to the Covid-19 lockdown, especially on public transport.The scheme was aimed to provide planned housing at affordable rates to these workers near their workplaces.State governments have planned in-situ redevelopment of slum clusters. Those new to a city are not eligible for permanent housing and therefore end up living on rent in slum clusters. ARCHs seeks to provide affordable rental housing to promote inclusive urban development and prevent the growth of slums.For the implementation of the scheme of providing existing government-funded housing on rent, several city authorities have invited bids to hire a private concessionaire to refurbish flats and operate them for 25 years. The initial rent will be fixed by local authorities. Chandigarh Housing Board has implemented the scheme and given 2,195 flats on rent, said an official. In Surat, 393 flats have been allotted to migrant workers under the scheme for which a private firm has been roped in. In Chittorgarh and Ahmedabad, 480 and 1,376 flats have been allotted.Puri said the ARHCs aim to provide rental accommodation to migrant labourers/urban poor only and there is no provision for purchasing the dwelling unit by beneficiaries.National Real Estate Development Council director-general Rajesh Goel called it is a great scheme that will benefit the migrant workers. He added with the introduction of the Model Tenancy Act and the improving sentiments in the real estate sector, they see a growing interest from the promoters in the private sector. “But developers do have a little bit of apprehension due to the lower returns from rentals while the cost of land and maintaining the complexes for 25 years is substantial. There are legal concerns about rent recovery or people not vacating the flats, though we are certain the Modal Tenancy Act, once implemented in all the states, will address this problem thereby generating much larger participation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flats-allotted-to-migrant-workers-urban-poor-in-3-states-under-centre-s-scheme-101638507467651.html
03-12-2021||India||India, Sri Lanka finalise four-point package for economic cooperation||India and Sri Lanka have framed a four-point package, including a line of credit to cover the import of food and medicines and a currency swap arrangement, to deepen economic cooperation and to help the island nation cope with economic problems.The package was finalised during two meetings that visiting Sri Lankan finance minister Basil Rajapaksa had with his Indian counterpart Nirmala Sitharaman and external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday and Thursday. This was Rajapaksa’s first overseas visit since he assumed office in July. The two sides discussed four pillars for short and medium-term cooperation, according to a statement issued by the Sri Lankan high commission at the conclusion of Rajapaksa’s visit on Thursday. They include a food and health security package on an urgent basis that envisages the extension of a line of credit by India to cover the import of food, medicines and other essential items by Sri Lanka, an energy security package that will include a line of credit to cover the import of fuel from India, and the early modernisation of Trincomalee Tank Farm. The package also includes an offer of a currency swap to help Sri Lanka address the current balance of payment issues, and facilitating Indian investments in different sectors in Sri Lanka to contribute to growth and expand employment, the statement said.Also Read: HTLS 2021 Border tension reflects on ties: EAM on ChinaThe two sides further agreed that modalities to realise this package would be “finalised early, within a mutually agreed timeline”, the statement said. Rajapaksa and Sitharaman and Jaishankar “agreed to open direct lines of communication” and to be in direct and regular contact with each other to coordinate on this initiative. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that it was significant that both Sitharaman and Jaishankar participated in the two rounds of discussions with Rajapaksa. They said this reflected the importance India attaches to the relationship with Sri Lanka. The people said Sri Lanka’s request for a $1 billion bilateral currency swap, first made in 2020, did not figure in the latest discussions. The currency swap offered to Sri Lanka is expected to be made under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) facility and would be worth $400 million. Ties between New Delhi and Colombo were hit earlier this year when Sri Lanka scrapped a 2019 deal with India and Japan to operate the East Container Terminal at the Colombo port, angering both countries. In October, state-owned Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) inked a deal with India’s Adani Group to develop and run the Colombo port’s West Container Terminal. Adani Group and its local partner John Keells Holdings will jointly have an 85% stake in the West Container Terminal, giving India a much-needed strategic presence at the Colombo port, where almost 70% of operations involve shipments bound for India.Rajapaksa, who visited India at the invitation of Sitharaman, also had bilateral discussions with Jaishankar. These discussions focused on a range of issues of mutual importance, with particular attention on economic cooperation. Rajapaksa also met petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval.In these meetings, Rajapaksa thanked India for the support it has extended Sri Lanka over the years in many spheres, the statement said. Rajapaksa briefed the Indian side on the economic situation in Sri Lanka and his government’s approach to addressing post-Covid challenges. The Indian ministers expressed New Delhi’s solidarity with Colombo and reiterated that India has always stood by Sri Lanka and, in the current situation, would be guided by its “Neighbourhood First” policy, according to the statement.
03-12-2021||India||India reports 9,216 infections in 24 hours; active caseload below 1 lakh||The Covid-19 tally in India was increased by 9,216 infections as the country battled the fresh threat of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. The overall tally now stands at 34,615,757 including 470,115 deaths due to the viral disease, according to the numbers updated at the Union ministry of health and family welfare's website. Said to be more contagious than its previous mutations, Omicron, the new coronavirus variant, has reached India with two men in Karnataka testing positive for the Omicron variant, making them the country's first case of the new variant of concern.The number of active cases saw a slight rise but remained below the 1-lakh mark, the health ministry data showed. It currently stands at 99,976 and accounts for less than 1% of total cases (0.29%), the lowest since March 2020, according to the daily health bulletin.The recovery rate is currently at 98.35% with a total number of recoveries climbing to 34,045,666. The daily positivity rate (0.80%) has been less than 2% for the last 60 days, while the weekly positivity rate (0.84%) is less than 1% for the last 19 days.The country has conducted 64.46 crores total tests so far. Meanwhile, as many as 125.75 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under nationwide vaccination drive in the country.Speaking on the Omicron variant, Dr Ashok Seth, executive director of Fortis Escorts Heart Institute in Delhi, on Friday advised people to not panic and said the "variants will keep coming." "We don't need to panic but remain cautious and proactive. We can protect ourselves from any variant if we're fully vaccinated and observe Covid appropriate behaviour," the senior doctor also said.The Omicron variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 25. As per the WHO, the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9 this year. As of Friday, it has been confirmed in 23 countries including India, the United States and the United Kingdom.Dozens of countries have imposed travel restrictions on the southern African nations since the mutation was detected in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-9-216-infections-in-24-hours-active-caseload-below-1-lakh-101638506063833.html
03-12-2021||India||Centre to launch scheme for upliftment of SC students||The Centre is set to launch the Residential Education for Students in High Schools in Targeted Areas (SRESHTA) scheme on Monday for the upliftment and development of scheduled castes (SC) students.The announcement was made by Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar on Thursday. “The scheme will focus on the socio-economics upliftment and overall development of the Scheduled Caste students by providing quality residential education to meritorious Scheduled Caste students in reputed private schools, having residential facility,” he said. “This will enable bright SC students to have a better future by getting a high-quality education, aid in controlling dropout rates of SC students from class 9th to 12th. Besides, the continuous support to the existing institutions being run by the voluntary organizations for the target ground. In the next 5 years, the ministry has decided to extend support to 24800 meritorious SC students, involving Rs. 300 crores approx., for providing them with quality residential education from class 9 to 12 in reputed private residential schools in aspirational districts identified by the NITI Aayog,” he said.The minister also announced that the government will celebrate Mahaparinirvan Divas in remembrance of Dr BR Ambedkar on Monday as part of its ongoing ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations to mark 75 years of India’s independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-launch-scheme-for-upliftment-of-sc-students-101638505908355.html
03-12-2021||India||International day of persons with disabilities: UN calls for inclusion in post-Covid times, dismantling barriers||As the world marked the international day of persons with disabilities, the United Nations called for an enhanced push towards a more inclusive society and efforts to reduce the barriers faced by people with disabilities.The day is celebrated every year on December 3 to mark the challenges, barriers and opportunities of those with disabilities and also as an occasion to direct the efforts of the global community towards a more inclusive society. “This year, we are celebrating the challenges, barriers and opportunities for people who live with disabilities, in the context of a global pandemic,” the UN said. The global body’s proclamation to mark the day was first declared in 1992.“This year, International Day of People with Disabilities should be used to recognise that people who live with disabilities are among the most affected populations amid the COVID pandemic,” the UN also said.Also read | World Aids Day 2021: UN calls for ending inequalities to fight epidemicFurther, it also called for domestic and international public health officials, political representatives, advocates, supporters and citizens to learn from the experiences of those with disabilities during the Covid-19 pandemic and “push for more meaningful investments into the socioeconomic building blocks which will reduce the barriers faced by people with disabilities in every community on earth.”The World Health Organization (WHO) said that over a billion people experience disability across the world and warned that the figure is only expected to rise. “ Despite this, few countries have adequate mechanisms in place to respond fully to the health priorities and requirements of persons with disabilities,” the global health body said.Calling disability a “global public health issue”, the WHO also said that one in seven people worldwide is affected by it and that every person is likely to experience it at some point in their life.In his message on the day, secretary-general Antonio Guterres said, “A disability-inclusive pandemic response and recovery should be guided by persons with disabilities themselves, forge partnerships, tackle injustice and discrimination, expand access to technology and strengthen institutions to create a more inclusive, accessible, and sustainable post-Covid-19 world.”Meanwhile, President Ram Nath Kovind will confer the annual National Awards on individuals, institutions, organizations and state/district, etc., for their outstanding achievements and work towards the empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, the ministry of social justice and empowerment said, in an event organised by the ministry.“On International Day of Persons with Disabilities, let us commit to destigmatizing disabilities and ensure that our Divyang brothers and sisters get equal opportunities so that they can lead a dignified, safe and productive life,” Vice President Venkaiah Naidu tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-day-of-persons-with-disabilities-un-calls-for-inclusion-in-post-covid-times-dismantling-barriers-101638504896618.html
03-12-2021||India||CAQM constitutes 5-member task force to monitor compliance amid ‘very poor’ air quality in Delhi-NCR||Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR has constituted an enforcement task force to monitor compliance with the direction issued in the wake of worsening air quality in the region, the Supreme Court was told. In an affidavit, the commission informed the apex court that the 5-member task force has been constituted by exercising its statutory power.The commission said it has already constituted 17 flying squads to take punitive measures against violators and will increase the number to 40 in the next 24 hours.The affidavit was filed after the top court pulled up both the Centre and the Delhi government over the air quality in the national capital region. The court gave the Centre and the CAQM a 24-hour deadline to come up with an urgent mechanism to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR, failing which, the court said, it may set up a task force itself.“We expect a serious, serious action or we will pass orders. We give you 24 hours to come out with a plan of action...If you cannot, we will have to pass some directions tomorrow,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.‘Elders have work from home and children have to go to school’: CJI pulls up Delhi govtLast month, CAQM announced a slew of measures to control the air pollution in Delhi-NCR, including a ban on construction and demolition activities. But the air quality in the national capital has remained in the 'very poor' category for a while now. On Friday, the Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi stood at 385, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).CAQM was formed earlier this year for better coordination, research, identification, and resolution of problems related to air quality in the Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas where any source of pollution may cause an adverse impact on air quality in the national capital region. The commission coordinates actions taken by concerned governments and plans and executes plans to prevent and control air pollution in the NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caqm-constitutes-5-member-task-force-to-monitor-compliance-amid-very-poor-air-quality-in-delhincr-101638502595335.html
03-12-2021||NA||Parliament Winter Session Highlights: ‘Why no decency to give farmers their due,’ Rahul Gandhi asks Centre||The government is set to table the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha on Friday. While the opposition continued its protest near Mahatma Gandhi statue in Parliament against the suspension of 12 MPs, the BJP also staged its own protests at the site.Earlier in the day, Congress MP Manickam Tagore moved an adjournment motion in Lok Sabha to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and the removal of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra. Amid continued protests by the opposition over the suspension of 12 lawmakers, the Union government on Thursday passed the Dam Safety Bill, 2019, in Rajya Sabha.Several opposition parties criticised the Centre for encroaching upon states' rights regarding the issue, while Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat rejected those claims.Meanwhile, in Lok Sabha, a marathon debate on Covid-19 pandemic was held in which a wide range of topics, including the Omicron variant, booster doses, third wave of the disease and vaccination for all eligible population, was discussed.As many as 74 members took part in the debate while other members laid a copy of their speeches on the table of the house.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till MondayLok Sabha has been adjourned till Monday, 6th December.18 out of 16,000 passengers on 58 flights tested positive for Covid-19: Health ministerUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday informed Parliament that among 16,000 passengers from 'at-risk' countries arriving on 58 flights who have been tested for Covid-19 with the RT-PCR method, only 18 people have tested positive so far. The minister's statement comes amid growing fears of Omicron as India reported two cases of the new variant.Rajya Sabha adjourned till MondayRajya Sabha has been adjourned till Monday, 6th December.‘Why no decency to give farmers their due?’: Rahul Gandhi asks Centre“We have 403 people whom the government of Punjab compensated ₹5 lakh each and whom they 152 gave jobs to. We also have a list of 100 names from other states and a 3rd list, which is public information, of names that can easily be verified. But the government says that such a list does not exist,” says Rahul Gandhi.“The prime minister himself said that he has made a mistake. He apologised to the nation. As a result of that mistake, 700 people have died. Now you are lying about their names. Why don't you have the decency to give them what is their due?” he questions.Rahul Gandhi hold press briefing to address farmers' crisis“A question was asked in Parliament whether Govt proposes to provide financial assistance to the kins of farmers who died during the farmers' agitation. Ministry answers that the Ministry of Agriculture has no record in the matter and hence the question doesn't arise,” says Congress leader Rahul Gandhi In a press statement.'Modi government works with willpower, not power’: Mandaviya"Under Modi government, work is going on to strengthen the weak health infrastructure. Without blaming the pervious governments that ignored health infrastructure, the government has worked for results. In the last 2 years, decisions under leadership of PM Modi show that this government works with willpower and not power," said Mandaviya in Lok Sabha.India's Covid-19 cases, deaths among lowest in world: Mandaviya in Lok Sabha“3.46 crore corona cases have been reported in India and 4.6 lakh people died - this is 1.36% of the total cases. 25,000 cases and 340 deaths per million population were reported in India - this is one of the lowest in the world,” said Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Lok Sabha.Health minister Mandaviya slams Opposition over oxygen shortage debate in Lok SabhaUnion Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in Lok Sabha, asked the opposition parties to stop playing politics over oxygen shortage.Addressing the Lok Sabha during the Question Hour, he said the Union government made "all possible efforts" to ensure the availability of oxygen and increased its production following a rise in demand during the second wave of the pandemic."Sadly, even in such a situation, many people did not refrain from playing politics... I appeal, take note of our honest efforts. This is not a subject of politics," he said in reply to a question on the issue raised by Congress MP Suresh Dhanorkar.Some states showed increased oxygen demand in courts during Covid second wave: Health minsiter The politics around Oxygen started with the second wave of COVID-19 and some states went to courts and showed increased demand for oxygen in their respective state to get favourable orders, said Minister of Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya in Lok Sabha on Friday.Only Punjab reported 4 'suspected' deaths due to oxygen shortage: Health ministerWe had written to all states asking for data on it…19 States responded. Only Punjab reported four 'suspected' deaths due to oxygen shortage, syas Union Health Minister Dr Mandaviya in Lok Sabha on the question of 'deaths due to oxygen shortage.'WATCH | BJP MPs, opposition protest in Parliament #WATCH | Delhi: BJP Rajya Sabha MPs protest against the protesting Opposition over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs for the winter Parliament, near the Gandhi statue pic.twitter.com/zngQpt1gujOpposition, BJP protest near Gandhi statue in ParliamentWhile the Opposition continued its protests against the government over the suspension of 12 MPs near the Gandhi statue, the BJP also staged protests at the same site, to condemn the opposition for their “undemocratic” actions inside the house. “We are here to highlight the dichotomy and the duplicity of the opposition parties,” said BJP MP GVL Narasimha Rao.Govt to table National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok SabhaThe government is set to introduce the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Also, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya is set to table the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha today. Cong's Manickam Tagore moves adjournment motion in LS to discuss Lakhimpur KheriCongress MP Manickam Tagore has moved an adjournment motion in Lok Sabha "to discuss the killing of innocent farmers through rash driving by the son of MoS Home in Lakhimpur Kheri district, to direct the govt to ensure the culprit punished, & ask the PM to dismiss the MoS Home." pic.twitter.com/AkxYKo1HiRCongress MP Manickam Tagore has moved an adjournment motion in Lok Sabha demanding a discuss into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and the dismissal of Union minister of State for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra, reports ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-december-3-101638499370562.html
03-12-2021||India||Central Vista Avenue work 60% complete||The Union government on Thursday told the Parliament that the physical progress of the redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue and the new Parliament building, part of the Central vista redevelopment project, stands at 60% and 35% complete respectively.The Avenue, where preparations for the Republic Day parade have started, will be completed within this month while the new Parliament is expected to be ready by October 2022.In a written response to a question by Congress MP Manish Tewari, minister of state housing and urban affairs Kaushal Kishore said that so far four projects (new Parliament building, redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue, construction of three out of the 10 Common Central Secretariat buildings and vice-president’s residence) are being implemented.“ ₹1,289 crore has been allocated for the works of Development/Re-development of Central Vista in the ongoing FY 2021-22,” the minister informed the Lok Sabha.Tewari asked whether “work under the Central Vista Redevelopment Master plan with an estimated cost of around 20,000 crore rupees resumed in spite of the pandemic while the MPLADS scheme, the funds through which could be used for the betterment of Indian citizens especially during the pandemic”.“There is no link between the works of Central Vista Development/Re-development with the MPLADS scheme. Separately, the Union Cabinet, in its meeting held on November 10, 2021, has restored MPLAD Scheme (MPLADS) for the remaining part of the Financial Year 2021-22 and its continuation from FY 2022-23 to FY 2025-26 with an outlay of ₹17,417 crore,” the minister said.The central government said the ongoing works at the Central Vista have provided direct livelihood opportunities to “more than 10,000 skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers on-site and off-site and generated more than 24.12 lakh man-days of employment”.The construction of the new Parliament building started earlier this year. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) recently invited pre-qualification bids for the construction and maintenance of the executive enclave, which will include the Prime Minister’s Office, India House, Cabinet Secretariat and National Security Council Secretariat, as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project. The ₹1,171 crore project will be completed within 24 months from the date of handing over of the site, as per the bid document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-avenue-work-60-complete-101638503509198.html
03-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad likely to hit Andhra, Odisha coastline on Saturday||Cyclone Jawad is likely to form over the central Bay of Bengal on Friday and reach the north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts on Saturday morning. It is likely to cause very heavy rain in parts of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, and Gangetic West Bengal and damage standing crops, especially paddy, and inundate low lying areas, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned.Cyclone Jawad may be severe briefly on Saturday when it is near the coast (90 to 100 gusting to 110 kmph). Extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely in south Odisha and north coastal Andhra Pradesh. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places is expected in north coastal Andhra Pradesh, north and interior districts of Odisha, and Gangetic West Bengal over the weekend. Fishermen have been advised against venturing into the Andaman Sea and parts of the Bay of Bengal until Sunday.The IMD has advised fishermen to return to the coast immediately and regulation of offshore and alongshore operations in north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, and West Bengal coasts on Friday and their suspension on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-likely-to-hit-andhra-odisha-coastline-on-saturday-101638502848285.html
03-12-2021||India||Will Karnataka see more curbs after Omicron cases? New SOP likely today||As Karnataka became the first state to report the first Omicron cases of Omicron in India, the state is on high alert and new SOPs are likely to be announced. The primary and the secondary contacts of these two Omicron cases have been tested and kept under watch. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai who was in New Delhi will fly to Bengaluru and chair a high-level meeting on Friday to discuss the measures to be taken in the state in the light of the two Omicron cases. "We are conducting contact tracing. I will be holding a meeting with health experts at 1pm today. I have spoken to Health Minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya, he will get back to me with some guidelines," the chief minister said.Karnataka has already imposed several restrictions on international travellers and people coming to the state from bordering states. Educational institutes have also been asked to to suspend any kind of public events. New SOPs are likely to be announced on Friday, following the chief minister's meeting with the experts. However, it is unlikely that there will be any lockdown as the chief minister earlier ruled out the possibility of imposing any lockdown. “There is no question of imposing the lockdown now. Normal life should go on," the chief minister said before Karnataka confirmed two Omicron cases. In the recent past, Karnataka has seen a spurt in cluster outbreaks of Covid infections. Regular tests are being carried out in such clusters.The health ministry on Thursday said there is no need to panic over Omicron as surveillance is going on. Announcing the cases found in the state on Twitter, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar wrote, "People can carry on with their day-to-day activities with strict adherence to covid appropriate behaviour."Unlike many other countrues which have imposed travel restrictions from Covid-affected countries, India has not imposed any travel curbs, though protocols are being revised and strengthened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-karnataka-see-more-curbs-after-omicron-cases-new-sop-likely-today-101638501550769.html
03-12-2021||India||Delhi’s air quality in severe category||Delhi’s air quality was in the “severe” category on Friday morning even as the mercury was likely to dip to 12 degrees Celsius. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7 am was 365. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 429An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Thursday, the Union earth science’s ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research said winds are likely to be calm until Sunday, reducing ventilation leading to the deterioration of air quality. It added from Monday onwards, the winds are expected to increase dispersing pollutants. “..but AQI (is) likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category. Partly cloudy sky and low mixing layer height are preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants.”The maximum temperature on Friday was expected to go up to 23 degrees Celsius, compared to 19.8 degrees Celsius on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-quality-in-severe-category-101638502487856.html
03-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Deep depression to intensify into Cyclone Jawad in next 12 hours, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cyclone Jawad: Deep depression to intensify into cyclonic storm in next 12 hoursThe low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal is expected to intensify into Cyclone Jawad which is likely to reach the north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts on Saturday morning. Read more…'Very concerning': South Africa study shows Omicron's ability to evade immunity from prior infectionA preliminary study by South African scientists suggests that the Omicron variant is associated with a substantial ability to evade immunity from prior infection and is three times more likely to cause reinfections compared to the Beta or Delta variants. Read more…Mistakes by Indian PMs in foreign policy in past, listed by Jaishankar #HTLS2021India's external affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar listed foreign policy mistakes committed by Indian prime ministers in the past. Watch the full video for more'It's been some time since he got to three-figure mark': India batting legend 'really looking forward' to Kohli's returnMore than two years, over 700 days and a total of 56 innings. That's how long it has been since Virat Kohli scored an international cricket. It was back on November 23 of 2019 when Kohli scored the last of his 70 international centuries. Since then, the India captain has been part of four full-fledged Test series – both home and overseas – but a hundred has eluded Kohli. Read more…Malaika Arora chills in a bikini in Maldives, catches Arjun Kapoor scrolling through Instagram on holidayMalaika Arora and Arjun Kapoor are chilling in Maldives and have shared their individual pictures from the tourist destination. The couple have been dating for quite some time now. See picsWhen it comes to workouts, Tiger Shroff has 'no rest days'Tiger Shroff never takes a break from his fitness routine – we mean it. The actor loves to workout in between his shooting schedules even. Tiger's dedication to fitness is beyond any words and the actor swears by it. Tiger's workout videos often make their way on his Instagram profile and some of them are definitely not for the faint-hearted. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-deep-depression-to-intensify-into-cyclone-jawad-in-next-12-hours-and-all-the-latest-news-101638500161854.html
03-12-2021||India||Bhopal gas tragedy: 37 years of one of the world's worst industrial disasters||Friday marks 37 years of the horror that had occurred in the Madhya Pradesh capital in 1984 when thousands of people were killed due to the tragic gas leak from the pesticide plant of Union Carbide India Limited (UCIL).The disaster took place on the intervening night of December 2-3 and to date, it is considered among the world's worst industrial disasters. Over 500,000 people were exposed to methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas and other highly toxic substances like carbon monoxide, hydrogen cyanide, etc made their way into and around the small towns located near the plant.As per a state government affidavit filed in the court in the year 2006, the tragedy had killed 3,787 people and affected more than 5.58 lakh in the state capital after toxic gas leaked from the Union Carbide factory which was closed after the tragedy. However, the organisations fighting for the victims claim the tragedy has killed at least 25,000 people.37 years on, victims still await adequate compensationIt has been 37 years since the disaster and the survivors and the kin of the deceased are still waiting to be compensated fairly by the government. According to a news report by PTI, each victim of the tragedy has so far received less than one-fifth of the allotted sum.The financial aid was USD 470 million in 1989, it reported quoting Bhopal Gas Peedith Sangharsh Sahayog Samiti (BGPSSS) co-convener N D Jayaprakash. "The dollars turned into more than ₹3,000 crore in 2004, when the disbursements started, but the number of the victims swelled to 5.73 lakh and this amount was distributed among them. So, each victim got one-fifth of the compensation," he also said, as per the report.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-gas-tragedy-37-years-of-one-of-the-world-s-worst-industrial-disasters-101638498988003.html
03-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: Deep depression to intensify into cyclonic storm in next 12 hours||The low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal is expected to intensify into Cyclone Jawad which is likely to reach the north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts on Saturday morning. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the depression lying centred over the Bay of Bengal about 770 km south-southeast of Vishakhapatnam late Thursday night is likely to move northwestwards.The depression intensified into a deep depression over west-central adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal on Friday morning. It is expected to further intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours and reach north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast by Saturday morning, according to the Met department. Cyclone Jawad's wind speed may reach that of a severe cyclone for a brief period on Saturday when it approaches landfall.Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is expected in many parts of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Gangetic West Bengal, prompting the IMD to issue a warning about the inundation of low lying areas and possible damage to standing crops, especially paddy.Cyclone Jawad: IMD asks people to stay indoors, Jharkhand to be impacted too | 10 pointsThe Odisha government has issued guidelines to prevent the adverse effects arising from Cyclone Jawad. Pradeep Kumar Jena, Special Relief Commissioner, said that the government plans to deploy 266 teams including National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Fire Services and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) in coastal districts."The state government is well prepared to deal the emerging situation 14 coastal districts have been put on alert and asked to take all necessary steps in view of the impending cyclonic storm," Jena said.Fishing activities have been prohibited within the territorial waters along the entire coastline of Odisha from December 3 to December 5 for safeguarding the life and assets of fishermen due to impeding Cyclone Jawad."In view of the impending cyclonic storm 'JAWAD' as a measure of abundant caution there is a need to restrict fishing activities along the entire coast of Odisha and Chilika Lake from 3rd December 2021 till 5th December, 2021,” Fisheries and ARD Department said in an order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-deep-depression-to-intensify-into-cyclonic-storm-in-next-12-hours-101638498568607.html
03-12-2021||India||'His certificate may be true': How South African man with Omicron left India in a week after testing positive||The 66-year-old South African man who became India's one of the first two confirmed cases of Omicron, the new variant of Covid, has already left India within a week of testing Covid positive. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said the man presented a negative Covid certificate which he got from a private lab. The certificate may not be wrong as all his primary and secondary contacts were tested negative, the health minister said. "The 66-year-old, who has left for South Africa, via Dubai, had presented a negative certificate for the virus, from a private lab. His primary and secondary contacts were found negative. So it means to say that his certificate may be true," he said, as quoted by ANI.The South African man reached Bengaluru on November 20, five days before South Africa confirmed the new variant. According to reports, he had a negative Covid certificate but his sample was taken as he was travelling from an 'at risk' country. His sample tested positive and a government doctor visited him at the hotel asking him to self-isolate. Reports said the man at that time revealed no symptoms. His samples were taken again on November 22 and sent for genome sequencing, the result of which came this week, after going through which the ministry on Thursday confirmed two Omicron cases in India.What India's 2 Omicron cases reveal: How the variant spread, symptoms, CT valueAccording to reports, the man got tested again on November 23 at a private lab and on November 27, he flew to Dubai.During his one-week stay in Bengaluru, he came into contact with 24 people, who are his primary contacts and there are 240 secondary contacts. All of them have tested negative.The health ministry on Thursday confirmed the first two cases of the Omicron variant in India, one being this South African traveller, whose identity has not been revealed. The second case is that of a 46-year-old doctor. Both of them were vaccinated against Covid. None of the cases reported any severe symptoms, Karnataka officials said. Since there is no link between these two cases and the 46-year-old doctor has no travel history, the state government said there might be many more infections of Omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-certificate-may-be-true-karnataka-minister-on-south-african-man-with-omicron-who-left-india-after-testing-positive-101638495757112.html
03-12-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari says he will drive his green hydrogen car in Delhi to show it's possible||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said he has bought a car that will run on green hydrogen produced at Faridabad's oil research institute for a pilot project. Addressing a national summit on financial inclusion, the transport minister said he will drive that car in Delhi so that people believe it's possible to get green hydrogen from water. The minister has been pitching for the prospects of green hydrogen as a potential transport fuel. "I have a plan to run buses, trucks and cars on green hydrogen that would be produced using sewage water and solid waste in cities," the minister said in the summit.Talking about a 7-year-old project that Gadkari had initiated in Nagpur where the sewage water would be recycled, Gadkari said now Nagpur sells its sewage water to Maharashtra government power plant and earns around 325crore in a year. "Nothing is waste. It depends on the vision of the leadership and technology that you can create wealth in waste. Now I am trying if we can create value in wastewater. Every municipality has this water," he said."Train people so that green hydrogen can be produced from this water. We have solid waste which can be covered by solar rooftops giving electricity at a cheaper rate. So electricity comes cheap and we have water and electrolysers are now produced by India. We can produce green hydrogen and this can be an alternative fuel. All buses, trucks, cars can be run on this. This is not difficult. I have bought a hydrogen car which I am going to drive in Delhi because people take time to accept out-of-box ideas," Gadkari said.Talking about other innovative projects that the minister has been part of, Nitin Gadkari said on one wall of his room, he has got paint made from cow dung. "There will be no need for gorakshan as people will not sell their cows if we can create business viability of cow dung and cow urine. Phenyl can be made from cow urine," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-says-he-will-drive-his-green-hydrogen-car-in-delhi-to-show-it-s-possible-101638493031558.html
03-12-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate 'InFinity Forum' on fintech today; over 70 countries to participate||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a leadership Forum on Financial Technology (FinTech) on Friday. This is the first edition of the summit and will be inaugurated via virtual conference.According to an official statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the summit is set to see participation from more than 70 nations, while Indonesia, South Africa and the United Kingdom are partner countries.The two-day summit will bring together the leading minds of the world in business and technology to come together to discuss how technology and innovation can be leveraged by the FinTech industry for inclusive growth and serving humanity at large. It is being hosted by the International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) under the aegis of the Government of India in collaboration with GIFT City and Bloomberg.On Wednesday, the Prime Minister urged youngsters, especially those in the world of start-ups, tech and innovation to participate in the summit as he said it "will set the tone for stakeholders to think beyond conventional mindset, and approach and discuss new trends in SpaceTech, GreenTech, AgriTech, quantum computing and more."According to PMO, the agenda of the forum will focus on the theme of 'Beyond', with various sub-themes including FinTech beyond boundaries, with governments and businesses focussing beyond the geographical boundaries in the development of global stack to promote financial inclusiveness; FinTech beyond Finance, by having convergence with emerging areas such as SpaceTech, GreenTech and AgriTech to drive sustainable development.It will also include FinTech Beyond Next, with a focus on how quantum computing could impact the nature of the Fintech industry in the future and promote new opportunities.Finance ministers of Malaysia and Indonesia are among the key speakers. Mukesh Ambani, chairman of the Reliance Industries; SoftBank Group CEO Masayoshi Son, IBM Corporation Chairman and CEO Arvind Krishna and Kotak Mahindra Bank's CEO Uday Kotak are also among the speakers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-infinity-forum-on-fintech-today-over-70-countries-to-participate-101638492491559.html
03-12-2021||India||What India's 2 Omicron cases reveal: How the variant spread, symptoms, CT value||Two cases of the new Covid variant Omicron have been detected in Karnataka, registering India's first reported case of this new variant which has triggered apprehension across the world, bringing back travel restrictions. Urging people to not panic, the health ministry has cautioned to not lower the guard against the infection. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai will hold a high-level meeting on Friday to decide on imposing further restrictions in the state.Here is how the two cases were spread, detectedKarnataka health minister K Sudhakar earlier told that two cases did not match Delta and the Centre was alerted accordingly. One among them is a 66-year-old male who is a South African national. He came to Bengaluru on November 20 and tested positive. He was isolated in a hotel and got tested on November 23 at a private lab, during which his reports came negative. He left for Dubai on November 27. All his 24 primary contacts and 240 secondary contacts have tested negative.Omicron cases in India: No travel curbs yet but rules tightened, says MEAThe second person is a 46-year-old doctor working at a government hospital, who has no travel history. He was tested on November 22 as he complained of extreme tiredness, weakness and fever. According to reports, his cycle threshold value was low and his sample was sent to the lab. Three of his primary and two of his secondary contacts have tested positive.What are the symptoms? How fast the variant is spreading?According to Karnataka officials, there might be more cases of Omicron in the state as the doctor who tested positive has no travel history.There were no major symptoms in all the cases.Experts have observed low CT value in these cases and that is why samples of all international travellers testing positive with low CT value are being sent for genome sequencing."How it (Omicron) spreads, we can't say as of now, but there is no need to worry as all the six cases identified so far don't have any major health issues. We have seen the Delta variant, it had intensity, more issues like breathing, such things have not been noticed so far. Symptoms here are mild," the Karnataka health minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-india-s-2-omicron-cases-reveal-how-the-variant-spread-symptoms-ct-value-101638490185426.html
03-12-2021||India||Defence ties, geopolitical issues to be in focus during Putin’s visit||India and Russia will have an extensive engagement on defence and political ties and regional and international developments during President Vladimir Putin’s visit to New Delhi for the annual summit with Prime Minister Narendar Modi on December 6.Also Read | The centrality of the Arctic in the India-Russia partnershipThere will be a series of meetings, including the maiden 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers, before the 21st annual India-Russia Summit. Russian defence minister Sergey Shoigu and foreign minister Sergey Lavrov will arrive in India on December 5.Also Read | India-Russia 2+2 dialogue to be held on margins of Modi-Putin summit on Dec 6The two sides will have an “intensive engagement” that will culminate with the summit, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing.Defence minister Rajnath Singh and Shoigu will co-chair a meeting of the inter-governmental commission on military-technical cooperation, while external affairs minister S Jaishankar will hold a bilateral meeting with Lavrov early on Monday. These meetings will be followed by the inaugural 2+2 ministerial dialogue, which is expected to discuss bilateral, regional and international political and defence issues, Bagchi said.India has 2+2 ministerial meetings with very few countries, including the Australia, Japan and the US.At their annual summit in the afternoon on December 6, the two leaders will review the state and prospects of bilateral relations and discuss ways to further strengthen the bilateral strategic partnership. The summit will be an opportunity to exchange views on regional, multilateral and international issues and several agreements are expected to be signed during and in the run-up to the summit.Asked about the US threatening to impose secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) on India’s deal to acquire five S-400 air defence systems from Russia, Bagchi said, “India and the US have a special global strategic partnership. We also have a special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia and we pursue an independent foreign policy.Also Read | CCS takes up ₹5.1k-cr AK-203 deal ahead of Putin’s visit“This applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies, which are and will continue to be guided by our national security interests.”He declined to comment on reports quoting Russian officials as saying that Moscow had begun delivering the first regiment of S-400 systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ties-geopolitical-issues-to-be-in-focus-during-putin-s-visit-101638482574107.html
03-12-2021||India||States brace as Cyclone Jawad nears, PM holds review meet||A cyclonic storm, named Cyclone Jawad, is likely to form over central Bay of Bengal but it may not intensify into severe category as expected earlier, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday, adding that it still has the potential to cause widespread damage over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal on Friday.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad: IMD asks people to stay indoors, Jharkhand to be impacted tooAccording to IMD, the low pressure area over central parts of Andaman Sea has moved west-northwestwards and become a well-marked low pressure area over south-east Bay of Bengal and adjoining Andaman Sea. It moved west-northwestwards and concentrated into a depression over south-east and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal on Wednesday evening. It is likely to move north-westwards and intensify into cyclone Jawad over central parts of the Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours and reach west-central Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh–south Odisha coasts around Friday morning. Thereafter, it is likely to move north-northeastwards, IMD said.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad: What we know so far about its formation and movement path“The expected intensity of cyclone Jawad has reduced a bit. So, while it is a relief that it may not intensify beyond a cyclonic storm, the northeast monsoon easterly winds will still feed warmth and moisture bringing rain,” explained Sunitha Devi, in-charge, cyclones at IMD.On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting to review the preparedness of states, central ministries and other agencies to deal with the situation arising out of the likely formation of cyclone Jawad, according to the Prime Minister’s Office.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad: 95 trains cancelled for ‘safety of passengers’. Check full list“PM Modi held a meeting today and he has been given the details of the cyclone situation. We are in constant contact with the state governments and assuring them of providing required NDRF teams. A total of 29 teams have already been deployed at the required places. Now a total of 33 teams are also being deployed to deal with the situation,” Atul Karwal, director-general of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF Karwal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Till Wednesday, out of 10 models under consideration by the IMD, two indicated that cyclone Jawad would cross the Odisha coast, while others suggested it would skirt the Odisha and Andhra Pradesh coasts. “If it skirts the coast, then the impact will be marginally less. But, extremely heavy rain is expected over coastal districts of Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh,” Devi added.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad: IMD issues red alert for heavy rainfall in some Odisha districtsThe off-shore and alongshore operations along north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal coasts have been advised to be judiciously regulated on Friday and suspended on Saturday, to ensure safety of life and property. Fishermen all along the coast in these states have been advised not to venture into the sea, officials said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-brace-as-cyclone-jawad-nears-pm-holds-review-meet-101638481720488.html
03-12-2021||India||Act on bad air in 24 hrs: SC to Centre||The Supreme Court on Thursday put the Centre on a 24-hour deadline to come out with a “creative” and “urgent” mechanism to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR, failing which, the court said, it may set up a task force itself since “nothing is really happening to control pollution” and “all authorities have failed”.The top court also pulled up the Delhi government for reopening schools on November 29, directing it to reconsider the decision in the wake of exposing young children to bad air and toxic smog. Hours later, the Delhi government announced the closure of schools until further orders.Also Read | Delhi schools shut again after push from SCFixing the next hearing at 10am on Friday, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, said that the Centre and the Commission for the Air Quality Management (CAQM) for Delhi-NCR and Adjoining Areas must apprise the court if they could come up with a more effective mechanism for implementing the pollution control measures.“We expect a serious, serious action or we will pass orders. We give you 24 hours to come out with a plan of action. You take a hard look at the issue and come up with a solution with seriousness. If you cannot, we will have to pass some directions tomorrow,” the bench, which also comprised justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.While Mehta, representing the Centre and CAQM, sought to highlight the steps taken by the Commission against violators, the court remained unimpressed and remarked that all authorities have been unable to contribute anything on controlling pollution.“If there is an emergency situation, you have to act urgently and with some creativity and innovation. But we cannot induce creativity in the bureaucracy. We cannot help you if you don’t want to do something... We will have to do something extraordinary or the situation cannot be helped,” observed the bench.Also Read | Rain has little impact as air quality slides to severe in DelhiIt also questioned the efficacy of CAQM, asking whether the Commission has any power to enforce its directives or if its remit is confined to only issuing directions. “Also, look at the composition of your Commission. It has members from all states, all departments in the country. Then, you have so many subcommittees under the Commission. It is more like all departments of the government of India together...What is the purpose of having 20-30 members except creating an additional burden on the state exchequer,” the bench said, pointing at the composition of the 28-member CAQM.Delhi has been in the grip of hazardous pollution for over a month now. This was the worst November for Delhi in terms of the average air quality index (AQI).December too has started with alarming pollution levels, with the AQI hitting 429 on Thursday, up from 370 a day earlier. While pollution in November was driven significantly by smoke from farm fires in upwind states, the air quality so far this December has been fuelled largely by local emissions.Mehta, on his part, tried to convince the bench that there are flying squads which have been monitoring the directions given by CAQM, and read out details of monetary penalties imposed for industrial and vehicular pollution.“Fines are not the solution to this problem...We feel nothing is happening even as pollution levels are rising. All this is just wasting our time...We will take up tomorrow morning... We will come at 10am and will give you 15 minutes to tell us what you can do now. We will only say don’t compel us to do what you should do,” retorted the bench.The CJI further told Mehta: “As a layman, I am asking this question. The question is the day when this matter started, there was a particular level of pollution. Then we heard the matter, there were reports in the newspapers and media; there was wide publicity; directions were given too. The question that we ask is why the pollution levels are still going up? That’s the question every citizen will ask... Delhi government and others said stubble burning is a main cause but that’s over now.”Mehta said that CAQM has identified industrial and vehicular pollution as chief contributors but the bench yet again noticed that there was no implementation mechanism in place to check vehicles coming from Uttar Pradesh to the national capital. “This is just an instance of non-implementation,” added the bench.To this, Mehta said he would consult the Union environment minister and other authorities on certain points that he has for a better structuring of the Commission and a more effective implementation mechanism.The court also slammed the Delhi government for reopening schools in the city.“Small children have to go in morning in fog. Children have to go to schools at 6-7 in the morning in this bad weather,” the bench told senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the Delhi government.Singhvi maintained that the Delhi government has taken strongest possible measures to control pollution and that there is no dilution of the court order, and pointed to studies and reports on learning loss due to school closure during the pandemic. “But if this court wants us to reconsider, we will do it,” he added.“Don’t use our shoulders to fire shots. You are the government. You do your work. Who will sit at home when you open schools?,” the bench told Singhvi.Meanwhile, senior counsel Vikas Singh, who appeared for the 17-year-old petitioner, Aditya Dubey, pressed for a ban on construction in the Central Vista, citing huge amount of dust. “Even for Central Vista, the same standard has to follow. No project can be more important than lives of people. Why allow Vista only? Other builders could also say that we will also comply with pollution norms and therefore, they should also be allowed,” argued the lawyer.Singh urged the bench to set up a task force under the chairmanship of a former Supreme Court judge and suggested justice Rohinton F Nariman’s name. “Norms are there, but no implementation. Please constitute an empowered task force and flying squads to ensure compliance,” he said.
03-12-2021||India||Will stop namaz again: Gurugram right-wing groups||Members of right-wing groups on Thursday threatened to disrupt namaz again on Friday and informed the district administration about their intention to adopt any means, including violence if necessary, to stop Muslims from offering Friday prayers in public places.Following the threats, the district administration and the Gurugram police have decided to deploy personnel on a large scale at the 20 designated namaz sites to prevent a law-and-order situation on Friday.
03-12-2021||India||Lok Sabha picks up pace after logjam on first two days of winter session||New Delhi: After losing first two days of the ongoing winter session to disruptions, the Lok Sabha bounced back on Wednesday, clocking 117% productivity as it worked overtime to clear The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020, multiple functionaries said on condition of anonymity. A senior Lok Sabha functionary pointed out 129 MPs participated in various debates in the House on Wednesday. “In the ART bill, a total of 18 MPs participated, of which 15 belonged to various Opposition parties.” The House sat for two extra hours beyond the scheduled time to compensate for the time lost on the previous two days.On Thursday, the Lower House clocked even further as it debated the Covid-19 situation in the country. “More than 40 MPs were expected to take part in the all-important debate that is also a pet subject for the Opposition,” said a functionary. In order to end the logjam that nearly washed off the first two days of the ongoing session, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who has earned a reputation for keeping channels of communication open with all party leaders, held two meetingson Wednesday and Thursday with floor leaders of various parties. A functionary said, “Birla told floor leaders that they must participate in the Covid debate and speak about their experience and innovations and how they tackled Covid in their constituencies.” Congress floor leader in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury told HT: “The Rajya Sabha presiding officers have much to learn from our Speaker. He is the custodian of the House but he takes everyone along. I think his approach resolves a lot of problem.” Another functionary said, “There was a separate meeting with the TRS (Telangana Rashtra Samithi) lawmakers who were protesting over alleged low procurement of food grains by the Centre in Telangana. The Speaker allowed them to raise their issue and they were happy.” But disruptions might soon return to the House as the Opposition is determined to demand a legislative backing for the minimum support prices (MSP) for farmers. When asked, Birla said, “All issues are to be decided in the Business Advisory Committee meetings. I have no problem if all sides decide on a debate on MSP or any other issue. But the House must run.” The Lok Sabha has also improved the rate of government reply to issues raised by MPs during the Zero Hour. Till Thursday during the ongoing session, at least 70 issues have been raised during the Zero Hour. A senior functionary said that “PM Narendra Modi was also keen that MPs get replies from the government on the issues raised in Zero Hour.” ‘Apprise LS about LAC situation’Meanwhile, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Thursday demanded that the government must apprise the Lok Sabha about the border situation, in the backdrop of the ongoing conflict between India and China. Chowdhury later told HT: “The government managers have informed me that they will issue a statement on the border situation.”
03-12-2021||India||Amit Shah lauds UP govt over law and order, takes a swipe at Akhilesh||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday said that the law and order situation has improved in Uttar Pradesh under the Yogi Adityanath government, emphasising that the dacoity rate fell by 70% in comparison to the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) regime led by Akhilesh Yadav.Shah was addressing a public meeting at Puwarka in Saharanpur district on Thursday after laying the foundation stone of the Maa Shakumbhari State University along with chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, other ministers and party leaders.The home minister said people of western UP were facing the terror of the mafia earlier but the Yogi government had restored the honour of the region by initiating stern action against criminals.“The mafia and criminals now surrender before the police,” Shah said and appreciated Yogi Adityanath for providing security to the people, especially women and girls, by creating an atmosphere free of fear.Hitting out at Akhilesh Yadav, Shah said that he had heard the SP leader’s claim that crime has increased in UP under the Yogi government and asked “Akhileshji aap kahan se chashma laaye ho? (From where have you bought your glasses?)”“I have comparative data of crime under both governments,” he said.He asserted that the crime rate had reduced during BJP rule in Uttar Pradesh and incidents of loot declined by 69%, cases of murder by 30% and dowry deaths by 22.5% in comparison to the previous government. He advised Akhilesh Yadav to go home and examine the data.Listing the achievements of the Narendra Modi government, he said the Prime Minister had done what no one else could do in the past 70 years.He repealed Article 370 of the Constitution, provided justice to Muslim women by doing away with triple talaq and a grand Ram Mandir is now being built in Ayodhya, Shah said.The home minister also said the new university in Saharanpur will help in providing good education to youths of the districts nearby and they would no longer have to go outside to pursue their studies.He also mentioned a free ration scheme to poor. Besides, Shah said 90% of the sugarcane dues had been paid and the remaining 10% payment would also be made soon.He accused previous governments of hatching a conspiracy to sell sugar mills and said a CBI inquiry is underway to probe these deals.“No sugar mill was sold under the Yogi government,” he added and called upon the people to ensure the BJP’s victory in over 300 seats in the forthcoming assembly elections in the state.Reacting to Shah’s remarks, Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “From top to bottom, the BJP leadership lies. Under the BJP rule, the state for four and a half years had been grabbing headlines nationally for crimes. Crime in all categories has risen. Hathras, Pratapgarh, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, almost all districts reported major crimes. In custody deaths or crimes against Dalits, the government got a rap from SC and the human rights commission. Even farmers were mowed down by BJP leaders. The government and its lies are exposed and people will throw this government out and bring in an SP government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-lauds-up-govt-over-law-and-order-takes-a-swipe-at-akhilesh-101638473802915.html
03-12-2021||India||Winter session: Rajya Sabha passes Dam Safety Bill amid protest by Opposition||NEW DELHI: The Parliament on Thursday passed a bill to prevent dam disasters through regular surveillance, inspection, operation and maintenance, with the Rajya Sabha approving the legislation amid several Opposition parties calling it an assault on federalism and demanding that the bill be sent to the select committee for scrutiny. The Lok Sabha passed the Dam Safety Bill, 2019, which seeks to provide a robust legal and institutional framework for ensuring the safety of dams. The Upper House passed the bill by voice vote even as a motion to send it to the select committee of the house was defeated with 80 lawmakers voting against it and 26 in favour. Responding to a discussion on the bill in which 22 MPs took part, Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat addressed the concerns of several opposition MPs that the Centre’s intention was to encroach on the powers of state governments, saying the government followed the principle of cooperative federalism in its working. Several parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, DMK, CPI (M) and RJD, accused the government of usurping the powers of state governments as dams were a state subject and the Centre could not make rules for the states. Stressing on the need for a country-wide protocol for dam safety, Shekhawat said the government sought the solicitor general’s advice before bringing the bill and the legal opinion was that the government could legislate on dam safety under the relevant Constitutional provisions.The minister recounted several recent dam disasters and the destruction of lives and property caused by the incidents, adding that the dam safety law was essential to protect the country, its citizens and the riverine ecosystem. The bill addresses issues encompassing regular inspection of dams, emergency action plans, comprehensive dam safety reviews, instrumentation and safety manuals. It also fixes accountability for dam safety on the dam owner and provides for penal provisions for commission and omission of certain acts. It also lays down owners of dams will have to earmark sufficient funds for maintenance. Earlier taking part in the discussion on the bill, Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil said the government had no right to legislate on a state subject and the bill was against the provisions of the Constitution. RJD MP Manoj Kumar Jha said that the government was always trying to encroach on state subjects and violating the principle of federalism, even as he demanded that bill be sent to the select committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-rajya-sabha-passes-dam-safety-bill-amid-protest-by-opposition-101638473689289.html
03-12-2021||India||Cong leadership not a ‘divine right’: Row over Oppn space||A tussle between the Congress and its one-time ally Trinamool Congress (TMC) over leadership of the Opposition intensified on Thursday with the former criticising Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and TMC’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor saying no one had the “divine right” to lead the grand old party.The war of words came a day after Banerjee launched an unprecedented, though veiled, attack on the Congress and said the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA), a coalition she was a part of, didn’t exist anymore. She said if someone stayed abroad “half the time” and wasn’t on the field, the BJP will “bowl you out”, ostensibly a reference to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Also Read | Mamata Banerjee in Mumbai: What is UPA? There is no UPAHer comment was seen as adding to the TMC’s attempts to aggressively expand its national footprint, keep the Congress at bay and emerge as a national alternative to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).On Thursday, Kishor, widely credited for the TMC’s victory in the Bengal election in May, appeared to expand on the idea. “The IDEA and SPACE that #Congress represents is vital for strong opposition. But Congress’ leadership is not the DIVINE RIGHT of an individual especially, when the party has lost more than 90% elections in last 10 years,” he tweeted. “Let opposition leadership be decided democratically,” he added. The Congress hit back immediately. “Hell hath no fury like a strategist scorned,” said the party’s national spokesperson Pawan Khera.Later in the day, party general secretary Randeep Surjewala launched a more frontal attack on Banerjee. “For her, it can be political expediency, but for us fighting the BJP and RSS is close to us,” he said.“Is Mamata not doing the same as Modi ji is doing. Modi ji is buying legislators and so is Mamata ji. Modi ji is breaking parties and so is Mamata ji doing in breaking parties,” he added.Banerjee and the Congress leadership enjoyed a warm personal relationship but ties dipped sharply in recent months as the TMC signalled its national ambitions, entering the electoral space in Goa, Tripura and most recently, Meghalaya. On the other hand, the Congress was roiled by the exit of prominent leaders and internal disagreements over the party’s direction. In the last three months, the TMC engineered high-profile defections from the Congress, including former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro and ex-Assam MP Sushmita Dev. Last week, the TMC poached 12 lawmakers from the Congress in Meghalaya, including former CM Mukul Sangma. Kishor is seen as the primary architect of the TMC’s political manoeuvres.On Wednesday, Banerjee also made a pitch for unifying opposition parties to take on the BJP. She was accompanied during the media interaction by NCP chief Sharad Pawar. The Congress dismissed her remarks. “Without the Congress, the UPA will be a body without a soul. Time to show opposition unity,” tweeted senior leader Kapil Sibal, without referring to Banerjee.Also Read | ‘UPA will be a body without…’: Kapil Sibal replies to Mamata's ‘what is UPA’Kishor and the Congress, for whom the strategist worked in 2017, also share a tumultuous history. According to people familiar with the matter, talks between Kishor and the Congress broke down three months ago amid resistance from a significant part of the party to Kishor’s demands. Kishor responded to a request for comment with a smiley emoji.Two senior Congress leaders said Kishor had a set of demands for his entry in the Congress.Also Read | Opposition cannot be limited to UPA; need broader front with collective leadership, says NCP“He wanted to be a member of the Congress Working Committee, the top executive body and be appointed as general secretary election planning of the AICC,” said a senior leader, who is also an MP. Neither was an issue; the Congress has seen lateral entries at senior levels: K Raju, an IAS-officer turned Rahul Gandhi aide, and Praveen Chakravarthy, the chief of data analytics department, and a few others.“But he also proposed that starting from the booth level right up to the state unit level of the Congress there would be a parallel structure exclusively to handle elections. This raised a lot of questions,” said the second leader.The first leader added that timing may have been an issue; Kishor said he would start working with the Congress after the Uttar Pradesh and Punjab elections.“Several leaders also questioned why he wanted to start working for the Congress after the UP and Punjab elections—top priorities for the party.”There was also distrust. “Some questioned whether he could be trusted to stay with the Congress when he was in demand from many parties such as TMC, DMK, YSRCP.” Both leaders did not want to be identified.“Four months back, in August , Congress president Sonia Gandhi sought the opinion of each and every CWC member on Kishor’s proposal. Many senior leaders felt that the structure that PK proposed might run parallel to the AICC-appointed hierarchy in the states,” said a third leader, a senior member of the CWC, who spoke on condition of anonymity.On July 13, Kishor met Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. A month later, he quit as political advisor to then Punjab CM Amarinder Singh. Kishor earlier worked with Rahul Gandhi when he was in charge of the Congress’ unsuccessful campaign (in partnership with the Samajwadi Party) in UP in 2017.
03-12-2021||India||Coal stocking norms for thermal plants revised: Govt to Lok Sabha||New Delhi: The Union government on Thursday informed Parliament that it has revised the coal stocking norms for thermal power plants across the country. It also informed the Lok Sabha that coal stocks at nearly 136 power plants have improved in November as compared to the previous two months. “Revised coal stocking norms have been formulated by Central Electricity Authority (CEA) mandating the coal stock of 17 days at pit head stations and 26 days at non-pit head stations to be maintained by power plants from February to June every year,” Union minister of power and new & renewable energy RK Singh said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. Non-pit head plants are power plants where the coal mine is more than 1,500 km away. Singh also informed that coal stocks at 136 power plants in the country improved to 18.95 million tonnes (MT) in November this year as compared to 8.07 MT in October and 10.37 MT in September. However, the current stock is still not as much of a comfortable situation as it can run all the plants for an average of 9.5 days. Senior power officials said the change in norms is significant because power plants will have to strictly follow these parameters, failing which penalties will be levied — an aspect that was not present in CEA regulations so far. “The power plants will now have to keep adequate coal stocks as per the new norms. It is aimed to avoid a repeat of the recent crisis when a significant capacity of generating station had to be shut down due to low coal stocks,” an official said on condition of anonymity. Earlier, power plants located at pit head plants were required to keep 15 days of coal stock, while the requirement increased to 20 days for plants located within 200 km from the mines, 25 days for those within 1,000 km and 30 days for plants situated further away from the mines. 
03-12-2021||India||Mullaperiyar dam: Vijayan writes to Tamil Nadu over releasing water||Protests erupted in many parts of the Idukki district on Thursday after Tamil Nadu opened shutters of Mullaperiyar dam on Wednesday night without proper warning, causing severe flooding in the area downstream. Around 40 houses were partially damaged due to the incident, the district administration said. The Kerala government asked the high-power committee for the dam to convene an urgent meeting to discuss this. State water resources minister Roshy Augustine said it was a serious issue and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will take it up with his Tamil Nadu counterpart at the earliest. “It is not right to release a large amount of water at night without any notice. It is a procedural violation that amounted to contempt of court also. We will also inform the Supreme Court about this in the next hearing,” said the minister. He said many people living in downstream areas were forced to shift to relief camps after water inundated their dwellings. This is the second time Tamil Nadu opened the dam without any warning, he said.Earlier, the state opened the shutters of the dam on Tuesday.Ten shutters of the dam were raised to 60 cms Wednesday night after the water level crossed the permissible limit of 142 feet. Later, seven shutters were closed after easing pressure. The situation aggravated after Tamil Nadu stopped water flow from the dam as its southern districts have been receiving heavy rains for almost a week. Residents of Vallakadavu, the nearest settlement to the dam, said alert activists averted a big tragedy by waking up many from their sleep. “We are lucky not to lose any life. Many were woken up from their deep slumber. It was an inhuman act,” said M Manikandan, a resident, adding that he lost everything in gushing water. Protests marches were organised mainly by Kerala Congress at several places, and some protestors blocked the Kollam-Dindigal highway for many hours. The officials lifted the blockade after the district collector ensured the locals that the issue will be taken up with the Tamil Nadu government at the earliest. A bone of contention between two neighbouring states, the Mullaperiyar dam is situated in the Periyar river inside the Periyar tiger reserve. Its water is diverted to the Suruliyar river, a tributary of the Vaigai river. It is the main source of agriculture and drinking water for five districts in southern Tamil Nadu. The dam was built under an agreement between the erstwhile royal family of Travancore and the British administration in 1886 to take water to famine-hit Tamil Nadu for irrigation. A major part of the west-flowing river was diverted to the east to flow through arid regions of the state. After independence, the dam became part of Kerala, and since then, the main share of water flows to the southern districts of Tamil Nadu, and it reaches Madurai. But its custody is with Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mullaperiyar-dam-vijayan-writes-to-tamil-nadu-over-releasing-water-101638473322692.html
03-12-2021||India||AIADMK announces polls for party top posts on December 7||A day after altering the bylaws for the party’s internal voting process, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) on Wednesday announced elections to the coordinator and joint coordinator positions to be held on December 7, said a statement from the party. Nominations for the posts will begin Friday, the statement said. The posts are currently occupied by O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami respectively.The elections will be held on a single voting system, where each member can cast only one vote to elect both leaders as a pair. The new changes to the bylaws transfer the power of voting from the party’s general council (about 3000 members) to the primary members (more than 1 crore cadres who have been members for five years). Officials said except Panneerselvam and Palaniswami, no other pair is expected to contest for the posts.“If there is no other nomination received, we will declare that these two candidates are being elected unopposed,” said a senior AIADMK leader.According to AIADMK’s by-laws, organisational elections have to be held once every five years. So this is the first time that nominations and elections to this position are being held. Reacting to the developments, Sasikala on Thursday released a statement addressing the AIADMK cadre, assuring them that the status quo will change soon. “Party cadre need not worry,” she said. “The state of the party will change soon. AIADMK has gone through a lot before and risen.” She also asked those who have been expelled for speaking to her and supporting her to be patient. On November 29 night, the AIADMK, in its first high profile sacking expelled minority wing leader A Anwar Raajhaa for speaking in favour of re-inducting Sasikala. “I will continue to keep working and not rest until I make this a cadres’ party,” Sasikala said.But the party continues to staunchly not let Sasikala and her family members in. “The cadre don’t want Sasikala back. She’s not even a basic member of the party,” former AIADMK minister C Ponniyan told reporters in Salem district on Thursday. “We look at it as anybody using the AIADMK flag on the streets.” Ponnaiyan and MLA Pollachi V Jayaraman will be election commissioners for this internal election.Experts said that the AIADMK wants to face the urban local body polls (which is likely to be December end or in January) as a united front. “Panneerselvam and Palaniswami’s power sharing arrangement is that they will either win or lose together. The intention behind all these changes is that they will have the consensus of the entire party cadre,” said political analyst Maalan Narayanan.“The AIADMK has been speaking in different voices recently. This will help the party to consolidate and speak in one voice,” said Maalan. 
03-12-2021||India||Uniform Mass row heats up in Kerala’s Catholic church||Many Catholic churches in Kerala last Sunday witnessed protests against the directive to implement a uniform way of conducting the Holy Mass from November 28 and burnt copies of the directive at several places. The Synod (supreme council of church to decide on doctrine and administration) had issued a directive in September to all dioceses under the Syro-Malabar church to conduct the Mass facing the altar from November 28, which also marks the church’s liturgical calendar.Many churches in Ernakulam-Angamally, Irinjalakuda and Faridabad (national capital region) dioceses kept away from uniform Mass on November 28 citing exemptions. Synod sought explanation from the oriental congregation saying exemption was only a temporary reprieve and all should embrace the new form at the earliest, people familiar with the development said.Almaya Munnettam, a laity organisation in Ernakulam-Angamally Archdiocese, which is leading the initiative against the uniform Mass, warned of serious consequences if the church goes ahead with its directive.“We approached Pope Francis and Cardinal Leonardo, perfect of the oriental congregation, and got exemption but the church is pushing ahead with its decision. We will not allow this to happen,” said Almaya Munnettam convenor Binu John, adding that any move to dilute exemption will be opposed.John said the latest notice seeking explanation from dioceses which failed to conduct the new form of Holy Mass angered some section.Protestors want independent rituals to stay and fear indigenous practices will vanish with uniform process, said people familiar of the development , and added that growing dissent may snowball into a major crisis and even lead to a split, if not solved amicably.“It is not simply facing the altar or not—whether to follow Syrian or Roman origin is the moot question here. The issue has been brewing for more than four decades but of late it gained prominence,” said George Podipara, a church watcher and a senior journalist, adding this is the main reason behind some of the recent feuds in the Syro-Malabar Church including dissent against senior most priest of the state Cardinal Mar George Alancherry.“It is true, earlier believers simply followed what priests and bishops said but now times have changed. It is not a mere friction over the Mass, it is a struggle between fundamentalists and progressive forces in the church,” Shaiju Antony, Almaya Munnettam spokesperson, said.Antony said orthodox section is pushing the church back by imposing uniformity and ignoring time-tested changes.Syro-Malabar Bishops’ Synod and editor of Light of Truth, a fortnightly, Father Paul Thelakat said that all types of fundamentalism impose uniformity.“Uniformity takes away local diversity. The protestors are anxious about the concept of authority which is not Christian but autocratic. Imposing uniformity is not at all a participatory way of exercising authority,” Thelakat said.Protestors said they have been facing to the people for entire duration of the Mass and the new directive makes difficult for them to face the altar throughout the Mass, and they insist for a 50:50 formula—half of the Mass facing believers and half facing the altar.However, supporters of the uniform Mass said only a minuscule section of priests and laity were opposing new changes.“We have been following the 50-50 formula for quite some time. It is time to change. The liturgical form is an identity of the church and it needs to be uniform,” said media commission secretary Father Alex Onampally, adding that dissenting priests and believers will be placated.
03-12-2021||India||Bengaluru doctor contracted new Covid-19 variant without international travel||Karnataka health department officials and members of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) haven’t been able to ascertain how one of the two people who tested positive for Omicron, got infected with the new variant of the Coronavirus. Unlike, the other person who had travelled from South Africa where the variant was initially detected, this local resident, does not have any history of international travel, confirmed state health minister Dr K Sudhakar. According to the chronology given by the BBMP, the first case of Omicron reported in Karnataka was that of a 66-year-old South African, who arrived in Bengaluru on November 20. He tested positive for the virus on the same day, and he was isolated. BBMP reports read that none of his 24 primary contacts and 240 secondary contacts tested positive for the virus. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta told HT that the second patient didn’t have any contact with the South African national. The report of the second patient says that he is a 44-year-old resident of Bengaluru and was working as a healthcare worker. Health minister Sudhakar further confirmed that he was a doctor working with a private hospital in the city. He developed fever and body ache on November 21 and tested positive the next day. Since he had a low CT value (which indicates a high viral load), his sample was sent for genomic sequencing. When asked how the patient got the new variant without travelling abroad or coming in contact with the South African national, the health minister said, “The patient must have come in contact with someone with travel history. We are still tracking it.” BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta refused to comment on the issue. The government has also confirmed that the patient was in home isolation between November 22 to 24 and on November 25, he was shifted to a hospital. However, he was discharged on November 27. The second patient had 13 primary contacts and 205 secondary contacts. Out of whom, three primary contacts and two secondary contacts have tested positive for Covid-19. They are currently at a government hospital, and they are not showing any severe symptoms. A senior health department official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the department or the BBMP doesn’t have any information about the source of the variant. “We believe the answer for this question could be found in contact tracing,” he said. However, KV Thrilok Chandra, special commissioner, BBMP (health) told HT that none of the five contacts of the doctor have any travel history. “As of now we don’t know how got the new variant,” said Chandra. A member of Karnataka’s Technical Advisory Committee said that it is possible that the variant must have entered the state before restrictions were put in place. “It is conjecture at this point, and it would be difficult to give a definite answer. Since all patients and their contacts have no history of travel, we can also assume that the variant must have come in early. But there is no need to panic. There is no evidence suggesting that this variant is deadly. So, we should focus on handling this variant,” said the doctor who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-doctor-contracted-new-covid-19-variant-without-international-travel-101638472963670.html
03-12-2021||India||Pedestrians not following norms for walking, crossing roads cause deaths: Govt to Rajya Sabha||New Delhi: Pedestrian deaths in the country occur mostly because people do not follow the norms laid down for walking and crossing roads during traffic, the Union government has told Parliament, evoking sharp criticism from experts, who questioned the Centre over lack of adequate walking infrastructure.“Generally, such deaths occur due to pedestrians not following norms laid down for walking along roads or trying to cross roads during traffic. Accidents also occur due to over-speeding vehicles,” Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari told the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, in a written reply to a question by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Uttar Pradesh, Brij Lal.The ministry also placed on record that the government has, so far, not conducted any study to analyse the causes of pedestrian deaths in the country. “To prevent road accidents and save lives, the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, 2019 passed by Parliament, focuses on road safety and includes, inter-alia, hike in penalties for traffic violations, electronic monitoring of the same, enhanced penalties for juvenile driving, computerisation/automation of vehicle fitness and driving, tests, recall of defective vehicles, streamlining the third-party insurance and payment of increased compensation for hit and run cases etc. The Amendment has strengthened the law to improve the road safety scenario and reduce loss of lives. However, no study on why pedestrian deaths happen is available or has been conducted,” the reply stated.According to data provided by the Centre to the Rajya Sabha, a total of 23,483 pedestrian deaths due to road accidents were recorded in 2020. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, the number of pedestrian deaths last year saw a marginal dip from 2019, when 25,858 pedestrians were killed in road accidents. In 2018, as many as 22,656 pedestrian deaths were reported from across the country.Overall, 131,714 people were killed in road accidents across the country in 2020 calendar year, down from 151,113 recorded in 2019, according to the government data. Reacting sharply to the Centre’s reply on pedestrian deaths, Kamal Soi, member of the National Road Safety Council, said the government’s approach to urban and safe mobility was wrong. “This is a ridiculous and absurd answer and I, despite being a member of the government of India’s road safety council, do not endorse this. We have not created the necessary infrastructure for pedestrians and still we have the audacity to blame them for their own deaths. It is the sole responsibility of all the agencies to create and ensure adequate infrastructure for safe pedestrian movement. The world is moving towards walking and cycling as a last-mile connectivity mode and here we have lawmakers having such a fundamentally wrong approach to policies,” Soi added.Shreya Gadepalli, managing trustee at Urban Works Institute, said designing cities for people rather than cars could ensure that “streets are full of life, not deaths”.“Road crashes have become so common that they hardly evoke any reaction in us anymore. There is disconnect in the way we design our streets and the way we want our drivers to behave. You may have often come across road signs that read: “speed thrills but kills”. But if we want people to drive slower, why do we design streets as racing tracks? Why do we have highways within cities that become barriers for people to cross? Why is an attempt to even slightly widen footpaths seen as an encroachment on space that “rightfully” belongs to motorists,” she added.Piyush Tewari, founder & CEO of SaveLIFE Foundation, said almost 72,000 pedestrians have lost their lives on Indian roads in the last three years, which points towards a dangerous trend. “In a bid to make roads safer for pedestrians, states must urgently implement the Motor Vehicles Amendment Act, 2019 and in particular, Section 138(1A) of the MVAA 2019, which deals with pedestrian safety. Since pedestrians have the first right of way on roads, there must be mandatory walking infrastructure for pedestrians and this must be incorporated at the stage of road design,” Tewari added.
03-12-2021||India||IITs record increase in placements, packages||Placement session across the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) witnessed institutes recording a significant increase in the number of jobs being offered with higher packages compared to last year. The session began on Wednesday.While the IIT-Delhi recorded a 45% jump in the number of jobs being offered to students on the first day, IIT-Madras witnessed a jump of 43% as compared to last year, officials said. At IIT Delhi, at least 60 offers of above ₹1 crore packages were made on day one. Similarly, at IIT Roorkee, a student received an annual package of ₹2.15 crore by an international tech firm and at IIT-Banaras Hindu University (BHU), one student secured an annual package of ₹2 crores, officials said. According to the IITs, the placement session was conducted virtually like last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The placement cycle in IITs spans from December to May. The first phase of the placement will conclude by mid-December. In a statement issued on Thursday, the IIT-Delhi said, “There has been over 45% increase in the number of offers received by the campus and over 35% increase in the indicative compensation offered by companies visiting on December 1, 2021, in comparison to last year.” The Institute witnessed over 400 placement offers, including pre-placement offers (PPOs), on Wednesday. “Around 180 PPOs, highest in the last five years, have been received as of now,” the Institute said. Similarly, IIT-Madras recorded 176 offers from 34 companies on day one. “This is higher than any of the preceding academic year and 43% more compared to the day one of last year when 123 offers were made by 22 companies,” the Institute said in a statement. The institute said that apart from these 176 offers, 231 PPOs were also made to students, taking the total number of offers being received to 407 by the end of the first session on day one. The first phase of placement in IIT-Madras is expected to continue till December 10. Similar trends were observed at other IITs. According to a statement issued by IIT-Mandi, the Institute witnessed a 13% rise in the average salary, a 16% rise in the median salary and a 9% rise in the maximum salary being offered to its students, as compared to last year. At IIT-Roorkee, the highest domestic package last year was ₹80 lakh, which increased to ₹1.8 crores this year. The highest international package offered shot up to ₹2.15 crore per annum this year from ₹69.05 lakh. Similarly, at IIT-Guwahati, 200 job offers were extended to its students, as compared to 158 offers made on the first day of last year’s session. At IIT-Banaras Hindu University (BHU), 232 students received offer letters from 55 companies with an average package of ₹32.89 lakh per annum and a minimum of ₹12 lakh. Explaining the reason behind the significant jump in placements despite the pandemic situation, Vinay Sharma, in charge, IIT-Roorkee Placement and Internship Cell, said the institute had made a strategy for placement season to suit the pandemic situation. “Pandemic has brought some directional changes in the placement scenario. We accordingly made our strategy for this placement season, wherein we tied up with the best of companies in sectors related to AI, software, networks, analytics, e-commerce, FMCG, quants, finance, manufacturing and others with a sincere focus on the core sector,” he said. “We deeply analysed the economic growth across the globe and accordingly collaborated with established growing firms, based on forecasting done by our team. With all the above strategies, we were able to do exceedingly well in international as well as domestic offers,” he added. Tushar Jain, advisor (career and placement cell) at IIT Mandi, said, “The pandemic has also changed the recruitment process entirely from in-person to virtual mode, which offered new ways and means of interacting to explore among the students and companies. Since students have undergone regular online classes and their exams, whether written or viva-voce, also went online, their performance was remarkable in this interaction. We may see the hybrid modus operandi of the recruitment process in the future.” 
03-12-2021||India||West Bengal: Calcutta high court quashes Pocso charges in assault case||The Calcutta high court quashed charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against a man from West Bengal’s Murshidabad district who was sentenced to four years in jail for pulling the dupatta (scarf) of a Class 12 student, proposing marriage and threatening to burn her with acid if she refused. The high court order, which was passed on November 11 by justice Bibek Chaudhuri, said the lower court failed to study the details of the alleged crime and apparent discrepancies in the statements made by the victim and her uncle who lodged the first complaint. The court said that even if the man had dragged the woman’s scarf, pulled her hand and proposed to her, it did not qualify as either sexual assault or sexual harassment.Justice Chaudhuri said that there were discrepancies in the date and time of the alleged crime as per the statements of the minor, the eyewitness was not examined and all other prosecution witnesses were found to be of little relevance.“In a criminal trial, the date of occurrence, time of occurrence and place of occurrence are the most vital pieces of evidence …If there is a deviation of the above-mentioned three facts, the entire case remains doubtful,” said the order.The accused, Nurai Sk alias Nurul Sk, was charged under Sections 354, 354 A (ii), 354B 506 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 8 and 12 of the POCSO Act. He was sent to four years in jail by a lower court and later appealed against his conviction.“It is needless to say that the victim girl who was a student of Class 12, on the date of examination, might forget the date of occurrence but it is hard to believe that she also would forget the time when the incident took place…In view of such discrepancies, it is open for the court to consider the prosecution story with a pinch of salt,” the judge added.“Even assuming that the appellant has committed the alleged act of dragging ‘orna’ [scarf] and pulling hand of the victim and proposed her to marry, such act does not come within the definition of either sexual assault or sexual harassment. At best for the act of the accused, he may be held liable for committing offence under Section 354 A read with Section 506 of the Indian Penal Code,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-calcutta-high-court-quashes-pocso-charges-in-assault-case-101638472602369.html
03-12-2021||India||Use of drones by terrorists poses challenge: BSF chief||The repeated use of drones for dropping drugs, arms and ammunition by Pakistan-based terror organisations and smugglers into Indian territory is turning out to be challenge for the Border Security Force (BSF) and investigation agencies, according to officials familiar with the matter.According to BSF chief Pankaj Kumar Singh, the majority of drones (around 95%) carry narcotics from across the border. Singh on Tuesday said it was hard to intercept, stall and deactivate them all.
03-12-2021||India||India needs additional $1 trillion to achieve its climate goals: Govt to Rajya Sabha||New Delhi: India will require approximately $1 trillion by 2030 to achieve the India’s national goal on climate change which was announced at the Glasgow Climate Change Conference (COP 26) last month, the Union environment ministry informed the Rajya Sabha on Thursday.To be sure, the announcements made at Glasgow are not yet nationally determined contributions (NDCs). Under the Paris Agreement, India submitted its NDCs in 2015 with three quantifiable targets, and they remain the same.These included reducing the emissions intensity of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 33 to 35% by 2030 from 2005 level; to achieve about 40% cumulative electric power installed capacity from non-fossil fuel-based energy resources by 2030; and to create an additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 billion tonnes of CO2eq through additional forest and tree cover by 2030.On top of these, PM Modi as part of India’s national statement announced on November 1 in Glasgow that: the country’s non-fossil energy capacity will reach 500 GW by 2030; it will meet 50% of its energy requirements with renewable energy by 2030; it will reduce its total projected carbon emissions by one billion tonnes between now and 2030; it will reduce the carbon intensity of its economy by 45% by 2030, over 2005 levels; and it will, by 2070, achieve the target of net zero emissions.India’s climate actions have so far been largely financed from domestic resources and as per preliminary estimates, and at least US $2.5 trillion (at 2014-15 prices) would be needed for the Paris NDCs. In addition, “it is estimated that additional announcements by India require additional climate financing requirements to the tune of approximately $1 trillion by 2030. India’s commitments balance the concerns and priorities of climate change, sustainable development including poverty eradication, and economic growth of the country,” the ministry’s reply said.HT had reported on November 10 from Glasgow that India’s NDC is likely to be conditional to delivery of climate finance.“The NDCs India announced in 2015 remain its NDCs. Whether India upgrades its NDCs and includes the new announcements remains to be seen. The new announcements are domestic goals for now. India has made a preliminary estimate of how much money India will need to achieve additional announcements which is substantial and in keeping with India’s commitment to ambitious climate action,” said former climate negotiator and ambassador, Manjeev Singh Puri responding to the Rajya Sabha reply.To a question on when India will phase out coal powered plants in India, the ministry said coal will stay a major source of energy in India. “India’s climate actions under Paris Agreement are nationally determined, and are undertaken in the context of equity, and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities in the light of national circumstances. Being an affordable source of energy with substantial reserve, coal is going to stay as major source of energy in the foreseeable future. Despite push for renewables, country will require base load capacity of coal-based generation for stability and also for energy security.”India managed to gain quite a few elements from COP 26. According to ministry’s reply to another question on positive outcomes at COP 26, the ministry said on markets carbon markets (Article 6 of the Paris Agreement) has been finally resolved in a balanced manner that takes into account the concerns of developing countries, including India. India, along with other developing countries, convinced developed countries to agree for a transition of pre-2020 (Kyoto era carbon credits). The conclusion of Article 6 lays the ground for participation of the private sector in the new carbon markets that will emerge under the Paris Agreement.On a question on why India is not a signatory to the global methane pledge, the ministry said in the context of food security, India’s methane emissions are “survival” emissions. The global methane pledge was proposed by the European Union and the United States of America at the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate on September 17 targeting at 30% reduction in global methane emissions from 2020 levels by 2030. The two predominant sources of methane emissions in India are enteric fermentation and paddy cultivation. These emissions result from the agricultural activities of small, marginal, and medium farmers across India, whose livelihood stands threatened by the methane pledge, the ministry said.Agriculture in developed countries is dominated by industrial agriculture. For India, methane emissions are ‘survival’ emissions and not luxury emissions, it argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-additional-1-trillion-to-achieve-its-climate-goals-govt-to-rajya-sabha-101638472545191.html
03-12-2021||India||Param Bir Singh suspended for dereliction of duty||The Maharashtra government on Thursday suspended former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh from service for alleged dereliction of duty and initiated disciplinary proceedings against the officer facing charges of extortion and corruption.An order issued by the state home department said the 1988-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was suspended under section 3 and 4 of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules 1969. While section 3 refers to suspension, section 4 pertains to subsistence, an allowance during the suspension period.The order, signed by deputy secretary Venkatesh Bhat and a copy of which HT has seen, mentioned four criminal cases against the former top cop on charges of corruption, extortion, violation of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act at police stations in Marine Lines, Kalyan and Thane. Singh was appointed as director general of home guardson March 18after his removal as Mumbai Police commissioner on March 17 in the aftermath of explosives being found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia. He was absconding for six months before appearing before the police and a judicial commission on November 25 and 29, respectively. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who was in hospital after surgery on November 12 and discharged on Thursday,cleared the proposal for the suspension on Wednesday. “Besides the criminal cases registered under various sections of Indian Penal Code, Param Bir Singh has also been found guilty of dereliction of duty in the Antilia explosives scare case. He remained absent from his duty without informing the state government and producing medical certificates. He did not even inform us after coming back last week. This has been a violation of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules 1969,” a senior official in the home department said, seeking anonymity. Days after his removal as the top cop, the officer had written a letter to Thackeray, alleging that then home minister Anil Deshmukh had directed crime branch officials to collect ₹100 crore every month from businessmen in Mumbai. Deshmukh, who resigned later, has denied the charge. The inquiry commission looking into these allegations directed Singh to record his statement, but the IPS officer, who was virtually incommunicado since May, turned up only last week after the Supreme Court granted him relief from arrest.  According to the home department official cited above, as the state does not have the power to dismiss any IPS officer, it will submit a detailed report to the central government along with an inquiry report for further action.“We will send a detailed report on the charges faced by him and the outcome of the investigation. The decision whether to recommend his dismissal will be taken at an appropriate time,” the official added. The order also said that during the suspension period, Singh should not leave his headquarter, the office of DG Home Guard, without permission of the state director general of police.Besides Singh, deputy commissioner of police Parag Manere was also suspended under similar charges. During the period of Manere’s suspension his headquarter will be Nagpur SP office and he will not be able to leave it sans permission. Singh was found guilty in a departmental inquiry by additional chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty for dereliction of duty.Mumbai court cancels proclamation order against Singh in extortion caseMeanwhile, the city’s Esplanade Court cancelled its proclamation offender order against Singh in an extortion case registered against him in suburban Goregaon.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate S B Bhajipale had on November 17 issued the proclamation order declaring former Singh as an absconder.However, after Singh appeared before the court last week, his lawyer moved an application seeking cancellation of the proclamation order.
03-12-2021||India||Bhaichung, Anju Bobby George among 7 new members of Mission Olympic Cell||Former hockey captain Sardar Singh, long-jump icon Anju Bobby George and Indian football legend Bhaichung Bhutia were among the seven new members of the Mission Olympic Cell (MOC), as the country looks to build on its success at the Tokyo Olympics, an official government release said on Wednesday. Shooting legend Anjali Bhagwat, badminton ace Trupti Murgunde, former hockey skipper and CEO of Olympic Gold Quest Viren Rasquinha, and table tennis star Monalisa Mehta were the other former athletes added to the MOC tasked to steer 2024 Paris Olympics preparation through the Target Olympics Podium Scheme (TOPS), an initiative of the sports ministry.“The inputs by former athletes in the incumbent MOC played a significant role in supporting the training and competition of the athletes who competed in Tokyo 2020 and won 7 medals & 19 in Para Olympic Games,” sports minister Anurag Thakur said.Olympian sailor and sports science specialist Malav Shroff, along with Athletics Federation of India (AFI) president Adile Sumariwalla and TOPS CEO Commodore Pushpendra Garg are also part of the MOC, which will be chaired by Sandip Pradhan, director-general of the Sports Authority of India (SAI).Narinder Dhruv Batra, Union minister Arjun Munda, Ajay Singh, and Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh will all be part of the MOC by virtue of being presidents of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), Archery Association of India, Boxing Federation of India, and Wrestling Federation of India respectively.CEO and joint CEO of TOPS will act as the convenor and co-convenor of the MOC respectively. The executive director of the SAI teams department and ministry of youth affairs and sports (MYAS) will be part of the committee.MOC has been set up by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) to select athletes for financial assistance under the TOPS and prepare them for the Olympic Games. The MOC also focuses on the selection, exclusion, and retention of athletes, coaches, training institutes that can receive TOPS assistance.The Indian contingent returned with a record seven medals, including a historic athletics gold, from the Tokyo Olympics, followed by the para athletes’ stellar show at the ensuing Paralympics in the Japanese capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhaichung-anju-bobby-george-among-7-new-members-of-mission-olympic-cell-101638472362162.html
03-12-2021||India||7 states to use Zydus in adults for now: Centre||Zydus Cadila’s Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D will initially be used in districts in seven states having low first dose coverage before it is rolled out nationwide, the Union health ministry said on Thursday.However, the world’s first DNA-based and needle-free Covid-19 vaccine, which is also the first to have been approved by India’s drug regulator for those aged 12 years and above, will only be administered to adults in the seven states for now, people familiar with the matter said.Also Read | Zydus Cadila to supply 10 million doses of Covid-19 jab to Centre by December: ReportThe seven states where ZyCoV-D will be administered in the first phase are Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.“Seven states (Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh & West Bengal) where ZyCoV-D vaccine will be used initially may identify districts with high number of first dose left out for introduction of the vaccine,” the Union health ministry said in a statement.The national training for administering the vaccine has been completed, and the above mentioned states have been asked to plan sessions based on the needle-free PharmaJet injector and identify vaccinators to be trained for using it for vaccination, it added.On August 20, the Drugs Controller General of India granted emergency use authorization to ZyCoV-D but it is yet to be included in the vaccination drive.According to the company, the Centre has placed an order of one crore (10 million) doses of the vaccine.Meanwhile, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan reviewed the status and progress of the “Har Ghar Dastak” (door to door) campaign with health secretaries and National Health Mission (NHM) directors of the states and Union territories through a video-conference.The Centre’s month-long special vaccination drive, which began on November 3 and will continue till December 31, resulted in an 11.7% jump in second dose, and 5.9% increase in the first dose coverage. The campaign was launched with an aim to inoculate the entire population in poor-performing districts.“The ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ nation-wide Covid-19 vaccination campaign has resulted in a hike of 5.9% in the 1st dose coverage (till 30th Nov), and an appreciable jump of 11.7% in 2nd dose Covid-19 vaccination coverage during the campaign...,” the statement said.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 1,250 million doses on Thursday, of which, 791.3 million (84.3%) beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 458.2 million (49%) received the second dose, according to a provisional government report.
03-12-2021||India||Kejriwal vows quality education, aid for kin of slain soldiers in Punjab||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday hit back at Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over his “kaala angrez” (black Englishman) jibe, saying that this “dark-complexioned man doesn’t make false promises”.The Punjab CM had on Wednesday dubbed the AAP a party of “kaale angrez”, who are trying to take over Punjab after “chitte angrez” (British) were ousted from the country.Hitting back at Channi, Kejriwal said: “This time our (AAP) government will be formed in Punjab and this black person (Kejriwal) will fulfil all his promises. I do not make false declarations, because my intentions are clear and not false. Everyone knows whose intentions are false.”“My mothers and sisters like this ‘kala bhai’ (dark-complexioned brother). Everyone knows my intent is clear and everyone knows whose intent is bad,” Kejriwal told reporters at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar, before heading to Pathankot.He also accused the Punjab chief minister of abusing him for promising ₹1,000 a month to women in the state if AAP is voted to power. “I respect Channi sahab a lot. But, ever since I have announced that each woman in the state will be given ₹1,000 per month, he has been abusing me. A few days ago, he taunted me for wearing ordinary clothes, but I want to tell him I have no problem with this,” he said.“Yesterday, he told me that I am ‘kaala’ (dark complexioned). I agree my colour is dark. I tour every village and while out in the bright sun, my skin has got tanned. Like him, I don’t tour in helicopters,” he added. “My mothers and sisters like this ‘kaala bhai’ (dark-complexioned brother). Everyone knows my intent is clear and everyone knows whose intent is bad.”Later, at a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Pathankot, Kejriwal hailed the region as a land of heroes. “Pathankot and Gurdaspur have the highest number of recruits in the Indian Army and sacrifice their lives while defending the borders of the Nation,” he said.The party leaders said the rally, which started from the local Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk and ended at Dhangu Chowk on Dalhousie Road, is dedicated to unity, integrity and brave warriors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-vows-quality-education-aid-for-kin-of-slain-soldiers-in-punjab-101638471944602.html
03-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India: Share plan on booster Covid vaccine dose, opposition asks govt||In view of the threat from a new Covid-19 variant, Omicron, opposition parties on Thursday sought to know from the Centre about the roadmap for vaccination and clarity on booster dose, even as the government hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s steps to combat the pandemic.In a discussion in the Lok Sabha on the Covid pandemic, opposition members flagged views on booster doses of vaccines for the elderly and those with co-morbidities and demanded that the government spell out its policy on the issue.Also Read | Serum Institute seeks DCGI nod for Covishield booster shot amid Omicron scare“What is the situation on booster doses, we want to know. The vaccination coverage should be scaled up further. If we could vaccinate 2.5 crore people on a single day on one occasion, why hasn’t it picked up to that level after that. The effort has to be sincere, and we are there to support the government,” Gaurav Gogoi, deputy leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, said.Speaking on similar lines, Trinamool Congress (TMC) member Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said: “Why should our not elderly be given the booster dose?”Telangana Desam Party’s Jayadev Galla stressed on the need to take quick decisions on booster doses for the full-vaccinated and to vaccinate those below 18 years of age.Referring to Covid-19 vaccine exports, Galla said he is given to understand that about 25 million vaccines have been exported to various countries.Also Read | Policy on booster, additional Covid-19 vaccine doses in 2 weeks: Dr NK Arora“So, I request the health minister to immediately stop the vaccine exports and let the days of giving 2.5 crore vaccines in a single day come back, and continue to ramp up administering the vaccine,” he said.YSR Congress member Kumari Godetti Madhavi suggested utilising the unused stock of five to 10 million vaccine doses with the private sector for administering the booster doses to healthcare and frontline workers.Leader of Congress in the Lower House, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, asked the government to provide a roadmap for vaccinating all eligible adults against Covid-19 by December-end. In May, Union minister Prakash Javadekar had said that vaccination against Covid-19 in India will be completed by the end of the year.“What are you (the government) doing to vaccinate all eligible adults by December? Give the House a roadmap for vaccinating all eligible adults by December,” he said.Chowdhury also said that the new Omicron variant was proving to be a threat as it is the “most dangerous of all variants”.CPM member AM Ariff alleged that no one knows how much money was collected under the PM CARES Fund. He said the government issued Covid-19 vaccination certificates to all with the “smiling photograph of our prime minister”.“But actually we should have the picture of our honorable Supreme Court, without the intervention of which this government would have allowed pharma companies to loot state governments and people below 45 years by charging exorbitantly high and differential price for vaccines,” Ariff said.Shiv Sena leader Vinayak Raut also hit out at the Centre over its Covid management, and lamented that Parliament was discussing the issue 21 months after the outbreak of the disease and at a time when cases were on the decline. Referring to the Omicron variant of the virus, he demanded close coordination among state governments and the Centre.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Jagdambika Pal said both Opposition and the Treasury benches sharing views on Covid was a step that reflected “strengthening of democracy”. He hailed the prime minister’s resolve to build an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ following the Covid outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-india-share-plan-on-booster-covid-vaccine-dose-opposition-asks-govt-101638471713956.html
03-12-2021||India||Winter session: Stalemate continues in Rajya Sabha over suspension of 12 MPs||New Delhi: On the fourth day of the ongoing winter session of Parliament, the Rajya Sabha concluded the proceedings with the passage of the Dam Safety Bill, but not before the Opposition staged a walkout during the first half of the day in protest against the chair’s decision of not allowing a discussion on inflation and for not permitting the leader of the opposition to raise the issue of suspension of 12 lawmakers.Also Read | Opposition lawmakers hold protest against suspension of Rajya Sabha membersThe House was adjourned nine minutes after convening for business on Thursday, when the opposition parties objected to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu not giving Leader of Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge, a chance to speak on the suspension of 12 lawmakers. When the House reconvened at 12 noon, the Opposition pressed Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the chair, to drop the Question Hour and take up a discussion on inflation. A walkout by a clutch of Opposition parties, including the Congress, RJD, NCP and TRS ensued when the chair did not permit the discussion. The Trinamool Congress and DMK also walked out separately.With no end in sight to the stalemate between the government and the opposition, Naidu urged both sides to find a way to end the logjam over the suspension of 12 MPs. Both the government and the opposition have hardened their respective stance—the former insisting on an apology and the latter adamant on not complying. The suspended lawmakers also continued their sit-in protest outside the House.
03-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India: Mandaviya meets airport officials over screening of passengers||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday held a meeting with airport and port health officers as well as other authorities over screening and surveillance at all points of entries amid concerns over the new coronavirus variant ‘Omicron’, official sources said.The health ministry has been advising states and Union territories to keep a strict vigil and undertake surveillance of international passengers coming to the country through various airports.Testing of samples of international travellers coming from ‘at risk’ countries on the first day and of specified category of passengers on the eighth day needs to be scrupulously done, it had stressed.International passengers from at-risk countries are being advised to wait at airports till the report of the RT-PCR test is available.States/UTs have been asked to send all positive samples for genome sequencing to INSACOG labs (mapped with states) promptly and that the states should undertake contact tracing of positive individuals and follow up for 14 days.The new potentially more contagious B.1.1.529 variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 24, and has been designated as a “Variant of Concern” by the global body, which named it “Omicron”.A “variant of concern” is the WHO’s top category of worrying COVID-19 variants.The health ministry had on Tuesday revised the guidelines for international arrivals which mandate that 2 per cent of the total flight passengers coming from countries which are not in the ‘at risk category’ will also be tested on random basis at the airports for COVID-19.Apart from that, travellers from countries, excluding those countries at risk, will be allowed to leave the airport and shall self-monitor their health for 14 days post arrival.Passengers originating or transiting from at-risk countries will have to undergo RT-PCR testing post arrival and will be required to wait for the results at the arrival airport before leaving or taking a connecting flight, according to the revised guidelines which came in effect from December 1.If tested negative, they will follow home quarantine for seven days and will undergo re-test on the 8th day of arrival in India, and if again negative, further self-monitor their health for next seven days, according to the Guidelines for International Arrivals (in supersession of all guidelines issued on the subject on and after November 28, 2021).However, if such travellers are tested positive, their samples should be sent for genomic testing at INSACOG laboratory network.They shall be managed at separate isolation facility and treated as per laid down standard protocol, including contact tracing, and the contacts of such positive case should be kept under institutional quarantine or at home quarantine monitored strictly by the concerned State Government as per laid down protocol.List of countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing are those in Europe, including The United Kingdom, besides South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Besides, the airlines will allow boarding by only those passengers who have filled in their self declaration forms on the Air Suvidha portal and uploaded the negative RT-PCR test report.This test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey.International travellers arriving through seaports/land ports will also have to undergo the same protocol as above, except that facility for online registration is not available for such passengers currently, the guidelines added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-india-mandaviya-meets-airport-officials-over-screening-of-passengers-101638471522334.html
03-12-2021||India||Mamata likely to join Akhilesh’s rath yatra in Lucknow||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) president Mamata Banerjee is likely to join the Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra in Lucknow on in support of Akhilesh Yadav as the next chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, party officials in the privy of the matter said on Thursday.According to the party’s plan, three women leaders — Mamata, Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan, and former Kannauj MP and Akhilesh’s wife Dimple Yadav — will join Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh’s Vijay Yatra, the officials said, adding, that the SP will announce the date at “an appropriate time. This will possibly be the second time when Mamata campaigns for Akhilesh, the first being on November 16, towards the end of Akhilesh’s first term as the UP chief minister. Mamata had addressed a public meeting in support of the SP chief and against the Union government’s demonetisation decision. Mamata had held the meeting at the 1090 crossing in Lucknow within weeks of the demonetisation announcement.Akhilesh and Mamata have shared a bonhomie since the SP leader became the UP chief minister for the first time in 2012. The SP had supported the TMC in both the 2016 and the 2021 West Bengal assembly polls.“In the 2021 polls, our party MP Jaya Bachchan and the party’s national vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda had substantially campaigned for the TMC and our party had not contested the polls in the eastern state,” said a senior SP leader.Kiranmoy Nanda, the SP’s national vice-president, reportedly was instrumental in Mamata’s TMC-organised event taking place in Lucknow in 2016 and also the forthcoming one. Nanda is from West Bengal and had been a former minister there.Akhilesh launched his Vijay Yatra as part of the 2022 UP Assembly election campaign on October 13 from Kanpur (to Hamirpur). He then embarked on yatras in Hardoi, from Gorakhpur to Kushinagar, Ghazipur to Lucknow, and has recently finished the Banda-Mahoba-Lalitpur leg.
03-12-2021||India||Tejashwi meets Nitish Kumar, all-party meet on caste census in 4 days||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has agreed to conduct a caste-wise population count in the state following the Centre’s refusal to hold a census of castes, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav said on Thursday after meeting the CM along with a delegation.After the meeting, Yadav said the CM has assured that he will hold an all-party meeting within four days. “The meeting will decide how to hold the caste census and in what format,” he said. “We had sought an appointment with the CM yesterday. Today, a delegation comprising legislators of Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress, Left parties and the AIMIM met him,” the RJD leader said.The Centre had refused to hold a caste census other than one meant for scheduled castes and tribes.Yadav said the CM had earlier promised a state-specific exercise if the Centre does not agree to include other castes in the Census schedule. “Now that the Centre has made its stand clear, we told the CM that it was time to fulfil his promise,” said the RJD leader.Yadav said opposition parties were expecting a statement on the matter during the ongoing session of the assembly, which did not happen. Replying to a question, he said, “We never doubted the chief minister’s commitment to a caste census. Both houses of the state legislature have passed unanimous resolutions, twice, in support of the demand. We met him to request that the process be expedited.”Citing the report of the Niti Aayog to drive home his demand for a caste census, Yadav said, “NITI Aayog report says 51% of the people are poor. We want to know who they are. No one should remain poor. A caste-based census is necessary for everyone to get benefits. No government has data and unless there is right data, there will be no proper development.”Yadav also sought to allay fears expressed by some leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that a caste census might further sharpen the social divide.“It should not be seen in terms of caste discrimination. Those who have been left behind in society will be benefitted from this. On the contrary, it will facilitate targeted development of the weaker sections, leading to reduced disparity and greater social harmony,” said Yadav.
03-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India: No travel curbs yet but rules tightened, says MEA||India said on Thursday that it has not imposed any travel curbs following the detection of the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus, though surveillance mechanisms and protocols have been intensified for travellers from at-risk countries.“This is a very evolving situation, and two cases [of the Omicron variant] have been confirmed in Karnataka,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing.Also Read | Two Omicron cases in Karnataka, infections mild“We don’t have travel curbs as such. Some countries have stopped flights from that region or countries they define vis-a-vis Omicron, We haven’t done that. We have instead intensified surveillance mechanisms and protocols for those who happen to come from at-risk countries and not just limited to Omicron,” he said.Travellers from at-risk countries have to take PCR tests on arrival and undergo seven-day home quarantine.Also Read | All contacts of India’s 1st Omicron patient test negative, not so for 2nd patientThere are 11 entries on the list of at-risk countries, which were identified on the basis of facts and evidence from health and regulatory authorities. The list existed prior to the identification of the Omicron variant and it is based on the incidence profile of Covid-19 in those countries.The list includes all countries in Europe, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Israel.Also Read | ‘No need to panic’, say govt, experts after Omicron cases in KarnatakaIndia, Bagchi said, has offered to provide medical supplies and vaccines to African countries and also cleared all requests for assistance from that region. “We stand ready to supply essential life-saving drugs, test kits, PPE kits, medical equipment and ventilators depending on the situation,” he said.India is also willing to look at deeper medical collaboration in areas such as genomic surveillance if any country in Africa makes such a request, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-india-no-travel-curbs-yet-but-rules-tightened-says-mea-101638471105888.html
03-12-2021||India||‘UP is much safer under BJP regime’: Shah slams Akhilesh||Ahead of elections in Uttar Pradesh next year, Union home minister Amit Shah lashed out at Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday over the latter’s claims that crime jumped in India’s largest state under the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP),Shah was addressing a joint rally in the politically crucial western part of the state with chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who accused the Opposition of not having a development agenda. “I have comparative data of crime under both governments. Akhileshji aap kahan se chashma laaye ho? (From where have you brought your glasses?),” the minister said.The minister said that dacoity in the state reduced by 70% and incidents of loot reduced by 69% under the present state government. Further, cases of murder dropped by 69% while that of dowry deaths fell by 22.5%, he said and added that the former CM must “go home and examine the data”.Shah was addressing a public meeting at Puwarka in Saharanpur district after virtually laying the foundation stone of Maa Shakumbhari State University.Also Read | Amit Shah lays stone for university in SaharanpurOn October 18, Yadav had attacked the state government, saying: “Under the BJP government, UP has made it to the first spot in ease of committing crime.” The SP chief was referring to an incident in which a lawyer was shot dead inside court premises in Shahjahanpur district. Yadav was CM of Uttar Pradesh between 2012 and 2017 before losing power to the BJP in a landslide.Shah said the people of western Uttar Pradesh faced terror by the mafia earlier but the Adityanath government had put an end to troubles by taking strict action against such criminals.“Mafia and criminals now surrender before police,” Shah said while heaping praises on the chief minister for creating an atmosphere free of fear and safe for women.Listing the achievements of the Narendra Modi-led government — effective abrogation of article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, abolishing of the instant Triple Talaq and building of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya — Shah said the Prime Minister had done what no one else could do in the past 70 years. On the new university in district, Shah said it will ensure that young people in the district don’t have to move to other states for studies.“Earlier, people had to send their sisters and daughters outside to pursue studies because their parents feared for their security in the region. But now nobody has the courage to misbehave with daughters and sisters,” he said.Adityanath accused the opposition of not having a development agenda. “Uttar Pradesh, which was once known as a BIMARU state, is now actively contributing to the country’s development,” he added.BIMARU is a term coined in the mid-1980s from first letters of the states Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh. Similar to the Hindi word ‘bimar’ (sick), it was used to refer to the poor economic conditions of those states at that time.Reacting to Shah’s remarks, SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “From top to bottom, the BJP leadership lies. Under the BJP rule, the state for four-and-a-half years had been hogging headlines nationally for crimes. The government and its lies are exposed and people will throw this government out and bring in an SP government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-is-much-safer-under-bjp-regime-shah-slams-akhilesh-101638471104360.html
03-12-2021||India||Opposition rift widens with potshots at Congress brass||A tussle between the Congress and its one-time ally Trinamool Congress (TMC) over leadership of the Opposition intensified on Thursday with the former criticising Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor saying no one had the “divine right” to lead the grand old party.The war of words came a day after Banerjee launched an unprecedented, though veiled, attack on the Congress and said the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA), a political coalition that was in power for 10 years and one she was a part of, didn’t exist anymore. She also said that if someone stayed abroad “half the time” and wasn’t on the field, the BJP will “bowl you out”,ostensibly a reference to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Her comment was seen as adding to the TMC’s recent attempts to aggressively expand its national footprint, keep the Congress at bay by forging an alliance of regional parties, and emerge as a national alternative to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On Thursday, Kishor, widely credited for the TMC’s victory in the Bengal assembly election in May, appeared to expand on the idea. “The IDEA and SPACE that #Congress represents is vital for strong opposition. But Congress’ leadership is not the DIVINE RIGHT of an individual especially, when the party has lost more than 90% elections in last 10 years,” he tweeted. “Let opposition leadership be decided democratically,” he added. The comments marked a reversal from September, when he was in advanced negotiations to join India’s principal opposition party. The Congress hit back immediately. “Hell hath no fury like a strategist scorned,” said the party’s national spokesperson Pawan Khera.Later in the day, party general secretary Randeep Surjewala launched a more frontal attack on Banerjee and accused her of speaking different languages at different times. He recalled that the Bengal CM was an ally of the BJP in the past.“For her, it can be political expediency, but for us fighting the BJP and RSS is close to us,” he said.“Is Mamata not doing the same as Modi ji is doing. Modi ji is buying legislators and so is Mamata ji. Modi ji is breaking parties and so is Mamata ji doing in breaking parties,” he added.Banerjee and the Congress leadership enjoyed a warm personal relationship and both parties even fought assembly elections in alliance but ties dipped sharply in recent months as the TMC signalled its national ambitions, entering the electoral space in Goa, Tripura and most recently, Meghalaya. On the other hand, the Congress was roiled by the exit of prominent leaders and internal disagreements over the direction in which the party is headed.In the last three months, the TMC engineered high-profile defections from the Congress, including former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro and ex-Assam MP Sushmita Dev, and refused to accept the Congress as the natural leader of any Opposition challenge to the BJP. Last week, the TMC poached 12 lawmakers from the Congress in Meghalaya, including former CM Mukul Sangma, leapfrogging to the principal opposition party’s position in the northeastern state. Kishor is seen as the primary architect of the TMC’s political manoeuvres. On Wednesday, Banerjee said that there was no UPA left in the country and made a pitch for unifying opposition parties to take on the BJP. She was accompanied during the media interaction by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar.The Congress dismissed her remarks. “Without the Congress, the UPA will be a body without a soul. Time to show opposition unity,” tweeted senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal, without referring to Banerjee’s comment.Kishor and the Congress, for whom the strategist worked in 2017, also share a tumultuous history. According to people familiar with the matter, talks between Kishor and the Congress broke down three months ago amid resistance from a significant part of the party to Kishor’s demands. Kishor responded to a request for comment with a smiley emoji. Two senior Congress leaders said Kishor had a set of demands for his entry in the Congress. “He wanted to be a member of the Congress Working Committee, the top executive body and be appointed as general secretary election planning of the AICC,” said a senior leader, who is also an MP. Neither was an issue; the Congress has seen lateral entries at senior levels: K Raju, an IAS-officer turned Rahul Gandhi aide, and Praveen Chakravarthy, the chief of data analytics department, and a few others. “But he also proposed that starting from the booth level right up to the state unit level of the Congress there would be a parallel structure exclusively to handle elections. This raised a lot of questions,” said the second leader. The first leader added that timing may have been an issue; Kishor said he would start working with the Congress after the Uttar Pradesh and Punjab elections -- which are scheduled for early next year. “Several leaders also questioned why he wanted to start working for the Congress after the UP and Punjab elections—top priorities for the party.” There was also distrust. “Some questioned whether he could be trusted to stay with the Congress when he was in demand from many parties such as TMC, DMK, YSRCP.” Both leaders did not want to be identified. “Four months back, in August , Congress president Sonia Gandhi sought the opinion of each and every CWC member on Kishor’s proposal. Many senior leaders felt that the structure that PK proposed might run parallel to the AICC-appointed hierarchy in the states,” said a third leader, a senior member of the CWC, who spoke on condition of anonymity. On July 13, Kishor met both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. A month later, he quit as political advisor to then Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Kishor earlier worked with Rahul Gandhi when he was in charge of the Congress’ unsuccessful campaign (in partnership with the Samajwadi Party) in Uttar Pradesh in 2017. Kishor shot to fame after he was involved in Narendra Modi’s campaign in 2014. His reputation as poll strategist sky-rocketed after Banerjee won her third term as the CM. Kishor predicted that the BJP will not cross 100 seats (it won 77 seats) in the election. 
03-12-2021||India||December 2: What we know about Omicron so far||The big questions -- whether the newest variant of concern (VOC) is more transmissible, more resistant to vaccine or past infection immunity, or more virulent – are likely to take some time to be answered. To determine these, experts will need to wait for adequate epidemiological and clinical data. At the least, cases need to be watched for three weeks, the time by when infections usually completely resolve or take a turn for the worse. For now, there are only two approximate knowns with the Omicron variant: first, it is almost certainly out-competing the Delta variant; and second, evolutionarily, it has taken a much farther leap than variants typically have. Late on Wednesday, the Network for Genomic Surveillance in South Africa (NGS-SA) released new details about their surveillance of Sars-Cov-2 variants, including findings specific to Omicron that they first sequenced in a sample collected on November 8.Much still remains unknown about the variant of concern (VOC), but the new report strengthens one of the earliest assumptions: Omicron is likely displacing Delta, the VOC that led to India’s devastating summer surge and is at present triggering hotspots of outbreak in much of Europe. From no sequences in October, Omicron accounted for 74% of the 249 genotyped samples by NGS-SA. In the same period, Delta prevalence plummeted from 83% to 22% of the samples.The switch is almost identical to what happened in May and June, when the then prevalent variant, Beta, dropped from being found in 65% of the samples to 18% in a span of 30 days, while Delta accounted for 66%, after being found in 16% of samples in the month before. Delta went on to displace Beta and trigger a new wave in South Africa, and it appears Omicron is on a similar course. Overall, South Africa’s case numbers doubled daily for the last two days.Beyond that, scientists are reluctant to draw any conclusions – and with good reason: There has to be more evidence. That brings is to the second known: there are 45-52 changes in the variant’s entire genome, with 26-32 in the Spike protein alone. In contrast, Delta has 15-17, and Alpha has 23 mutations. They each have unique combinations, but they share the characteristic of being significantly more transmissible (as opposed to being significantly more resistant like the Beta variant). The number of mutations, then, is unlike any seen before, and scientists note that there are many changes that have not been observed in any other variant at all – one of them being the fact that there are two mutations surrounding what is known as the furin-cleavage site, the portion of the pathogen that essentially activates the spike to cleave into two and infect a human cell. Answering the top three questions is crucial for what Omicron means for the pandemic in the immediate term. But what the VOC says about the future of the pandemic needs a different answer: How did Omicron arise? In a Twitter thread on Wednesday, immunologist and Scripps Research professor Kristian G Andersen said there could be three main possibilities: the variant was in undetected circulation, quietly picking up mutations over a long period; it developed in a person with a chronic infection; and it came from an animal. Each of these possibilities will mean something else for the pandemic. Andersen says he believes it is unlikely, and other scientists have separately made similar remarks. Even in low resource regions such as Africa, experts believe such a fast-spreading variant would have shown up in surveillance in other countries sooner. But if it did circulate in a region, likely with low testing and vaccination coverage, it spotlights a risk vaccine equity activists have been flagging for long: the world is setting up a catastrophe if it does not fix the imbalance in supplies. Every time the virus replicates, it has some errors – or mutations. In a chronically infected person, this process is far long drawn than in regular cases; most people clear out the virus in 10-14 days. But when the pathogen is in a tug-of-war with the immunity, the copies that have the “fittest” mutations survive, likely being passed on to others. The Alpha variant, which has one of the largest numbers of mutations after Omicron, is believed to have formed in a chronically ill, immunocompromised person in the UK, who was also possibly exposed to convalescent plasma.Experts have called on helping people with immune deficiencies secure antivirals and monoclonal antibody therapies.Andersen, in his opinion, identifies this as having a high likelihood. “I slightly favour reverse zoonosis for a few reasons... SARS-CoV-2 is a generalist virus and we have seen human>animal>human transmission happen in e.g, mink... “Several of the mutations in Omicron have been observed in animals, including rodents,” he wrote. Essentially, Andersen argues that the fact that some of mutations seen when the virus multiplied in animals are also in Omicron, which could be the proverbial smoking gun in the mystery of Omicron’s origin. If this is the case, the world will need to increase surveillance on animal-human transmission, and the threat of animal reservoirs could have distinct implications for future flare-ups. 
03-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India: Country well-covered, no need to panic, say experts||India may be in a unique position in terms of immunity compared to other countries with fewer proportions of people vaccinated or infected in the past, according to experts, who backed the government’s appeals for the public to avoid panic over the Omicron variant.Also Read | Two Omicron cases in Karnataka, infections mildIndia detected the first known infections with the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2, which has triggered alarm in several countries after infections surged rapidly in a South Africa province and genome analysis showed an unprecedented number of mutations. But it is still not established if the variant can defeat immunity from vaccines or past exposure to the virus, or if it leads to more serious disease.“At this point there is no reason to panic as Indians are well placed immunologically because of the high sero prevalence found in surveys that could be due to natural infection or vaccine-derived. A majority of the population at the moment has antibodies,” said Dr Amita Jain, professor and head of microbiology department, King George’s Medical University in Lucknow.Also Read | All contacts of India’s 1st Omicron patient test negative, not so for 2nd patientDr Gagandeep Kang, one of the top vaccine experts in India, said: “Natural infection plus vaccination together provides the broadest possible protection; therefore, in that way, Indians are very well covered. There is no need to panic as now we have tools that we did not have before—drugs and vaccines, which can be quickly updated if needed. The strategy should be watch, track and measure.”Researchers in South Africa and several other countries are conducting studies to better understand the variant, and are regularly sharing findings.The new variant is heavily mutated, with up to 32 mutations in the spike protein alone.The World Health Organization, which classified the variant as being of concern last week, is carrying out and coordinating several studies to determine the threat Omicron poses.“Preliminary data suggests that there are increasing rates of hospitalisation in South Africa, but this may be due to increasing overall numbers of people becoming infected, rather than a result of specific infection with Omicron…,” said WHO in an update on Omicron.Also Read | Omicron alert: WHO South-East regional director advises increased surveillanceInterim analysis also seems to suggest that most of the symptoms seen are mild.“Yes what is seen globally is that most cases are either asymptomatic or with mild symptom, but it will be too early to establish a trend as the sample size is comparatively smaller. More studies are being done and we need to look at further evidence that gets generated,” said Dr SK, Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control.Experts also say the real-world data out till now suggests Omicron may not be that big a problem.“The evidence so far doesn’t seem to support the variant causing either more severe disease or escaping immune responses. While computational analysis that shows more than 30 mutations due to which it may escaping the antibodies but in real world it may not escape all the antibodies. It isn’t very wise right now to predict immune evasiveness,” said Jain.Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, said: “That Omicron would have reached in India in November was almost guaranteed. Nothing has changed by actually sequencing and confirming. There is no need to panic; just [need] to continually assess risks in a scientific manner and to be prepared.”WHO also said that the detection of Omicron in India was not unexpected as people these days travel extensively to other countries.“The confirmation of Omicron Variant of Concern today by India, the first two cases in WHO South-East Asia Region, was not unexpected in view of the interconnected world that we live in. This emphasizes on the need for all countries to step up surveillance, to be on alert and rapidly detect any importation and take measures to curtail further spread of the virus,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director of WHO South-East Asia.“The response measures for all variants, including Omicron, is the same as that for Sars-Cov-2. Comprehensive and tailored public health and social measures by governments, and strict adherence to preventive and precautionary measures by individuals, is a must. People must wear well-fitting mask which covers their nose and mouth well, keep distance, avoid poorly ventilated or crowded spaces, keep hands clean, cover cough and sneeze and get vaccinated. And continue to take all precautionary measures even after getting vaccinated. All travellers must adhere to public health and social measures at all times and remain vigilant for signs and symptoms of COVID-19,” she added.
03-12-2021||India||Two Omicron cases in Karnataka, infections mild||Two men in Karnataka tested positive for the Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2, Union government officials said on Thursday, and added that there was no need to panic since at least these two individuals had “very mild” symptoms.The government did not give further details, such as their vaccination status, in the interest of their privacy, but officials in Karnataka said the younger of the two men, who were unrelated, was a health care worker without a travel history.Also Read | Don’t delay getting fully vaccinated: Centre after Omicron cases found in India“Two cases of Omicron have been found positive: a 66-year-old male, and a 46-year-old male. We got the results very late last night,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare, during a press briefing on Covid-19 on Thursday.“It is being investigated how the second person got the infection; he could be a contact of the 66-year-old but that is still under investigation. The foreign national has flown out, and the second person is on road to recovery,” said a senior government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.
03-12-2021||India||Import ban on specific weapons can be lifted for urgent needs: Govt||NEW DELHI: The defence ministry will allow the armed forces to import weapons and systems that figure on the government’s list of defence items under an import ban if domestic industry can’t supply the military hardware within the stipulated time-frame and in the required quantity, according to a government note on the matter. The note, issued by the department of military affairs (DMA) last month, said specific cases for weapons import to meet immediate requirements could also be taken up if inadequacies in indigenous equipment could put soldiers in harm’s way. The approval for such specific cases of import will be based on the recommendations of a new empowered monitoring panel, the Defence Indigenisation Committee (DIC), being set up under chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat who also holds the charge of secretary, DMA. HT has reviewed the note. Experts said the move was aimed at keeping the armed forces operationally ready to take on any challenge. “It’s the right step because developing technology and building capability to produce modern weapons and systems locally can take time. In the interim, we may have to import to offset our inadequacies,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). DIC has also been empowered to clear cases arising out of technical complications such as Indian firms not responding to specific military tenders. It will oversee the implementation of the positive indigenisation list (items under an import ban) and provide further thrust to the indigenous development of military hardware. “The committee besides formulation of positive indigenisation lists will, inter alia, be responsible for reviewing progress of listed equipment, platforms and weapons, and to apply correctives where required so as to ensure that the listed items translate into production/ developmental orders,” the note added. The government is encouraging self-reliance is the defence manufacturing sector through several policy decisions including notifying 209 defence items that cannot be imported, increasing foreign direct investment limit from 49% to 74% and creating a separate budget for locally-made military hardware. The ban on the 209 items, to be implemented progressively till 2025, covers artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft, and different types of helicopters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/import-ban-on-specific-weapons-can-be-lifted-for-urgent-needs-govt-101638470741525.html
03-12-2021||India||What do corporate results tell us about the nature of the economic recovery?||India’s GDP grew at 8.4% in the quarter ending September, indicating a return to pre-pandemic levels. Headline GDP numbers, however, tell us little about the nature of economic growth. An HT analysis of latest quarterly results (30 September) from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s (CMIE) Prowess database sheds more light on this question. There are 2403 companies in the Prowess database for which September quarter results are available along with quarterly results for last five years. Here are five things which stand out.There is almost a V-shaped recovery in sales growthAfter having fallen in the June quarter, perhaps because of the second wave of Covid-19, inflation adjusted sales have risen again in the September quarter. A slightly longer-term view of the revenue trend suggests that corporate India has experienced a V-shaped recovery. To be sure, this trend might change when results for a larger sample of companies are available. There were 4783 companies for which annual results are available for five years ending 2020-21. But this recovery is driven by large firmsNot all companies have had the good fortune of a V-shaped recovery. This can be seen clearly if one classifies companies by revenue-size. A distribution by volumne of sales shows that companies with quarterly sales below ₹100 crore have actually seen a fall in their September revenues when compared to September 2020. The shortfall is even greater when a comparison with September 2019 is made. In fact, the data shows that the fall in sales of smaller companies started even before the pandemic. There’s also a divergence between recovery in profits and wagesThe faster recovery of big companies over their smaller peers is not the only unequal feature of ongoing recovery in corporate India. Even more stark is the divergence between trajectories of profits and salaries. For the 2403 companies analysed, inflation-adjusted salaries have increased by just 4% between September 2019 and September 2021. This number is 300% for profits after tax. To be sure, an important reason for this exceptionally high growth in profit after taxes is the sharp reduction in corporate tax rates in September 2019, when the government slashed tax rates for domestic manufacturers from 30% to 22%, while for new manufacturing companies; the rate was reduced from 25% to 15% provided they do not claim any exemptions. The growth in profits before taxes for this set of companies between September 2019 and September 2021 is 158%. And a fall in wage costs for most firms even as profits improvedWhich category of firms and workers borne the maximum brunt due to the Covid-19 pandemic? Am analysis by size of total sales in the September quarter can help answer this.Workers working in the biggest companies (quarterly sales above ₹500 crore) were the only ones that saw their inflation adjusted salaries rise above pre-pandemic (September 2019) levels. On a year-on-year basis real salaries improved from September 2020 levels for companies with sales above ₹25 crore. The worst affected workers were employed in the smallest companies, data shows.The relation between profit growth and company size, however, is not as linear as the wage-sales relationship. When read with the fact that sales growth for smaller companies has not been as strong as the larger ones, this suggests cost-cutting to boost profits.  Input costs rise as businesses reopenWith the reopening of major economies in the second quarter, prices for most commodities used as raw materials have risen in global markets due to an increase in demand even as supply chains struggled. The effect of this is also visible in the latest quarterly results. Out of 1369 manufacturing firms, raw material cost data is available for 1295 for the last five years. While inflation adjusted raw material expenses for these firms were showing negative growth over the two-year period till June, this has now risen by 13% in the September quarter compared to 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-do-corporate-results-tell-us-about-the-nature-of-the-economic-recovery-101638470685342.html
03-12-2021||India||Proposals sent to Saudi Arabia, 9 other nations for air bubble agreement: Scindia||New Delhi India has sent a proposal to 10 more countries, including Saudi Arabia, for operating flights under the air bubble agreement, the Union government told Parliament on Thursday. India currently has such agreements with 31 countries.“We have 10 proposals pending for the air bubble agreement. We have forwarded the proposals to these countries. Saudi Arabia is one of them. We are waiting to hear from them,” Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said in a reply to Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) MP ET Mohammed Basheer’s question in the Lok Sabha.Also Read | India has discussed air bubble with Saudi Arabia: GovernmentInternational passenger flights are currently being operated in a restricted manner under bilateral air bubble arrangements with various countries.While the Centre had recently decided to resume normal international flight operations from December 15, the plan had to be postponed amid fears over the new variant of coronavirus, Omicron.Also Read | India defers resumption of international flights with an eye on Covid variants“We are making all efforts to normalise the situation but due to Omicron, currently we have our air bubble agreement with 31 countries and we have sent proposals to 10 more countries to have the bubble agreement,” Scindia told the Lower House on the fourth day of the ongoing winter session of Parliament.“Omicron is certainly a setback because all countries across the world need to be safe and secure. That is our first priority and, therefore, different countries have put in place different yardsticks. I think, the yardstick that has been put in place by our government by putting 11 countries marked as ‘at risk’ and testing them completely is the right way to go,” Scindia said while replying to the Congress’s Manish Tewari.The 11 countries marked as ‘at risk’ are the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.The minister also said that the government has begun monitoring the situation at airports across the country and is prepared to fight the new Covid variant.“We have commenced testing for all arrivals from yesterday (Wednesday). Passengers have to undergo seven days’ home quarantine and then get tested on the eighth day. They will be monitored for another seven days and then they are free to move around. We are fully prepared and are ready for the war against the virus,” Scindia said.“Our estimate is from these 11 ‘at risk’ countries around 11 airports have arrivals and 17 airports are not at risk. Our study says that around 8,500 passengers arrive from those 11 airports and so we have made available RT-PCR as well as rapid RT-PCR tests for passengers. Around 5,500 tests were done at 36 airports on Wednesday,” he added.Minister of state, civil aviation, (Gen) VK Singh said 7,900 employees in domestic aviation had lost their jobs in a year between March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021 due to Covid-19. Around 13,300 employees in ground handling activities also lost their jobs during the same period, however, 380 additional staff were hired in the cargo area, Singh said while replying to Biju Janta Dal (BJD) MP Bhartruhari Mahtab in the Lok Sabha.Singh also informed Parliament that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) was working on a project of a facial recognition technology (FRT)-based biometric boarding system as part of the first phase of Digi Yatra Implementation at four airports, including Varanasi, Pune, Kolkata, and Vijayawada.FRT has not yet been introduced at any of the airports in India and the proposed Digi Yatra Central Ecosystem is planned to go live in March 2022, he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proposals-sent-to-saudi-arabia-9-other-nations-for-air-bubble-agreement-scindia-101638470624398.html
03-12-2021||India||HTLS 2021 — Hybrid court proceedings now a warrant of the time: Former CJI Dipak Misra||No individual should remotely be regarded as an object of “chemical experimentation” since legitimate expectations of every citizen have to be met in a constitutional democracy, said former chief justice of India (CJI) Dipak Misra on Thursday.Ascribing a pivotal role to the judiciary as being the final arbiter of the Constitution, justice Misra emphasised that the emerging world order calls for a constitutional democracy to adorn its expected role for effective implementation of constitutional rights.“It is the obligation of the courts to see that such rights are not even slightly affected or dented,” said the former CJI, who gave the Indian judiciary one of its finest moments by churning out landmark verdicts on gender equality, decriminalising homosexuality, and guarding free speech among a host of decisions that form the bedrock of citizens’ aspirations in a democracy.Addressing the 19th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, justice Misra added: “The judiciary, while performing its most important function of being the final arbiter of the Constitution, has acted as the protector of rights guaranteed under the Constitution by embarking upon the journey of fruitful engagement. The legitimate expectations of a citizen under the Constitution have to be met and no individual should remotely be regarded as an object of chemical experimentation.”Underscoring the function of the Supreme Court and high courts in a meaningful democracy, the former judge said that the constitutional courts have assumed the role of ardent guards for strengthening the rights and this shaped the process of judicial statesmanship.“This sense of creativity is the order of the day and it is not to be marginalised by any competitive conservative perception,” said justice Misra as he spoke on the theme ‘Changing dynamics of law and the new world order”.While serving 13 eventful months at the helm of the judiciary till his superannuation in October 2018, justice Misra was instrumental in allowing entry for women of all ages into the Sabarimala temple, recognising the right of choice of an adult individual to marry, abolishing adultery as a crime, decriminalising homosexuality, and upholding Aadhaar’s constitutional validity.The former judge maintained that constitutional rights are ever growing so as to enrich the future life of its citizenry and to be compatible with the changing needs of the society.“The discussion about free will and freedom bear a direct relation to one’s right to affirm to one’s gender identity... the right to choose and the right to self-determination have been recognised as aspects of human dignity. It is also emphasised that in some circumstances like that of affirming one’s gender identity, it is an integral part of human dignity that will sustain the individuality of an individual,” added justice Misra, acknowledging the approach adopted by the Supreme Court in recognising some of the most important fundamental rights.“Therefore, modern constitutional thinking crafts principles that same-sex relationship is not a criminal offence; live-in relationship is not illegal; a major has a right to marry according to his or her choice and no one should intervene; the inter-religious or inter-caste marriages are to be respected if it is with consent; the khap panchayats should keep themselves at bay; no one can take law unto his own hands and engage in mob lynching,” highlighted the former CJI.Citing the expansive approach of the apex court in broadening and strengthening fundamental rights of people, justice Misra underlined some recent verdicts that held that a filmmaker or author can express his ideas and a law cannot accept a provision to be valid if it has chilling effect on freedom of speech and expression; women are entitled to join the National Defence Academy and are eligible to Permanent Commission into the Army; and to establish an offence under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act), skin-to-skin contact is not relevant.Notably, many of the judgements referred to by justice Misra were authored by him during his tenure as a Supreme Court judge.“Constitutional rights define and shape the life of citizens and the society in general. Their affirmative exposition and meaningful appreciation constitute the lifeblood of citizenry aspirations,” said justice Misra, coining the term “transformative constitutionalism” and explaining it by saying: “Constitutional rights have to be construed and developed in such a manner that their real intent and existence percolate to the lowest rungs in the society.”Recognising the paradigm shift the pandemic has brought about by allowing litigants to access courts virtually and the new arrangement of online dispute resolution, the former CJI said: “The openness of mind to accept the idea would be the real adaptation of the new order. Of course, while saying so, I am absolutely conscious of the fact that physical hearings can never be dispensed with. However, both can coexist to mark the manifestation of the new order since adaptation of the new technology has become the warrant of the time. It would redefine access to justice, which is a fundamental right under the Constitution.”Justice Misra also mentioned the use of technology for online dispute resolution (ODR), saying the new arrangement should be accepted with an open mind as it is in challenging times that innovations are made and technology can be used as a transformational tool.“In the emerging world order, the significance of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) has risen and the Covid-19 pandemic has enabled the disputants to take recourse to Online Dispute Resolution (ODR). The present pandemic conditions have brought in private dispute resolution centres and courts around the world have embraced technology-based approach and adequate protocols have been allowed entry to make video-conferencing-enabled participation in proceedings,” he said.The former CJI implored the new generation to be forward-looking and receptive to all new ideas.“The new generation, I am absolutely indubitable, will not allow the path of progress to be paralysed. They shall not permit any dent or allow any decay; and move on the path of progressive purpose without giving any room to pointlessness,” said the judge, concluding his address at the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-hybrid-court-proceedings-now-a-warrant-of-the-time-former-cji-dipak-misra-101638470083818.html
03-12-2021||India||Gautam Adani meets CM Mamata; investments, business summit on agenda||Business tycoon Gautam Adani met West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna, the secretariat, on Thursday evening and held discussions on investments in the state, said officials aware of the development. The meeting went on for around 90 minutes. Banerjee, who invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate the Bengal Global Business Summit in Kolkata on April 20 during her visit to Delhi on November 24, invited Adani to attend the summit. Adani, whose current net worth according to the Bloomsberg Billionaires Index is 74.3 billion US dollars, agreed to attend the event.“Delighted to meet @MamataOfficial, Hon’ble Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Discussed different investment scenarios and the tremendous potential of West Bengal. I look forward to attending the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS) in April 2022,” Adani tweeted on Thursday evening. He also posted a photograph of the meeting. India’s richest business tycoon, Mukesh Ambani, attended the summit in the past and has been invited again. Bengal government officials said Banerjee assured Adani, who heads the Ahmedabad-based multinational conglomerate that a trouble-free business environment would be ensured by her administration. The discussions also included the sea port project that the government is developing with help from the Centre. In recent years, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government of ruining the state’s economy and failing to draw investments despite the chief minister’s repeated trips to foreign shores. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, too, has demanded a white paper from the government on actual investments made after the last business summits. Reacting to Adani’s meeting with the chief minister Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said such meetings will turn fruitful only when the government changes its attitude and outlook. “We always want development in West Bengal. But investments will come only when the law and order situation improves and business groups are not subjected to extortion. Till that happens, Banerjee will only play to the gallery,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gautam-adani-meets-cm-mamata-investments-business-summit-on-agenda-101638469903348.html
03-12-2021||India||HTLS 2021 — Reversing ageing, controlling weight key for saving lives: Dr Valter Longo||New Delhi: Nutrition is the most powerful way to alter how fast we age, and may be the key factor that determines whether or not we develop age-related diseases, said one of the world’s foremost biogerontologist and cell biologist, as he offered links that connect our food to living a long and healthy life.The insight was shared by Dr Valter Longo, professor, gerontology and biological sciences, and director of the Longevity Institute at the USC Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, Los Angeles, during a session on the third day of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on Thursday.“We can argue, based on over 100 years of research, that nutrition is by far the most powerful way to alter how fast we age, and also alter whether we will develop age-related disease like diabetes, cancer, cardiological and neurodegenerative diseases,” he said, adding that reversing ageing and controlling weight is crucial for saving lives not only from dozens of disease, but also from Covid-19.“The risk of dying from Covid increases hundredfold based on whether you are 20 years old or over 80 years old. There is also a big difference in mortality risk from Covid based on whether people have age-related diseases like cardiovascular, diabetes, respiratory disease, hypertension or cancer,” he said, highlighting the importance of regulating the impacts of ageing and the minimising the risks associated with it.Longo, who has pioneered the research on the role of nutrition on cellular protection from ageing and diseases, was in conversation with health communications specialist Sanchita Sharma.He has developed a fasting-mimicking diet (FMD) — a low-calorie meal programme that mimics the effects of periodic fasting or water fasting over the course of five days, while still providing the body with nutrition. FMD is a plant-based diet designed to attain fasting-like effects on the body while still providing both macro and micro nutrients to minimise the burden and adverse effects generally associated with fasting. Under FMD, people typically undergo a low-calorie diet for five days a month two or three times a year, while largely retaining their regular eating habits in the remaining time.His team’s research on mice, published in the journal Nature Metabolism, was conducted among two groups of mice with very high fat diets, one of which was on FMD for five days a month. In the study, the mice on high-fat/calorie diet quickly put on weight, but only five days diet was enough to prevent obesity in the second set of mine.“Both men and women can follow this diet... For most people, such a diet needs to only be followed two to three times a year, while this number might be three to four times a year for obese people,” he said. “The idea of this diet is that you do it when you need to do it.” He added that it is best for people to consult a doctor or a nutritionist for the ideal execution of the diet, particularly if they are diabetic, pregnant, anorexic, or are on insulin-related drugs. Most importantly, he pointed out, that studies have shown FMD achieves weight loss while not reducing crucial parameters like muscle or bone mass – normally a by-product of traditional fasting diets.Longo added that his team has finished yet-to-be-published research where the effects of the diet on diabetic people were found promising. On the crucial topic of sugar consumption, the professor said, “Don’t worry about the sugar in your tea or coffee if you only put a small spoonful.” He said during his research in Italy when his team looked at the widespread belief that high-sugar junk food may be behind obesity, they found that people were eating high volumes of pasta, bread, rice, and potatoes, which was the main problem. The obesity, he said, was “not coming from the candy or sugary drinks, but from a tonne of refined carbohydrates that were a part of the Mediterranean diet”.He said that his clinical trials clearly showed that using a proper diet, people can reverse the damage of ageing and lifestyle disease. “It can definitely reverse it (the effects of ageing)... We saw that people that were pre-diabetic were clearly returning to normal states. And while more research is needed...we can certainly say that we’ve seen reversal of diseases like diabetes is some patients,” Longo said.Periodic FMD, Longo said, is even more effective in at-risk patients. His research showed a significant drop in parameters like blood glucose in pre-diabetic patients after three cycles of FMD. Similar reductions were found in IGF-1 (a marker associated with ageing and cancer), and markers of cardiovascular diseases, and drop in blood cholesterol. “[FMD] is not hitting just one risk-factor for disease, but is going after multiple risk-factors,” he said. By reducing these factors, it is effectively reducing the biological age of the participants.Longo is also the director of the Longevity and Cancer Program at the IFOM Institute of Molecular Oncology in Milan, and is the author of multiple books including the best-seller The Longevity Diet.The longevity diet he advocates involves occasional long periods of FMD, along with a mostly plant-based diet with fish, low protein intake and high levels of complex carbohydrates, healthy fats and Omega 3s, vitamins, among others.For people who are overweight, obese or those that tend to put on weight, he said, “They should have breakfast as usual — as skipping breakfast is not recommended — but should pick a single meal between the option of lunch and dinner. The other should be substituted with a snack that is less than 100 calories – it could be fruits, or nuts, or a small salad.”He added: “I think it is very important to have this be clinically tested and to have a diet that is starting to look like medicine for people rather than have them improvise.” Longo stressed that eating the food our ancestors consumed forms a key part in keeping health problems at bay because ethnicity and race can play a role on how food can affect our body. “So eventually, we are going to have thousands and thousands of precise diets for thousands of people,” he said. If a family, for instance, has a history of celiac disease then their diets may not be conducive to bread or forms of gluten. “For instance, if you’re Norwegian then milk may not be a problem for you, but if you’re Japanese or southern Italian then you are more likely to be lactose intolerant, so your diet will need to be modified accordingly,” he said.“It is important to look at what your grandparents and their parents were eating and it never bothered them... Then you look at the longevity diet and find an equivalent in what your grandparents ate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-reversing-ageing-controlling-weight-key-for-saving-lives-dr-valter-longo-101638469843950.html
03-12-2021||India||India rejects UN body’s remarks on J&K killings, activist’s arrest||New Delhi: India on Thursday described the UN Human Rights Office’s criticism of the arrest of rights activist Khurram Parvez and recent killings in Kashmir as “baseless and unfounded allegations” against the country’s security forces. The office of the UN high commissioner for human rights (OHCHR) on Wednesday expressed deep concern at the arrest of Parvez under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), saying it is “increasingly alarmed by the rise in killings of civilians”, including members of religious minorities, by armed groups in Kashmir this year. Responding to the UN agency’s criticism, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the statement “makes baseless and unfounded allegations against law enforcement authorities and security forces of India”. The criticism also “betrays a complete lack of understanding” on the part of the UN agency of security challenges faced by India from cross-border terror and its impact on the most fundamental human right of “right to life” for citizens, including in Jammu and Kashmir, he said. Watch: Jaish’s IED expert, Pak terrorist killed in encounter with forces in PulwamaBagchi said the UN agency’s reference to “proscribed terrorist organisations as ‘armed groups’ demonstrates a clear bias on the part of the OHCHR”. He added, “As a democratic country, with an abiding commitment to promote and protect the human rights of its citizens, India takes all necessary steps to counter cross-border terrorism.” National security legislations such as UAPA were enacted by Parliament to protect India’s sovereignty and ensure the security of its citizens, and the arrest and subsequent detention of Parvez was “done entirely as per provisions of law”, Bagchi said. “Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against the legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law. We urge the OHCHR to develop a better understanding of the negative impact of terrorism on human rights,” Bagchi added. UN Human Rights Office spokesperson Rupert Colville said in his statement on Wednesday that Parvez, now in custody for more than a week, was accused of terrorism-related offences, but the UN agency was “unaware of the factual basis of the charges”. He described Parvez as a “tireless advocate for families of the disappeared” who has been targeted before for his activism. Colville called on Indian authorities to fully safeguard Parvez’s right to freedom of expression, association and personal liberty and to “take the precautionary step of releasing him”. Contending that the UAPA empowers authorities to “designate individuals and organisations as terrorists based on imprecise criteria”, “contains a vague and overly broad definition of ‘terrorist act’” and “allows people to be held in lengthy pretrial detention”, Colville said the act was increasingly being used to stifle the work of human rights activists and journalists in Kashmir and other parts of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-un-rights-body-s-criticism-of-parvez-s-arrest-killings-in-kashmir-101638435862250.html
03-12-2021||Today's||In an anarchic world, India’s power and burden||There is a simple difference between a national order and an international order. A national political order is driven by a sovereign State. The nature of States may differ — it may be a democracy or autocracy, liberal or conservative — but the State makes and implements the law, secures its citizens, regulates the economy, shapes society, and drives the engagement of one society with another.
03-12-2021||Today's||Will the real Quad stand up?||There was a Quad meeting this Tuesday. Don’t kick yourself if you missed it. It wasn’t “the Quad” that most Indians are familiar with. Now, there are three of them.
03-12-2021||Today's||In Manipur, the return of insurgent opportunism||The recent killing of Colonel Viplav Tripathi, an effective Assam Rifles (AR) commanding officer, among seven others in Behiang, Manipur, reminds us how tenuous State authority remains in parts of the Northeast, despite the deepening of peace and the consequent de-induction of several AR battalions to secure the China border.
03-12-2021||Today's||Pulp-It | After WFH, it is time for a BTW strategy||For 20 months now, columnists have been writing about how work from home (WFH) has skewed work-life balance sharply towards work, and how the distinction between work-time and non-work time has been blurred by remote (and online) working and the absence of a commute. The refrain has been about how everyone is always expected to be available.
